FR940825-2-00142 FR940825-2-00094 [Release No. 34&hyph;34550; File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;94&hyph;13] Self Regulatory Organizations; National Securities Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Modifying the Automated Customer Account Transfer Service August 18, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 , notice is hereby given that on July 20, 1994, the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by NSCC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The text of the proposed rule change consists of modifications to NSCC's rules and procedures relating to the Automated Customer Account Transfer Service (``ACATS''). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, NSCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. NSCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will modify NSCC's ACATS to accelerate the time in which accounts are transferred. The proposed rule change is made in conjunction with the New York Stock Exchange's (``NYSE'') recently filed proposed rule change to amend NYSE Rule 412 relating to transfers of customer accounts. 2 2 For a complete description of the NYSE proposed rule change, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34246 (June 22, 1994), 59 FR 33559 [File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;21] (notice of filing of a proposed rule change relating to NYSE's Customer Account Contract Rule and its related interpretations). Under NSCC's proposed rule change, NSCC Rule 50, Section 9, will be amended to allow a receiving member one business day after receipt from NSCC of the customer account asset data report to determine whether to accept, to reject, or to request adjustments to the account. Currently, receiving members have two business days to respond after receiving the customer account asset data report. Where Mutual Fund Services eligible book share mutual fund assets are to be transferred, a receiving member again will have one business day instead of two business days after receipt of the customer account asset data report to submit detailed transfer instructions to NSCC. Each business day that the delivering member causes an adjustment to be made to an account will give the receiving member one additional business day to accept, reject, or request adjustments or in the case of mutual funds to submit transfer instructions. Currently, receiving members have two business days after an adjustment. Additionally, the proposed rule change will delete language that treats transfers of accounts containing option positions differently from transfers of accounts without option positions. NSCC believes the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of Section 17A of the Act because the changes will facilitate the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition NSCC does not believe that the proposed rule change will have an impact on or impose a burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others No written comments relating to the proposed rule change have been solicited or received. NSCC will notify the Commission of any written comments received by NSCC. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of NSCC. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;94&hyph;13 and should be submitted by September 15, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 3 3 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20894 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
