FR941110-0-00261 FR941110-0-00016 (1) Oversees the correction of deficiencies specified by HCFA or the State survey agency at the facility site and protects the facility's residents from harm; (2) Is an employee or a contractor of the survey agency; (3) Is identified by the State as an appropriate professional to monitor cited deficiencies; (4) Is not an employee of the facility; (5) Does not function as a consultant to the facility; and (6) Does not have an immediate family member who is a resident of the facility to be monitored. (b) A State monitor must be used when a survey agency has cited a facility with substandard quality of care deficiencies on the last 3 consecutive standard surveys. (c) State monitoring is discontinued when_ (1) The facility has demonstrated that it is in substantial compliance with the requirements, and it will remain in compliance for a period of time specified by HCFA or the State; or (2) Termination procedures are completed. §488.424 Directed plan of correction. HCFA, the State survey agency, or the temporary manager (with HCFA or State approval) may develop a plan of correction and HCFA, the State, or the temporary manager require a facility to take action within specified timeframes. §488.425 Directed inservice training. (a) Required training. HCFA or the State agency may require the staff of a facility to attend an inservice training program if_ (1) The facility has a pattern of deficiencies that indicate noncompliance; and (2) Education is likely to correct the deficiencies. (b) Action following training. After the staff has received inservice training, if the facility has not achieved substantial compliance, HCFA or the State may impose one or more other remedies specified in §488.206. (c) Payment. The facility pays for directed inservice training. §488.426 Closure of a facility or transfer of residents, or both. (a) Closure of facility or transfer of residents, or both, during an emergency. In an emergency, the State has the authority to_ (1) Transfer Medicaid and Medicare residents to another facility; or (2) Close the facility and transfer the Medicaid and Medicare residents to another facility. (b) Required transfer in immediate jeopardy situations. When the State or HCFA terminates a facility's provider agreement for a deficiency that constitutes immediate jeopardy, the State arranges for the safe and orderly transfer of all Medicare and Medicaid residents to another facility. (c) All other situations. Except for immediate jeopardy situations, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, when the State or HCFA terminates a facility's provider agreement, the State arranges for the safe and orderly transfer of all Medicare and Medicaid residents to another facility. §488.430 Civil money penalties: Basis for imposing penalty. (a) HCFA or the State may impose a civil money penalty for the number of days a facility is not in substantial compliance with one or more participation requirements, regardless of whether or not the deficiencies constitute immediate jeopardy. (b) HCFA or the State may impose a civil money penalty for the number of days of past noncompliance since the last standard survey, including the number of days of immediate jeopardy.
