FR941121-2-00052 FR941121-2-00042 Decision: Include language in the power sales contracts which provides that in the event extraordinary replacement costs are incurred at the Deer Creek Powerplant, the payment thereof shall take precedence over the application of net power revenues toward the Water User's repayment obligation, and may result in a reduction or deferral of such payment until the replacement costs are fully recovered. This language has been agreed to by the Water Users and is included in the Deer Creek/Jordanelle Operating Agreement. Marketing Criteria I. Applicability. Congress granted to the Secretary of Energy, acting by and through Western's Administrator, the authority to market Federal power. In response to requests from UMPA and ICPA to receive power produced by the PRP, Western has examined the merits of marketing the PRP resource. Western believes these marketing criteria will benefit the Contractors, the Water Users, Reclamation, and Western. II. Marketable Resource. The 1938 Contract among Reclamation, the Water Users, the Weber River Water Users Association, and PacifiCorp provides for diversion of water from the Weber River into the Provo River for storage in Deer Creek Reservoir and for use by the Water Users. Because PacifiCorp operated generating units on the Weber River below the point of diversion to the Provo River, PacifiCorp's ability to generate was reduced when water was diverted. The 1938 Contract provides for PacifiCorp to receive all of the electrical generation of the PRP during the period of time that water is diverted. This means that for up to 6 months, from October 15 to April 15 of each year, there may be no marketable energy generated by the PRP. Historically, however, marketable energy has averaged 23,000,000 kilowatthours (kWh), with 15,000,000 kWh generated during summer months, and the remaining 8,000,000 kWh from winter surplus energy. Typically, about 3,000,000 kWh are available in each of the three peak summer months of June, July, and August; approximately 1,000,000 kWh are available in April, 2,500,000 kWh in May, and another 2,500,000 kWh in September. III. Establishment of Rate Methodology. Western, through a separate public process, will establish a rate methodology for the PRP. Western will prepare an annual PRS which will identify the anticipated OM&R expenses. Minor replacements and additions shall be included in the annual OM&R expenses. However, if major replacements or additions which cost more than $5,000 are needed, the Contractors will be given the option of financing their individual share of the cost or of having the cost capitalized at the Department of Energy's current interest rate and amortized over the life of the replacement or addition. Rather than set a specific rate for power and energy, the Contractors will pay the PRP's total annual powerplant expenses in return for the total marketable PRP production. Each will pay its proportional share of the OM&R expenses identified in the PRS in 12 monthly installments. In addition to the annual OM&R expenses, before January 1 of each year, each Contractor will pay its share of net power revenues to Reclamation to be applied toward the Water Users' annual payment. Through 2008, the total annual payment will be $102,243.80. Thereafter, until the Water Users' obligation is liquidated, the total annual payment will be $76,520. After the Water Users' repayment obligation is liquidated, the annual payment of $76,520 will continue to be paid to Western to be disposed of as Congress directs. IV. Marketing Area. Because of the size of the resource, Western has limited marketing of this resource to preference entities within the drainage area of the Provo River. All of the eligible utilities are members of ICPA and UMPA and are located in Utah and Wasatch Counties, Utah. The cities of Heber City, Lehi, Payson, Springville, and the Strawberry Electric Service District (Strawberry) are members of ICPA. The cities of Provo, Salem, and Spanish Fork are members of UMPA. It is anticipated that marketing of the PRP resource to these Contractors would assure that each would receive a beneficial amount of power. V. Class of Service. PRP generation is dependant upon water releases that are dictated by minimum stream flow requirements and the Water Users' needs. No load following ability exists. Since April 1, 1994, the PRP has been included in Western's Upper Colorado/Missouri Basin control area. With the PRP in Western's control area, Western is able to enhance the usability of the product and to allow it to be scheduled, even though it has no control over PRP generation. Western provides control area and regulating services for several other customers and has a developed methodology to share the expenses of operating a control area and providing for regulating capacity. The PRP will be required to pay for its share of these services. These costs will be included in the PRS as an operating expense. Energy will be scheduled to the Contractors in megawatts in accordance with anticipated generation levels from the PRP. When variations occur, the hourly schedules will be adjusted to reflect actual operation. Western will maintain an energy deviation account between the PRP and the Integrated Projects. At the end of each year, an accounting of scheduled and generated energy will be made. Differences between the two projects will be made up by adding to or subtracting from the following year's schedules to the Contractors. The Contractors will be responsible for reserves in accordance with Inland Power Pool requirements. VI. Resource Allocation. Western will allocate PRP resources in proportion to the historical sales of each of the ICPA and UMPA members. UMPA members serve approximately 70 percent of the load in the marketing area, while ICPA members serve approximately 30 percent. Proportional allocation of the PRP's average annual output of 23,000,000 kWh would mean UMPA members could expect an average of 16,100,000 kWh and 3,500 kilowatts (kW) of contingent capacity, and ICPA members could expect an average of 6,900,000 kWh and 1,500 kW of contingent capacity.
