FR940128-1-00132 FR940128-1-00006 Records of process evaluation by the process authority, where deviations from critical limits occurred. Corrective Actions When there has been a failure to maintain appropriate temperature, time, or other critical factors of the process or of the product, within the critical limits, the affected product should be: •destroyed; •reprocessed to eliminate the hazard, keeping full records of the processing conditions; or, •segregated and held until an evaluation can be made to determine the effect of a deviation. The evaluation should be made by a process authority following recognized procedures. Unless the evaluation shows that the product has received adequate pasteurization, the product should be destroyed or reprocessed to eliminate the hazard. Indicating or recording thermometers that cannot be adjusted to within the critical limits should be repaired or replaced. A thermometer that has a divided fluid column should be immediately repaired or replaced. Any critical limit deviation should cause a timely assessment by management to: Learn whether the process or HACCP plan needs changing to reduce the risk of recurrence of the deviation, and take appropriate followup action. Example 6 General Guidance for Smoked and Smoke-Flavored Fishery Products 1. General guidance for smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products 2. Definitions 3. Critical control points 4. Thawing 5. Brining and smoking 6. Post-smoking 7. Temperature monitoring equipment 8. Packaging 9. Corrective actions 10. Sanitary zones 11. Alternative parameters 1. General guidance for smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products This section provides consolidated guidance on how to meet the requirements of subpart A of 21 CFR part 123, for the processing of smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products. This guidance involves processing procedures for the control of the microbiological hazards to which these products are particularly susceptible. The guidance does not apply to finnan haddie, smoked cod fillets, smoked scotch kippers, or other smoked fish that are cooked before being consumed, because these products will be heated to destroy any potential toxins or pathogens. The guidance also does not apply to smoked fishery products that are packaged in hermetically sealed containers, processed to destroy spores of nonproteolytic C. botulinum types B, E, and F, and stored and distributed refrigerated, in the same container. These products are covered by Appendix A relating to Cooked, Ready-to-Eat fishery products. In addition, the guidance does not cover environmental or other hazards that might occur before the processor takes possession of its product or raw materials. (Guidance on these hazards may be found in a separate guidance document for all fish and fishery products issued by FDA.) 2. Definitions a. Cold-process smoked or cold-process smoked-flavored fish means the finished food prepared by subjecting forms of smoked fish and smoke-flavored fish to heat for a period of time that does not coagulate the protein. b. Hot-process smoked or hot-process smoke-flavored fish means the finished food prepared by subjecting forms of smoked fish and smoke-flavored fish to sufficient heat for a sufficient period of time to coagulate protein throughout the fish. c. Liquid smoke means an aqueous solution of wood smoke which, when suitably diluted, may be used to impart a smoke flavor to fish products. d. Loin muscle means the longitudinal quarter of the great lateral muscle of the fish that is free from skin, scales, visible blood clots, bones, gills, and from the nonstriated part of such muscle, which part is known anatomically as ``the median superficial muscle.''
