FR940511-2-00193 FR940511-2-00123 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATON Research and Special Programs Administration [Notice No. 94-5] Carbon Fiber Composite Cylinder Technology Symposium AGENCY: Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of public symposium. SUMMARY: RSPA will host a public symposium on carbon fiber composite technology and its application to the design of overwapped metallic cylinders for transportation of compressed gases. DATES: The symposium will be held May 26, 1994 at 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., but may conclude prior to 4 p.m. ADDRESSES: The symposium will be held at the Department of Transportation, Nassif Building, room 4236, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20590-0001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gopala Vinjamuri, telephone (202) 366-4545, Office of Hazardous Materials Technology, Research and Special Programs Administration, Department of Transportation, Washington, D.C. 20590-0001. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: RSPA will host a public symposium on carbon fiber composite technology and its application to the design of over-wrapped metallic cylinders for transportation of compressed gases in commerce. The purpose of this symposium is to obtain information on state-of-the art carbon fiber composite technology, experience in prolonged use under normal and extreme temperatures, and applications to pressurized cylinders. The symposium is structured toward the presentation of technical papers from industry and government experts and follow-up discussions. RSPA anticipates hearing from representatives of the Compressed Gas Association and composite cylinder manufacturers. Other persons interested in presenting technical papers should contact RSPA in advance. Carbon fiber composite pressure vessel technology is being used in aerospace applications, such as in pressure vessels and rocket motor casings. Application of this advanced technology to the commercial transportation of compressed gases in high pressure cylinders may offer a significant weight and efficiency advantage over current packaging systems without compromising safety. However, safety considerations differ between the design of aerospace vehicles and support systems and the design of cylinders that transport compressed gases in commerce. Issues of most concern to RSPA include materials technology, cylinder design and fabrication, and quality assurance. There also will be a presentation and discussion on the performance of a failure mode and effects analysis when considering the use of of advanced technologies in the design of compressed gas cylinders. This symposium will not address issues relating to compressed natural gas fuel systems for vehicles. Issued in Washington, DC, on May 6, 1994. Alan I. Roberts, Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11416 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;60&hyph;M
