FR940602-2-00041 FR940602-2-00034 This delegated authority does not extend to actually appointing a conservator or a receiver under section 38(h)(3)(A)(i), or to concurring therein, and also does not include authority to grant or concur in more than one deferral per institution or to withhold FDIC concurrence with respect to any action taken under section 38(h)(3)(A) by an appropriate federal banking agency in lieu of appointing a receiver. Each action under delegated authority will be documented in writing, setting forth how deferring the appointment of a receiver or conservator for the initial 90-day period will minimize long-term loss to the deposit insurance fund. B. Waiver of Certain Corrective Actions Section 38(f) requires that at least the following three types of specific action be taken against critically and significantly undercapitalized institutions, as well as against undercapitalized institutions which have failed to submit and implement an acceptable capital restoration plan, unless the agency determines that the actions would not further the purpose of section 38: (1) Requiring the sale of securities or consolidation with another institution; (2) requiring compliance with section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act without benefit of the exemption therein for transactions with certain affiliated institutions; and (3) restricting the interest rates paid on deposits to prevailing rates. Where, for example, a near-term resolution or recapitalization of an institution is anticipated, the pursuit of such formal actions against an institution would not normally minimize loss to the insurance fund. In those and other cases, making such determinations would be appropriately delegable to staff. Accordingly, the Board has delegated such authority under section 38(f)(3) to the Executive Director for Supervision and Resolutions, the Director, DOS, or an associate director designated in writing by such Director. Each such action under delegated authority must be documented in writing, clearly setting forth the reasons therefor. By order of the Board of Directors. Dated at Washington, DC, this 24th day of May 1994. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Robert E. Feldman, Acting Executive Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13365 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;01&hyph;P
