FR940516-1-00065 FR940516-1-00005 The EPA solicits comments on the equipment standard format of the standards for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater at new facilities. In particular, the EPA solicits comments on whether performance standards for vents, tanks, and wastewater at new facilities can be used without compromising confidential business information and whether operators can comply with performance standards for vents, tanks, and wastewater at new facilities without compromising confidential business information. Standards for equipment leaks are specified for new and existing BLR facilities, and are presented as an alternative standard for new and existing wet strength resin facilities. Equipment leak standards are in the form of equipment/work practice standards. Facilities would be required to implement the program specified in the proposed regulation to achieve compliance with the standard. E. Proposed Standards Table 1 summarizes the standards for existing BLR and WSR sources. In each case, for purposes of determining compliance with the emission requirements, the source was divided into two portions: (1) The combination of process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater, and (2) equipment leaks. The proposed standards for BLR production would require existing facilities to limit emissions from all process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater combined to a level at or below 130 lb HAP/MM lb production. Existing BLR facilities would also be required to implement the leak detection and repair (LDAR) program specified in the Negotiated Regulation for Equipment Leaks (40 CFR part 63, subpart H). The LDAR program specified under subpart H requires specific equipment modifications and work practices that reduce emissions from equipment leaks. Table 1._ Proposed Standards for Existing and New Sources 1Emission source 1Basic liquid epoxy resins 1Wet strength resins 2␣ 2Equivalent standard 3 Existing sources 0 s (1) Process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater Emission limit of 130 lb/MM lb product Emission limit of 10 lb/MM lb product No requirement. (2) Equipment leaks Requirements of 40 CFR 63, subpart H No requirement Requirements of 40 CFR 63, subpart H. s 3 New sources 0 s (1) Process vents, storage tanks and wastewater (a) Route process vents and storage tank vents to a common water scrubber w/efficiency of 99 percent (a) Control process vent emissions w/water-cooled condenser @ 25 ○C No requirement. ␣ (b) Recirculate scrubber liquor back to process l(b) Eliminate the production of methanol by-product in the manufacturing process ␣ (c) Control wastewater to 99% l(c) Eliminate the use of hydrochloric acid in the manufacturing process (2) Equipment leaks Requirements of 40 CFR 63, subpart H No requirement Requirements of 40 CFR 63, subpart H.
