FR941007-1-00124 FR941007-1-00009 Appendix C to Part 228_CRA Loan Data Format Instructions for the Small Business and Small Farm Loan Register This form contains the instructions for completion of the Loan Register for Small Business and Small Farm Loans. This register is used in conjunction with the reporting of this information as part of the CRA data collection process. The register and these instructions are to be used to provide the format in which the data should be reported. The actual data are to be submitted in machine-readable form in accordance with the instructions for submission of data pursuant to 12 CFR Part 203 (Regulation C). I. Who Must File a Register All independent insured banks and thrifts with $250 million or more in total assets and all insured banks and thrifts that are members of holding companies with $250 million or more in bank and thrift assets must report this information for small business and small farm loans outstanding beginning December 31, 1995. Banks and thrifts with fewer assets that wish to be evaluated under 12 CFR 228.22 through 228.24 must also report this information. Only provide information on business or farm location and borrower information for loans for which applications were submitted after July 1, 1995. For loans for which applications were submitted before that date, enter ``N/A'' for all information relating to location or borrower. II. Types of Loans To Be Reported The loan register should contain individual loan data on each small business or small farm loan as defined on schedule RC-C of the December 31 Report of Condition and Income. Include data on individual small business loans with original loan amounts of $1 million or less and individual small farm loans with original loan amounts of $500,000 or less that had an outstanding balance as of December 31. III. Submission of Data The data must be submitted in machine-readable form consistent with requirements for submission of data pursuant to 12 CFR Part 203 (Regulation C). The format must conform exactly to the form, including the order of columns, column headings, etc. Contact your federal supervisory agency for information regarding procedures and technical specifications for automated data submission. Your institution should decide on the procedure it wants to follow for collection of the data consistent with the Supplemental Instructions For Collection Of Data In Connection with Small Business and Small Farm Loans. Keep in mind that data reported on the register are outstanding as of December 31 and not originations as are reported for some other regulatory purposes. Your institution may collect the data on separate registers at different branches or on separate registers for different loan types (small business or small farm), but make sure each loan number is unique. Entries need not be grouped on your registers by MSA, or chronologically, or by census tract, or in any other particular order. IV. Instructions for Completion of Register Loan Information 1. LOAN NUMBER_ Enter an identifying number that can be used to retrieve the loan file. It can be any number (not exceeding 25 characters). Use letters, numerals, or a combination of both. Make sure that all numbers are unique within the institution. If registers contain data for branch offices, for example, use a letter or a numerical code to identify the loans of different branches or assign a certain series of numbers to particular branches to avoid duplicate numbers. The use of the borrower's tax-payer identification number or social security number is strongly discouraged for privacy reasons. 2. OUTSTANDING LOAN AMOUNT_ Enter the outstanding loan amount (balance) as of December 31. Show the amount in thousands rounding to the nearest thousand. Do not report loans with balances below $500. For example, a loan with a balance of $500 would be rounded to $1,000; a loan balance of $50,300 would be rounded to $50,000; and a balance of $15,700 would be rounded to $16,000.
