FR940706-2-00032 FR940706-2-00022 CVP Marketing Area: The area which generally encompasses the CVP water basin in northern and central California extending from the Cascade Range in northern California to the plains along the Kern River south of Bakersfield. Final Withdrawal Procedures: Those procedures published in the Federal Register on March 5, 1986 (51 FR 7702), which specify the methods to be used by Western for the adjustment of CROD under varying circumstances. Long-Term Contract: A contract offered to a Preference Entity who is promoting an economic development project at either a Priority-One Base or a Priority-Two Base. Long-Term Firm NDA Act Power: Firm Power allocated by Western and subject to the terms and conditions specified in an electric service contract and the final NDA Act Procedures. Marketing Plan: The Final 1994 Power Marketing Plan, Central Valley Project, California (57 FR 45782). NDA Act Power: The CVP CROD, in the amounts set forth in Appendix A, which shall be determined to be NDA Act Power by Western based on the following two conditions: (1) such CVP CROD was under contract to military installations in the CVP Marketing Area as of November 30, 1993, and (2) the military installations with such CVP CROD are closed or approved for closure pursuant to the 1990 Act. NDA Act Power Entitlement: An amount of NDA Act Power equal to the amount of CVP CROD under contract with a Priority-One base as of November 30, 1993. NDA Act Procedures: Those procedures adopted by Western to fulfill the requirements of the NDA Act. Negatively Affected Customer: A Preference Entity with a contract for CVP Power from Western as of November 30, 1993, which is detrimentally affected as a result of a Closed Military Installation which is located within the service area of such Preference Entity. Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E): The investor-owned utility having a service area in northern and central California and load control responsibility for the northern and central California area. Power: Capacity and associated energy. Preference Entity: An entity that meets the requirements of Reclamation Law, which provides that preference shall be given to municipalities and other public corporations or agencies; and also to cooperatives and other nonprofit organizations financed in whole or in part by loans made pursuant to the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (Reclamation Act of 1939, section 9(c), 43 U.S.C. 485h(c)). Priority-One Base: A Closed Military Installation with CVP CROD as of November 30, 1993. Priority-Three Base: A military installation, not scheduled for closure, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Marketing Plan. Priority-Two Base: A Closed Military Installation without a CVP CROD. Short-Term Contract: A contract offered on a temporary basis to a Preference Entity at a Priority-Three Base or to a Negatively Affected Customer. Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power: Firm Power which is withdrawable to protect the 1,152&hyph;MW Load Level before withdrawal of other types of noninterruptible Power and which is subject to additional terms and conditions specified in an electric service contract. Unutilized NDA Act Power: NDA Act Power which is not allocated under the final NDA Act Procedures. Western: Western Area Power Administration, United States Department of Energy (DOE), a Federal power marketing administration responsible for marketing the surplus generation from Federal hydroelectric multipurpose projects pursuant to Reclamation Law and the DOE Organization Act (91 Stat. 565, 42 U.S.C. ยง7101 et seq. ). 1,152&hyph;MW Load Level: The maximum simultaneous demand that Western provides, and that PG&E is obligated to support, in accordance with the terms of Contract 2948A. B. Reclassification of CVP CROD to NDA Act Power If at any time through November 30, 2003, an amount of CVP CROD set forth in Appendix A is determined to be NDA Act Power by Western, Western will administratively reclassify that amount of CVP CROD to NDA Act Power. Western shall recall that amount of CVP CROD from the military branch with a contractual right for that CVP CROD, and Western shall amend the associated contract to reflect the recall of that amount of reclassified CROD. At that time, Western shall offer the military branch the right to shift any remaining CVP CROD among the bases with CVP CROD at the time of the recall. The NDA Act Power will be offered to the military branch it was recalled from, under a short-term contract, subject to Western allocating all or part of such NDA Act Power first to a qualified applicant with a greater right to such NDA Act Power pursuant to the final NDA Act Procedures. C. Types of Service 1. Long-Term Firm NDA Act Power Western proposes to allocate up to a total of 106.000 MW as Long-Term Firm NDA Act Power (identified in Appendix A), as such Power becomes available due to base closures pursuant to the 1990 Act.
