FR940513-1-00081 FR940513-1-00017 The environmental, costs, energy and economic impacts of the proposed MACT standards are summarized in Tables 4 through 6, and are represented by Regulatory Alternative A for facilities emitting less than or equal to 1 Mg of HAP and Regulatory Alternative A for facilities emitting more than 1 Mg of HAP. There are no projected impacts to controlling emissions from ballasting. As discussed in section IV.C.5, the EPA believes that the potential safety impacts of the standards have been addressed. The estimated impacts of the standards are a VOC reduction of 12,400 Mg/yr of which 1,300 Mg are HAP. The capital and annualized costs are estimated to be $570 million and $130 million, respectively. The EPA performed an economic impact analysis of the MACT determination for this regulation. Potential price, output, and employment impacts for affected producers and for the marine transport industry were examined for each alternative. Potential small business impacts were also isolated. Additional information on these economic impacts is available in the docket for this proposed regulation. Estimated maximum price increases for the affected products varied but were not large (less than 1 percent) for any of the products under Regulatory Alternative A of the MACT determination for terminals emitting more than 1 Mg/yr. These price increase estimates reflect both the control cost increase for transporting crude oil and the control cost increase for transporting petroleum products. Because these price increases are small and because the elasticity of demand coefficients for petroleum products are small, estimated percent output (i.e., throughput) reductions were minimal. Correspondingly, estimated employment reductions were also small (less than 200). Under Regulatory Alternative A of the MACT determination for terminals emitting more than 1 Mg/yr, potentially significant economic impacts on the smaller terminal operations that would have to install controls were identified. These significant impacts may have resulted from the high costs overall acting in combination with high per-barrel control cost differentials between the smaller and larger terminal operations that would have to control. It is expected that many of the smaller terminal operations would not be able to pass all of their control costs forward to consumers since they would be under increased competitive pressure from the larger terminal operations. It was estimated that up to 200 of the 264 affected terminal operations will have difficulty either absorbing control costs or passing along these costs to consumers under the proposed standard. The potential economic impact on marine vessel owners is relatively small. Average control cost per barrel for tankers shipping crude oil or refined products was estimated to be $0.002 per barrel while owners or barges shipping refined products would face control costs of $0.08 per barrel. Because 77 percent of U.S. marine-transported petroleum product volume would be affected by these proposed standards, a significant percentage of U.S. marine vessels will need to be retrofitted. The vessels least costly to modify (most likely the larger, newer, double-skin vessels) will be retrofitted first, leading to a significant degree of dedicated service. It is expected that vessel owners that do retrofit will be able to pass retrofit costs forward to consumers. As discussed above, a primary concern in the implementation of these proposed regulations is safety. Though section 112 of the Act does not specifically address U.S. Coast Guard regulations on safety, the EPA has endeavored to make sure that safety factors are adequately addressed and that nothing in the proposed regulations, whether proposed under section 183(f) or 112, is inconsistent with current U.S. Coast Guard regulations. In addition, section 183(f)(2) of the Act requires that any regulations promulgated by any State or political subdivision regarding emissions from the loading and unloading of tank vessels must be consistent with U.S. Coast Guard regulations regarding safety. This consistency requirement is equally applicable to any State or local regulation promulgated under the authority of the Clean Air Act section 112. Moreover, section 112(l) requires that the Administrator disapprove any program submitted by a State if the Administrator determines that the program is not likely to satisfy the objectives of the Act. The EPA believes that any State or local program that is inconsistent with U.S. Coast Guard safety regulations is ``not likely to satisfy the objectives of the Act'' and would therefore be disapproved by the Administrator. F. Selection of Format for the Standards The chosen format for the standards is a percent of mass emissions reduction. The percent of mass reduction format allows a focus on the final control device after good capture has been ensured. This approach is consistent with the benzene NESHAP (40 CFR part 61 subpart BB). Sufficient data to develop a mass per unit loaded standard were not available. Additionally, emission rates can vary between facilities and between vessels based on loading temperature and the arrival condition of the vessel, making it difficult to set an acceptable mass per unit loaded standard while ensuring good capture and control. Developing a mass per unit loaded standard would have required extensive testing and would need to be more stringent than the percent of mass reduction format in order to accommodate the varying terminal and vessel conditions. For this reason, a mass per unit loaded alternative is not being proposed. The primary format, mass emissions reduction, for the MACT standards is the same as the RACT standards. However, because the MACT standards allow the source the flexibility to control only the portion of total facility emissions needed to meet the 93 percent reduction requirement, facilities may choose to calculate both potential uncontrolled and actual controlled emissions as part of the compliance demonstration.
