FR940919-0-00058 FR940919-0-00016 D. Universal Treatment Standards Today's rule promulgates universal treatment standards (UTS) for organic, metal, and cyanide constituents_one set for wastewaters and a different set for nonwastewaters_that replace existing treatment standards for hazardous wastes. (``Replace'' is something of a misnomer, as explained more fully below, since many of the standards actually remain at current levels, and the rule does not require treatment of hazardous constituents not already regulated under current standards.) Currently, facilities managing hazardous wastes must meet LDR treatment standards established for many different listed and characteristic hazardous waste codes before the waste may be land disposed. In some cases, a constituent regulated under the treatment standard for one waste was also regulated in another waste at different concentration levels. Today's rulemaking eliminates these differences in concentration limits for the same constituent to provide a better assessment of treatability, reduce confusion, and ease compliance and enforcement. Promulgation of UTS does not change the constituents of concern regulated in listed wastes_that is, if only cadmium, lead and chromium have been regulated in a listed waste, only cadmium, lead and chromium are subject to regulation now that UTS are promulgated. However, the concentration levels for cadmium, lead and chromium now are numerically identical with UTS for those constituents. E. Modifications to Hazardous Waste Recycling Regulations The Agency is modifying the regulatory framework to the definition of solid waste to allow environmentally beneficial recycling operations to continue without the regulatory impediments imposed by full RCRA Subtitle C requirements. In turn, this will allow EPA and the states to streamline their efforts and better focus on operations that are part of the nation's waste disposal problem, rather than on those that are not, while the Agency continues to look at the overall definition. These modifications will broaden the 40 CFR 261.2(e)(1)(iii) ``closed-loop'' recycling exclusion from the definition of solid waste such that the residues of a secondary process are excluded from being a solid waste if they are reinserted into the process without prior reclamation (and also similarly broaden the related 40 CFR 260.30(b) variance for materials that are reclaimed prior to reinsertion). These provisions will put secondary recovery operations that recycle residues which they generated on the same regulatory footing as primary recovery operations. The modifications are based, in part, on two Court opinions ( American Petroleum Institute v. EPA, 906 F.2d 726 (D.C. Cir. 1990) ( API ) and American Mining Congress v. EPA, 907 F. 2d 1179 (D.C. Cir. 1990) ( AMC II )) which indicate that the Agency has some discretion to consider the manner in which a secondary material is managed in determining RCRA jurisdiction (i.e., RCRA jurisdiction may be determined, at least in part, by consideration of whether the material is part of the waste management problem, as indicated by the potential for the material to pose a hazard to human health and the environment when recycled). III. Improvements to the Existing Land Disposal Restrictions Program A. Background ``Our goal is to make the entire federal government both less expensive and more efficient .␣.␣. we intend to redesign, to reinvent, to reinvigorate the entire national government.'' President Bill Clinton Remarks Announcing the National Performance Review, March 3, 1993 ``We are searching for ways to change_to work better and smarter so that the Agency can deliver high quality results at a reduced cost. Our aim is to treat citizens as customers, improve the service and delivery of our programs, and eliminate waste and inefficiency.'' From ``Creating A U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that Works Better And Costs Less'' (EPA's National Performance Review Phase I Report) In the past several years, the EPA has embarked on major efforts to improve the quality of its work in protecting human health and the environment. Coincident with this emphasis on improvement in the way its work is done, the Agency is striving to help reinvent government, in part by streamlining its organization and its work in order to be more efficient and save public resources. In that spirit, a major part of today's rule is designed to improve the quality and efficiency in the Land Disposal Restrictions Program. The measures promulgated today to improve the Program received widespread support from commenters when they were proposed.
