FR941011-1-00030 FR941011-1-00012 (b) The cognizant auditor will advise and assist the ACO in evaluating both the contractor's compensation system and the contractor's correction of any deficiencies. Auditors shall assess the significance of contractor deficiencies and provide the ACO an estimate of any adverse material impact to the Government resulting from such deficiencies. (c) If the contractor notifies the Government that disclosed information relative to its compensation system contains employee, commercial, or financial information which it regards as privileged and confidential, such information shall be protected. Such information shall not be released outside the Government except in accordance with established agency procedures. 42.1306 Procedures. (a) System evaluation. Cognizant audit and contract administration activities will jointly establish and manage programs for evaluating contractor compensation systems. Evaluations will be based on the information provided by the contractor. Evaluations and reports shall be accomplished as a contract audit and contract administration office team effort. The ACO shall appoint a team leader and ensure representation of appropriate functional specialties. Evaluations shall be tailored to take full advantage of the day-to-day work done as an integral part of both the contract audit and contract administration activities. A system evaluation shall be conducted at least every three years, except where the ACO, in consultation with the auditor, determines that past experience and a current vulnerability assessment of the contractor discloses low risk. If the ACO determines that the Government is subject to high risk, compensation system evaluations should be done more frequently. To the extent possible, the evaluation team leader should inform the contractor and the ACO of significant findings during the conduct of the evaluation. The team leader should apprise the contractor during an exit conference of any significant findings. (b) Disposition of evaluation team findings _(1) Reporting on findings . The report shall address the evaluation team findings and recommendations. If there are significant compensation system deficiencies, the report shall provide an estimate of any adverse material impact to the Government resulting from those deficiencies and a recommendation as to the acceptability of the contractor's corrective action plan. (2) Field pricing reports . When the report of an evaluation indicates that there is a significant compensation system deficiency, all field pricing reports for that contractor will contain a recommendation relating to proposed cost and pricing data adjustments necessary to protect the interest of the Government, until the deficiency(ies) is (are) corrected. (3) Initial notification to contractor . Upon receipt of the system evaluation report, the ACO shall provide a copy to the contractor and allow 30 days, or a reasonable extension thereto, for submission of its written response. If no significant deficiencies are identified, the ACO will notify the contractor in a timely manner.
