FR940812-2-00255 FR940812-2-00087 The Commission is authorized to conduct analyses and develop reports or other materials. In order to augment the expertise present on the Commission, the Commission is also authorized to contract for the services of non-governmental consultants who may conduct analyses, prepare reports and background papers or prepare other materials for consideration by the Commission, as appropriate. In order to avoid duplication of effort, the Commission may, in lieu of, or as part of any of its authorized activities, incorporate the results of the deliberations of another entity as long as the Commission sets forth its reasons for doing so. The Assistant to the President for Science and Technology shall be notified upon establishment of each subcommittee, and shall be provided information on the name, membership (including chair), function, estimated duration of the subcommittee, and estimated frequency of meetings. Management and support services shall be provided by the Office for Protection from Research Risks, Department of Health and Human Services. Additional resources including, but not limited to personnel, office support and printing will be provided by other NSTC member agencies. Meetings Meetings of the Commission shall be held up to 10 times a year at the call of the Chairperson with the advance approval of a Federal Government official who shall also approve the agenda. Meetings of the subcommittee(s) shall be convened as necessary. A Federal Government official shall be present at all meetings. Meetings shall be open to the public except as determined otherwise by the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology. Advance notice of all meetings shall be given to the public. Meetings shall be conducted, and records of proceedings kept, as required by applicable laws and Federal regulations. Compensation Members may be compensated at a rate not to exceed the maximum pay authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, plus per diem and travel expenses as in accordance with standard government travel regulations. Annual Cost Estimate The estimated annual cost for operating the National Bioethics Advisory Commission, including compensation and travel expenses for members and contracting and publication services costs, but excluding that for staff support, $1,500,000. The estimated annual person years of staff support is six, at an estimated annual cost of $500,000. Reports Reports by the National Bioethics Advisory Commission on specific issues shall be submitted to the National Science and Technology Council, the appropriate committees of Congress, and other appropriate entities. The Commission may specifically identify the Federal department, agency or other entity to which particular recommendations are directed and request a response from the Federal department, agency or other entity within 180 days of publication of such recommendations. Executive summaries of each report of the Commission shall be promulgated in the Federal Register. Such summaries shall specifically list the department, agency, or other entity to which any recommendations are directed and the date by which such responses are expected. An annual report shall be submitted to the National Science and Technology Council and the appropriate committees of Congress. It shall contain, at a minimum, (i) the Commission's function; (ii) a list of members and their business addresses; (iii) the dates and places of meetings; (iv) a summary of the Commission's activities during the year; (v) a summary of the Commission's recommendations made during the year; and (vi) a summary of responses made by departments, agencies, or other entities to the Commission's recommendations during the year. Termination Date Unless renewed by appropriate action prior to its expiration, this National Bioethics Advisory Commission will terminate two years from the date this charter is approved. Barbara Ann Ferguson, Administrative Officer, Office of Science and Technology Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19688 Filed 8&hyph;11&hyph;94] BILLING CODE 3170&hyph;01 OSTP&hyph;M
