FR941222-1-00054 FR941222-1-00008 The second set of coeluting compounds consists of 2- and 4- aminoaniline, and 2-methoxyaniline. EPA based the risk assessment for this set of coeluting compounds on 2-aminoaniline, as discussed in Section II.D.2. The resulting calculated high- end individual cancer-risk level is 1E&hyph;5 for the surface impoundment management scenario. Based on the risks associated with the plausible management practice for this waste, EPA is proposing to list wastewaters from the production of azo dyes, excluding FD&C colorants, as a hazardous waste, designated EPA Hazardous Waste Number K165. However, the Agency recognizes that if wastewater treatment sludges from the production of azo dyes (K164) are listed as proposed, the available options for wastewater management may change and surface impoundments may not be used. Wastewaters that are managed in an impoundment will generate sludges through precipitation. In the event that K164 sludges were listed and the wastewaters were not, the sludges generated in a Subtitle D wastewater impoundment would be hazardous wastes and the surface impoundment would become subject to RCRA Subtitle C regulation. The Agency is requesting comment on whether it would be plausible to use a Subtitle D surface impoundment to manage wastewaters if the wastewaters were not listed and the wastewater treatment sludges were listed as hazardous wastes. The Agency also is requesting comment on the need to list K165 wastewaters, given that the plausibility of the worst-case management scenario on which the risk assessment was based may be affected by the K164 sludge listing. For the reasons stated above, EPA proposes to add the following constituents to Appendix VII to Part 261_Basis for Listing: 2-aminoaniline, 2-methoxyaniline, 2-aminotoluene, 3- aminotoluene, 4-aminotoluene, and aniline. In addition, 2-aminoaniline, 4-aminoaniline, 2-methoxyaniline and 3-aminotoluene are proposed to be added to Appendix VIII to Part 261_Hazardous Constituents. 3. Wastes from the production of triarylmethane dyes and pigments (excluding triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock). a. Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of triarylmethane dyes and pigments (excluding triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock). Summary EPA is proposing to defer the decision on whether to list wastewater treatment sludges from the production of triarylmethane dyes and pigments (excluding triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock) due to insufficient waste characterization data. The Agency is planning to collect additional information on this wastestream. EPA then will publish a supplemental notice with a proposed determination on whether to list this waste.
