FR940922-2-00022 FR940922-2-00006 DOC Position We disagree. Respondent reported direct labor as recorded in the grower's financial statement and the Department reviewed this grower's financial statements in New Zealand. The Department found the methodology of allocating labor costs for this grower to be reasonable. Without a more accurate alternative, we accepted respondent's cost allocation as an appropriate estimation of the cost of cultivating kiwifruit. Accordingly, we have used respondent's allocation for the final results. Comment 61 Petitioners argue that since the grower did not report rates, the Department should calculate rates for this grower. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners. We verified this grower's expenses in New Zealand. This grower did not incur an expense for rates during the POR. Therefore, we did not include such an expense for this grower in our COP calculation. Comment 62 Respondent contends that the Department should allocate horticultural costs based on net orchard area because, along with kiwifruit, this grower's other crop was also surrounded by headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts. In addition, respondent asserts that the Department should include only those costs in the COP analysis that were incurred by the current grower during the POR. DOC Position We agree with respondent in part. In the case of this particular grower, apple and kiwifruit crops were planted side-by-side and the Department verified that both apples and kiwifruit crops were surrounded by headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts. Although the Department recognizes that shelterbelts are not crucial to the apple trees, since both crops were surrounded by shelterbelts, we have revised certain costs and allocated them over net area only. With regard to respondent's second argument, we agree with respondent that the benchmark for determining costs in this case is the cost of growing kiwifruit to the current owner. Therefore, we have excluded costs outside the POR from the COP calculations for this grower. Grower 20 Comment 63 Petitioners assert that this grower has omitted repacking and interest expenses from its cost calculation. Furthermore, petitioners contend that gains on the sale of fixed assets in G&A expenses should be excluded. According to petitioners, since respondent claimed that coolstore costs were incurred by NZKMB, rebates from coolstore should not be deducted from packing costs. Respondent maintains that all repacking costs have been included in NZKMB's cost response because NZKMB is responsible for these costs and reimburses the growers for any repacking expenses. Furthermore, respondent argues that interest expense was allocated on a consolidated financial statement basis which includes all debt, both corporate and for the orchard. According to respondent, gains on sales of assets are a legitimate inclusion in the G&A expense, and the coolstore rebate is a reduction in the packing cost paid to the packhouse/coolstore and should be included in COP calculation. DOC Position We agree with respondent that COP is allocated only to fruit sold. Thus, all costs have been properly allocated. Since NZKMB is responsible for repacking costs and reimburses the growers for these expenses, all repackaging costs have already been included in NZKMB's response. Respondent reported the grower's interest expense on a consolidated financial statement basis which includes corporate and orchard interest. We agree with respondent that gains on sales of assets are a proper inclusion in the G&A expense and that the coolstore rebate is a reduction in the packing cost paid to the packhouse/coolstore and, therefore, is properly included in the COP. Other Comments Comment 64 Respondent contends that the Department failed to adjust NZKMB's interest expenses by the amount of interest NZKMB earned on short-term deposits. Respondent asserts that the Department normally permits an offset of interest expenses by short-term interest income, citing the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Calcium Aluminate Cement, Cement Clinker and Flux from France (59 FR 14136, March 25, 1994). DOC Position We agree with respondent. Because of a clerical error the Department inadvertently did not adjust respondent's interest expenses by the amount of short-term interest income. We have corrected this clerical error for these final results. Comment 65 Respondent contends that due to a clerical error in the computer program, the Department's model match exercise did not result in the most similar matches for the U.S. sales. Respondent urges the Department to ensure that comparisons are made on the most similar products. DOC Position We agree. Upon reviewing the computer program we found an error that did not allow for the most similar products to be compared to the U.S. merchandise. We have corrected the computer program for the final results. Comment 66 Respondent argues that the Department failed to subtract the quantity adjustment amount from the quantity and that this manipulation is required to yield the actual quantity sold. Respondent urges the Department to correct this clerical error. DOC Position We agree with respondent and have made the appropriate adjustments in the final results. Comment 67 Petitioners argue that the Department should deduct U.S. repacking expenses in the calculation of ESP because repacking expenses represent costs for an operation performed in the United States and not an export packing expense. DOC Position We agree. We have made the appropriate adjustment in the final results.
