FR941213-2-00054 FR941213-2-00039 Content of Applications Each application must address each of the following points. 1. Identifying Information. Provide the name and address of the applicant organization. If the mailing address is a post office box, also provide the street address. Provide the name, title, and telephone number of the contact person who can answer questions about the application. 2. Authority to Apply. Provide a copy of the resolution by the Board of Directors, Board of Regents, or other governing body of the applicant organization approving the submittal of an application to OSHA to become an OSHA Training Institute Education Center. 3. Nonprofit Status. Include evidence of the nonprofit status of the applicant organization. A letter from the Internal Revenue Service or a statement included in a recent audit report is preferred. In the absence of either of these, a copy of the articles of incorporation showing the nonprofit status will be accepted. 4. Status as a Training Organization. This section applies only to applicants that are not colleges or universities. Show that training or education is a principal activity of the applicant organization. Through audit reports, annual reports, or other documentation, demonstrate that for the last two years more than 50 percent of the applicant's funds have been used for training and education activities and that more than 50 percent of its staff resources have also been used for this purpose. 5. Occupational Safety and Health Experience. Describe the applicant's relevant course offerings for the last two years. Include copies of catalogs and other recruitment materials that provide descriptive material about courses. For each course, include the dates the course was offered and the number of students who completed the course. Also include descriptive material similar to the information contained in the appendix: course description, objectives, topic outline, number of hours, and laboratories or other practical hands-on exercises included in the course. 6. Staff Qualifications. Describe the qualifications of staff teaching occupational safety and health courses. Indicate the professional qualifications of each, such as Certified Safety Professional (CSP), Professional Engineer (PE), or Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH). Also describe staff knowledge of and/or experience with Federal OSHA standards and their application to hazards and hazard abatement. Include resumes of current staff and position descriptions and minimum hiring qualifications for all positions, whether filled or vacant, that may be assigned to conduct OSHA classes. 7. Classroom Facilities. Describe classroom facilities available for presentations of the courses. Include number of students accommodated, desk arrangements, and availability of audiovisual equipment. Also describe appropriate laboratory facilities and other facilities available for hands-on exercises. Indicate provisions for accessibility for persons with disabilities. 8. Recruitment and Registration. Explain procedures for recruiting students from Federal agencies other than OSHA and from the private sector. Describe registration procedures including provisions for cancellation, furnishing enrollees with hotel information, and tuition or fee collection. 9. Accomodations. Provide a representative listing of hotels available for student accommodation and give sample room rates. Explain how students will be transported between the hotels and classes. Also describe the food service and restaurants available both in the area in which the classes will be held and the area where the hotels are located. 10. Location. Describe the accessibility of the training facility for students. Include such items as distance from a major airport, number of airlines serving the airport, transportation from the airport to hotels, and distance from the interstate system. Also describe the proximity of the training facility to the nearest OSHA Regional or Area Office, including the distance, and giving the approximate driving or other travel time. 11. Tuition. Provide a copy of the applicant organization's tuition and fee schedule. Explain how tuition and/or fees will be computed for each course, referencing the schedule. 12. Nondiscrimination. Provide copies of the applicant organization's nondiscrimination policies covering staff and students. In the absence of a written policy, explain how the applicant will ensure that staff and students are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, age or disability. 13. Off-site Courses. Successful applicants will be expected to conduct courses at sites other than their own facilities at the request of organizations sponsoring training. Explain the procedures that will be used to assure that classroom facilities and accommodations, if appropriate, are adequate and that instructional staff, if different from those individuals included in item 6 above, Staff Qualifications, meet the hiring standards included in that item.
