FR940428-2-00162 FR940428-2-00072 (2) For new discharges 30 days prior to commencement of the discharge by operators whose facilities and/or operations commence discharge subsequent to the effective date of this permit. b. Operators of facilities and/or operations within the general permit area who fail to notify the Director of their intent to be covered by this general permit and obtain written authorization of coverage are not authorized under this general permit to discharge from those facilities into the named receiving waters. 2. Termination of Operations Operators of facilities and/or operations authorized under this permit shall notify the Director upon the termination of discharges. The notice must contain the name, mailing address, and location of the facility for which the notification is submitted, the NPDES permit number for the non-contact cooling water discharge identified by the notice, and an indication of whether the non-contact cooling water discharge has been eliminated or the operator of the discharge has changed. The notice must be signed in accordance with the signatory requirements of 40 CFR ยง122.22. 3. Renotification Upon reissuance of a new general permit, the permittee is required to notify the Director of his intent to be covered by the new general permit. 4. When the Director May Require Application for an Individual NPDES Permit a. The Director may require any person authorized by this permit to apply for and obtain an individual NPDES permit. Any interested person may petition the Director to take such action. Instances where an individual permit may be required include the following: (1) The discharge(s) is a significant contributor of pollution; (2) The discharger is not in compliance with the conditions of this permit; (3) A change has occurred in the availability of the demonstrated technology of practices for the control or abatement of pollutants applicable to the point source; (4) Effluent limitation guidelines are promulgated for point sources covered by this permit; (5) A Water Quality Management Plan containing requirements applicable to such point source is approved; or (6) The point source(s) covered by this permit no longer: (a) Involves the same or substantially similar types of operations; (b) Discharges the same types of wastes; (c) Requires the same effluent limitations or operating conditions; (d) Requires the same or similar monitoring; and (e) In the opinion of the Director, is more appropriately controlled under a general permit than under an individual NPDES permit. b. The Director may require an individual permit only if the permittee authorized by the general permit has been notified in writing that an individual permit is required, and has been given a brief explanation of the reasons for this decision. 5. When an Individual NPDES Permit May Be Requested a. Any operator may request to be excluded from the coverage of this general permit by applying for an individual permit. b. When an individual NPDES permit is issued to an operator otherwise subject to this general permit, the applicability of this permit to that owner or operator is automatically terminated on the effective date of the individual permit. Part II. Standard Conditions Section A. General Requirements 1. Duty To Comply
