FR941006-1-00016 FR941006-1-00006 A. General Prohibition on Trading Ahead Paragraph (a) of the proposed rule establishes the general prohibition on trading ahead of limit orders: a market maker shall not effect a transaction involving a covered security for its own account, directly or indirectly, at a price at which the market maker could execute a customer limit order it is holding without executing the customer limit order at the limit price or a price more favorable to the customer, under the specific terms and conditions by which the order was accepted by the market maker. The rule applies once a market maker has accepted a customer limit order for execution. 25 The rule applies to all market makers, whether they are handling orders for their firm's clients or orders sent from another firm. Finally, the rule applies to all accounts of the market maker in which the market maker or any person associated with the market maker is directly or indirectly interested. 25 NASD rules do not require a market maker to accept a customer limit order. The application of the rule can best be illustrated through the following example. Firm A is a retail brokerage firm. Firm B is a market making firm with no customers of its own. Firm C is an integrated firm with both brokerage and market making units. The present NASD Interpretation applies only to orders received and executed internally by firm C. 26 The proposed rule would cover these orders as well as orders sent from firm A to firm B or C , and orders sent from firm C to firm B . 26 The Interpretation also applies to firm A if it forwards limit orders to an affiliated firm ( e.g., Firm D , a firm that it controls) for execution. For instance, firm A may send firm B a customer limit order to buy 1,000 shares of stock at $201/4. Firm B, a market maker in that security, is quoting a bid of $20 and an offer of $201/2. Under the proposed rule, a purchase of a certain number of shares by firm B at $201/4 or lower would trigger an obligation to fill the same number of shares in the customer's order at $201/4. A failure to execute the customer's limit order either before or immediately after the market maker's purchase would constitute a violation of the rule. The Commission is requesting comment on whether it should exclude from the protection of the rule limit orders to buy at the bid or limit orders to sell at the offer. B. ``Covered Security'' The rule would apply to NASDAQ securities that have been designated National Market System securities. A NASDAQ security is a registered equity security for which quotation information is disseminated in the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation system. A NASDAQ National Market System security is a NASDAQ security as defined above for which transaction reports are required to be made on a real-time basis pursuant to an effective transaction reporting plan. 27 The Commission requests comments on the feasibility of extending the limit order protection measures incorporated herein to other NASDAQ securities, such as NASDAQ SmallCap securities and over-the-counter (``OTC'') Bulletin Board-eligible securities. 28 27 See 17 CFR 240.11Aa3&hyph;1. 28 A NASDAQ SmallCap security is one which (1) satisfies all applicable requirements for qualification as a NASDAQ security and is not a NASDAQ National Market System security; (2) is a right to purchase such security; or (3) is a warrant to subscribe to such security. See File No. SR-NASD&hyph;94&hyph;48. The OTC Bulletin Board provides an electronic quotation medium for subscribing members to reflect market making interest in eligible securities, which are generally domestic or foreign equity securities or American Depository Receipts not listed on NASDAQ or the New York or American Stock Exchanges. See NASD Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board Service Rules, §3, NASD Manual (CCH) ¶2573. C. Definition of ``Customer Limit Order'' Paragraph (c)(3) of the proposed rule defines the term ``limit order'' as an order to buy or sell shares of a security at a specified price or other price more favorable to the customer. In the example above, the customer placed a limit order to buy 1,000 shares of stock at $201/4, indicating that the customer wishes to pay no more than $20.25 for the security. The market maker may fill the order at a lower price, but not at a price higher than the limit the customer has set. The Commission proposes to limit the class of persons who would be protected by the rule to public customers only. To this end, the term ``customer'' in paragraph (c)(3) is defined as a person who is not a registered broker or dealer. Nevertheless, because customer limit orders often are sent to a market maker by a broker or another market maker that originally received the order, the definition of ``customer'' would encompass such orders as customer orders entitled to protection under the rule. Orders for registered brokers or dealers that are sent to a market maker by another broker or market maker would not be entitled to this protection. The Commission requests comment on the necessity of restricting limit order protection to customers and the effectiveness of the definition in carrying out that purpose.
