FR940603-0-00135 FR940603-0-00029 •``Employees and teachers who work for the School District Number 3 in Austin, Texas *␣*␣*.'' (common bond_same employer) •``Employees of the JKL Employee Leasing Company who are paid from Lake Charles, Louisiana *␣*␣*.'' (common bond_same employer) •``Employees of JKL, Inc. and STU, Inc. working for the XYZ Joint Venture Company in Los Gatos, California *␣*␣*.'' Some examples of insufficiently defined occupational groups are: •``Employees of engineering firms in Seattle, Washington.'' (Not the same occupational common bond, since various firms compete against one another; names of firms must be stated; however, may be the basis for a multiple group charter.) •``Persons employed or working in Chicago, Illinois.'' (No common bond; names of firms must be stated.) •``Persons working in the entertainment industry in California.'' (No occupational common bond, since firms compete against one another; names of firms must be stated.) II.B_Associational Common Bonds II.B.1_General A federal credit union may include in its field of membership, regardless of location, all members of a recognized association. NCUA limits this common bond to groups consisting primarily of individuals (natural persons) who participate in activities developing common loyalties, mutual benefits, and mutual interests. Except for student, church, and similar groups, all associational common bonds will include a definition of the group that may be served based on the effective date of the association's charter and bylaws and a geographic limitation. Therefore, with the exceptions noted above, applicants for an associationally-based federal credit union charter must provide a copy of the association's charter and bylaws. Qualifying associational groups must hold meetings open to all natural person members at least once a year, must sponsor other activities which clearly demonstrate that the members of the group meet and interact regularly to accomplish the objectives of the association, and must have an authoritative definition of who is eligible for membership_usually, this will be the association's charter and bylaws. In determining whether a group satisfies the common bond requirement for a federal credit union charter, NCUA will consider the totality of the circumstances_such as whether members pay dues, have voting rights, and hold office, whether the group maintains a membership list, the clarity of the associational group's definition and compactness of its membership, and the frequency of meetings and the interaction of members. A support group, whose members are continually changing, may not meet the criteria. NCUA's focus with respect to chartering associational federal credit unions will be on the group's natural person members. In certain instances, however, NCUA will also allow non-natural persons (e.g., corporate sponsors, entities participating in programs to alleviate poverty and distress, or organizations of members) to be eligible for membership. It is not necessary that every non-natural person member of the group be a recognized legal entity; NCUA will consider such groups on a case-by-case basis. Student groups_for example, parent-teacher organizations, alumni associations, and students in a trade school or other curriculum_and church groups constitute associational common bonds and may qualify for a federal credit union charter. Since such groups usually do not have a formal association charter, there is no requirement for these groups to provide a charter or bylaws. Homeowners associations, tenant groups, electric co-ops, consumer groups and other groups of persons having an ``interest in'' a particular cause and certain consumer cooperatives may be eligible to receive a federal charter. However, they must make a strong showing of common activities which clearly demonstrate that the group meets and interacts regularly to accomplish the objectives of the association. Furthermore, they must provide clear evidence of economic viability. Newly-organized associations must make a similar strong showing of common activities. Experience has shown that a new group's efforts are best focused on solidifying member interest before attempting to offer credit union service.
