FR940902-0-00123 FR940902-0-00010 (e) Federal and awarding agencies' access to records _(1) Records of recipients and subrecipients . The awarding agency, the Department of Labor (including the Department of Labor's Office of Inspector General), and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their authorized representatives, have the right of timely and reasonable access to any books, documents, papers, computer records, or other records of recipients and subrecipients that are pertinent to the grant, in order to conduct audits and examinations, and to make excerpts, transcripts, and photocopies of such documents. This right also includes timely and reasonable access to recipient and subrecipient personnel for the purpose of interview and discussion related to such documents. (2) Expiration of right of access. The right of access in this section is not limited to the required retention period but shall last as long as the records are retained. §627.463 Public access to records. (a) Public access. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, records maintained by recipients or subrecipients pursuant to §627.460 shall be made available to the public upon request, notwithstanding the provisions of State or local law. (b) Exceptions. This requirement does not apply to: (1) Information, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; or (2) Trade secrets, or commercial or financial information, obtained from a person and privileged or confidential. (c) Fees. For processing of a request for a record under this section, a fee may be charged to the extent sufficient to recover the cost applicable to processing such request (section 165(a)(4)). §627.465 Property management standards. (a) States and governmental subrecipients. Real property, equipment, supplies, and intangible property acquired or produced after July 1, 1993, by States and governmental subrecipients with JTPA funds shall be governed by the definitions and property requirements in the DOL regulations at 29 CFR part 97, except that prior approval by the Department of Labor to acquire property is waived. (b) Nongovernmental subrecipients. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, real and personal property, including intangible property, acquired or produced after July 1, 1993, by nongovernmental subrecipients with JTPA funds shall be governed by the definitions and property management standards of OMB Circular A&hyph;110, as codified by administrative regulations of the Department of Labor in 29 CFR Part 95, except that prior approval by the Department of Labor to acquire property is waived. (c) Special provisions for property acquired under subgrants to commercial organizations._ (1) Scope. This paragraph (c) applies to real and personal property other than supplies that are acquired or produced after July 1, 1993, under a JTPA subgrant to a commercial organization. (2) Property acquired by commercial subrecipients. Title to property acquired or produced by a subrecipient that is a commercial organization shall vest in the awarding agency, provided such agency is a governmental entity or nongovernmental organization that is not a commercial organization. Property so acquired or produced shall be considered to be acquired or produced by the awarding agency and paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as appropriate, shall apply to that property. If the awarding agency is also a commercial organization, title shall vest in the higher level, non-commercial awarding agency that made the subaward to the commercial subrecipient. (3) Approval for acquisition. A subrecipient that is a commercial organization shall not acquire property subject to this section without the prior approval of the awarding agency. (d) Notification to the Secretary of real property acquisitions. Recipients shall notify the Secretary immediately upon acquisition of real property with JTPA funds, including acquisitions by subrecipients. Such notification shall include the location of the real property and the Federal share percentage. (e) Property procured before July 1, 1993. (1) Personal or real property procured with JTPA funds or transferred from programs under the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act must be used for purposes authorized by the Act. Subject to the Secretary's rights to such property, the Governor shall maintain accountability for property in accordance with State procedures and the records retention requirements of §627.460 of this part. (2) The JTPA program must be reimbursed the fair market value of any unneeded property retained by the Governor for use in a non-JTPA program. The proceeds from the sale of any property or transfer of property to a non-JTPA program must be used for purposes authorized under the Act. §627.470 Performance standards. (a) General. The Secretary shall prescribe performance standards for adult programs under title II&hyph;A, for youth programs under title II&hyph;C, for dislocated worker programs under title III, and for older worker programs under section 204(d) of the Act. Any performance standards developed for employment competencies shall be based on such factors as entry level skills and other hiring requirements.
