FR940325-0-00038 FR940325-0-00009 (A) The FEL must be to the same level of significant digits as the emission standard (one-tenth of a gram per brake horsepower for NO X emissions and one-hundredth of a gram per brake horsepower-hour for particulate emissions). (B) In no case may the FEL exceed the upper limit prescribed in the section concerning the applicable heavy-duty engine NO X and particulate emission standards. (iii) Calculate the projected emission credits (+/) based on quarterly production projections for each participating family and for each pollutant (NO X and particulate), using the equation in paragraph (c) of this section and the applicable factors for the specific engine family. (iv)(A) Determine and state the source of the needed credits according to quarterly projected production for engine families requiring credits for certification. (B) State where the quarterly projected credits will be applied for engine families generating credits. (C) Credits may be obtained from or applied to only engine families within the same averaging set as described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. Credits available for averaging, trading, or banking as defined in ยง86.090&hyph;2, may be applied to a given engine famil(y) (ies), or reserved as defined in ยง86.091&hyph;2. (2) Based on this information each manufacturer's certification application must demonstrate: (i) That at the end of model year production, each engine family has a net emissions credit balance of zero or more using the methodology in paragraph (c) of this section with any credits obtained from averaging, trading or banking. (ii) The source of the credits to be used to comply with the emission standard if the FEL exceeds the standard, or where credits will be applied if the FEL is less than the emission standard. In cases where credits are being obtained, each engine family involved must state specifically the source (manufacturer/engine family) of the credits being used. In cases where credits are being generated/supplied, each engine family involved must state specifically the designated use (manufacturer/engine family or reserved) of the credits involved. All such reports shall include all credits involved in averaging, trading or banking. (3) During the model year manufacturers must: (i) Monitor projected versus actual production to be certain that compliance with the emission standards is achieved at the end of the model year. (ii) Provide the end of-model year reports required under ยง86.091&hyph;23. (iii) Maintain the quarterly records required under ยง86.091&hyph;7(c)(8). (4) Projected credits based on information supplied in the certification application may be used to obtain a certificate of conformity. However, any such credits may be revoked based on review of end-of-model year reports, follow-up audits, and any other verification steps deemed appropriate by the Administrator. (5) Compliance under averaging, banking, and trading will be determined at the end of the model year. Engine families without an adequate amount of actual NO X and/or particulate emission credits will violate the conditions of the certificate of conformity. The certificates of conformity may be voided ab initio for those engine families. (6) If EPA or the manufacturer determines that a reporting error occurred on an end-of-year report previously submitted to EPA under this section, the manufacturer's credits and credit calculations will be recalculated. Erroneous positive credits will be void. Erroneous negative credit balances may be adjusted by EPA. (i) If EPA review of a manufacturer's end-of-year report indicates an inadvertent credit shortfall, the manufacturer will be permitted to purchase the necessary credits to bring the credit balance for that engine family to zero, at the ratio of 1.2 credits purchased for every credit needed to bring the balance to zero. If sufficient credits are not available to bring the credit balance for the engine family in question to zero, EPA may void the certificate for that engine family ab initio.
