FR940428-2-00099 FR940428-2-00052 3. Does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes do not alter the manner in which safety limits or limiting safety system setpoints are determined. The new cell parameter table and additional surveillance requirements provide improved means to monitor and evaluate overall battery performance. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in any margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Salem Free Public Library, 112 West Broadway, Salem, New Jersey 08079. Attorney for Licensee: Mark J. Wetterhahn, Esquire, Winston and Strawn, 1400 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005&hyph;3502. NRC Project Director: Charles L. Miller. South Carolina Electric & Gas Company, South Carolina Public Service Authority, Docket No. 50&hyph;395, Virgil C. Summer Nuclear Station, Unit No. 1, Fairfield County, South Carolina Date of Amendment Request: October 29, 1993. Description of Amendment Request: The licensee is preparing to replace the currently installed steam generators with new model Delta 75 steam generators (SGs). The new steam generators will be larger than those currently installed. The physical changes to the plant and the accident reanalyses needed to support those changes will necessitate increasing the maximum tested charging/safety injection pump flow rate from 680 gallons per minute to 700 gallons per minute. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: (1) Operation of VCSNS [Virgil C. Summer Nuclear Station] in accordance with the proposed license amendment does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Implementation of the [Delta] 75 SGs and revised operating conditions do not contribute to the initiation of any accident evaluated in the FSAR [Final Safety Analysis Report]. Supporting factors are as follows: _The [Delta] 75 SG is designed in accordance with ASME [American Society of Mechanical Engineers] Code Section III, 1986 edition [sic] and other applicable federal, state, and local laws, codes and regulations and meets the original interfaces for the Model D3 SGs with exception that provisions for a larger blowdown nozzle have been made and the feedwater inlet nozzle is located in the upper shell. _All NSSS [nuclear steam supply system] components (i.e., reactor vessel, RC Pumps, pressurizer, CRDM's [control rod drive mechanisms], [Delta] 75 SGs, and RCS piping) are compatible with the revised operating conditions. Their structural integrity is maintained during all proposed plant conditions through compliance with the ASME code. _Fluid and auxiliary systems which are important to safety, including the CHG/SI [charging and safety injection] system with maximum pump flows up to 700 gpm, are not adversely impacted and will continue to perform their design function. _Overall plant performance and operation are not significantly altered by the proposed changes. Therefore, since the reactor coolant pressure boundary integrity and system functions are not adversely impacted, the probability of occurrence of an accident evaluated in the VCSNS FSAR will be no greater than the original design basis of the plant. An extensive analysis has been performed to evaluate the consequences of the following accident types currently evaluated in the VCSNS FSAR: _Non-LOCA [non-loss-of-coolant accident] _Large Break and Small Break LOCA _Steam Generator Tube Rupture With the [Delta] 75 SGs and revised operating conditions, the calculated results (i.e., DNBR [departure from nucleate boiling ratio], Primary and Secondary System Pressure, Peak Clad Temperature, Metal Water Reaction, Challenge to Long Term Cooling, Environmental Conditions Inside and Outside Containment, etc.) for the accidents are similar to those currently reported in the VCSNS FSAR. Select results (i.e., Containment Pressure during a Steam Line Break, Minimum DNBR for Rod Withdrawal from Subcritical, etc.) are slightly more limiting than those reported in the current FSAR due to the use of the assumed operating conditions with the new [Delta] 75 SGs, and in some cases, use of an uprated core power of 2900 MWt. However, in all cases, the calculated results do not challenge the integrity of the primary/secondary/containment pressure boundary and remain within the regulatory acceptance criteria applied to VCSNS's current licensing basis. The assumptions utilized in the radiological evaluations, described in Section 3.7, are thus appropriate and are judged to provide a conservative estimate of the radiological consequences during accident conditions. Given that calculated radiological consequences are not significantly higher than current FSAR results and remain well within 10CFR100 limits, it is concluded that the consequences of an accident previously evaluated in the FSAR are not increased. (2) The proposed license amendment does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The [Delta] 75 SGs, revised operating conditions, and higher allowable CHG/SI pump flows will not introduce any new accident initiator mechanisms. Structural integrity of the RCS is maintained during all plant conditions through compliance with the ASME code. No new failure modes or limiting single failures have been identified. Design requirements of auxiliary systems are met with the RSGs [Replacement Steam Generators]. Since the safety and design requirements continue to be met and the integrity of the reactor coolant system pressure boundary is not challenged, no new accident scenarios have been created. Therefore, the types of accidents defined in the FSAR continue to represent the credible spectrum of events to be analyzed which determine safe plant operation. (3) The proposed license amendment does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety.
