FR940920-2-00076 FR940920-2-00035 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Announcement Number 506] Grants For Violence-Related Injury Prevention Research; Notice of Availability of Funds for Fiscal Year 1995 Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces applications are being accepted for Violence-Related Injury Prevention Research Grants for fiscal year (FY) 1995. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the area of Violent and Abusive Behavior (To order a copy of Healthy People 2000, see the Section WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION. ) Authority This program is authorized under Sections 301, 391&hyph;394 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241, 280b&hyph;280b&hyph;3). Program regulations are set forth in Title 42 CFR Part 52. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants include all non-profit and for-profit organizations. Thus State, and local health departments, other State and local governmental agencies, universities, colleges, research institutions, and other public and private organizations, including small, minority and/or woman-owned businesses are eligible for these research grants. Current holders of CDC injury control research projects are eligible to apply. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Availability of Funds Approximately $1.0 million may be available in FY 1995 to fund approximately 3 to 5 grants. The amount of funding actually available may vary and is subject to change. New grant awards will not exceed $300,000 per year (including both direct and indirect costs). Grant applications that exceed the $300,000 per year cap will be returned to the investigator as non-responsive. Research grant supplements will generally be no more than $75,000 (including both direct and indirect costs). New awards are expected to begin on or about September 1, 1995. Awards will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period not to exceed 3 years. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress demonstrated by investigators at work-in-progress monitoring workshops, the achievement of workplan milestones reflected in the continuation application, and the availability of Federal funds. In addition, continuation awards will be eligible for increased funding to offset inflationary costs depending upon the availability of funds. Purpose The purposes of this program are to: A. Build the scientific base for the prevention of injuries and deaths due to violence in the following three priority areas: interpersonal youth violence, youth suicide, and firearm injuries as delineated in Injury Control in the 1990s: A National Plan for Action. Atlanta: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1993 and Healthy People 2000; B. Identify effective strategies to prevent violence-related injuries; C. Expand the development and evaluation of current and new intervention methods and strategies for the primary prevention of violence-related injuries; D. Encourage professionals from a wide spectrum of disciplines such as medicine, health care, public health, criminal justice, and behavioral and social sciences, to undertake research to prevent and control injuries from interpersonal violence and suicidal behavior.
