FR940719-2-00090 FR940719-2-00055 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention RIN 0905&hyph;ZA47 [Announcement No. 436] Cooperative Agreement for National Laboratory Training Network; State Public Health Laboratories Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a cooperative agreement program for the purpose of supporting the National Laboratory Training Network (NLTN) for public health laboratories. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority areas of Occupational Safety and Health, HIV Infections, Sexually Transmitted Diseases, Immunization and Infectious Diseases. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the Section ``Where to Obtain Additional Information.'') Authority: This program is authorized under section 317(k)(3)[42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(3)] of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants are the Public Health Laboratories of States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau. No other applications will be solicited. Availability of Funds Approximately $600,000 will be available to State Public Health Laboratories during FY 1994 to support seven Area Laboratory Training Alliance (ALTA) cooperative agreements for a 12-month budget period within a 5-year project period. It is estimated that $85,000 of the total funding will be available for each State Public Health Laboratory in each subsequent year. Continuation awards within the 5-year project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress in meeting project objectives and will be subject to availability of funds. The funding estimate outlined above may vary and is subject to change. Under section 317 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, direct assistance (DA) may be requested in lieu of cash. When direct assistance is requested in lieu of cash, it is estimated that $75,000 DA and $10,000 financial assistance (FA) will be available in each subsequent year. Purpose The purpose of these cooperative agreements is: (1) To assist State Public Health Laboratories in providing effective coordination of laboratory training for the States within each ALTA, and (2) to assist State Public Health Laboratories in supporting the NLTN to increase training opportunities, including HIV/retrovirus and multi-drug resistant TB testing procedures, for laboratorians. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipients will be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities), and CDC will be responsible for conducting activities under B. (CDC Activities).
