FR940525-2-00093 FR940525-2-00061 13. A cross-trade transaction will be effected only where the trade involves less than 5 percent of the aggregate average daily trading volume for the equity securities which are the subject of the transaction for the week immediately preceding the completion of the transaction. BFM states that this percentage limitation attempts to address the potential impact which a large trade might have in the sale of equity securities on the open market. Thus, BFM will only engage in cross-trade transactions where the size of the trade will ensure that the price utilized in the cross-trade will not differ materially from what would have been the market price for the equity securities in an open market transaction. 14. BFM represents that where equity securities available for sale from a Selling Account present an attractive investment opportunity for more than one Buying Account, BFM will make the allocation to that Buying Account which is ranked by the Optimization Program as being furthest from optimality. 13 BFM states that each Account's distance from optimality can be measured and quantified on a numerical basis at any point in time. Cross-trade opportunities would continue to be allocated to such a Buying Account until it is brought up to par with the Account which is next furthest from optimality. Thereafter, the cross-trade opportunities would be allocated to both of these Accounts pro rata until they are brought up to the level of the Account which is next furthest from optimality, and so on until all cross-trading opportunities involving the equity securities in question are exhausted. BFM states that this allocation process will operate in a mechanical, objective fashion and will not be manipulated in any way by BFM to benefit particular Accounts during the operation of the cross-trading program. 13 The Department is not proposing, nor is the applicant requesting, exemptive relief for any violations of Part 4 of Title I of the Act which may arise from BFM's allocation of investment opportunities to particular Buying Accounts under the proposed cross-trading program. 15. In summary, the applicant represents that the proposed transactions will satisfy the criteria of section 408(a) of the Act because, among other things: (a) An Independent Fiduciary must provide written authorization, which is terminable at will, to BFM to permit the Account to participate in the cross-trading program; (b) All cross-trade transactions will be effected within three business days of the triggering event creating the cross-trade opportunity; (c) All cross-trade transactions will be effected at a price determined pursuant to a established, fixed methodology using independent pricing sources and will be applied uniformly to all Accounts; (d) All cross-trade opportunities will be subject to an allocation methodology which is designed to benefit Accounts which are ranked by the Optimization Program as being furthest from optimality and will not be manipulated by BFM to benefit particular Accounts; (e) A cross-trade transaction will be effected only if certain volume requirements are satisfied; (f) All equity securities (i.e. either foreign or domestic) involved in cross-trade transactions will be securities for which there is a generally recognized market; (g) BFM will receive no additional fees as a result of the proposed cross-trade transactions; (h) BFM will provide periodic reporting of the cross-trade transactions to the Independent Fiduciaries of the participating Plan Accounts; (i) The opportunity to participate in the cross-trade program will save significant sums of money for the Accounts because cross-trading reduces brokerage commissions, avoids the bid/ask differential in such transactions, and provides more efficient implementation of optimal investment strategies; (j) Each employee benefit plan comprising a Plan Account which participates in the cross-trading program must have total assets of at least $25 million, or must be part of a master trust of plans maintained by a single employer or controlled group of employers which has at least $25 million in total assets; and (k) The cross-trade transactions will not involve the assets of any Batterymarch Plan. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. E. F. Williams of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8194. (This is not a toll-free number.)
