FR940214-1-00026 FR940214-1-00004 (ii) The amount of funds and value of services generated from sales and barter of the commodities, in both local currency and U.S. dollar equivalent. (iii) Deposits into and disbursements from the special account, the total amount of funds used to date, and balance in special account, in both local currencies and U.S. dollar equivalents. (iv) The amount of generated currencies not yet programmed that will be used and an estimate of when they will be disbursed. (v) A thorough description of how the funds and services generated were or will be used, including information regarding project goals, accomplishments, and the number of beneficiaries. (vi) Quantity of commodities as yet unsold, and an estimate of when sales and barter will be completed. (vii) A thorough description of the effectiveness of sales and barter provisions in facilitating the distribution of commodities and products to targeted recipients. (viii) A description of the extent, if any, that sales, barter or use of section 416(b) commodities: (A) affected the usual marketing of the United States; (B) displaced or interfered with commercial sales of the United States; (C) disrupted world commodity prices or normal patterns of trade with friendly countries; and (D) discouraged local production and marketing of commodities in the recipient country; (ix) An explanation of the extent to which agreement objectives were achieved. (x) Recommendations for improving sale, barter, or use provisions of future section 416(b) programs. ยง1499.19 Termination of program. All or any part of the assistance provided under a Program Agreement, including commodities in transit, may be suspended or terminated by CCC if: (a) The Cooperating Sponsor fails to comply with the provisions of the Program Agreement or this part; (b) It is determined by CCC that the continuation of such assistance is no longer necessary or desirable; or (c) CCC determines that storage facilities are inadequate to prevent spoilage or waste or that distribution of commodities will result in substantial disincentive to, or interfere with, domestic production or marketing in the recipient country. ยง1499.20 Sample documents and guidelines for developing proposals and reports. To assist with effective reporting on program logistics and monetization, etc., guidelines have been developed. Examples of these guidelines may be obtained from the Director, PAD. Signed this 7th day of February 1994, in Washington, DC. Christopher E. Goldthwait, General Sales Manger, FAS, and Vice President, Commodity Credit Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3212 Filed 2&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;10&hyph;M
