FR941116-0-00029 FR941116-0-00006 Personal Injury Risk of Blue Ice Several commenters request that all actions applicable to the aft lavatory drainage systems be deleted from the proposed rule, since the risk of injury caused by ``blue ice'' forming at an aft lavatory, dislodging from an airplane, and striking a person on the ground is extremely remote. As justification for their request, these commenters cite an analysis that was performed in 1990 to determine the probability of personal injury. This analysis concludes that such probability is on the order of 1 × 10 ^9 per flight. The FAA does not concur with these commenters' request. The criteria of a probability of injury being on the order of 1 × 10 ^9 per flight hour is relevant when an aircraft system is originally certified. However, once an unsafe condition becomes known to the FAA, an analysis is not necessarily sufficient to refute the unsafe condition. The FAA considers that the numerous reported cases of ``blue ice'' striking and damaging houses, cars, and populated areas is sufficient to support the conclusion that ``blue ice'' falling from aft lavatory drain systems presents an unsafe condition. Moreover, the FAA does not find the analysis submitted by the commenters to be conclusive. That particular analysis was based on several assumptions whose adequacy the FAA questions. Among them are: 1. The analysis assumed that a piece of ``blue ice'' falls to the ground once every two weeks in the United States. These figures were based upon language that appeared in a newspaper article and are apparently anecdotal data. The FAA points out that the cases addressed in the newspaper article (and, therefore, in the analysis) may be only the ``reported'' cases; however, the vast majority of cases go unreported, and are likely to be on the order of many magnitudes greater than the number reported. 2. Additionally, the crux of the analysis is based on assumptions that the size of a shadow of a person on the ground is two square feet. This appears to assume that the person is standing up, the ice comes straight down, the ice falls as a single projectile, and the ice does not break into smaller pieces as it comes through a roof and ceiling. None of these assumptions are proven or representative of a typical scenario. Further, the FAA points out that demographic studies have shown that population density has increased around airports, and probably will continue to increase. These are populations that are at greatest risk of damage and injury due to ``blue ice'' dislodging from an airplane during descent. Without actions to ensure that leaks from the aft lavatory drain systems are detected and corrected in a timely manner, ``blue ice'' incidents would go unchecked and eventually someone would be struck, perhaps fatally, by falling ``blue ice.'' To discount the unsafe condition to persons on the ground presented by falling ``blue ice'' would be a gross breach of the FAA's safety obligations and commitment to the public. Reliability Targets for Leak Check Intervals One commenter requests that the FAA provide reliability targets so that operators would know what data were necessary to obtain FAA approval of any request for an extension of a leak check interval. The FAA cannot concur with the commenter's request. The FAA has not provided such a ``reliability target'' because of the difficulty involved in specifying a target that would be applicable to and appropriate for all or most operators. While the FAA recognizes that larger operators are more likely to be able to provide a statistically significant data package, it considers that the approach to the development of ``reliability targets'' must also allow smaller operators to participate. For these reasons, and until a universal reliability target program can be developed, the FAA will review individual requests on a case-by-case basis. Paragraph (c) of the final rule provides for the submission of data to be considered for the approval of extensions to leak check intervals; these data can be summarized and accompanied by recommendations from industry groups.
