FR941021-0-00164 FR941021-0-00022 87. Consequently, we conclude that we have the statutory authority to award Big LEO licenses through an auction process. We will implement competitive bidding procedures in the event that all six pending applicants file amendments on November 16, 1994 that meet all requirements, including financial requirements, for the Big LEO service, but their applications are still mutually exclusive. 98 We place applicants on notice that if an auction needs to be held it will be scheduled as quickly as possible. Given the importance of proceeding with Big LEO licensing, preparation time for the applicants will necessarily be circumscribed. 98 If some applicants defer their financial showings as described in para. 13, supra, all deferred applications may not be able to be granted. If, at that time, we have issued some licenses, we will not implement the auction procedure described below, which assumes that none of the MSS spectrum has been assigned, to choose among the mutually exclusive deferred applications. Rather, as noted, we will develop another processing procedure at that time. d. Competitive bidding procedure. 88. Segmentation. As proposed in the Notice, we will divide the 1.6 GHz band spectrum into eight 2.0625 MHz segments. 99 We recognize that Constellation and LQP assert that a 2.0625 MHz block is ``unworkable'' because it is inconsistent with some of the applicants' channelization plans, which proposed 1.25 MHz channels. Further, LQP asserts that any auction of discrete bandwidth segments within the 1.6 GHz band would inevitably result in some applicants getting unusable, disjointed spectrum blocks. We do not believe these concerns warrant a change in the proposed spectrum blocks. First, two of the six applicants do not propose to use 1.25 MHz channels. Moreover, any anomalies in spectrum awards can be corrected in post-auction transactions, as we intend (as explained infra ) to allow the licensees to aggregate and disaggregate spectrum through resale. 99 As discussed in the Notice , it appeared that as little as 2.0 MHz of spectrum could provide an individual CDMA system with the same capacity as it would have operating on a shared basis over 11.35 MHz of spectrum. See Notice, note 2, supra, at para. 45. 89. Bandwidth cap. To ensure that there are at least two Big LEO providers, we will not permit any applicant to acquire more than four 2.0625 MHz band segments in the 1.6 GHz band, i.e., no more than 8.25 MHz, at auction. 100 We would also deny permission for a post-auction transaction that would result in an accumulation in excess of that limit in the absence of a compelling showing of justification for a waiver. 100 See Notice, note 2, supra, at para. 45. 90. Competitive Bidding Design. In determining the procedures to be employed if an auction of Big LEO licenses is necessary, we are guided by the principles developed in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, the proceeding instituted to implement Section 309(j) of the Communications Act. The Second Report and Order in that proceeding 101 established the criteria to be used in selecting the auction design method to use for each particular actionable service. The Commission received voluminous comment on auction design issues. Generally, we concluded that awarding licenses to those parties who value them most highly will foster Congress' policy objectives. In this regard, we noted that since a bidder's ability to introduce valuable new services and to deploy them quickly, intensively, and efficiently increases the value of a license to that bidder, an auction design that awards licenses to those bidders with the highest willingness to pay the most tends to promote the development and rapid deployment of new services and the efficient and intensive use of the spectrum. In articulating our auction design principles we agreed with the weight of the comments in that proceeding_many of which were supported by academic auction design experts_that: (1) licenses with strong value interdependencies should be auctioned simultaneously; (2) multiple round auctions generally will yield more efficient allocations of licenses and higher revenues, especially where there is substantial uncertainty as to value because they provide bidders with information regarding other bidders' valuations of licenses; and (3) since they may be relatively expensive to implement and time-consuming, simultaneous and/or multiple round auctions may become less cost-effective as the value of licenses decreases. 102 101 Note 79, supra. 102 Id. at para. 69. 91. Based on the foregoing, we concluded that where the licenses to be auctioned are interdependent and their value is expected to be high, simultaneous multiple round auctions would best achieve the Commission's goals for competitive bidding. 103 We indicated that compared with other bidding mechanisms (such as sequential and sealed bid auctions), simultaneous multiple round bidding will generate the most information about license values during the course of the auction and provide bidders with the most flexibility to pursue back-up strategies. Thus, we concluded that simultaneous multiple round bidding is most likely to award interdependent licenses to the bidders who value them most highly. We also indicated that this method will facilitate efficient aggregation of licenses across spectrum bands, thereby resulting in vigorous competition among several strong service providers who will be able rapidly to introduce a wide variety of services highly valued by end users. 104 In addition, we concluded that because of the superior information and flexibility it provides, this method is likely to yield greater revenues than other auction designs. Thus, we found that the use of simultaneous multiple round auctions would generally be preferred. 105 103 Id. at paras. 109&hyph;111. 104 Id. at para. 106. 105 Id. 92. Because, however, simultaneous multiple round bidding is likely to be more administratively complex and costly both for bidders and for the FCC than sequential or single round bidding, we indicated that we would use this auction design only where license values are interdependent and the expected value of the licenses to be auctioned is high relative to the costs of conducting a simultaneous multiple round auction. 106 106 Id. at paras. 110&hyph;111.
