FR941230-1-00050 FR941230-1-00004 (ii) Temporary outages, etc. (A) The swapped power is approximately equal in value determined over periods of one year or less; (B) The agreement is not a take or take or pay contract; and (C) The purpose of the agreement is to enable each of the parties to satisfy different peak load demands or to accommodate temporary outages. (2) Certain conduit parties disregarded. The presence of a nongovernmental person acting solely as a conduit for the exchange of output among governmentally owned and operated utilities is disregarded in determining whether the private business tests are satisfied with respect to financed facilities other than those of the nongovernmental person. (3) Spot sales. Spot sales of excess power capacity for temporary periods, other than pursuant to take or take or pay contracts, do not result in private business use. For this purpose, a spot sale is a sale pursuant to a single agreement that is limited to no more than 30 days' duration including renewal periods. (4) Wheeling _(i) General rule. Use of transmission facilities financed by an issue is not treated as private business use to the extent that it results from an order or actions taken in response to (or to prevent) an anticipated order by the United States that those facilities be used to provide transmission services to a particular nongovernmental person (including a requirement that the owner or operator either purchase the output of a facility or provide transmission services). This paragraph (b)(4) applies only if_ (A) The transmission facilities were financed based on the issuer's reasonable expectations regarding the amount of wheeling anticipated; (B) The terms of the transmission agreement are bona fide and arm's-length, and the new user pays consideration equal to the fair market value for the use of the financed property (for example, as determined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission); and (C) No circumstances are present that indicate an attempt to avoid directly or indirectly the requirements of section 141. (ii) Exceptions. This paragraph (b)(4) does not, however, apply to any transmission facilities (or portion thereof) that are_ (A) Made necessary by the agreement to provide transmission service, including improvements needed due to increased loads; (B) Designed differently, sized larger, built sooner, or constructed in a more costly manner than is reasonably necessary for the ordinary customers of the owner of the transmission facilities; or (C) In excess of the services that are reasonably necessary to the purchaser of the output being transmitted. (iii) Special limitation. If the transmission services provided under this paragraph (b)(4) involve more than 20 percent of the facility financed with proceeds of the issue, paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section applies only if the issuer takes a remedial action described in ยง1.141&hyph;13 regarding the bonds allocable to that use. Paragraph (b)(4) of ยง1.141&hyph;13 does not apply for this purpose. This paragraph (b)(4)(iii) does not apply if substantially all of the consideration for providing the transmission services is the provision of other output property (for example, transmission). (c) Certain short term contracts. The purchase of the output of an output facility by a nongovernmental person pursuant to an output contract is not treated as private business use if: (1) As of the later of the issue date or the date the contract is entered into, the issuer reasonably expects that at the expiration of that agreement the related output will not be used for a private business use (determined without regard to this paragraph (c)) and no subsequent deliberate actions are taken that are inconsistent with this reasonable expectation; (2) The contract has a term not in excess of 1 year and cannot be renewed or extended beyond this 1-year term; and (3) The facilities are not designed differently, sized larger, built sooner, or constructed in a more costly manner than is reasonably necessary for the ordinary customers of the owner of the facilities.
