FR940224-2-00015 FR940224-2-00004 However, in order not to double-count the subsidy conferred upon the subject merchandise under this program, we have adjusted our preliminary calculations. Under this program, the MOI required rice millers to purchase rice from farmers at a price ten percent above the prevailing market price. To partially cover the additional payments to the farmers, the MOI provided interest-free loans to the rice millers. In our preliminary results of review, we calculated a countervailable subsidy under this program based on the ten percent government-mandated price premium paid to the rice farmers. If we were also to calculate a benefit from the interest-free loans provided to the millers to finance this program, we would be double-counting the benefit conferred on the subject merchandise under this program: once, as grant payments provided to rice farmers, and again as the amount of interest savings incurred by the millers from the interest-free loans used to pay the rice farmers the price premium grant. In order to avoid this double-counting, and to calculate properly the full amount of the subsidy conferred upon the subject merchandise under this program, we compared the amount of the ten percent premium paid for paddy rice purchases to the amount of the interest savings from the MOI loans. Because the amount of the interest savings was greater than the amount of the premiums paid on purchases of paddy rice, both the rice farmers and the millers received benefits under this program. Since section 771B of the Act applies to this review, the benefits provided to both rice farmers and millers are deemed to be conferred on the subject merchandise. (See Comment 6 for a discussion of section 771B of the Act.) Therefore, to determine the net benefit to the millers under this program, we calculated the difference between the amount of interest savings under this program and the ten percent premium provided to the rice farmers. This change results in a revised benefit to the millers under this program. The benefit to the paddy farmers remains the same as in the preliminary results. Thus, by dividing the sum of these two benefits by the domestic denominator and applying the export adjustment factor, the net subsidy conferred upon the subject merchandise under this program is 0.02 percent ad valorem. Comment 8: Respondent points out that the preliminary results have no effect on the cash deposit rate and requests that the Department rescind any instructions to Customs issued upon publication of the preliminary determination. Response: No instructions were issued to Customs following the publication of the preliminary results. In accordance with 19 CFR 355.22(c)(10), the Department will issue instructions to Customs after publication of the final results of this review. Final Results of Review As a result of our review, we determine the net bounty or grant to be 0.53 percent ad valorem for the period January 1, 1990 through December 31, 1990. Therefore, the Department will instruct the Customs Service to assess countervailing duties of 0.53 percent of the f.o.b. invoice price on all shipments from Thailand of the subject merchandise exported on or after January 1, 1990 and on or before December 31, 1990. Further, as provided by section 751(a)(1) of the Act, the Department will instruct the Customs Service to collect cash deposits of estimated countervailing duties of 0.53 percent of the f.o.b. invoice price on all shipments of the subject merchandise from Thailand entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice. This deposit requirement shall remain in effect until publication of the final results of the next administrative review. This administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)) and 19 CFR 355.22. Dated: February 14, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4197 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
