FR940627-0-00123 FR940627-0-00019 D. Requirements for Emission Control System Testing CAA section 211(b)(2) requires F/FA manufacturers to provide information to determine their products' effects on ECS performance. The NPRM stated that EPA intended to continue addressing ECS performance through the existing waiver application program under CAA section 211(f). The waiver program prevents the introduction into commerce of F/FAs which would significantly degrade the performance of emission control equipment. Under CAA section 211(f), F/FA formulations which do not meet specific chemical and physical criteria considered to be ``substantially similar'' to EPA certification fuel (see interpretive rule in 56 FR 5352), cannot be introduced into commerce unless a waiver is issued by EPA. The waiver process then requires the applicant to demonstrate, through testing if necessary, that ``such fuel or fuel additive or a specified concentration thereof, and the emission products of such fuel or fuel additive or a specified concentration thereof, will not cause or contribute to a failure of any emission control device or system (over the useful life of any vehicle in which such device or system is used) to achieve compliance by the vehicle with the emission standards to which it has been certified.'' For products already registered that do not meet ``substantially similar'' criteria, i.e., grandfathered products that were registered prior to the implementation of the waiver application program, EPA proposed to establish a mechanism that would permit the public to submit petitions to EPA requesting ECS testing for a particular fuel or fuel additive of concern. Today's rule reflects EPA's judgment that the mechanisms already established under CAA section 211(f) are adequate for the ECS testing of F/FAs. EPA's previous experience with the waiver application process has demonstrated the practical value of the ``substantially similar'' concept for determining whether a F/FA product needs to be tested for its effects on emission control equipment. EPA is not aware of instances in which products meeting ``substantially similar'' criteria were later discovered to have adverse effects on vehicular emission control performance. The implementation of another ECS testing program under section 211(b) would be duplicative and, therefore, inconsistent with Congress' intent. Thus, as proposed, today's rule refers to the waiver application process under CAA section 211(f) 15 for the ECS testing of ``substantially similar'' F/FAs and F/FAs required to obtain a waiver under CAA section 211(f)(4). Products which conform to applicable ``substantially similar'' criteria are not required to undergo ECS testing before they can be registered. On the other hand, new F/FAs which do not meet ``substantially similar'' criteria are subject to the standard 211(f) application process prior to registration. 15 An example of a waiver decision can be found in 53 FR 33846. EPA recognizes that there are grandfathered F/FA products (see Section III.A above) which fall outside the regulatory domain of CAA section 211(f). These grandfathered products include gasoline aftermarket additives introduced prior to the 1990 CAA Amendments. Therefore, statutory authority for the ECS evaluation and regulatory control of grandfathered products exists under CAA sections 211 (b) and (c) rather than section 211(f). EPA judges that requiring ECS evaluation of all grandfathered products, without evidence of ECS problems, would be unreasonable and unnecessarily burdensome on the industry. Instead, today's rule provides a petition mechanism for the ECS evaluation of grandfathered products. Under this mechanism, EPA could require ECS testing of grandfathered products, similar to the testing which a waiver applicant would generally conduct, if so petitioned by outside parties or if other information available to the Agency indicates that such evaluation is appropriate. Such information might be obtained as a result of the emission characterization requirements included in this final rule. In addition, vehicle manufacturers or other outside parties are allowed to submit petitions to EPA requesting the testing of grandfathered products based on evidence of potential harm to vehicular ECS. If EPA judges that ECS testing is warranted after reviewing the petition arguments, emission characterization results and/or other available information, the authority provided by CAA sections 211(b) and 211(c) to require specific grandfathered products to test for ECS effects. IV. Grouping System A. Objectives and Rationale CAA section 211(e) provides a number of mechanisms by which EPA may reduce the costs and burdens of compliance with the registration requirements set forth in CAA section 211(b). In particular, CAA section 211(e)(3)(B) permits the Administrator to ``provide for cost-sharing with respect to the testing of any fuel or fuel additive which is manufactured or processed by two or more persons, or otherwise provide for shared responsibility'' so that the program requirements can be met without duplication of effort. In accordance with this provision, today's rule maintains the grouping system proposed in the NPRM, which permits manufacturers of similar F/FAs, on a voluntary basis, to pool their resources and efforts to satisfy the registration requirements. The groups defined by the specifications in this final rule are the only groups permitted for satisfying the requirements of the registration program.
