FR940304-0-00057 FR940304-0-00017 §61.47 Adjustments to the SBI; pricing bands. * * * * * (e) Pricing bands shall be established each tariff year for each service category and subcategory within a basket. Except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, each band shall limit the pricing flexibility of the service category or subcategory, as reflected in its SBI, to an annual increase or decrease of five percent, relative to the percentage change in the PCI for that basket, measured from the levels in effect on the last day of the preceding tariff year. (f) Dominant interexchange carriers. * * * * * (g) Local exchange carriers_Service categories and subcategories. * * * * * (2) The upper pricing band for the tandem-switched transport service category shall limit the annual upward pricing flexibility for this service category, as reflected in its SBI, to two percent, relative to the percentage change in the PCI for the trunking basket, measured from the levels in effect on the last day of the preceding tariff year. The lower pricing band for the tandem-switched transport service category shall limit the annual downward pricing flexibility for this service category, as reflected in its SBI, to five percent, relative to the percentage change in the PCI for the trunking basket, measured from the levels in effect on the last day of the preceding tariff year. (3) The upper pricing band for the interconnection charge service category shall limit the annual upward pricing flexibility for this service category, as reflected in its SBI, to zero percent, relative to the percentage change in the PCI for the trunking basket, measured from the levels in effect on the last day of the preceding tariff year. There shall be no lower pricing band for the interconnection charge. * * * * * (h) Local exchange carriers_Density pricing zones. (1) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, those local exchange carriers subject to price cap regulation that have established density pricing zones pursuant to §69.123 of this chapter shall use the methodology set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section to calculate separate subindexes in each zone for each of the following groups of services: (i) DS1 entrance facilities, DS1 direct-trunked transport, DS1 dedicated signalling transport, and DS1 special access services; (ii) DS3 entrance facilities, DS3 direct-trunked transport, DS3 dedicated signalling transport, and DS3 special access services; (iii) Voice grade entrance facilities, voice grade direct-trunked transport, and voice grade dedicated signalling transport, and (if the Commission, by order, designates such services as subject to competition) voice grade special access; (iv) Tandem-switched transport; and (v) Such other special access services that the Commission may designate by order. (2) The annual pricing flexibility for each of the subindexes specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall be limited to an annual increase of five percent or an annual decrease of ten percent, relative to the percentage change in the PCI for the trunking basket, measured from the levels in effect on the last day of the preceding tariff year. 5. Section 61.48 is amended by revising paragraphs (g) and (h) and adding paragraph (i), to read as follows: §61.48 Transition rules for price cap formula calculations. * * * * * (g) Local Transport Restructure_Initial Rates . Local exchange carriers subject to price cap regulation shall set initial transport rates, as defined in §69.2(tt) of this chapter, according to the requirements set forth in §§69.108, 69.110, 69.111, 69.112, 69.124, and 69.125 of this chapter. (h) Local Transport Restructure_Price Cap Transition Rules _(1) Definitions . The following definitions apply for purposes of paragraph (h) of this section: Effective date is March 4, 1994. Initial restructured rates are rates that are (or should have been) effective on the transport restructure date; Revenue weight of a given group of services included in a basket, service category, or subcategory is the ratio of base period demand for the given service rate elements included in the basket, service category, or subcategory priced at initial restructured rates, to the base period demand for the entire group of rate elements comprising the basket, service category, or subcategory priced at initial restructured rates; and Transport restructure date is the date on which local exchange carriers' initial transport rates, as defined in §69.2(tt) of this chapter, became effective.
