FR940118-2-00128 FR940118-2-00075 2. Need for Separate Sediment Quality Criteria To Protect Fresh Water and Marine Species For certain chemicals (acenaphthene, dieldrin, fluoranthene, and phenanthrene), statistical analysis of all the data used in the derivation of water quality criteria revealed no significant differences in the relative sensitivity of fresh water and marine species. Further, there are no known chemical or physical properties of the above chemicals that would support a difference in toxicity and bioavailability between aquatic environments. (These comparisons do not hold for endrin.) However, EPA customarily has developed separate criteria for saltwater and freshwater to avoid having the sensitivity of species in one aquatic environment drive environmental decisions and regulation in the other environment. Although these sediment quality criteria are derived separately for freshwater and saltwater, EPA seeks comment on the appropriateness of a single sediment quality criteria applicable to both aquatic environments after first demonstrating equivalency of sensitivity (for these and future criteria). Acenaphthene Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 130 μg/g oc Saltwater: 230 μg/g oc This difference is less than a factor of 2. Dieldrin Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 11 μg/g oc Saltwater: 20 μg/g oc This difference is less than a factor of 2. Fluoranthene Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 620 μg/g oc Saltwater: 300 μg/g oc This difference is less than a factor of 2. Phenanthrene Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 180 μg/g oc Saltwater: 240 μg/g oc This difference is less than a factor of 2. Endrin Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 4.2 μg/g oc Saltwater: 0.76 μg/g oc This difference is approximately a factor of 5 which is statistically significant and would require that endrin have both criteria values. 3. Level of Protection Existing section 304(a) criteria are intended to protect a balanced and indigenous aquatic community by protecting most individuals within sensitive species. As a practical matter, the basic aquatic life procedure approximates the goal by deriving criteria to protect most individuals in the 95th percentile (most sensitive) of the tested genera. This is done by basing acute criteria on LC50 or similar tests, and dividing the final result by two to protect most individuals, as opposed to protecting only 50%. Less sensitive species are more fully protected, while more sensitive species are somewhat protected. There are exceptions procedures which override this basic approach where necessary to protect wildlife, plants, or commercially important aquatic species. See 50 FR 30784, July 29, 1985, for details. Tested species are selected to include a minimum data set of specified aquatic species. As such, tested species are considered to be surrogates for untested species. This same approach is currently proposed for benthic organisms via the sediment quality criteria. Comment is being sought on the appropriateness of this approach. 4. Use of SQC as ARAR's in the CERCLA Program The availability of sediment quality criteria for adoption by States into State water quality standards provides for the potential requirement in those States that the SQC be used as ARAR's. As discussed earlier, EPA is concerned that this ``mandatory clean-up level'' may be an inappropriate use of the proposed criteria. The Agency requests comment on the use of SQC as ARAR's should they be adopted into State water quality standards. 5. Definition of Sediments to Which Sediment Quality Criteria Apply The criteria documents define sediments to which SQC are applicable as those ``permanently inundated with water, intertidal sediment and to sediments inundated periodically for durations sufficient to permit development of benthic assemblages.'' The criteria are not intended to apply to ``sediments occasionally inundated so that they support terrestrial species.'' The Agency believes the appropriate uses of SQC are for those sediments that maintain, or have the potential to maintain if not contaminated, benthic aquatic assemblages. Comments that discuss a broader or narrower definition or that support the proposed definition are requested. Dated: December 28, 1993. Robert Perciasepe, Assistant Administrator for Water. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1133 Filed 1&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
