FR940325-1-00038 FR940325-1-00007 (10) Response to an unauthorized armed person detected on the terminal; (11) Response to a breach of security or to suspicious activity on, or near, the terminal; (12) Procedure for reporting a breach of security or a suspicious activity; (13) Response to alarms; (14) Use of security equipment, including any intrusion detection or surveillance systems installed on the terminal; (15) Issuance of, use of, and accountability for identification cards; and (16) Issuance of, use of, and accountability for keys. (e) An SSOP must address watches when_ (1) Passengers or baggage are being assembled, processed, embarked, or disembarked at the terminal, for: (i) Each boarding area and each point of access to a restricted area. (ii) Each screening point for passengers, baggage, cargo, or stores. (iii) The communications center. (iv) Control rooms where security alarms and monitoring-devices are monitored; and (2) No passengers or baggage are being assembled, processed, embarked, or disembarked at the terminal, for: (i) Each point of access to a restricted area. (ii) The communications center. (iii) Control rooms where security alarms and monitoring devices are monitored. (f) The SSOP respecting issuance of, use of, and accountability for keys must include_ (1) A record of each person issued a key to a restricted area; (2) An inventory of keys to restricted areas that are not issued to employees; (3) Designation of a secure container for storing keys to restricted areas that are not issued to employees; and (4) Steps to take if a key to a restricted area is lost or missing. ยง128.350 Identification. (a) Each operator of a passenger terminal shall establish a system of identification and control of personnel for the terminal that_ (1) Designates, in writing, each category of persons with a valid need to be in the boarding area for passengers and each person with a valid need to be in other restricted areas on the terminal; (2) Allows access only to persons designated in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and (3) Establishes procedures meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section for identifying each person authorized access to a restricted area in the terminal. (b) Each operator of a passenger terminal shall issue an identification card to each employee of the terminal. The terminal security officer shall maintain a record of each identification card issued and of each blank one at the terminal, by number. Unissued identification cards must be kept in a locked safe or other secure container accessible only to the manager of the terminal, the terminal security officer, and other designated employees. The identification card must_ (1) Be made of a durable material that can be imprinted with appropriate identifying information; (2) Include a color photograph, approximately 3 centimeters (11/4 in) by 3.6 centimeters (11/2 in); (3) Be laminated on both sides, with a clear plastic material that resists aging, discoloration, and separation; and (4) Contain the following: (i) Cardholder's name. (ii) Cardholder's date of birth. (iii) Cardholder's height. (iv) Cardholder's weight. (v) Color of cardholder's hair. (vi) Color of cardholder's eyes. (vii) A unique number. (viii) Name of the terminal or company that employs cardholder. (ix) An expiration date, not later than two years after the date of issue.
