FR941221-2-00023 FR941221-2-00015 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Department of the Army Corps of Engineers Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Proposed Southern Pacific Milling Company Sisquoc River Mining Plan in the Sisquoc River in Santa Barbara County, CA AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Los Angeles District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of Intent. SUMMARY: The proposed action is to mine construction-grade aggregate deposits from a 1.5-mile stretch of the Sisquoc River, a water of the United States. The California Division of Mines and Geology has determined that the most significant concentration of construction-grade aggregate in the region occurs in the Sisquoc/Santa Maria River basin. This deposit contains material that is important to two countries for construction, maintenance and rehabilitation of public and private facilities. The proposed action is intended to help satisfy the long-term demand for commercially-usable aggregate material in the region. Because the action will require a permit under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (as amended) and adverse individual culminative impacts to the aquatic ecosystem may result, the Corps has determined that the proposed action warrants an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act. A Joint Review Panel (JRP) consisting of the primary permitting agencies for the project has been formed to coordinate multi-agency review. The JRP includes representatives of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, California Division of Mines and Geology, and Country of Santa Barbara. The County of Santa Barbara will serve as the lead agency under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The environmental document will therefore be circulated as a joint Environmental Impact Statement/Environmental Impact Report (EIS/EIR). ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Regulatory Branch, 2151 Alessandro Drive, Suite 255, Ventura, California 93001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Michael Jewell, (805) 641&hyph;0301. DATE: Scoping comment period will expire January 20, 1995. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Proposed Action Southern Pacific Milling Company (SPMilling), has applied to the Corps of Engineers for a Section 404 individual permit to remove sand and gravel material from a 1.5-mile stretch of the Sisquoc River over the course of the next 20 years. The proposed mining plan has been designed to interface with the proposed Coast Rock Products Mining and Reclamation Plan on the Sisquoc and Santa Maria Rivers (see Federal Register 59 FR 2361). In 1989, the California Division of Mines and Geology found that the largest concentration of construction-grade material in Santa Barbara and San Louis Obispo Counties (the service area) extends along the Sisquoc/Santa Maria river system from a narrow canyon in the Sisquoc Ranch to the ancient flood plain underlying the City of Santa Maria. Because much of this material is no longer accessible due to surface improvements or established land use, the most viable long-term sources have been identified to occur within and adjacent the Sisquoc and Santa Maria Rivers. The overall purpose of the proposed action is to mine high-quality, construction-grade aggregate (MRZ&hyph;2 classified) deposits within the service area for utilization of the resource for approximately 20 years and reclaim mined lands in accordance with the requirements of the California State Surface Mining and Reclamation Act (SMART). The EIS/EIR for this proposal will be combined with the Coast Rock Products IS/EIR (currently in development) in one document. Since the SPMilling project site is situated between the upstream and downstream Coast Rock Products sites, it was determined that a combined document for both proposals would be appropriate and valuable in evaluating individual and cumulative impacts of these major operations on the river system. 2. Alternatives At least the following alternatives will be considered: (1) No action; (2) applicant's preferred project; (3) off-site (outside the 100-year floodplain) mining; (4) mining in the river (within the 100-year floodplain) but not within Section 404 jurisdiction; (5) a reduced-scale project; and (6) alternative landuse/reclamation scenarios. 3. Scoping Process a. Federal, state and local agencies and other interested private citizens and organizations are encouraged to send their written comments to Mr. Michael Jewell at the address provided in this notice. This scoping comment period will expire 30 days from the date of this notice. b. Significant issues to be analyzed in depth in the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) include hydrology/hydraulics, biological resources, water quality, cultural resources, air quality, transportation, groundwater recharge, noise, aesthetics, and socioeconomics. c. Coordination will be undertaken with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, California Department of Fish and Game, State Historic Preservation Office, and California Regional Water Quality Control Board. d. The project will also be reviewed under the California Environmental Quality Act. A draft EIS/EIR will be published which will discuss both NEPA and CEQA issues. 4. Scoping Meeting A scoping meeting has not been scheduled for the SPMilling proposal. A scoping meeting was held in January 1994 to identify potential issues relative to the Coast Rock Mining and Reclamation Plan. The same or similar issues will be germane to the proposal discussed herein. 5. DEIS Schedule The current schedule estimates that the combined DEIS will be available for public review and comment in February 1995. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31330 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;KF&hyph;M
