FR941025-0-00050 FR941025-0-00018 Comments were received that expressed the opinion that Congress intended that the restoration period be negotiated on a community-by-community basis and implied that Congress did not intend for a specific cap or limit to be applied to the length of the restoration period. We respond to this latter comment by stating that, according to the statute, a community is to be considered to be in the process of restoration as long as the restoration of the flood protection system ``*␣*␣* is scheduled to occur within a designated time period *␣*␣*''. The term, ``designated time period'' indicates the establishment of a specific, or definite period of time for restoration in order to confer AR Zone eligibility upon a community. Therefore, we believe that the proposed rule is consistent with the statute by specifying a maximum time frame for restoring the flood protection system that can be uniformly applied to eligible communities. Within that maximum time frame, the regulations anticipate that the community and FEMA will negotiate a specific restoration plan for a given flood protection system that will be based on the individual requirements for restoring that system. The plan must identify when the project will be completed or when the community will submit a request for a finding of adequate progress that satisfies the requirements of §61.12. These dates will be dependent upon the project which may not require the full ten-year maximum restoration period provided by these regulations. ``Hold Harmless'' Provision for Delays in Complying With Restoration Schedule Several comments objected to the absence of a ``hold harmless'' provision in the regulations to address delays in meeting the restoration schedule for any reason. It was felt that the lack of such a provision essentially holds the community responsible for actions that may be beyond its control. For example, the community may not be the local project sponsor of the restoration project and, as a result, may have limited influence as to whether the project's local and federal sponsors meet the restoration schedule agreed upon by the community and FEMA as part of the community's application for AR Zone designations. In addition, several comments cited that potential delays in Congressional authorization and appropriation of funds could affect a community's ability to comply with the restoration schedule, as could disasters and acts of nature, such as earthquakes or other natural hazards. These comments cite the legislative history as supporting the position that the regulations provide maximum flexibility for the community to meet the restoration schedule.
