FR941227-0-00096 FR941227-0-00020 2. Economic Development Grants The final rule also provides that HUD intends to use the section 108 loan guarantee program to the maximum extent feasible to fund economic development projects in the nonentitlement areas of New York State (see §570.421(a)(5)). 3. Counties Applying on Behalf of Units of General Local Government The final rule provides criteria under which counties may apply on behalf of units of general local government located within their jurisdiction when the unit of general local government has authorized the county to apply. 4. Pre-Agreement Costs The final rule provides that HUD authorizes a unit of general local government to incur costs during the same or the prior Federal Fiscal Year for preparation of a CDBG grant application, planning costs eligible under §570.205, environmental assessments, and project engineering and design costs for eligible activities under §570.201&hyph;204 before the establishment of a formal grant relationship between the applicant and HUD. Such costs for the funded activities may be charged to the grant should it be funded, provided that the activities are undertaken in accordance with the requirements of subpart F (see §570.425(a)(3)). This includes compliance with selection of contractors under 24 CFR 85.36 if, for example, a contractor prepares the application or plans and specifications. 5. HUD Action on Final Application The final rule adds two new paragraphs to §570.425(b). Paragraph (b)(3) provides that HUD will not make a Small Cities grant when it is determined that the grant will only have a minimal or insignificant impact on the grantee. Paragraph (b)(4) provides that in determining appropriate grant amounts to be awarded, HUD may take into account the size of the applicant, the level of demand, the scale of the activity proposed relative to need and operational capacity, among others. (See §570.425(b) (3) and (4).) 6. Streamlined Application Requirements for Previous Applicants The final rule adds a new paragraph (c) to §570.425 to provide for streamlined application requirements for previous applicants. (See §570.425(c).) 7. Clarification of ``Publication of Proposed Application'' The final rule adds a new paragraph to §570.431(c) to explain what is meant by publication of the proposed application. (See §570.431(c)(4).) 8. Hawaii Grantee Amendments The final rule clarifies the procedures that Hawaii grantees must follow in making amendments to final applications. (See §570.431(f).) 9. Report Submission Date. The final rule extends the deadline for New York Grantees to submit their performance and evaluation report on the small cities grant to October 31 (see §570.507(a)(2)(ii)(A)) and sets forth the date Hawaii grantees must submit their performance and evaluation report (see §570.507(a)(2)(ii)(B).) III. Comments on the Proposed Rule and HUD's Responses This section sets forth the issues and comments made by the public commenters on the September 15, 1994 proposed rule, and HUD's responses to these issues and questions. A. General Comments Comments Concerning NOFA for Small Cities Program There were several comments that the application time period to respond to the Small Cities NOFA should be more than 60 days. The final rule will not establish the application time period for the Small Cities NOFA. The request for a longer application time period was taken into consideration in development of the Federal Fiscal Year (FY) 1995 NOFA. Ten commenters commented on the number of funding competitions that should be held for the Small Cities Program during each fiscal year. Since the optimum number of competitive rounds will vary according to circumstances, the Small Cities NOFA will state the number of competitions that will be held in the time period that is covered by the NOFA. Four commenters stated that the issue date for the NOFA and the due date of competitive applications should be established by regulation. To retain maximum flexibility to address changing conditions, the Department has decided that these dates should not be established by regulation. Five commenters submitted comments on the maximum grant limits. In order to retain flexibility due to changing conditions such as inflation, the Small Cities NOFA, rather than the rule, will address the issue of grant limits. One commenter requested that the Department establish a set amount of funding for each funding round. Although the Department agrees with this comment, the NOFA rather than the rule is a better vehicle to address this issue. One commenter said that if it was necessary to expand the competition beyond housing, public facilities, and economic development, the final rule should so state this. Since it is impossible to foresee the types of competition that might benefit small jurisdictions in the State of New York in the future, the rule provides in §570.421(a)(1) that there will be competitive applications. Three commenters commented on the application page limits. Again, this is an issue that will be addressed in the NOFA to retain flexibility to adjust page limit requirements. The Department acknowledges that reducing the size of grant applications will reduce paperwork which is a goal shared by the majority of participants at the meetings held in the State of New York to discuss the proposed regulation. A few commenters requested that the Small Cities NOFA remain as constant as possible from year to year. The Department intends to do this to the extent possible. One commenter asked that the Department provide technical assistance after the issuance of the NOFA. Although this matter is not one that should be addressed in the final rule, the Department intends to provide the maximum amount of technical assistance that is permitted under section 103 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act.
