FR940405-2-00082 FR940405-2-00043 Appendix_Listing of Waivers of Regulatory Requirements Granted by Officers of the Department of Housing and Urban Development March 1, 1993 Through September 30, 1993 Note to reader: The person to be contacted for additional information about the waiver-grant items in this listing is: Oliver Walker, Chief, Directives, Reports and Forms Branch, Office of Housing, Management Division, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410, Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;1694. 1. Regulation: 24 CFR 248.233(f)_Prepayment of Low Income Housing Mortgages. Project/Activity: Multiple projects under the control of Carabetta. Enterprises, Inc., Managing General Partner. Nature of Requirement: The Regulation prohibits Approvals of Plans of Action when audit findings remain open. Granted By: Nicolas P. Retsinas, Assistant Secretary For Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner. Date Granted: September 23, 1993. Background: This is in response to William Hernandez's memorandum, dated July 7, 1993, requesting a blanket waiver of the subject regulation with respect to 26 Plans of Action for which Carabetta Enterprises, Inc. (CEI) or Joseph Carabetta is the managing general partner. The request for the waiver is required because an audit report issued by the Regional Inspector General for Audit on March 5, 1993, cited CEI for the improper diversion of funds from project accounts and/or the nonpayment of section 236 Excess Income totalling approximately $7.5 million from 40 properties, including the 26 for which the Plans of Action have been filed. The subject regulation prohibits approval of any Plan of Action so long as audit findings are outstanding. Reason Waived: The mortgagors propose to resolve the audit findings by repaying the diverted funds out of equity proceeds distributed as incentives pursuant to Plans of Action approved under the Emergency Low-Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 (ELIHPA). Your office has also proposed a penalty in the amount of $3 million in lieu of pursuing civil money penalties or affirmative litigation for double damages. Further, your office proposes to collect the full amount of the diverted funds and the penalty from the proceeds of the approved Plans of Action in toto before the mortgagors may distribute any proceeds to the partnerships. This office approves the waiver request on the following conditions. Mortgagor Requirements All diversions and unpaid section 236 Excess Income, plus interest accruing at the Treasury Bill rate from the date of the audit report, will be paid back to the project accounts or to the Department as appropriate from equity distributed pursuant to approved Plans of Action. All diversions must be restored and all unpaid Excess income must be repaid prior to the mortgagor retaining any of the equity for distribution to any of the partnerships. CEI will agree to pay $4,010,000, which represents $5,000 per audit violation for 802 violations. The full amount of the payment must be remitted to the Department prior to the mortgagor retaining any equity distribution from approved Plans of Action to any of the partnerships. All diversions repaid to the project account may be used to meet accounts payable to unaffiliated vendors. After all such obligations have been discharged, the balance of the funds will be deposited into the Reserve for Replacement escrow account with the mortgagee. The funds may not be used to pay obligations due affiliated or identity-of-interest vendors, capital advances made by any partnership or partner, deposited into the Residual Receipts escrow account or to pay accrued, unpaid distributions to any partnership. The mortgagors will agree to apply for section 241(f) equity loans within five (5) working days of final approval of ELIHPA Plans of Action. The mortgagors will agree to maintain the properties in good physical condition for the term of the use agreement executed as a condition for receiving incentives pursuant to an approved ELIHPA Plan of Action. The mortgagors will agree to submit all required reports timely. Such reports will include monthly and quarterly reports of project operations, accounts payable and accounts receivable as directed by your office. The mortgagors will agree that all books, records, files and related documents will be available for review, inspection and audit by the Department or its designee for the term of the ELIHPA use agreement. The mortgagors will agree to offer a right of first refusal of sale on each property to the Department's designee upon payment in full of the mortgage note at the expiration of the mortgage. The mortgagors will agree to extend the affordability restrictions for a period of not less than 30 years beyond the term of the original mortgage for each project for which an ELIHPA Plan of Action is approved.
