FR940325-2-00086 FR940325-2-00046 (b) Activities are comprehensive and nationwide in scope, and adequately described and appropriately related to goals (0&hyph;10 points). (c) Time frames and chronology of key activities are realistic (0&hyph;2 points). (d) The plan for conducting an assessment that will determine the degree to which the stated goals and objectives of the project are achieved is adequate and workable and, where appropriate, the plan for disseminating the information resulting from the project to CSBG grantees, local service providers, and other interested parties is workable and assures that all relevant parties are included in the dissemination (0&hyph;8 points). (3) Criterion III: Significant and Beneficial Impact (Maximum 25 points) (a) Applicant adequately describes how the project will assure long-term program and management improvements for States and/or local providers of CSBG services and activities (0&hyph;15 points). (b) For T&TA applications: The project will impact on a significant number of State staff or local service providers (0&hyph;10 points). (c) For data collection applications: The applicant has the ability to collect data from a significant number of States (0&hyph;10 points). (4) Criterion IV: Ability of Applicant to Perform (Maximum: 20 points) (a) The application demonstrates that the applicant has experience relevant to the activities that it proposes to undertake (0&hyph;10 points). (b) The applicant's proposed project director and primary staff are well qualified and their professional experiences are relevant to the successful implementation of the proposed project (0&hyph;10 points). (5) Criterion V: Adequacy of Budget (Maximum: 5 points). (a) The resources requested are reasonable and adequate to accomplish the project (0&hyph;3 points). (b) Total costs are reasonable and consistent with anticipated results (0&hyph;2 points). Part E_Contents of Application and Receipt Process 1. Contents of Application Each application should include one original and two additional copies of the following: a. A completed Standard Form 424 which has been signed by an official of the organization applying for the grant who has authority to obligate the organization legally. The applicant must be aware that in signing and submitting the application for this award, it is certifying that it will comply with the Federal requirements concerning the drug-free workplace and debarment regulations set forth in Attachments D and E. b. ``Budget Information-Non-Construction Programs'' (SF&hyph;424A). c. A filled out, signed and dated ``Assurances_Non-Construction Programs'' (SF&hyph;424B), Attachment C. d. Restrictions on Lobbying_Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements: fill out, sign and date form found at Attachment F. e. Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, SF-LLL: fill out, sign and date form found at Attachment F, as appropriate. f. A Project Narrative consisting of the following elements preceded by a consecutively numbered Table of Contents that will describe the project in the following order: (i) Need for Assistance (ii) Work Program (iii) Significant and Beneficial Impact (iv) Management History (v) Staffing and Resources (vi) Appendices including proof of non-profit status, such as IRS determination of non-profit status; By-Laws; Articles of Incorporation; Certification Regarding Lobbying; resumes, etc. The original must bear the signature of the authorizing official representing the applicant organization. The total number of pages for the entire application package should not exceed 30 pages, including appendices. Pages should be numbered sequentially throughout. If appendices include photocopied materials, they must be legible. Applications should be two-hole punched at the top center and fastened separately with a compressor slide paper fastener or a binder clip. The submission of bound applications or applications enclosed in a binder is specifically discouraged. Applications must be uniform in composition since OCS may find it necessary to duplicate them for review purposes. Therefore, applications must be submitted on white 81/2 x 11 inch paper only. They must not include colored, oversized or folded materials. Do not include organizational brochures or other promotional materials, slides, films, clips, etc. in the proposal. They will be discarded if included.
