FR941205-1-00062 FR941205-1-00014 Part VII Part VII addresses how each of the parties has carried each major commodity in each sub-trade, and the revenue results experienced by each party from its carriage of each commodity. The Monitoring Report specifies the format in which the information is to be reported. Part VIII Part VIII is required to be completed if Part III(A) is answered ``YES.'' The filing party is required to indicate the extent to which each party has taken independent rate actions on each of the leading commodities in each of the sub-trades. Part VIII also inquires into the type of shipper_beneficial cargo owner, non-vessel-operating common carrier, or shippers' association_for whom independent rate actions have been taken. The Monitoring Report specifies the format in which the information is to be reported. Part IX Part IX is concerned with the level of service at each port within the entire geographic scope of the agreement. The filing party is required to provide the number of calls at each port by each of the parties during the calendar quarter, and also to indicate any change in the nature or type of service effected during the calendar quarter. Part X Part X is required to be completed if part III(B) is answered ``YES.'' The filing party is required to submit responses to a number of inquiries into the operation of the capacity management or capacity regulation program during the calendar quarter. Where the program covers both U.S. inbound and outbound liner movements, inbound and outbound data should be stated separately. Copies of specified kinds of documents must also be provided. Part XI(A) Part XI(A) requires the filing party to provide the name, title, address, telephone number and cable address of a person the Commission may contact regarding the Monitoring Report and any information provided therein. Part XI(B) Part XI(B) requires that the filing party sign the Monitoring Report and certify that the information in the Report and all attachments and appendices are, to the best of the filing party's knowledge, true, correct and complete. The filing party is also required to indicate his or her relationship with the parties to the agreement. Federal Maritime Commission Monitoring Report For Class A Agreements Between or Among Ocean Common Carriers Agreement Number (Assigned by FMC) Part I Agreement Name: Part II Other Agreements Indicate any change occurring during the calendar quarter to the list of other agreements set forth in Part II of the Information Form. Part III Agreement Type (A) Conferences Does the agreement authorize the parties to operate as a conference? Yes }␣␣No } (B) Capacity Management or Regulation Does the agreement authorize the parties to establish capacity management or capacity regulation programs? Yes }␣␣No } Part IV Market Share Information Provide the market shares of all liner operators within the entire geographic scope of the agreement and within each sub-trade during the calendar quarter. The information should be provided in the format below: Market Share Report for Calendar Quarter [Indicate either entire agreement scope, or sub-trade name] 1␣ 1TEUs 1Percent Agreement market share: Line A X,XXX XX Line B X,XXX XX Line C X,XXX XX n,s Total Agreement Market Share X,XXX XX Non-Agreement Market Share: Line X X,XXXX XX Line Y X,XXX XX Line Z X,XXX XX n,s Total Non-Agreement Market Share X,XXX XX Total Market X,XXX 100 Part V Cargo and Revenue Results Agreement-Wide For each agreement member line, provide total cargo carryings (measured in TEUs) during the calendar quarter within the entire geographic area covered by the agreement, total revenues within the geographic area during the calendar quarter, and average revenue per TEU. The information should be provided in the format below: Calendar Quarter 1Carrier 1Total TEUs 1Total revenues 1Avg. revenue per TEU A ␣ l$ l$ B ␣ l$ l$ C ␣ l$ l$ Etc. ␣ l$ l$ Part VI Leading Commodities For each sub-trade within the scope of the agreement, list the top 10 commodities by cumulative TEUs carried by all the parties during the calendar quarter, or list the commodities accounting for 50 percent of the cumulative TEUs carried by all the parties during the calendar quarter, whichever list is longer. The information should be provided in the format below: Calendar Quarter I. Sub-trade A. First leading commodity
