FR940207-2-00134 FR940207-2-00068 Finally, the proposal contains several technical amendments to the index option escrow receipt and corresponding OCC rules. For instance, the index option escrow receipt now specifies that written notification from an issuing bank to OCC of a collateral deficiency may be by facsimile or other electronic transmission if followed by immediate telephone confirmation. Throughout Rule 1801, the proposal replaces the term ``market value'' with the term ``value'' when referring to deposited property because the methods for valuing the various types of property eligible for deposit are described in OCC Rule 1801(f). The proposal also eliminates ``initial position value'' as a definitional term in Rule 1801(c) because that term is not used elsewhere in OCC Rule 1801. The proposal replaces the term ``agent'' with the term ``duly authorized representative'' in the index option escrow receipt. The proposal revises the index option escrow receipt to require issuing banks to include the value of collateral backing index participation escrow receipts in computing limitations on the amount of escrow receipts they can issue. The revised index option escrow receipt requires issuing banks to certify that they hold escrow deposits as ``trustee or custodian'' for the account of customers rather than merely as ``custodian'' and specifies that the issuing banks hold the escrow deposits in accordance with the terms of the index option escrow receipt rather than in accordance with OCC rules. II. Discussion The Commission believes that OCC's proposal is consistent with the Act and in particular with section 17A(b)(3)(F) thereunder. 7 That section requires, among other things, that the rules of a clearing agency be designed to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to assure the safeguarding of funds and securities in the clearing agency's custody or control or for which it is responsible. 7 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F) (1988). With regard to OCC's safeguarding obligations under the Act, OCC has implemented procedures designed to diminish the risks associated with the program. As discussed above and in the Commission order approving the program on a pilot basis, 8 these risk reduction measures include: (1) The requirement that the issuing bank monitor daily the value of escrow deposits and take appropriate action ( i.e. , collection of additional collateral and/or notification to OCC) if that value falls below certain thresholds; 9 (2) escrow deposit eligibility standards whereby only liquid assets are eligible to underlie escrow receipts; and (3) OCC's new authority to close out the short positions of a suspended clearing member covered by index option escrow receipts and to draw on the proceeds of those receipts to cover liquidation costs. 8 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 22324 (August 13, 1985), 50 FR 33443. 9 If the value of the deposit decreases below 55% of the index option's value, the issuing bank must notify the clearing member and request that the deposit be supplemented. If the value of the deposit decreases below 50% of the index option's value, the issuing bank must notify OCC. In that event, OCC may disregard the escrow receipt and may require margin on the short positions. OCC also has rules and procedures governing banks designated by OCC as custodian banks ( i.e., banks authorized to issue index option escrow receipts). These controls include: (1) financial standards ( e.g., issuing banks must have shareholder equity of not less than $20 million); (2) regulatory standards ( e.g., issuing banks must be supervised and examined by state or federal authorities); and (3) depository standards ( e.g., issuing banks must file certain financial statements with OCC). Moreover, OCC requires each custodian bank to supply OCC with a letter from the bank's independent auditors describing the adequacy of the custodian bank's procedures relating to the issuance of index option escrow receipts. III. Conclusion In conclusion, the Commission believes that OCC's index option escrow receipt program should encourage broader participation in the index options market and is designed to provide adequate safeguards to protect OCC and its clearing members from financial loss. On the basis of the foregoing, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the Act and, in particular, with Section 17A of the Act. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;OCC&hyph;89&hyph;04) be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 10 10 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2724 Filed 2&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
