FR940503-1-00078 FR940503-1-00012 (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this rule is a ``significant regulatory action'' because of the potential impacts on portions of the domestic refining and gasoline importing industry. As such, this action was submitted to OMB for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in the public record. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Administrator certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The issue of baselines for imported reformulated gasoline is discussed generally in section VII-C of the Regulatory Impact Analysis that was prepared to support the Final Rule for reformulated gasoline. A copy of this document may be found in the reformulated gasoline docket, number A&hyph;92&hyph;12, at the location identified in the ADDRESSES section of this document. The RFA of 1980 requires federal agencies to examine the effects of proposed regulations and to identify significant adverse impacts on a substantial number of small entities. Because the RFA does not provide concrete definitions of ``small entity,'' ``significant impact,'' or ``substantial number,'' EPA has established guidelines setting the standards to be used in evaluating impacts on small businesses. 15 For purposes of the proposed individual foreign refinery requirements for reformulated gasoline, a small entity is any business which is independently owned and operated and not dominant in its field as defined by SBA regulations under section 3 of the Small Business Act. 15 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Memorandum to Assistant Administrators, ``Compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act,'' EPA Office of Policy, Planning, and Evaluation, 1984. In addition, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Memorandum to Assistant Administrators, ``Agency's Revised Guidelines for Implementing the Regulatory Flexibility Act,'' Office of Policy, Planning, and Evaluation, 1992.
