FR940405-0-00009 FR940405-0-00002 (7) If not previously provided, the debtor's right to request administrative review by an authorized ASCS official, and the proper procedure for making such request. If the request relates to the: (i) Existence or amount of the debt, it must be made within 15 days from the date of the letter, unless a different time period is specified in the contract, agreement or program regulation; (ii) Appropriateness of reporting to a credit reporting agency, it must be made within 30 days from the date of the letter; or (iii) Appropriateness of referral to IRS for tax refund offset, it must be made within 60 days from the date of the letter, if applicable. (8) The debtor's right to a full explanation of the debt and to dispute any information in the records of ASCS concerning the debt; (9) The opportunity afforded the debtor to enter into a written agreement which is acceptable to ASCS for the repayment of the debt; (10) That ASCS maintains the right to initiate legal action to collect the amount of the debt; (11) That if any portion of the debt remains unpaid or if a repayment schedule satisfactory to ASCS has not been arranged 90 days after the due date, a penalty charge shall be assessed on the unpaid balance of the debt as prescribed in §792.10(e); (b) When ASCS deems it necessary to protect the Government's interest, written demand may be preceded by other appropriate actions. §792.5 Collection by payment in full. Except as ASCS may provide, ASCS shall collect debts owed to the Government, including applicable interest, penalties, and administrative costs, in full, whenever feasible whether the debt is being collected by administrative offset or by another method, including voluntary payment. If a debt is paid in one lump sum after the due date, ASCS will impose late payment interest, as provided in §792.10, unless such interest is waived as provided in §792.11. §792.6 Collection by installment payments. (a) Payments in installments may be arranged, at ASCS' discretion, if a debtor furnishes satisfactory evidence of inability to pay a claim in full by the specified date. The size and frequency of installment payments shall: (1) Bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay; and (2) Normally be of sufficient size and frequency to liquidate the debt in not more than three years. (b) Except as otherwise determined by ASCS, no installment arrangement will be considered unless the debtor submits a certified financial statement which reflects the debtor's assets, liabilities, income, and expenses. The financial statement shall not be required to be submitted sooner than 15 workdays following its request by ASCS. (c) All installment payment agreements shall be in writing and require the payment of interest at the late payment interest rate in effect on the date such agreement is executed, unless such interest is waived or reduced by ASCS. The installment agreement shall specify all the terms of the arrangement and include provision for accelerating the debt in the event the debtor defaults. (d) ASCS may deem a repayment plan to be abrogated if the debtor fails to comply with its terms. (e) If the debtor's financial statement or other information discloses the ownership of assets which are not encumbered, the debtor may be required to secure the payment of an installment note by executing a security agreement and financing agreement which provides ASCS a security interest in the assets until the debt is paid in full. (f) If the debtor owes more than one debt to ASCS, ASCS may allow the debtor to designate the manner in which a voluntary installment payment is to be applied. If the debtor does not designate the application of a voluntary installment or partial payment, the payment will be applied to such debts as determined by ASCS. §792.7 Collection by administrative offset. (a) The provisions of this section shall apply to all debts due ASCS except as otherwise provided in this part and part 1404 of this title. This section is not applicable to: (1) ASCS requests for administrative offset against money payable to a debtor from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund and ASCS requests for salary offset against a present, former or retired employee of the Federal Government which shall be made in accordance with regulations at part 3 of this title; (2) ASCS requests for administrative offset against a Federal income tax refund payable to a debtor which shall be made in accordance with §792.19;
