FR941206-0-00087 FR941206-0-00011 ( 4 ) An identification of the relevant standard that is the basis of the application. ( 5 ) The expected commencement date of the construction or reconstruction. ( 6 ) The expected completion date of the construction or reconstruction. ( 7 ) The anticipated date of (initial) startup of the source. ( 8 ) The type and quantity of hazardous air pollutants emitted by the source, reported in units and averaging times and in accordance with the test methods specified in the standard, or if actual emissions data are not yet available, an estimate of the type and quantity of hazardous air pollutants expected to be emitted by the source reported in units and averaging times specified. The owner or operator may submit percent reduction information, if the standard is established in terms of percent reduction. However, operating parameters, such as flow rate, shall be included in the submission to the extent that they demonstrate performance and compliance. ( 9 ) Other information as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section and ยง63.5(d)(3) of subpart A of this part. (C) An owner or operator who submits estimates or preliminary information in place of the actual emissions data and analysis required in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(B)( 8 ) and (ii) of this section shall submit the actual, measured emissions data and other correct information as soon as available but no later than with the notification of compliance status required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. (ii) Application for approval of construction. Each application for approval of construction shall include, in addition to the information required in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section, technical information describing the proposed nature, size, design, operating design capacity, and method of operation of the source subject to these emissions standards, including an identification of each point of emission for each hazardous air pollutant that is emitted (or could be emitted) and a description of the planned air pollution control system (equipment or method) for each emission point. The description of the equipment to be used for the control of emissions shall include each control device for each hazardous air pollutant and the estimated control efficiency (percent) for each control device. The description of the method to be used for the control of emissions shall include an estimated control efficiency (percent) for that method. Such technical information shall include calculations of emission estimates in sufficient detail to permit assessment of the validity of the calculations. An owner or operator who submits approximations of control efficiencies under paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall submit the actual control efficiencies as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(C) of this section. (4) Approval of construction or reconstruction based on prior State preconstruction review. (i) The Administrator may approve an application for construction or reconstruction specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section and ยง63.5(d)(3) and (4) of subpart A of this part if the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed source who is subject to such requirement demonstrates to the Administrator's satisfaction that the following conditions have been (or will be) met:
