FR940830-0-00108 FR940830-0-00014 One comment said that §3833.1&hyph;3 ought to allow the claimant a chance to choose which mining claims should have partial payments applied to them before BLM imposes its system for making this determination. This amendment has been added in this final rule. One comment said that the proposed rule was not clear about the treatment of insufficient maintenance fees paid for new locations. The requirements for this situation are explained in paragraph (b)(1). One comment stated that a phrase in paragraph (b)(2), which provides that new claims rejected for insufficient service charges will be returned to the claimant/owner unprocessed, should be replaced by language requiring that a rejection decision be sent after the claims are serialized (given BLM identification numbers). Claims for which service charges have not been paid cannot be serialized because the missing or insufficient service charges are supposed to pay for such processing. Therefore, absent service charges, there is no serialization, and thus no claims of record, and there cannot be a formal decision on the disposition of the claims. One comment said that paragraph (b)(2) is too complicated and suggested that missing service charges be made a non-curable defect. Making this change would not remove any administrative costs and would create the possibility of rigid and unfair application. For instance, a claimant could file $250 to cover two claims, rather than the proper $270 (which includes two $10 service charges, two $100 maintenance fees, and two $25 location fees). Under the scenario envisioned in the comment, BLM would have to apply $135 to one claim and then have the expense of refunding $115 and returning the second claim or writing a decision if the maintenance fee deadline had passed. The BLM prefers to apply the $250 to each claim ($125 each), and call for the additional $20 in service charges to complete the recording process. Pursuant to a comment, paragraph (b)(2) has been reworded to eliminate confusion as to which of two apparent deadlines for paying a service charge applies. New paragraph (b)(3) has been added in the final rule to address the consequences of partial payment of service charges. One comment asked that the policy on treatment of payment of insufficient mandatory fees be clarified. (The comment referred to the required $100 maintenance and $25 location fees.) This policy will not be put in the rule, but will be included in the BLM Manual. When the payment submitted does not cover all of the fees due, the BLM will apply all fees sequentially beginning with the first numbered claim of that claimant and to as many thereafter as the paid funds allow. For instance, if a claimant submits $200 for two new locations, BLM would not consider this complete payment of maintenance fees for two claims, leaving the location fees and service charges unpaid for both, but would apply the payment entirely to the first claim before applying any money to the second. Thus, BLM would apply $125 ($100 for the maintenance fee and $25 for the location fee) initially toward the first claim. Because the remaining $75 would be insufficient to cover the mandatory fees on the second claim, the second claim would be voided for failure to pay the required fees. A portion of the remaining funds would then be applied toward the first claim for the $10 service charge. If the claimant submits other instructions on how to apply the fees, such instructions will be followed, if possible. One comment asked whether paragraph (c)(2) meant to allow a claimant to choose which claims or sites will be dropped if the maintenance fee payment is not sufficient for all of their claims. The answer is yes. However, if the claimant does not notify BLM of the preference, then BLM will apply the fees to those claims in ascending numerical order of serialization. One comment requested that cross references to §§3833.1&hyph;4 and 3833.1&hyph;5, provisions on service charges and maintenance fees, be added in paragraph (c)(2). This did not seem necessary, in part due to the physical proximity of the provisions. One comment said that paragraph (c)(3) should be changed to remove the phrase ``*␣*␣* existing recorded and serialized mining claims and sites*␣*␣*'' and to substitute the phrase ``*␣*␣* the list of claims submitted by the claimant *␣*␣*.'' This change has not been made, but rather, the paragraph has been removed from the final rule because it largely repeats provisions of paragraph (c)(2). 43 CFR 3833.1&hyph;4 One comment stated that paragraph (b) was unclear in its reference to ``recording.'' This paragraph has been amended to make it clear that the reference is to recordation with BLM. One comment said that the reference in paragraph (f) to facsimile authorizations may cause problems, because some have been misdirected in the past. A misdirected facsimile would not be considered a filing in the proper office; no filing or payment is complete or proper until it is received in the appropriate office. One comment suggested that paragraph (g) should allow overpayments to be credited to declining deposit accounts. This amendment has been made to the final rule. 43 CFR 3833.1&hyph;5
