FR941206-1-00050 FR941206-1-00007 Table 4._ Summary of Proposed Work Practice Standard a 1Emission source 1Work practice 1 Finishing Operations 0 s Transfer equipment leaks Develop written inspection and maintenance plan to address and prevent leaks. The plan must identify a minimum inspection frequency of 1/month. Storage containers, including mixing equipment When such containers are used for HAP or HAP-containing materials, keep covered when not in use. Application equipment Discontinue use of air spray guns. b Finishing materials Demonstrate that usage of HAP of potential concern have not increased except as allowed by proposed standards; document in the formulation assessment plan. s 1 Cleaning Operations 0 s Gun/line cleaning Collect cleaning solvent into a closed container. ␣ Cover all containers associated with cleaning when not in use. Spray booth cleaning Do not use solvents except as allowed by the proposed rule. Washoff/general cleaning Do not use chemicals that are known or probable human carcinogens in cleaning solvents in concentrations subject to MSDS reporting, as required by OSHA. ␣ Keep washoff tank covered when not in use. ␣ Minimize dripping by tilting and/or rotating part to drain as much solvent as possible and allowing sufficient dry time. ␣ Maintain a log of the quantity and type of solvent used for washoff and cleaning, as well as the quantity of waste solvent shipped offsite, and the fate of this waste (recycling or disposal). ␣ Maintain a log of the number of pieces washed off, and the reason for the wash off. s 1 Miscellaneous 0 s Operator training All operators shall be trained on proper application, cleanup, and equipment use. The training program shall be written and retained onsite. Implementation plan Develop a plan to implement these work practice standards and maintain onsite. a The proposed work practice standards apply to both existing and new major sources. b Air guns will be allowed only in the following instances: ␣_When they are used in conjunction with coatings that emit less than 1.0 kg VOC per kg of solids used; ␣_Touchup and repair under limited conditions; ␣_When spray is automated; ␣_When add-on controls are employed; ␣_If the cumulative application is less than 5 percent of the total gallons of coating applied; or ␣_If the permitting agency determines that it is economically or technically infeasible to use other application technologies.
