FR941219-2-00151 FR941219-2-00079 12. For these reasons, Applicants assert that deducting a charge from variable life insurance contract premium payments for an insurer's tax burdens attributable to its receipt of such payments and excluding that charge from sales load is appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. Applicants submit that this is because such a charge is for a legitimate expense of the insurer and is not designed to cover sales and distribution expenses. Applicants note that, in adopting Rule 6e&hyph;3(T) and its analog, Rule 63&hyph;2, which applies to schedule premium variable life insurance contracts, the Commission considered similar deductions for tax burdens in respect of premium taxes. In each case, the Commission permitted deductions for such taxes to be made and to be treated as other than sales load. Applicants submit that the propriety of a charge for an insurer's tax burden attributable to premium payments received is the same whether such burden arises under state or federal law. B. Request for ``Class Relief'' 1. Applicants note that the relief sought herein applies to existing Accounts as well as to future accounts that Providentmutual may establish to support flexible premium variable life insurance contracts. Such future accounts may be established as additional investment options under previously issued contracts. Such future accounts may be established as additional investment options under previously issued contracts that have a ``tax burden charge'' or as investment options for new contracts that may have a ``tax burden charge.'' 2. Applicants submit that because the terms of any exemption sought for the future accounts to permit the deduction of a ``tax burden charge'' would be substantially identical to those in this application, any additional requests for exemptive relief for the future accounts would present no issues under the 1940 Act that have not already been addressed in this application. Applicants note, however, that unless the ``class relief'' requested herein is granted, Providentmutual would have to request and obtain exemptive relief for each future account to the extent required. For the reasons set forth below, Applicants assert that the requested exemptions are appropriate in the public interest and are consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. 3. Applicants submit that the requested ``class relief'' would promote competitiveness in the variable life insurance market by eliminating the need for Providentmutual to file redundant exemptive applications, thereby reducing its administrative expenses and maximizing the efficient use of its resources. Applicants submit that the delay and expense involved in having repeatedly to seek the same exemptions would impair Providentmutual's ability to effectively take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. 4. Applicants further submit that owners of Contracts and future contracts would receive no benefit or additional protection if Providentmutual were required repeatedly to seek Commission orders with respect to the same issues addressed in this application; indeed, they might be disadvantaged as a result of Providentmutual's increased overhead expenses. Conditions for Relief 1. Applicants agree to comply with the following conditions for relief: a. Providentmutual will monitor the reasonableness of the 1.25 percent charge. b. The registration statement for the Contract and for any future contracts under which the 1.25 percent charge is deducted will include: (i) disclosure of the charge; (ii) disclosure explaining the purpose of the charge; and (iii) a statement that the charge is reasonable in relation to Providentmutual's increased tax burden as a result of applying Section 848 of the Code. c. Providentmutual also will include an exhibit to the registration statement for the Contract and for any other variable life insurance contract under which the 1.25 percent charge is deducted an actuarial opinion as to: (i) the reasonableness of the charge in relation to Providentmutual's increased tax burden as a result of Section 848 of the Code; (ii) the reasonableness of the after tax rate of return used in calculating the charge; and (iii) the appropriateness of the factors taken into account by Providentmutual in determining the after tax rate of return. Conclusion Applicants submit that for the reasons and upon the facts set forth above, the requested exemptions from Section 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act and Rule 6e&hyph;3(T)(c)(4)(v) thereunder to permit the deduction of 1.25 percent of premium payments under the Contracts and any future contracts meet the standards of Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act. In this regard, Applicants assert that granting the requested relief would be appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31102 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
