FR940303-2-00017 FR940303-2-00014 Department of the Army Corps of Engineers Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Arroyo Pasajero Investigation, California AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, DoD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The action being taken is a feasibility investigation to identify and assess potential measures to provide additional flood protection for the study area including the cities of Coalinga and Huron, Lemoore Naval Air Station, surrounding agricultural land, and the California Aqueduct, and to prevent sediment and water contaminated with asbestos from entering the aqueduct. The feasibility investigation area includes the Arroyo Pasajero basin in southwest Fresno County. Measures to be investigated include enlarging the retention basin west of the aqueduct, constructing an overchute structure, upstream reservoirs, conducting local levee and channel work, and implementing an asbestos hazard abatement treatment. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions regarding this DEIS should be addressed to Mr. Robert Koenigs, Planning Division, Corps of Engineers, 1325 J Street, Sacramento, California, 95814&hyph;2922, telephone (916) 557&hyph;6712. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Proposed Action The Corps of Engineers, and a non-Federal sponsor (California State Department of Water Resources) are conducting a feasibility investigation to identify and assess alternative measures for providing additional flood protection to the cities of Coalinga and Huron, to Lemoore Naval Air Station, to the California Aqueduct, and to agricultural lands, and for preventing sediment and water contaminated with asbestos from entering the aqueduct. In 1958 and 1969 major flooding occurred in the area causing over $5 million in property loss. Alternatives The feasibility report and EIS will address the full range of alternatives discussed in the 1992 reconnaissance report on the basin including evaluation of plans to: (1) Enlarge the retention basin west of the California Aqueduct. (2) Provide an overchute structure over the aqueduct or an aqueduct canal siphon and provide a retention basin on the east side of the aqueduct. (3) Construct a channel from the aqueduct and/or the retention basin to a natural channel at the valley trough. Also included will be an evaluation of upstream reservoirs, local levees and channel work, the potential for groundwater injection, potential water treatment methods to permit Arroyo Pasajero runoff into the aqueduct, special asbestos hazard abatement treatment for construction, operation and maintenance requirements for any constructed facilities, and environmental mitigation and restoration. The No-Action alternative will also be explored during the study. Scoping Process a. A notice of initiation for the Arroyo Pasajero Investigation will be sent to public agencies, organizations, and individuals in the study area. This notice will invite those parties to participate in the scoping process for this investigation. This will include an opportunity for the public to identify the significant flood control problems, potential solutions, and resources within the study area which may be affected by a project. Responses to the notice, will be used in determining the scope of the feasibility report and accompanying environmental impact statement. b. Significant topics that will be discussed in the DEIS include the hydrology of the basin; planning objectives; alternatives analysis; impacts on fish and wildlife resources, endangered species, vegetation, water quality, air quality, esthetics, cultural resources, and cumulative impacts of related projects in the study area. The potential for contamination of air and water resources by naturally occurring asbestos will also be addressed. c. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will provide a Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act Report to accompany the DEIS. d. A 45-day review period will be allowed for all interested agencies and individuals to review and comment on the DEIS. A public hearing will be held during the comment period. All interested persons are encouraged to respond to this notice and to provide scoping comments and a current address if they wish to be contacted about the DEIS. Public Meeting A public scoping meeting has been scheduled for Tuesday, March 29, 1994 at 7 p.m. in the Coalinga area to initiate coordination with local governmental representatives, elected officials, State and Federal agencies, special interest groups, and the general public. Availability The DEIS is scheduled to be available for public review and comment in mid 1997. Gregory D. Showalter, Alternative Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4784 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
