FR940817-1-00012 FR940817-1-00004 The Commission requests comment (i) on the ability of funds to account for amounts paid with commission dollars by the allocation method, (ii) whether the proposed gross-up method adequately reflects the economic nature of these arrangements, and (iii) on the costs of each of these accounting methods compared to their benefits to investors. B. The Fee Table and Financial Highlights Table The Commission is proposing to amend instructions to the items of the fund registration forms that require funds to include in their prospectuses a table presenting the expenses paid by fund shareholders, either directly or out of the assets of the fund (the ``fee table''). 17 The amended instructions would require that the expense percentages included in a fund's fee table be based upon total expenses ( i.e., that the percentages include amounts paid with commission dollars). 18 Similarly, the amendments would revise Form N&hyph;1A and Form N&hyph;2 to require that the ``ratio of expenses to average net assets'' in a fund's ``financial highlights'' table reflect expenses paid with commission dollars. 19 The fee table and financial highlights table are required to be placed prominently in the prospectus, and are intended to be the primary means for the communication of fund expenses and performance to shareholders and prospective shareholders. 20 The proposed amendments are intended to improve the ability of investors to use the fee table and financial highlights table to compare fund expenses. 21 17 Item 2(a)(i) of Form N&hyph;1A, Item 3.1 of Form N&hyph;2, Item 3(a) of Form N&hyph;3, and Item 3(a) of Form N&hyph;4. 18 The amended instructions to the fee table would clarify that the ``Other Expenses'' set forth in the fee table should be determined by reference to the expense amounts reported in the fund's statement of operations, including adjustments to reflect expenses paid with commission dollars. Accordingly, references in the instructions to the omission of brokerage commissions and other similar costs (which are not reported on the statement of operations) would be deleted. The amended instructions are not intended otherwise to revise the substance of the fee table requirements. See Instructions 10 to Item 2(a)(i) of Form N&hyph;1A; Instruction 9 to Item 3.1 of Form N&hyph;2; Instruction 15 to Item 3(a) of Form N&hyph;3; and Instruction 17 to Item 3(a) of Form N&hyph;4. 19 Item 3(a) of Form N&hyph;1A and Item 4.1 of Form N&hyph;2. Amendments to the per share tables in Forms N&hyph;3 and N&hyph;4 are not being proposed. 20 Unlike amounts paid with commission dollars, the amounts of any fee waivers or expense reimbursements would continue to be deducted from expenses for purposes of the fee table and financial highlights table. While, as discussed above, a fund bears the cost of expenses paid by a broker under a brokerage/service arrangement, it does not bear any cost to the extent an expense is waived or reimbursed. 21 The proposed instructions would not require the calculation of the ``net investment income'' and ``ratio of net income to average net assets'' entries in the financial highlights table based upon gross expenses. Net investment income in the financial highlights table would continue to correspond to the net investment income reported in the statement of operations. The financial highlights table in fund prospectuses presents key financial data for each of the last ten fiscal years. Funds may not be able to readily determine amounts paid with commission dollars during past years. Therefore, the proposed amendments would not require that total expenses be reflected in the expense ratio in the financial highlights table for fiscal years ending before the adoption of the amendments. 22 A footnote would be required disclosing the change in the manner in which expenses have been determined. 22 If these proposals are adopted, the Commission may require funds to present the grossed-up expense information in statements of operations and financial highlights tables for the entire fiscal period ending on or after the date of adoption. Because funds ordinarily would maintain records related to these arrangements, this should not be burdensome. Comment is requested whether reflecting total expenses for the period beginning before adoption of the rule would be burdensome. C. Performance Information Commission rules require that any quotation of yield in a mutual fund advertisement be calculated in accordance with a formula that reflects fund expenses accrued for the period. 23 Use of total expenses in the calculation of a fund's yield may be appropriate to reflect actual fund expenses and necessary to maintain the value of yield as an indicator of fund performance. 24 Therefore, the Commission is proposing instructions to the yield formulas for funds (other than money market funds) to require that the costs of services paid for with brokerage commissions be reflected in quotations of yield in a fund's registration statement, and, as a result, in its advertisements. 23 Paragraph (e)(1) of rule 482 under the 1933 Act [17 CFR 230.482(e)(1)] requires that yield quotations included in fund advertisements be calculated in accordance with the formulas specified in fund registration forms. The yield formulas are set forth in Item 22(b)(ii) of Form N&hyph;1A, Item 25(b)(ii) of Form N&hyph;3, and Item 21(b)(ii) of Form N&hyph;4. 24 As discussed supra at note 4, the characterization of costs as expenses or capital items does not affect a fund's total return, and, therefore, no amendment to the total return formula is being proposed. As discussed above, the proposed amendments to Regulation S&hyph;X would require that adjustments to fund expenses be made at the end of a financial statement period. 25 Those amendments generally would not require funds to accrue or otherwise determine at the end of the thirty-day period for which yield is calculated the amount of expenses paid with brokerage commissions for that period. The proposed instructions to the yield formulas, therefore, would require funds to estimate amounts paid with commission dollars for the period of the yield quotation. Comment is requested on the feasibility of making such an estimate and whether there are alternative approaches. 25 See Section II.A.1 supra. The proposals would not revise the manner in which yield is calculated by money market funds. The money market fund yield formula is based upon the net change in the value of a hypothetical account, and any spread or mark-up paid by a fund would be amortized and reflected in that change in value. 26 Therefore, requiring money market funds to include fees paid with commission dollars in the calculation of yield would result in those fees being counted twice. 27 Comment is specifically requested whether the money market fund yield formula should be revised to reflect the cost of services paid for with commission dollars as expenses when they are incurred. Commenters should discuss the extent to which money market funds pay or can pay expenses through brokerage/service arrangements, and commenters suggesting revisions to the yield calculation should provide specific text or formulas. 26 See Item 22(a) of Form N&hyph;1A, Item 25(a) of Form N&hyph;3, and Item 21(a) of Form N&hyph;4. 27 The same double-counting problem does not arise with respect to non-money market funds because the yield formula for those funds generally requires that the amortization of premium and accretion of discount on debt securities be based upon the market value of the security, rather than the initial purchase price. See, e.g., Instruction 1(a) to Item 22(b)(ii) of Form N&hyph;1A. The mark-up or spread paid by the fund upon the purchase of a security is not reflected in the security's market value and therefore would not be a part of any premium amortized or discount accreted for the purposes of calculating yield. D. Related Arrangements The Commission is aware that funds enter into certain other arrangements that, like brokerage/service arrangements, have the effect of reducing reported fund expenses. Some funds, for example, have ``compensating balance'' arrangements with their custodians under which their custodian fees are reduced if they maintain cash on deposit with the custodians in non-interest bearing accounts. In these arrangements expenses are reduced by forgoing income rather than by recharacterizing them as capital items. The Commission requests comment whether an adjustment to fund expenses similar to that being proposed for brokerage/service arrangements should be required for these expense offset arrangements, or whether these arrangements should be addressed in footnotes to the financial statements. Because a fund that enters into these arrangements forgoes income, comment also is requested whether such income should be estimated and reflected in fund financial information, and how such estimates might be made. Some custodial arrangements may involve explicit oral or written understandings regarding the fee reductions that will occur when uninvested cash balances exceed predetermined levels. Often, however, a fund's custodian fee reflects an estimate of the income the custodian expects to derive from the fund's uninvested cash balances, and the resulting reduction in the fee is not explicitly disclosed in the custodial agreement. The Commission requests comment whether the amount of any increase in fund expenses to reflect these arrangements should include only amounts that are explicit in the agreements, or should also include amounts implicit in the basic custodian fee. 28 28 Footnote disclosure of compensating balance arrangements under which the withdrawal or use of cash or cash items is restricted, either legally or as a practical matter, is currently required by rule 6&hyph;04.5 of Regulation S&hyph;X [17 CFR 210.6&hyph;04.5]. E. Average Commission Rates Brokerage commissions and other costs incurred in connection with the execution of a fund's portfolio transactions are not reflected in the fund's statement of operations, financial highlights table or fee table because these costs are treated as capital items which increase the cost of securities purchased or reduce the proceeds of securities sold. The Commission is concerned that adequate information about these costs currently may not be provided to investors. 29 The Commission, therefore, is proposing to require that the average commission rate paid by a fund (in cents per share) be disclosed in the financial highlights table next to the portfolio turnover rate. 30 Other fund transaction costs, such as mark-ups, mark-downs, and spreads, would not be included in this commission rate figure. Comment is requested whether these other costs should be reflected, and, if so, how they should be calculated or estimated. 29 A fund is currently required to disclose in its Statement of Additional Information the aggregate amount of any brokerage commissions it paid during its three most recent fiscal years, as well as certain data about commissions paid to fund affiliates. Item 17 of Form N&hyph;1A. 30 The new information would only be required for fiscal years beginning after adoption of the amendments.
