FR940603-1-00202 FR940603-1-00009 17. Definition of terms. The terms Administrator, Engineer, Supervisor, Project, Completion of Construction and Completion of the Project as used throughout this Contract shall be as defined in Article VI, section 1, of the Contractor's Proposal. 18. The Owner Represents: a. If by provisions of the Contractor's Proposal the Owner shall have undertaken to furnish any materials for the construction of the Project, such materials are on hand at locations specified or if such materials are not on hand they will be made available by the Owner to the successful Bidder at the locations specified before the time such materials are required for construction. b. All easements and rights-of-way, except as shown on maps included in the Plans and Specifications, have been obtained from the owners of the properties across which the Project is to be constructed (including tenants who may reasonably be expected to object to such construction). The remaining easements and rights-of-way, if any, will be obtained as required to avoid delay in construction. c. All staking, except as shown on the maps included in the Plans and Specifications, has been completed and sufficient staking crews will be available to maintain stakes at all times in advance of construction. d. Prompt payment for the construction of the Project will be made with funds pursuant to the Loan Contract, or with funds otherwise available to the Owner. If the Owner shall fail to comply with any of the undertakings contained in the foregoing representations or if any of such representations shall be incorrect, the Bidder will be entitled to an extension of time of completion for a period equal to the delay, if any, caused by the failure of the Owner to comply with such undertakings or by any such incorrect representation; provided the Bidder shall have promptly notified the Owner in writing of its desire to extend the time of completion in accordance with the foregoing; provided, however, that such extension, if any, of the time and completion shall be the sole remedy of the Bidder for the Owner's failure, because of conditions beyond the control and without the fault of the Owner, to furnish materials in accordance with subparagraph a hereof. XXXX Owner By XXXX XXXX , 19 XX Contractor's Proposal (Proposal shall be submitted in ink or typewritten) To: XXXX (Hereinafter called the ``Owner'') ARTICLE I_GENERAL Section 1. Offer to Construct. The undersigned (hereinafter called the ``Bidder'') hereby proposes to receive and install such materials and equipment as may hereinafter be specified to be furnished by the Owner, and to furnish all other materials and equipment, all machinery, tools, labor, transportation and other means required to construct the rural electric project XXXX in strict accordance with the Plans, Specifications and Construction Drawings therefor, attached hereto and made a part hereof, for the prices hereinafter stated. The total length of the project lines shall be determined by taking the sum of all straight horizontal span distances between pole stakes or from center to center of poles, or centerline of structures, carrying conductors. Section 2. Materials and Equipment. The Bidder agrees to furnish and use in the construction of the Project under this Proposal, in the event the Proposal is accepted, only such materials and equipment as are included in the current ``List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Systems of REA Electrification Borrowers,'' including revisions adopted prior to the Bid Opening. The Bidder further agrees to furnish: ␣ 1␣ 1Type 1Size 1Galvanizing class Overhead ground wire Guy wire Structure ground wire (Engineer to insert Type, Size and Galvanizing Class as appropriate) The Bidder further agrees to furnish and use poles, crossarms, and other timber products, of which the physical characteristics, method of treatment, type of preservative, instructions on inspection and general procedure shall be in accordance with REA standards and requirements. Crossarms shall be XXXX (Engineer to insert Douglas Fir or Southern Yellow Pine), treated with XXXX (Engineer to insert type of preservative.) Section 3. Owner-Furnished Materials. The Bidder understands and agrees that, if this Proposal is accepted, the Owner will furnish to the Bidder the material set forth in the attached ``List of Owner's Materials on Hand'' (see page XX ) and the Bidder will give a receipt (see page XX ) therefor in writing to the Owner. The Bidder, further, will on behalf of the Owner accept delivery of such of the materials set forth in the attached ``List of Materials Ordered by Owner but Not Delivered'' (see page XX ) as may be subsequently delivered and will promptly forward to the Owner for payment the supplier's invoice, together with the Bidder's receipt in writing for such materials. The materials referred to are on hand at, or will be delivered to, the locations specified in the Lists and the Bidder will use such materials in constructing the Project. The value of the completed Construction Units certified by the Bidder each month pursuant to Article III, section 1(a) of this Proposal shall be reduced by an amount equal to the value of the materials installed by the Bidder during the preceding month which have been furnished by the Owner or the delivery of which has been accepted by the Bidder on behalf of the Owner. Only ninety percent (90%) of the remainder shall be paid prior to the Completion of the Project. The value of such materials shall be computed on the basis of the unit prices stated in the Lists, Materials, if any, not required for the Project, which have been furnished to the Bidder by the Owner or delivery of which has been accepted by the Bidder on behalf of the Owner, shall be returned to the Owner by the Bidder upon completion of construction of the Project. The value of all materials not installed in the Project nor returned to the Owner shall be deducted from the final payment to the Bidder. The Owner shall not be obligated to furnish materials in excess of the quantities, size, kind and type set forth in the attached Lists. If the Owner furnished, and the Bidder accepts, materials in excess therefor, the values of such excess materials shall be their actual cost as stated by the Owner.
