FR940426-1-00049 FR940426-1-00006 ATF is consolidating these sections with the following additional changes. ATF proposes to revise the definition of glassware to include similar containers made of materials other than glass. Currently, §6.89 enumerates the type of tapping accessories which can be sold, at cost, to a retailer. As proposed, the regulation also specifies that the industry member must pass on the cost of initial installation to the retailer. The proposed regulation would expand the original coil cleaning service exception currently in §6.97 to cover distilled spirits, as well as wine and malt beverages. Keeping the coils clean and free of contamination is clearly in the interest of public health. Therefore, it is in the public interest to allow such services without a dollar limit. The current regulation allows industry members to sell carbon dioxide gas to retailers. The regulation does not provide for the sale of other gases, such as nitrogen, which are used in various existing alcoholic beverage dispensing systems. ATF proposes modifying this regulatory section to allow industry members to sell any gas to a retailer provided it is used in a beverage dispensing system. This proposal should not be viewed as sanctioning treatment which would change still wine to sparkling wine. Section 6.91, Samples The current section allows an industry member to furnish or give samples of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages to a retailer. The petitioners recommend amending this section to provide that industry members may furnish a maximum of 750 milliliters (mls.) of distilled spirits samples to qualifying retailers. The 500 milliliter (ml.) container is no longer an authorized size for distilled spirits. Accordingly, the petitioners suggest that ``750 ml.'' should be substituted for ``500 milliliters'' in the second sentence of this section and the third sentence of this section should be eliminated in its entirety. ATF agrees with the petitioners that the reference to the obsolete 500 ml size be replaced, but proposes a maximum of 3 liters for either distilled spirits or wine. ATF also proposes amending the current regulation by limiting the number of commonly owned retail establishments (not to exceed four per retailer) which can be given samples. This amendment would allow for a control State or chain retailer to receive sufficient samples to determine whether to purchase a product. Section 6.93, Combination Packages In general, §6.93 addresses combination packages where an industry member packages a non-alcoholic item with distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages and, in particular, paragraph (c) requires that the cost of the combination package be passed on to the retailer. The petitioners recommend deleting paragraph (c) of §6.93 because they feel the condition imposed by the paragraph is really a pricing decision outside of ATF's regulation under the FAA Act. ATF proposes removing all the conditions currently imposed on combination packages. Section 6.94, Educational Seminars ATF proposes to clarify the final sentence, ``This does not authorize an industry member to pay a retailer's expenses in conjunction with an educational seminar.'' by adding the explanatory phrase ``(such as travel, lodging, and meals).'' Section 6.98, Advertising Service The petitioners recommend adding the clause ``except where the exclusive retailer in the state is a state agency'' to paragraph (a) to read as follows: ``§6.98 Advertising service (a) The advertisement does not also contain the retail price of the product, except where the exclusive retailer in the state is a state agency, and *␣*␣*'' The petitioners do not believe that the objectives of section 105(b) of the FAA Act are served by prohibiting industry members from advertising control States' prices. The petitioners' proposed revision would permit an industry member to advertise a control State's state-wide retail prices as determined by that State for product sold within the State. The petitioners feel that in such circumstances, there is no possibility of any ``inducement'' or ``exclusion'' that would contravene the intent or purpose of the FAA Act. ATF proposes amending the current regulation in accordance with the industry request, modified to reflect situations in which the sole retailer in a jurisdiction is a State or local agency. ATF also proposes to delete the condition that an advertisement placed by an industry member may not mention events or promotions at a retail establishment. Section 6.99, Stocking, Rotation, and Pricing Service The petitioners recommend revising this section to allow industry members to also ``recommend shelf plans.'' The petitioners feel that this revision would permit an industry member to provide services to a retailer consistent with present day marketplace realities. ATF proposes to amend this section in line with the petitioners' proposal.
