FR940124-2-00003 FR940124-2-00002 Forest Service West Fork Squaw Timber Sale; Clearwater National Forest, Idaho County, ID AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice; intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will analyze and disclose the environmental impacts of a proposal to harvest timber, regenerate harvested timber stands, rehabilitate existing sediment sources, reconstruct existing roads, and construct new roads in a portion of the West Fork Squaw Creek and Spring Creek drainages on the Powell Ranger District. An environmental impact statement (EIS) will be prepared which will document the analysis. This EIS will tier to the Clearwater National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan Final EIS of September 1987, which provides overall guidance in achieving the desired condition for the area. The primary purpose and need of the proposed action is to implement land management direction for the West Fork Squaw Creek and Spring Creek drainages. The goal is to develop a viable timber sale proposal that is compatible with current resource management objectives. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received by January 31, 1994, to receive timely consideration in the preparation of the Draft EIS. The Draft EIS will be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency by May 1, 1994. The Final EIS and Record of Decision are expected in November of 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to the Responsible Official, Margaret J. Gorski District Ranger, Powell Ranger District, Powell Ranger Station, Lolo, Montana 59847. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ralph Johnson, West Fork Squaw Analysis Interdisciplinary Team Leader, or Margaret J. Gorski, District Ranger, Powell Ranger District, Lolo, Montana 59847. (208) 942&hyph;3113. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The analysis area in which the proposed management activities would occur consists of approximately 3,650 acres of National Forest land in the West Fork of Squaw Creek and Spring Creek drainage on the Powell Ranger District. The study area includes all or portions of Sections 1, 2, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 24 of T37N, R12E and Sections 6, 7, 18, and 19, of T37N, R13E, Boise Meridian, Idaho County, Idaho. The Land and Resource Management Plan for the Clearwater National Forest provides the overall guidance for management activities in the potentially affected area through its goals, objectives, standards, guidelines and management area direction. In the West Fork Squaw Creek analysis area, four Forest Plan Management Areas are found: E1 which emphasized optimum timber management, M2 which emphasizes protection of riparian values, A6 which emphasizes the cultural and visual resources from the historic trail corridor, and US which is lands unsuitable for timber production. The areas of proposed timber harvest, regeneration and associated road construction and reconstruction activities are located in Management Area E1, which emphasizes optimum sustained timber production.
