FR940426-0-00085 FR940426-0-00019 The criteria for originating loans in the second year of the Direct Loan Program are issued in this announcement in final form. The program regulations to implement other aspects of the Direct Loan Program in the second year and subsequent academic years are being developed through a negotiated rulemaking process. The Secretary anticipates publishing final program regulations for the 1995&hyph;1996 academic year by December 1, 1994. While the criteria in this document were not developed through negotiated rulemaking, the members of the Direct Student Loan Regulations Negotiated Rulemaking Advisory Committee were consulted in the development of the criteria at their February meeting. Eligibility for Origination In the 1995&hyph;1996 academic year, a school originating loans in the Direct Loan Program will be in one of two levels of origination. The Secretary has adopted the criteria in this document because they are indicators of a school's ability to administer financial aid programs. Under the criteria, a school may participate in the first level of origination (Level 1) only if it has a demonstrated ability to fully administer the Direct Loan program. A school that meets all the criteria for Level 1 origination is eligible to perform all originating functions. If a school does not qualify for Level 1 origination, it is eligible to perform those functions allowed in the second level of origination (Level 2), unless it fails to meet one or more of the criteria required for that level. A school that is eligible for Level 1 origination may choose to participate in Level 2 origination or use the services of an alternative originator. Similarly, a school eligible for Level 2 origination may choose to use the services of an alternative originator. The Secretary may exercise discretion and allow a school to originate loans at a level for which it would not otherwise be eligible if the Secretary determines that the school is fully capable of originating loans at that level. The Secretary may also require a school that meets the criteria for Level 2 origination to use the services of an alternative originator if the extent to which the school fails to meet certain other origination criteria merits such an action. Functions Performed by Level 1 and Level 2 Originating Schools Under the Direct Loan Program, schools and consortia that originate loans must use software provided by the Secretary, or other software based on specifications provided by the Secretary, to create a loan origination record containing the basic information necessary to make a loan. The software provided by the Secretary reformats the data received from the Central Processing System and computes gross disbursements, loan fees, and net disbursements on the basis of the loan amounts entered by the school. The school must add data, such as the type of loan, loan amount, and disbursement dates, and may computer-generate the Stafford Promissory Note and Disclosure (promissory note). A school may also transmit the information collected by the school to the Direct Loan Program Servicer (Servicer) which, upon request, prints promissory notes on behalf of the school and sends them to the school. A student who accepts a Direct Loan completes a promissory note and returns it to the school; the school may not disburse Direct Loan funds without a completed promissory note. Functions Performed Only by Level 1 Originating Schools A Level 1 originating school in the Direct Loan Program requests and obtains loan funds from the Secretary using a process similar to the process for drawing down funds for other Department of Education (ED) programs. A Level 1 originating school transmits to ED a specific Direct Loan funding request that is separate from its funding requests for other programs and is based on immediate disbursement needs. Direct Loan capital must be tracked separately and cannot be used for purposes other than making Direct Loans. The electronic transfer of funds uses the same delivery process as is used for the Federal Pell Grant Program. After a request for funds is received, the Secretary uses the Automated Clearinghouse (ACH) process through the Federal Reserve Banking system to deposit funds in a school's designated bank account. Currently, this process takes between 48 to 72 hours from the school's request for funds until the school's receipt of funds.
