FR940810-0-00275 FR940810-0-00021 1.7. Physical and Chemical Properties The nominal chemical compositions for the asbestos minerals were given in Section 1. Compared to cleavage fragments of the same minerals, asbestiform fibers possess a high tensile strength along the fiber axis. They are chemically inert, non-combustible, and heat resistant. Except for chrysotile, they are insoluble in Hydrochloric acid (HCl). Chrysotile is slightly soluble in HCl. Asbestos has high electrical resistance and good sound absorbing characteristics. It can be woven into cables, fabrics or other textiles, or matted into papers, felts, and mats. 1.8. Toxicology (This Section is for Information Only and Should Not Be Taken as OSHA Policy) Possible physiologic results of respiratory exposure to asbestos are mesothelioma of the pleura or peritoneum, interstitial fibrosis, asbestosis, pneumoconiosis, or respiratory cancer. The possible consequences of asbestos exposure are detailed in the NIOSH Criteria Document or in the OSHA Asbestos Standards 29 CFR 1910.1001 and 29 CFR 1926.1101. 2. Sampling Procedure 2.1. Equipment for Sampling (a) Tube or cork borer sampling device (b) Knife (c) 20 mL scintillation vial or similar vial (d) Sealing encapsulant 2.2. Safety Precautions Asbestos is a known carcinogen. Take care when sampling. While in an asbestos-containing atmosphere, a properly selected and fit-tested respirator should be worn. Take samples in a manner to cause the least amount of dust. Follow these general guidelines: (a) Do not make unnecessary dust. (b) Take only a small amount (1 to 2 g). (c) Tightly close the sample container. (d) Use encapsulant to seal the spot where the sample was taken, if necessary. 2.3. Sampling procedure Samples of any suspect material should be taken from an inconspicuous place. Where the material is to remain, seal the sampling wound with an encapsulant to eliminate the potential for exposure from the sample site. Microscopy requires only a few milligrams of material. The amount that will fill a 20 mL scintillation vial is more than adequate. Be sure to collect samples from all layers and phases of material. If possible, make separate samples of each different phase of the material. This will aid in determining the actual hazard. DO NOT USE ENVELOPES, PLASTIC OR PAPER BAGS OF ANY KIND TO COLLECT SAMPLES. The use of plastic bags presents a contamination hazard to laboratory personnel and to other samples. When these containers are opened, a bellows effect blows fibers out of the container onto everything, including the person opening the container. If a cork-borer type sampler is available, push the tube through the material all the way, so that all layers of material are sampled. Some samplers are intended to be disposable. These should be capped and sent to the laboratory. If a non-disposable cork borer is used, empty the contents into a scintillation vial and send to the laboratory. Vigorously and completely clean the cork borer between samples. 2.4 Shipment Samples packed in glass vials must not touch or they might break in shipment. (a) Seal the samples with a sample seal (such as the OSHA 21) over the end to guard against tampering and to identify the sample. (b) Package the bulk samples in separate packages from the air samples. They may cross-contaminate each other and will invalidate the results of the air samples. (c) Include identifying paperwork with the samples, but not in contact with the suspected asbestos. (d) To maintain sample accountability, ship the samples by certified mail, overnight express, or hand carry them to the laboratory.
