FR941216-1-00059 FR941216-1-00010 (2) Legging out _(i) Definition _(A) Legging out if the taxpayer has integrated. If a taxpayer has integrated a qualifying debt instrument and a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, legging out means that, prior to the maturity of the synthetic debt instrument, the taxpayer disposes of or otherwise terminates all or a part of the qualifying debt instrument or §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge, the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge ceases to meet the requirements for a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge, or the taxpayer fails to meet any requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the taxpayer fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section but meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Commissioner may treat the taxpayer as not legging out. A taxpayer that disposes of or terminates both the qualifying debt instrument and the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge on the same day is considered to have disposed of or otherwise terminated the synthetic debt instrument rather than to have legged out. (B) Legging out if the Commissioner has integrated. If the Commissioner has integrated a qualifying debt instrument and a financial instrument under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, legging out means that, prior to the maturity of the synthetic debt instrument, the requirements for Commissioner integration under paragraph (c)(2) of this section are not met or the taxpayer fails to meet the requirements for taxpayer integration under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and the Commissioner agrees to allow the taxpayer to be treated as legging out. A taxpayer that disposes of or terminates both the qualifying debt instrument and the financial instrument on the same day is considered to have disposed of or otherwise terminated the synthetic debt instrument rather than to have legged out. (ii) Operating rules. If a taxpayer legs out (or is treated as legging out) of an integrated transaction, the following rules apply_ (A) The transaction is treated as an integrated transaction during the time the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate, are satisfied. (B) If the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge is disposed of or otherwise terminated, the synthetic debt instrument is treated as sold or otherwise terminated for its fair market value on the leg-out date and, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(D) of this section, any income, deduction, gain, or loss is realized and recognized on the leg-out date. Appropriate adjustments are made as of the leg-out date to reflect any difference between the fair market value of the qualifying debt instrument and the adjusted issue price of the qualifying debt instrument. For example, if a qualifying debt instrument is subject to §1.1275&hyph;4, a holder must use the principles of §1.1275&hyph;4(b)(9)(i) to compute interest accruals on the instrument after the leg-out date. (C) If the qualifying debt instrument is disposed of or otherwise terminated, the synthetic debt instrument is treated as sold for its fair market value on the leg-out date and the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge is treated as entered into at its fair market value immediately after the taxpayer legs out. (D) If a taxpayer legs out of an integrated transaction by disposing of or otherwise terminating a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge within 30 days of legging into the integrated transaction, then any loss or deduction determined under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section is not allowed. Appropriate adjustments are made to the qualifying debt instrument to take into account any disallowed loss. (e) Transactions part of a straddle. At the discretion of the Commissioner, a transaction may not be integrated under paragraph (c)(1) of this section if, prior to the time the integrated transaction is identified, the qualifying debt instrument is part of a straddle as defined in section 1092(c). (f) Identification requirements _(1) Identification by taxpayer. For each integrated transaction, a taxpayer must enter and retain as part of its books and records the following information_ (i) The date the qualifying debt instrument was issued or acquired by the taxpayer and the date the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge was entered into by the taxpayer; (ii) A description of the qualifying debt instrument and the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge; and (iii) A summary of the cash flows and accruals resulting from treating the qualifying debt instrument and the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge as an integrated transaction (i.e., the cash flows and accruals on the synthetic debt instrument). (2) Identification by trustee on behalf of beneficiary. A trustee of a trust that enters into a synthetic debt instrument may satisfy the identification requirements described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section on behalf of a beneficiary of the trust.
