FR940620-0-00105 FR940620-0-00029 Comment. The proposed rule required that fixed benches be a minimum of 24 inches by 48 inches. One commenter noted that benches with excessive depth force a slouched posture, and place an uncomfortable pressure on the backs of the knees. The commenter further stated that commercial benches are typically 18 to 21 inches deep. Response. The Board agrees with the commenter and recognizes that the proposed dimensions were derived from specifications for dressing room benches in ADAAG 4.35 (Dressing and Fitting Rooms) which take into account the use of benches for dressing and undressing. Since benches in holding cells are not specifically intended for this purpose, the proposed requirement for a minimum size has been deleted. The interim final rule has retained the requirements for mounting height and structural strength. 11.4.3␣Visiting Areas This section requires that where fixed cubicles are provided, at least 5 percent, but not less than one, must have the maximum counter height and knee clearance underneath as required by ADAAG 4.32 (Fixed or Built-in Seating or Tables) on both the public and detainee sides. It also requires a method to facilitate voice communication if solid partitions or security glazing separates visitors from detainees. Comment. The NPRM asked whether at least one cubicle should be accessible on both sides to accommodate those situations where both the detainee and visitor require accessible features. The majority of commenters supported a requirement that at least one cubicle be accessible on both sides. Several commenters from organizations representing persons with disabilities proposed that all cubicles be accessible. One commenter felt accommodations should be mandated, but discretion should be given to the facility to design the best remedy. Response. The Board agrees with the majority of the commenters. This provision has been changed to require that at least one cubicle be accessible on both sides. Comment. One commenter thought the scoping of 5 percent was excessive considering most visiting areas use non-fixed tables and chairs and that the percentage of the inmate population that have disabilities is low. Response. The scoping and technical specification is consistent with ADAAG 4.1.3(18) (Fixed or Built-in Seating) which requires that 5 percent, but not less than one, of the built-in seating areas or tables and counters in public and common use areas have a maximum height of 34 inches and knee clearance underneath. A visiting area would have to have twenty built-in cubicles to trigger a second accessible cubicle. No changes were made to this scoping provision. Comment. One commenter recommended that the reference to ``safety glass'' be substituted with ``safety glazing''. Response. The interim final rule has been modified to reference ``security glazing''. The change in terminology is more inclusive and includes, but is not limited to, glass, safety glass, and polycarbonate. Comment. The proposed rule required that the accessible cubicle be identified on each side by the international symbol of accessibility. Several commenters were concerned about vandalism and pointed out that such signage was unnecessary as visitors and detainees are escorted to the cubicle area. Response. The Board agrees with the concern raised by the commenters. The requirement for signage identifying the accessible cubicle has been deleted in the interim final rule. 11.5␣Restricted and Secured Entrances This provision requires that, where provided, at least one restricted and at least one secured entrance be accessible. Restricted entrances differ from public entrances in that they are used by judges, court personnel and other authorized parties, such as jurors, on a controlled basis. Secured entrances are used by detainees and detention officers. Comment. The NPRM sought comment on the cost impact of requiring at least one restricted entrance and at least one secured entrance to be accessible. The majority of commenters considered the cost negligible. One commenter stated that cost was not relevant as separate entrances are a mandatory program requirement. Two commenters recommended that all secured entrances be accessible. Several correctional officials and design professionals indicated that design requirements may necessitate use of 300 to 500 pound doors. Such doors cannot meet the specification for closing and opening forces in ADAAG 4.13.10 (Door Closers) and 4.13.11 (Door Opening Force) without, at a minimum, power-assist devices.
