FR940404-2-00163 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the First Session of the Intergovernmental Meeting of the World Climate Program (IGM/WCP)), World Meteorological Organization (WMO), Geneva, April 14&hyph;16, 1993 Representative Elbert W. Friday, Jr., Assistant Administrator for Weather Services, National Weather Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Alternate Representative Robert W. Corell, Assistant Director for Geosciences, National Science Foundation Advisers Howard L. April, Chief, International Affairs Branch, National Weather Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Louis B. Brown, International Science Associate, Directorate for Geosciences, National Science Foundation Michael Allen Fosberg, Research Meteorologist, Forest Service, Department of Agriculture J. Michael Hall, Director, Office of Global Programs, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Ari Patrinos, Director, Environmental Sciences Division, Department of Energy Jonathan C. Pershing, Science Officer, Office of Global Change, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State David R. Rodenhuis, Director, Climate Analysis Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Lowell Smith, Global Change Research Program Manager, Environmental Protection Agency John Weiss, Environment, Science and Technology Officer, United States Mission to the United Nations, Geneva Gregory W. Withee, Acting Assistant Administrator for Satellite and Information Services, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Public Member John Stephen Perry, Director, Board on Global Change, National Research Council, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the Working Group of the Commission on Plant Genetic Resources, Eighth Session, Commission on Plant Genetic Resources, Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Rome, April 15&hyph;16, 1993 Representative Henry L. Shands, Associate Deputy Administrator for Genetic Resources, Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture Adviser Harry C. Mussman, Agricultural Attache, United States Mission to the United Nations, Agencies for Food and Agriculture, Rome United States Delegation to the Intergovernmental Tropical Ocean and Global Atmosphere (TOGA) Board, Sixth Session, Geneva, April 19&hyph;21, 1993 Representative Kenneth Mooney, Director, United States TOGA Project Office, Office of Global Programs, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Alternate Representative Donna Blake, Associate Program Director for Climate Dynamics, Division of Atmospheric Sciences, National Science Foundation Advisers James L. Buizer, Head of International Activities, Office of Global Programs, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Michael W. Patterson, Assistant Program Director for TOGA, Office of Global Programs, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Adviser Edward S. Sarachik, Research Professor of Atmospheric Sciences, Department of Atmospheric Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
