FR940506-1-00011 FR940506-1-00007 16 CFR Part 455 Regulatory Flexibility Act and Periodic Review of Used Motor Vehicle Trade Regulation Rule AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Request for public comments. SUMMARY: The Federal Trade Commission (the ``Commission'') is soliciting comments on the Used Motor Vehicle Trade Regulation Rule (the ``Used Car Rule'' or ``Rule''). Specifically, the Commission is requesting comments about the overall costs and benefits of the Rule and its overall regulatory and economic impact as a part of its systematic review of all current Commission regulations and guides. Additionally, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Commission is soliciting comments and data on whether the Used Car rule has had a significant economic impact on small entities, and if it has, whether the Rule should be amended to minimize any such economic impact on small entities. The Commission also is soliciting comments on two nonsubstantive amendments the Commission proposes to make to the Spanish language version of the Buyers Guide. DATES: All comments and data should be received by the Commission no later than July 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and data should be sent to Secretary, Federal Trade Commission, Washington DC 20580. Submissions should be identified as ``Used Car Rule_``Review Comment.'' FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: George Brent Mickum IV, Attorney, Federal Trade Commission, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326&hyph;3132. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The Commission promulgated the Used Car Rule, 16 CFR part 455, under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 41 et seq. (``FTC Act''), and the Magnuson Moss Warranty Act, 15 U.S.C. 2309, on November 19, 1984. 49 FR 45692 (1984). The Rule became effective on May 9, 1985. Any violation of the Rule constitutes an unfair or deceptive act or practice under the FTC Act, and is subject to civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation. The Used Car Rule is primarily intended to prevent oral misrepresentations and unfair omissions of material facts by used car dealers concerning warranty coverage. The Rule provides a uniform method for written disclosure of warranty information on a window sticker called the ``Buyers Guide.'' The Rule requires clear disclosure on the Buyers Guide of the basic terms and conditions of any warranty offered in connection with the sale of a used car, including the duration of coverage, the percentage of total repair costs to be paid by the dealer, and the exact systems covered by the warranty. The Rule also requires other disclosures that must be printed directly on the Buyers Guide, including: (1) A suggestion that consumers ask the dealer if a pre-purchase inspection is permitted; (2) A warning against reliance on spoken promises that are not confirmed in writing; and (3) A list of fourteen major systems of an automobile and the major problems that may occur in these systems. The Rule also provides that the Buyers Guide disclosures are to be incorporated by reference into the sales contract, and are to govern in the event of an inconsistency between the Buyers Guide and the sales contract. When used car dealers conduct sales in the Spanish language, Spanish language Buyers Guides are required. II. Rule Reviews The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. (the ``RFA''), requires that the FTC conduct a periodic review of rules that have or may have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. In addition, as part of its oversight responsibilities, the Commission has determined to review rules and guides periodically. See 59 FR 2955 (Jan. 20, 1994). Both reviews will seek information about the costs and benefits of the Commission's rules and guides and their regulatory impact. The information obtained will assist the Commission in identifying rules and guides that warrant modification or rescission. The purpose of the RFA review is limited to determining whether the Rule should be continued without change, or should be amended or rescinded, consistent with the state objectives of applicable statutes, to minimize any significant economic impact of the Rule upon a substantial number of small entities. For the purpose of the RFA review, a ``small entity'' is a used motor vehicle dealer with less than $11.5 million in annual sales, as defined by the Small Business Size Standards, 13 CFR 121.601. The purpose of the Commission's periodic review is to solicit comment on issues relating to the operation of the Rule. This review is not limited to the Rule's impact on small entities, but encompass all affected entities. III. Request for Comment The Commission solicits comment on the following questions and requests that any factual data ( e.g., economic and accounting information, statistical analysis, surveys, studies, etc.) upon which submitted comments are based be included with the comments. 1. Is there a continuing need for the Rule? a. What benefits has the Rule provided to purchasers of the products or services affected by the Rule? b. Has the Rule imposed costs on purchasers? 2. What changes, if any, should be made to the Rule to increase the benefits of the Rule to purchasers? a. How would these changes affect the costs the Rule imposes on firms subject to its requirements? 3. What significant burdens or costs, including costs of compliance, has the Rule imposed on firms subject to its requirements? a. Has the Rule provided benefits to such firms? 4. What changes, if any, should be made to the Rule to reduce the burdens or costs imposed on firms subject to its requirements?
