FR940720-0-00102 FR940720-0-00007 Commenters in the railroad industry also supported a definition of ``new'' as ``manufactured after November 1990'' and stated further that the railroad industry has traditionally been preempted from state regulation, such as in the area of safety. The same commenters indicated that they believe that state control of locomotive emissions or state enforcement of federal standards would interfere with interstate commerce. Railroad commenters also stated that any standards for rebuilt or remanufactured engines or locomotives should be uniform federal standards_not state standards. Furthermore, if remanufactured engines were rebuilt to comply with such federal standards, they should be considered ``new''. Commenters also opposed the proposed definition regarding imported vehicles and engines because the definition of ``new'' was different depending upon whether the nonroad engine was produced domestically or abroad. These proposed definitions for ``new nonroad vehicles'' and ``new nonroad engines'' parallel the definitions of ``new motor vehicles'' and ``new motor vehicle engines'' in section 216 of the Clean Air Act. The definition of ``new'' proposed for imported nonroad engines was intended to address nonconforming engines which may become subject to federal emission requirements at the time the engine or vehicle is imported into the United States. The Agency has decided to delete this definition of ``new'' for imported engines. EPA agrees with the commenters that imports and domestic products should generally be treated alike for regulatory purposes. The Agency has addressed the importation of nonroad engines which do not conform to federal emission standards at the time of importation. 5 Today's rule, in any event, treats domestic and imported nonroad engines the same way for purposes of determining whether they are preempted from state regulation. 5 See 59 FR 31306, June 17, 1994, which sets forth CO, HC, particulate matter, NO x and smoke opacity standards for 50 hp and above nonroad engines and vehicles. EPA is imposed certain restrictions on the importation of nonconforming nonroad engines based on existing regulations for the importation of nonconforming motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines. This final rule establishes a definition for all domestically manufactured and imported ``new nonroad engines,'' ``new nonroad vehicles,'' other than ``new locomotives'' and ``new engines used in a locomotive.'' 6 New nonroad engines and new nonroad vehicles are defined as engines and vehicles the equitable or legal title to which has not been transferred to an ultimate purchaser. The ultimate purchaser is defined as the first person who in good faith purchases such engine or vehicle for purposes other than resale. For some engines or vehicles the passage of title in the United States may not formally occur or manufacturers may retain title and lease the engines or equipment. In these cases, a domestic or imported nonroad engine or nonroad vehicle will retain its status as ``new'' until such engine or vehicle is ``placed into service.'' An engine or vehicle is considered ``placed into service'' when the engine or vehicle is used for its functional purposes. EPA believes that the definition of new should include the ``placed into service'' addition to the motor vehicle definition of new found in section 216 of the Act because of the nature of the nonroad market. Nonroad engines and nonroad vehicles are often leased and maintained by the manufacturer well into the useful life of the nonroad equipment. A piece of equipment, the title of which has passed to the ultimate purchaser, should not be treated differently than a piece of equipment which is being used but has not yet passed to an ultimate purchaser. 6 As discussed below, EPA is deferring its definitions of ``new'' locomotives and ``new'' engines used in a locomotive for the purpose of this regulation. EPA shall define these terms in a later rulemaking, under section 213 of the Act, specifically regulating locomotives. The Agency believes that this definition of ``new'' comports with the language, intent and structure of the Clean Air Act and the definition of ``new'' contained in the 37 kilowatt and above regulation and is therefore a permissible construction of the statute. Contrary to the assertion of some commenters, EPA's definition of ``new'' is consistent with the dictionary definition of the word as ``having existed or been made but a short time.'' Webster's Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary, 1990. Generally speaking, manufactured products are sold soon after they are made and are considered new until they are sold or used. The commenters' definition of new_anything manufactured after the Clean Air Act Amendments' enactment or an applicable regulation's promulgation_would mean, by contrast, that any engine manufactured after a certain date would be new forever. This is certainly not the plain meaning of ``new.'' Congress could have stated that the federal preemption applied to certain equipment manufactured after a certain date, but Congress did not do so. Elsewhere in Title II, Congress specified that a provision only applied to products manufactured after a certain date ( see , section 218 requiring a ban on engines manufactured after the 1992 model year that require leaded gasoline) or first introduced into commerce after a certain date ( see , section 211(f) regarding prohibition on fuels that are not substantially similar to fuels used to certify vehicles as meeting emission standards). The lack of such a date here further supports that Congress intended ``new'' to mean newly manufactured and not yet sold. The legislative record also shows Congressional intent that ``new'' should refer to newly manufactured products. In his colloquy with Senator Wilson explaining the final version of section 209(e), Senator Chafee notes that ``because the preemption is limited to new engine standards only, States can continue to require existing and in-use nonroad engines to reduce emissions .␣.␣.'' [Emphasis added] 136 Cong. Rec. S17237 (October 26, 1990). This language is echoed by similar language from Senator Baucus in his report to the Senate on the conference bill. 136 Cong. Rec. S16976 (October 27, 1990). If Congress intended the definition of new nonroad engines or equipment, and as a result the preemption, to apply to an engine for its entire life, then it would appear that there would be no distinction between new and in-use nonroad engines, as an engine manufactured after a certain date would always be new. Yet the statements of Senator Chafee and Senator Baucus clearly contemplate such a distinction.
