FR941206-1-00087 FR941206-1-00007 a. Whether an alternative to the 250/3,000 gallon level would be appropriate; b. The level and type of reporting needed to document the owner's commitment; and c. The frequency and nature of the recordkeeping requirement. 2. Adding language to the final rule that would provide a mechanism for sources using more than 250 gallons per month that may emit less than 10 tons per year of a single HAP or 25 tons per year of a combination of HAP to accept case-by-case operating restrictions including specific comments on: a. Whether such language should be added; b. The type of reporting and process required to establish the case-by-case commitment (in particular, how to establish throughput and content limitations that could ensure area source status); and c. The type of records that should be maintained to document compliance with the restriction. 3. The potential impact of the proposed rule on water pollution including any data that may support or refute the Agency's position that the proposed standards will have no impact on water pollution. 4. Modifying the MACT floor so that only one source with an incinerator was included. 5. Interpretation of average as either the arithmetic mean or the median (MACT floor). 6. The approach for establishing MACT for contact adhesives including: a. The need for exemptions from the proposed emission limitations for contact adhesives used on non-porous substrates and for aerosol adhesives; b. The appropriateness of excluding adhesives used in amounts less than 200 gallons from calculation of the MACT floor; c. Calculating the MACT floor based on the average of the best performing 12 percent when the data set is limited; and d. The appropriateness of setting MACT for foam adhesives for existing sources based on the type of testing required for the product. 7. Is the monitoring/repair frequency in the I&M plan appropriate? 8. Guidance on exemption to the use of conventional air spray guns based on technical or economic infeasibility. 9. The use of 70-year exposure levels versus 7-year exposure levels in assigning de minimis values to VHAP of potential concern. 10. Should additional pollutants be restricted from use in cleaning and washoff solvents? 11. Adequacy of the work practice standards_are they too burdensome, or should there be more?
