FR940412-2-00005 FR940412-2-00003 3. Highest unemployment rates; 4. Lowest rural median income; and 5. Number of places with population of 2,500 or less. Each State selected for RRHDDP had to be in the top 10 of at least 3 of 5 criteria. Data from the 1990 Census was used for all criteria. Seven States were selected and are listed at the end of this notice. C. State RRHDDP Levels. See the list at the end of this notice. D. Use of Funds. To ensure the success of RRHDDP, the State Director may leverage funds from the RRHDDP with allocated funds from the Section 515 and 521 allocations held in the State Office reserve. The State Director has the discretion to determine the most effective delivery of RRHDDP funds; however, the intent and scope of the program should be ever present in the implementation and application processes. E. National Office RRHDDP Reserve. There is no RRHDDP reserve available when the State is unable to fund a request from its regular or RRHDDP allocation. F. Pooling. Unused RRHDDP funds and RA will be pooled. Pooling dates and any pertinent information are listed at the end of this notice. Pooled funds will be available on a first-come, first-served basis to all eligible States. Pooled RRHDDP funds will remain available until the year-end pooling date. IV. Eligibility. Applicants and proposals will need to meet the following requirements, in addition to those found in 7 CFR part 1944, subpart E: A. The applicant must have had an interest (including family members) in no more than one section 515 loan over the past 3 years. For entity applicants, this restriction applies to all general partners and their family members. For the purposes of this program, interest means a section 515 loan which has been approved and funds obligated. B. The applicant must have had a gross aggregate income from business and personal operations of less than $500,000 in the previous calendar year. For entity applicants, the aggregate income of all general partners will be considered. American Indian tribes and tribal housing authorities are exempt from these income requirements.
