FR940902-0-00035 FR940902-0-00010 Section 141(q) of the Act also includes a prohibition on foreign travel. A number of comments were received requesting that the prohibition in the interim final regulations on using title I, II, or III funds for foreign travel be narrowed. While the Department agrees that allowing foreign travel would be beneficial with the implementation of NAFTA, it was clearly the intent of the Act to restrict the use of funds for economic development and related activities. However, other foreign travel necessary to the conduct of JTPA program may be allowable; therefore, ยง627.225(a) is revised to clarify that the prohibition on foreign travel applies to economic development and related activities prohibited by the Act. A commenter was concerned that a prohibition on foreign travel would prohibit staff from Territorial or Freely Associated States recipients, such as American Samoa and Micronesia, from traveling to a State. While the narrower interpretation of prohibited foreign travel described above should resolve this, the Department wants to clarify that, under section 4(22), such recipients are considered States for JTPA purposes and as such, inter-recipient travel would not be considered foreign travel. Several commenters requested clarification about what cost categories the remaining allowable EGA should be charged. To clarify, there are no allowable employment generating activities available under JTPA. The allowable activities discussed in this section are otherwise authorized activities and should be charged to the category of benefit determined with guidance provided by the Governor. Displacement The provisions in the regulations have not been substantially changed from the prior ยง629.4 and closely reflect the provisions of section 143(b) of the Act. No comments were made on this section and no changes are made. General Program Requirements Section 627.235 of the interim final rule sets forth some general program requirements for the JTPA program, including specific reference to the provisions of sections 141, 142, and 143 of the Act, reference to the selective service requirements of the Act, continuation of the requirement for timely enrollment, and the new requirements of section 124 of the Act regarding the imposition of State and SDA requirements. A few commenters suggested setting forth extensive procedures regarding the appropriate consultation and concurrence of organized labor. The Department believes that the provisions of the Act, though somewhat revised, are clear and that in most instances SDA's and others have developed procedures for ensuring that labor is consulted, as appropriate, in the development of training programs, and that the affected labor organization concurs in writing with training agreements when there is a collective bargaining agreement, even if it is not impaired. In the years since the inception of JTPA, this has not systematically emerged as an issue. Accordingly, the final rule is not changed. One commenter suggested that the only aliens who should be eligible for JTPA participation are permanent resident aliens. The commenter's reasoning is that to serve other aliens in the United States on a temporary basis would waste scarce JTPA resources. The nondiscrimination provisions of section 167 of the Act set forth the requirements for the participation of individuals who may not be citizens of the United States, including those who are not permanent resident aliens. The final rule is not changed. A commenter suggested that this section be revised to indicate that JTPA is not an entitlement program. The Department believes that the provisions of sections 204(c)(5), 264(d)(6) of the Act and ยง628.525 of the interim final rule adequately address this subject by making it clear that neither eligibility nor participation in a JTPA program creates an entitlement to services. The final rule is not changed. Several commenters requested clarification of when the ``45-day clock'' in paragraph (c) begins for purposes of enrollment into JTPA, particularly in light of the new program requirements for targeting and assessment. The Department agrees that such guidance would be helpful and the final rule is changed to indicate that the clock begins with the date of eligibility determination. In connection with the requirements of paragraph (e), some commenters questioned the method for determining whether a requirement which is a rule, regulation, policy, or performance standard is imposed by a State or an SDA. This question is raised particularly when the Act or these regulations may require the Governor or SDA to develop such a requirement. In general, any requirement that is issued beyond the actual text of the Act or these regulations should be identified to the source (State or SDA) that issues it. This guidance applies only to requirements that are not specifically called for ( i.e., ``the Governor shall'' or ``the SDA shall'') by the Act or these regulations. Note that, for these purposes, the term SDA as used here includes any entity empowered to act for the SDA including the grant recipient, administrative entity or the private industry council. See also the discussion of ยง627.200 above. The final rule is changed to indicate that it applies to State and SDA requirements that are in addition to those of the Act and regulations. On-the-Job Training (OJT)
