FR940826-0-00043 FR940826-0-00014 (2) If the purpose of the award is to support activities that require the use of equipment, buildings, or land, normally only depreciation or use charges for equipment and buildings may be made. However, the full value of equipment or other capital assets and fair rental charges for land may be allowed, provided that the Federal awarding agency has approved the charges. (h) The value of donated property shall be determined in accordance with the usual accounting policies of the recipient, with the following qualifications. (1) The value of donated land and buildings shall not exceed their fair market value at the time of donation to the recipient as established by an independent appraiser (e.g., certified real property appraiser or General Services Administration representative) and certified by a responsible official of the recipient. (2) The value of donated equipment shall not exceed the fair market value of equipment of the same age and condition at the time of donation. (3) The value of donated space shall not exceed the fair rental value of comparable space as established by an independent appraisal of comparable space and facilities in a privately-owned building in the same locality. (4) The value of loaned equipment shall not exceed its fair rental value. (i) The following requirements pertain to the recipient's supporting records for in-kind contributions from third parties. (1) Volunteer services shall be documented and, to the extent feasible, supported by the same methods used by the recipient for its own employees. (2) The basis for determining the valuation for personal service, material, equipment, buildings and land shall be documented. ยง12.924 Program income. (a) Federal awarding agencies shall apply the standards in this section in requiring recipient organization to account for program income related to projects financed in whole or in part with Federal funds. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, program income earned during the project period shall be retained by the recipient and, in accordance with Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, shall be used in one or more of the following ways: (1) added to funds committed to the project or program by the Federal awarding agency and recipient and used to further eligible project or program objectives; (2) used to finance the non-Federal share of the project or program; or (3) deducted from the total project or program allowable cost in determining the net allowable costs upon which the Federal share of costs is based. (c) When an agency authorizes the disposition of program income as described in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, program income in excess of any limits stipulated shall be use in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (d) If the Federal awarding agency does not specify in its regulations or the terms and conditions of the award how program income is to be used, paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall apply automatically to all projects or programs except research. For awards that support research, paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall apply automatically unless the awarding agency indicates in the terms and conditions another alternative on the award or the recipient is subject to special award conditions, as indicated in Section 12.924. (e) Unless Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award provide otherwise, recipients shall have no obligation to the Federal Government regarding program income earned after the end of the project period. (f) If authorized by Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, costs incident to the generation of program income may be deducted from gross income to determine program income, provided these costs have not been charged to the award. (g) Proceeds from the sale of property shall be handled in accordance with the requirements of the Property Standards (See Sections 12.930 through 12.937). (h) Unless Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and condition of the award provide otherwise, recipients shall have no obligation to the Federal Government with respect to program income earned from license fees and royalties for copyrighted material, patents, patent applications, trademarks, and inventions produced under an award. However, Patent and Trademark Amendments (35 U.S.C. 18) apply to inventions made under an experimental, developmental, or research award. ยง12.925 Revision of budget and program plans. (a) The budget plan is the financial expression of the project or program as approved during the award process. It may include either the Federal and non-Federal share, or only the Federal share, depending upon Federal awarding agency requirements. It shall be related to performance for program evaluation purposes whenever appropriate. (b) Recipients are required to report deviations from budget and program plans, and request prior approvals for budget and program plan revisions, in accordance with this section. (c) For nonconstruction awards, recipients shall request prior approvals from Federal awarding agencies for one or more of the following program or budget related reasons. (1) Change in the scope or the objective of the project or program (even if there is no associated budget revision requiring prior written approval). (2) Change in a key person specified in the application or award document.
