FR940204-1-00069 FR940204-1-00013 The central and western portions of Alameda and Contra Costa Counties are highly urbanized. Housing, commercial, and road construction have greatly reduced the amount of suitable habitat available for the Alameda whipsnake. McGinnis (1992) listed 60 localities for this species; 25 of them are considered to represent extant populations. A proposed reservoir northeast of Lake Chabot in Alameda County would result in the elimination of suitable habitat at the site (McGinnis 1992). Flooding at the proposed Los Vaqueros Reservoir in eastern Contra Costa County would not impact the reptile; however, proposed quarrying operations for the production of material for the dam and the inducement of development would result in habitat destruction (McGinnis 1990, 1992). Numerous housing developments currently threaten other populations. Within the City of Oakland, 6 residential projects have been built and 10 more are proposed in Alameda whipsnake habitat (Charles Bryant, Oakland Planning Department, in litt ., 1992). A 1,600-acre site that contains suitable habitat for the Alameda whipsnake in the City of Clayton is under review to determine potential commercial uses (Randall Hatch, Clayton Planning Department, in litt. , 1991). McGinnis (1992) documented nine other colonies scattered throughout the range of the snake that are likely to be adversely impacted by several planned residential developments. B. Overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific or educational purposes . Both the callippe silverspot butterfly and Behren's silverspot butterfly are highly prized by insect collectors. Although there are no studies of the impact of the removal of individuals on natural populations of either of the butterfly species, studies of another endangered nymphalid butterfly (Gall 1984a, 1984b) and a lycaenid butterfly (Duffey 1968) indicate it is likely that the callippe and Behren's silverspot butterflies could be adversely affected due to their isolated, possibly small populations. The Service is aware of preserved specimens of the callippe silverspot butterfly that have been recently collected on San Bruno Mountain. Some of these specimens are traded for other butterfly taxa or held by the collectors in anticipation of their greater value if the species is listed. The Service also is aware of reports that Behren's silverspot butterfly is actively sought after by amateur lepidopterists. There is an extensive commercial trade for the two butterfly species proposed herein for listing, as well as other imperiled or rare butterflies (Chris Nagano and John Mendoza, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, pers. obs., 1992). Collecting from small colonies or repeated handling and marking (particularly of females and in years of low abundance) could seriously damage the populations through loss of individuals and genetic variability (Gall 1984b, Murphy 1988, Singer and Wedlake 1981). Collection of females dispersing from a colony also can reduce the probability that new colonies will be established. Collectors pose a threat because they may deplete butterfly colonies below the thresholds of survival or recovery (Collins and Morris 1985). The Alameda whipsnake does not appear to be particularly popular among reptile collectors; however, Federal listing could raise the value of the animals within reptilian trade markets and increase the threat of unauthorized collection above current levels (Ken McCloud, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, pers. comm., 1992). Even limited interest in the species among reptile collectors could pose a serious threat to populations that contain few individuals. C. Disease or predation . There are no indications that disease or predation pose a significant threat to the callippe silverspot butterfly or Behren's silverspot butterfly. The real or potential occurrence of disease in the Alameda whipsnake is unknown. A number of native mammals and birds are known or likely to be predators of the Alameda whipsnake, including kingsnakes ( Lampropeltis sp.), raccoons ( Procyon lotor ), skunks ( Mephitis mephitis ), opossums ( Didelphis marsupialis ), foxes ( Vulpes sp.), and hawks ( Buteo sp.). The introduction of the red fox ( Vulpes vulpes ), a species not native to this region of the State, in the 19th century poses an additional threat to the Alameda whipsnake. The snakes seem to protect themselves both physically and behaviorally from this predator, perhaps due to their adaptions to native predators, and the snake populations seem to withstand predation from these animals. However, in situations where Alameda whipsnake habitat has become fragmented, isolated, and otherwise degraded by human activities, increased predatory pressure may become excessive, especially where alien species, such as rats ( Rattus sp.), and feral and domestic cats and dogs are introduced. These additional threats become particularly acute where urban development is immediately adjacent to Alameda whipsnake habitat. Although the actual impact of predation under such situations has not been studied, the likelihood for serious impact exists. D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms . The callippe silverspot butterfly and Behren's silverspot butterfly are not specifically protected under any Federal, State or local law. The California Department of Fish and Game has indicated that it is unable to protect insects under its current regulations (Pete Bontadelli, California Department of Fish and Game, in litt ., 1990). Although the San Bruno Mountain Habitat Conservation Plan provides protection from habitat destruction caused by habitat loss, the unauthorized collection remains an ongoing threat as discussed in Factor B.
