FR940303-1-00055 FR940303-1-00011 Thursday March 3, 1994 Part III Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Parts 301 and 318 Meat Produced by Advanced Meat/Bone Separation Machinery and Meat Recovery Systems; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 42␣/␣Thursday, March 3, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Parts 301 and 318 [Docket No. 94&hyph;003P] RIN 0583&hyph;AB76 Meat Produced by Advanced Meat/Bone Separation Machinery and Meat Recovery Systems AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is proposing to amend the Federal meat inspection regulations by amending the definition of meat to include as meat product resulting from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems that do not crush, grind, or pulverize bones to remove attached skeletal tissue from the bones of livestock carcasses and parts of carcasses, establishing the criteria for meat from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and meat recovery systems to assure consistency with the characteristics and composition of meat, and establishing requirements for the handling of meat derived from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and meat recovery systems, as well as the material from which it is derived. This action is being taken to update the definition of meat to acknowledge and include as meat product derived from the advances made in the modification of traditional mechanical means of separating meat from the bones of livestock and the development of advanced recovery systems that do not involve grinding, crushing, or pulverizing bones to remove the adhering skeletal tissue. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments to: Policy Office, Attn: Diane Moore, FSIS Hearing Clerk, room 3171, South Building, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. (See also ``Comments'' under SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION. ) FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John W. McCutcheon, Deputy Administrator, Regulatory Programs, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 720&hyph;2709. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive order 12866 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. States and local jurisdictions are preempted under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) from imposing with respect to the premises, facilities, and operations of federally inspected establishments any requirements that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the FMIA. States and local jurisdictions may, however, impose recordkeeping and other requirements within the scope of section 202 of the FMIA, if consistent therewith, with respect to any such federally inspected establishment. States and local jurisdictions are also preempted under the FMIA from imposing any marking, labeling, packaging, or ingredient requirements on federally inspected meat products that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the FMIA. States and local jurisdictions may, however, exercise concurrent jurisdiction over meat products that are outside official establishments for the purpose of preventing the distribution of meat products that are misbranded or adulterated under the FMIA, or, in the case of imported articles, which are not at such an establishment, after their entry into the United States. Under the FMIA, States that maintain meat inspection programs must impose requirements that are at least equal to those required under the FMIA. The States may, however, impose more stringent requirements on such State inspected products and establishments. No retroactive effect will be given to this rule. The administrative procedures specified in 9 CFR 306.5 must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule, if the challenge involves any decision of a program official. The administrative procedures specified in 9 CFR part 335 must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the application of the provisions of this rule with respect to labeling decisions.
