FR940511-2-00189 FR940511-2-00120 Federal Railroad Administration Petition for Waivers of Compliance In accordance with title 49 CFR §§211.9 and 211.41, notice is hereby given that the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has received a request for waiver of compliance with certain requirements of the Federal safety laws and regulations. The petition is described below, including the regulatory provisions involved, the nature of the relief being requested and petitioner's arguments in favor of relief. Canadian National Railway Company (CN) Since the turn of the century, CN and its predecessor has operated trains over its Sprague Subdivision between Winnipeg, Manitoba and Thunder Bay, Ontario, a distance of 433 miles. Approximately 44 miles of this trackage traverses the State of Minnesota between International Boundary and Rainy River. A minimum of 12 CN trains per day operate between Winnipeg and Thunder Bay over this line with mainly traffic originating and terminating in Canada. CN has always considered this bridge traffic to be a Canadian operation and has operated all such trains in compliance with all Canadian regulations. Certain regulations of the FRA differ from Canadian regulations. Canadian locomotives and cars which are to be interchanged in the United States are built or modified to be in compliance with FRA standards and are designated for ``International Service''. In addition to the above ``bridge trains'', a minimum of six daily ``International Service'' trains are operated on the Sprague Subdivision between Winnipeg and Duluth, Minnesota. The waivers are requested for the ``bridge trains'' only. Following are the individual petitions involved. FRA Docket Number RSGM&hyph;93&hyph;30 Canadian requirements for locomotive and caboose glazing are similar to those of the FRA except Canada does not mandate retrofit of equipment built prior to November 19, 1982, whereas FRA requires that basically all equipment be retrofitted. The area of operation is remote and there have been no incidents or injuries related to glazing. Locomotives and cabooses designated for International Service do meet FRA requirements. CN seeks a waiver for ``bridge trains'' on the Sprague Subdivision from the requirements of §§223.11(c) and 223.13(c) that locomotives and cabooses be equipped with FRA certified glazing by June 30, 1984. FRA Docket Number RSRM&hyph;93&hyph;1 Canadian rules for rear end markers allow retroreflective markers as opposed to the highly visible marker light required by 49 CFR part 221. CN has approximately 720 rear end-of-train telemetry devices with the reflective material and 113 with FRA flashing red markers. The latter are designated for International Service. CN estimates that at least 100 additional devices with lights would be required on the Sprague Subdivision at an overall cost of $1,800 each. CN states that all trains operated on the Sprague Subdivision are governed by centralized traffic control (CTC) and train separation is ensured by two separate mechanisms. A Rail Traffic Controller supervises the movement of all trains, controlling signals at junctions, sidings, etc. An automatic intermediate signal system is actuated automatically by the train within a particular block. In the 15 years of operation with CTC on this subdivision, no rear end collision has occurred. CN seeks a waiver of compliance from the requirements part 221 for all ``bridge trains'' on the Sprague Subdivision. FRA Docket Number LI&hyph;93&hyph;16 Title 49 CFR §229.123 requires that ``each lead locomotive be equipped with an end plate that extends across both rails, a pilot, or a snowplow.'' Presently, 95 percent of CN's locomotives meet this requirement. To equip the remaining 50 locomotives would cost approximately $1,000 each. Only rarely would one of these locomotives be in the lead on a train on the Sprague Subdivision. There has never been an accident or injury attributable to these locomotives on this subdivision. CN seeks a waiver of compliance from the provisions of 49 CFR 229.123 for all ``bridge trains'' on the Sprague Subdivision. CN tests and inspects its locomotives at least once every 3 months as required by Canadian Transport Board Order O&hyph;21 and the results are documented on a form, one copy of which is displayed in the cab of the locomotive. FRA has similar inspection, test and documentation requirements each 92 days. FRA also requires that each locomotive be inspected at least once during each calendar day and that the record of the inspection be maintained. Canadian daily inspection requirements differ in that only the lead locomotive safety control devices are certified as operating. In addition, engineers are required to report and record locomotive defects found enroute. CN feels all safety requirements are satisfied by their system. CN seeks a waiver of compliance with 49 CFR §229.23 and §229.21 for all ``bridge trains'' on the Sprague Subdivision.
