FR941206-2-00078 FR941206-2-00051 _Reviewing and approving closing documents. _Executing deeds. _Processing post closing complaints. _Determining forfeiture of earnest money deposits. _Evaluating requests from HUD employees or their relatives to purchase HUD-owned properties. 5. Administering Homeless Initiative: _Identifying Properties. _Leasing. _Collecting rent and taxes. _Inspecting rented properties. (v) Title I Property Improvement Loans. _Reviewing credit underwriting for property improvement loans that will result in any borrower having a total unpaid principal obligation that exceeds $25,000. (vi) Title I Manufactured Home Purchase Loans. _Appraising manufactured home lots to be used in determining the total principal obligations for loans to purchase manufactured home lots, or manufactured homes and lots in combination. (c) Hospital Mortgage Insurance Program Functions Powers and authorities redelegated under the hospital mortgage insurance programs, listed above, include: (i) General Hospital Mortgage Insurance Functions. _ 1. Issuing waivers of Departmental directives not mandated by statute or regulation. 2. Signing documents as necessary to carry out enumerated functions. (ii) Hospital Mortgage Insurance Development. _1. Issuing conditional or firm commitments for FHA mortgage insurance, pursuant to HHS recommendation and instructions from Headquarters. 2. Issuing initial or final endorsements for FHA mortgage insurance. 3. Determining maximum insurable mortgages, upon receipt of approved cost certification from HHS. 5. Executing Regulatory Agreements. 6. Approving construction advances and change orders, pursuant to recommendation from HHS. (iii) Hospital Mortgage Insurance Servicing and Compliance Activities. _1. Approving changes in project ownership (Transfer of Physical Assets (SPAs)), pursuant to recommendation from HHS. 2. Executing partial releases of security, pursuant to recommendations from HHS and approval from Headquarters, when appropriate. 3. Reviewing performance of project management and assigning performance ratings on project management reviews and physical inspections. 4. Acknowledging receipt of Default and Election to Assign Notices and Mortgage Assignment. 5. Executing workouts on insured or HUD-held mortgages, pursuant to recommendations from HHS and approval from Headquarters. 6. Authorizing foreclosure of HUD-held mortgages, pursuant to recommendations from HHS and approval from headquarters. (Includes notifying mortgagor of HUD's decision to foreclose and deciding owners' appeals of the initial foreclosure decisions.) 7. Determining Housing's proposal for resolving audit findings on Field Office matters, in consultation with Headquarters. 8. Closing audit findings on Field Office matters, in consultation with Headquarters. (iv) Hospital Property Disposition. _The following property disposition activities for hospitals are handled by Field Offices in consultation with Headquarters: 1. Determining terms of foreclosure sale. 2. Directing Office of General Counsel to commence foreclosure. 3. Determining services (statement of work) to be included in Project Managers' contracts. 5. Approving budgets for rehabilitation work and operating costs, including personnel and salaries. 6. Authorizing project managers to spend amounts or to subcontract for goods or services not authorized in budgets. 7. Authorizing rehabilitation work. 8. Authorizing advertisements of properties for sale. 9. Approving purchasers of HUD-owned properties. 10. Approving sales documents. Section C. Authority Excepted Category D Field office officials are not redelegated authority under this Notice. The authority redelegated in Section B above also does not include the authority to issue or waive regulations. Section D. Authority to Further Redelegate The Authority redelegated in Section B above may be further redelegated in writing by the appropriate Field Office staff to other Field Office staff so as to maximize office efficiency. In cases where authority is redelegated to staff not reporting to that Field Office official, prior concurrence of the Assistant Secretary, or appropriate DAS, is required. Authority: Section 7(d), Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 3535 (d). Dated: November 30, 1994. Nicolas P. Retsinas, Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29928 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;M
