FR941019-1-00017 FR941019-1-00002 The add-on for potential future exposure is calculated for all contracts, regardless of whether the market value is zero, positive, or negative, or whether the current exposure is calculated on a gross or net basis. The add-on will always be either a positive number or zero. The recent revision to the Accord to recognize netting for the calculation of current exposure does not affect the calculation of potential future exposure, which generally continues to be calculated on a gross basis. This means that an add-on for potential future exposure is calculated separately for each individual contract subject to the netting arrangement and then these individual future exposures are added together to arrive at a gross add-on for potential future exposure. For contracts subject to a qualifying bilateral netting arrangement in accordance with the newly adopted Accord changes, the gross add-on for potential future exposure would be added to the net current exposure to arrive at one credit equivalent amount for the contracts subject to the netting arrangement. The original Basle Accord noted that the credit conversion factors in the add-on matrix were provisional and would be subject to revision if volatility levels or market conditions changed. II. Basle Proposals for the Treatment of Potential Future Exposure Since the original Accord was adopted, the derivatives market has grown and broadened. The use of certain types of derivative instruments not specifically addressed in the Accord_ notably commodity, precious metal, and equity-linked transactions 10 _has become much more widespread. As a result of continued review of the method for calculating the add-on for potential future exposure, in July 1994 the BSC issued two proposals for public consultation. 11 The first proposal would expand the matrix of add-on factors used to calculate potential future exposure to take into account innovations in the derivatives market. The second proposal would recognize reductions in the potential future exposure of derivative contracts that result from entering into bilateral netting arrangements. The second proposal is an extension of the recent revision to the Accord recognizing bilateral netting arrangements for purposes of calculating current exposure and would formally extend the recognition of netting arrangements to equity, precious metals and other commodity derivative contracts. The consultation period for these BSC proposals is scheduled to end on October 10, 1994. 10 In general terms, these are off-balance sheet transactions that have a return, or a portion of their return, linked to the price of a particular commodity, precious metal, or equity or to an index of commodity, precious metal or equity prices. 11 The proposals are contained in a paper from the BSC entitled ``The Capital Adequancy Treatment of the Credit Risk Associated with Certain Off-Balance Sheet Items'' that is available upon request from FDIC's Reading Room by calling (202) 898_8785. A. Expansion of Add-On Matrix A recently concluded BSC review of the add-on for potential future exposure indicated that the current add-on factors used to calculate the potential future exposure amount may produce insufficient capital for certain types of derivative instruments, in particular, long-dated interest rate contracts, commodity contracts, and equity-index contracts. The BSC review indicated that the current add-on factors do not adequately address the full range of contract structures and the timing of cash flows. The review also showed that the conversion factors many institutions are using to calculate potential future exposure for commodity, precious metal, and equity contracts could result in insufficient capital coverage in view of the volatility of the indices or prices on the underlying assets from which these contracts derive their value. 12 12 While commodity, precious metal, and equity contracts were not explicity covered by the original Accord, as the use of such contracts became more prevalent, many G&hyph;10 bank supervisors, including U.S. banking supervisors, have informally permitted institutions to apply the conversion factors for exchange rate contracts to these types of transactions pending development of a more appropriate treatment.
