FR941110-0-00029 FR941110-0-00015 Changes From the Proposed Rule The changes in the Quota Management Program (§681.31) described in the proposed rule have not been approved; therefore, those revisions have been dropped from the final rule and §681.31 remains unchanged. Also in the final rule, the definition of ``forecast quota'' is not added to replace the definition of ``initial quota'' because this was intended to implement one of the disapproved measures. No other changes were made to the proposed rule. Classification This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. This rule contains collection-of-information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. The collection of this information has been approved by the OMB under OMB Control Number 0648&hyph;0214. A notification requirement before offloading of the catch is added. The existing sales report is modified by eliminating certain data elements. First-level buyers can choose to submit a worksheet in lieu of allowing an authorized officer to access, inspect, and copy records relating to their sales. The estimated total reporting burden (assuming that all 15 permit holders will take 4 trips per year) is estimated at 5 minutes per response. This includes the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to NMFS and OMB (see ADDRESSES ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 681 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: November 4, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 681 is amended as follows: PART 681_WESTERN PACIFIC CRUSTACEAN FISHERIES 1. The authority citation for part 681 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. 2. In §681.2, the definition of ``Land or Landing'' is removed, and definitions of ``Council'', ``First-level buyer'', ``Landing'', ``Management unit species'', and ``Off-loading'' are added, in alphabetical order, to read as follows: §681.2 Definitions. * * * * * Council means the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council established by the Magnuson Act. * * * * * First-level buyer means: (1) The first person who purchases, with the intention to resell, management unit species, or portions thereof, that were harvested by a vessel that holds a permit under this part or that is otherwise regulated under this part; or (2) A person who provides recordkeeping, purchase, or sales assistance in the first transaction involving management unit species (such as the services provided by a wholesale auction facility). * * * * * Landing means bringing management unit species to shore for the purpose of offloading. * * * * * Management unit species means spiny lobster ( Panulirus spp.), slipper lobster (family Scyllaridae), and Kona crab (family Raninidae). Off-loading means removing management unit species from a vessel. * * * * * 3. Section 681.5 is amended by revising paragraph (a), the heading in paragraph (b), paragraphs (c) and (d), and by adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: §681.5 Recordkeeping and reporting. (a) Daily Lobster Catch Report. The operator of any vessel engaged in commercial fishing for lobster subject to this part must maintain onboard the fishing vessel, while fishing for lobster, an accurate and complete NMFS Daily Lobster Catch Report on a form provided by the Regional Director. All information specified on the form and specified in paragraph (b) of this section must be recorded on the form within 24 hours after the completion of the fishing day. The Daily Lobster Catch Reports for a fishing trip must be submitted to the Regional Director within 72 hours of each landing of lobsters. (b) Information Requirements for Daily Lobster Catch Report. *␣*␣* * * * * * (c) Lobster Sales Report. The operator of any vessel engaged in commercial fishing for lobster subject to this part must submit to the Regional Director, within 72 hours of off-loading of lobster, an accurate and complete Lobster Sales Report on a form provided by the Regional Director, and attach packing or weighout slips provided to the operator by the first-level buyer(s), unless the packing/weighout slips have not been provided in time by the buyer(s). (d) Information Requirements for Lobster Sales Report. The Lobster Sales Report must be signed and dated by the vessel operator and include the following information: (1) Vessel information. (i) Name of vessel. (ii) Permit number. (2) First-level buyer information. (i) Name of first-level buyer(s). (ii) Address(es) and phone number(s). (3) Landing information. (i) Date of off-loading. (ii) Port of landing. (4) Sales information. (i) Total number or weight of spiny lobsters sold and total number or weight not sold by product type. (ii) Total number or weight of slipper lobsters sold and total number or weight not sold by product type. (iii) Total number or weight of octopus sold and total number or weight not sold by product type. (iv) Total number or weight of other fishery products sold and total number or weight not sold by product type. (v) If available, packing/weighout slip or other sales information, including information on revenue by species, product type, and size categories.
