FR941207-0-00070 FR941207-0-00011 In order to satisfy congressional requirements and intentions of expeditious implementation, these regulations are effective immediately so that eligible states may apply for the boot camp discretionary program. Publishing a notice of proposed rulemaking and awaiting receipt of comments would significantly delay the implementation of the FY '95 boot camp grant program. Such delay would be contrary to the public interest and would contradict the congressional intent to provide immediate grant assistance. Although OJP will proceed expeditiously with regard to the promulgation of guidelines for the fiscal year 1995 boot camp program, we are very interested in receiving public comment on the overall program and will consider all comments in preparing the final rule. List of Subjects Grant programs, Judicial administration. For the reasons set out in the preamble, Title 28, Chapter I, of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended by adding a new part 91 as set forth below. PART 91_GRANTS FOR CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES Subpart A_General Sec. 91.1␣Purpose. 91.2␣Definitions. 91.3␣General eligibility requirements. 91.4␣Truth in Sentencing Incentive Grants. 91.5␣Violent Offender Incarceration Grants. 91.6␣Matching Requirement. Subpart B_FY 95 Correctional Boot Camp Initiative 91.10␣General. Authority: Section 20105 of Subtitle A, Title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. Subpart A_General §91.1 Purpose. The Attorney General, through the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs, will make grants to states and to states organized as multi-state compacts to construct, develop, expand, operate or improve correctional facilities, including boot camp facilities and other alternative correctional facilities that can free conventional space for the confinement of violent offenders, to: (a) Ensure that prison space is available for the confinement of violent offenders; and (b) Implement truth in sentencing laws for sentencing violent offenders. §91.2 Definitions. (a) Violent Offender _[Reserved] (b) Serious Drug Offense means an offense involving manufacturing, distributing, or possessing with intent to manufacture or distribute, a controlled substance [as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)], for which a maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years or more is prescribed by state law. (c) Part 1 Violent Crimes means murder and non-negligent manslaughter, forcible rape, robbery, and aggravated assault as reported to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for purposes of the Uniform Crime Reports. If such data is unavailable, Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS) publications may be utilized. See, e.g., ``Census of State and Federal Correctional Facilities, 1990.'' (''Part 1 Violent Crimes'' are defined here solely as the statutorily prescribed basis for the formula allocation of funding.) (d) Recipient means individual states or multi-state compacts awarded funds under this Part. (e) State means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands.
