FR940713-0-00033 FR940713-0-00015 Gifts of property means a gratuitous, voluntary transfer or conveyance of ownership in property by one person to another without any consideration, including transfer by donation, devise or bequest. Gifts of services means a gratuitous, voluntary offer of labor or professional work by one person to another without any compensation for that labor or professional work. Program Agencies means the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the United States Geological Survey, the National Science Foundation, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Property means real or personal property, tangible or intangible, including money, certificates of stocks, bonds, or other evidence of value. Services means labor or professional work performed for the benefit of another or at another's command. Solicit means to endeavor to obtain by asking or pleading. ยง362.3 Criteria for determining acceptance. The following criteria shall be applied whenever a gift of property or gift of services is offered to the Director for the benefit of the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program. (a) The gift of property or gift of services must clearly and directly further the objectives of the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 7702. (b) All gifts of property must be offered unconditionally, with sole discretion of use, administration and disposition of such property to be determined by the Director or his designee. (c) The Director may accept and use gifts of services of voluntary and uncompensated personnel, and may provide transportation and subsistence as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5703 for persons serving without compensation. (d) Employees of FEMA or the Program agencies may not solicit gifts of property, or gifts of services. (e) Acceptance of gifts of property, or gifts of services must first be approved by the Office of the General Counsel, FEMA, for conformance with all applicable laws and regulations. (f) In all cases where it is determined that the acceptance of a gift may create a conflict of interest, or the appearance of a conflict of interest, the gift will be declined. Dated: July 1, 1994. James Lee Witt, Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16733 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6718&hyph;21&hyph;P
