FR940930-0-00085 FR940930-0-00016 B. Limitations on Screening Mammography Services Comment: One commenter believed that the screening mammography radiologic procedure covered under the Medicare program should not be limited to the four-view procedure specified in §410.34(b)(1) of the interim final rule, but that additional views should be allowed as necessary in the case of particular patients. Response: As we indicated in the preamble to the interim final rule (55 FR 53513), the basis for specifying that the screening mammography service must be a bilateral four-view procedure (that is, cranio-caudal and a medial lateral oblique view of each breast) is congressional intent as expressed in the Report of the Committee of Conference that accompanied Public Law No. 100&hyph;360 (H.R. Rep. No. 100&hyph;661, 100th Congress, 2nd Sess. 171 (1988)). In that report, the conferees stated that they ``understood that a bilateral four-view procedure is currently considered to be the standard of care in the United States for screening mammography *␣*␣* [and] therefore anticipate that this would be initially included in the quality standards to be developed by the Secretary as a requirement for coverage.'' We recognize that it may be necessary in the case of some patients to perform more than a bilateral four-view procedure. In view of the possibility that more than four images will need to be taken in the case of a particular patient, we have revised §410.34(b)(1) (redesignated in this final rule as §410.34(d)(1)) to state that generally ``the service must, at a minimum, be a four-view exposure *␣*␣*.'' The need to do additional images will not have any effect on the payment amount that will be allowed for the Medicare screening mammography services because the payment amount is prescribed by statute. To accommodate postmastectomy screening of certain women, however, we will allow, at a minimum, a two-view exposure (that is, a cranio-caudal and a medial lateral oblique view) of the remaining breast for those individuals, and still permit the facility to meet the standard. We are setting that standard as a two-view exposure. Comment: Several commenters expressed concern about the limitations on the frequency of coverage of mammography screenings. Response: As explained in the interim final rule (55 FR 53513), the frequency limitations specified in §410.34 reflect the provisions imposed by section 1834(c)(2) of the Act, except for the high risk factors that were identified in §410.34(b)(4)(i) (redesignated in this final rule as §410.34(d)(4)(i)). As provided in section 1834(c)(2)(B) of the Act, the frequency limitations may be revised by the Secretary in consultation with the National Cancer Institute (NCI). This matter is under consideration, and will be addressed in a later notice, as appropriate. Comment: One commenter suggested that this final rule discuss the importance of women having a clinical breast examination performed by a physician that would supplement the preventive value of using the Medicare screening mammography benefit. The commenter acknowledged that Medicare law authorizing screening mammography coverage does not provide for coverage and payment for a clinical breast examination as part of the screening mammography benefit. However, the commenter suggested that this final rule, at a minimum, indicate that a supplementary clinical breast examination performed by a physician be recommended in conjunction with a screening mammography examination and related physician's interpretation of the results of that radiologic examination. Response: The commenter is correct. We do not have the legal authority under the screening mammography benefit to provide for coverage and payment for a clinical breast examination performed by a physician in conjunction with the use of screening mammography services. We understand, however, that NCI, ACS, the American Medical Association (AMA), the American Society of Internal Medicine, the National Medical Association, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American College of Radiology, and other specialty groups recommend that a combination of screening mammography and a clinical breast examination is necessary for a complete early breast cancer detection program. In this regard, NCI publishes public information brochures that explain screening mammography and strongly advise that a doctor also perform a clinical breast examination to supplement the value of the screening service. Information about breast cancer screening, including information regarding the importance of clinical breast examinations, can be obtained, free of charge, by calling the NCI-funded Cancer Information Service at 1&hyph;800&hyph;4&hyph;CANCER. Comment: One commenter questioned the inclusion of ``not given birth prior to age 30'' as a factor indicating a high risk of developing breast cancer.
