FR941202-2-00191 FR941202-2-00098 Reasons to deny an initial application or reapplication shall include: (a) Failure of laboratory staff to meet the personnel qualifications as required by NELAC. These qualifications include education, training and experience requirements. (b) Failure to successfully perform performance evaluation test as required by NELAC. (c) Failure to attest that analysis are performed by approved methodologies and/or in accordance with NELAC requirements. A laboratory shall have two opportunities to correct the areas of deficiencies which results in a denial of applications. If the laboratory is not successful in remedying said deficiencies, it must wait six months before again applying for accreditation. Revocation_shall mean the total withdrawal of a laboratory's accreditation by the accrediting authority. The laboratory cannot reapply for accreditation for 6 months, by which time the reason/cause of the revocation must be corrected. Reasons for revocation shall include: (a) Failure to participate or unsatisfactory performance in the performance evaluation testing program as required by the program. (b) Submitting performance evaluation sample results generated by another laboratory. (c) Misrepresentation of any material fact pertinent to receiving initial approval. (d) Denial of entry for laboratory inspection. (e) Conviction of charges of the falsification of any report of or relating to a laboratory analysis. (f) Failure to pay accreditation fees. No laboratory's accreditation will be revoked or a renewal denied without the opportunity to request a hearing. Suspension shall mean the temporary removal of a laboratory's accreditation for a defined period of time. The purpose of suspension is to allow a laboratory time to correct deficiencies or area of non-compliance with program requirements as defined by regulation. A suspended laboratory would not have to reapply for accreditation if the cause/causes for suspension are corrected within six months. A laboratory's accreditation may be suspended in total or in part. It may retain those areas of accreditation where it continues to meet the standards and requirements of the program. Reasons for suspension shall include: (a) Failure to successfully perform performance evaluation tests pursuant to the requirements of the program; (b) Failure to submit and implement corrective action related to deficiencies found during laboratory inspections; (c) Loss of personnel with the required educational, training and experience qualifications; or (d) Failure to pay accreditation application fees. 4.5␣Interim Accreditation 4.5.1␣Interim Accreditation
