FR940418-2-00100 FR940418-2-00058 Employment and Training Administration [SGA No. DAA 94&hyph;008] Job Training Partnership Act: Learning Consortia Project AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of Availability of Funds and Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGA). SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, under Title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act is soliciting proposals on a competitive basis to assist consortia of for-profit organizations in addressing their workforce and workplace improvement needs to develop highly skilled workers and increase company competitiveness. The Department has set aside approximately $500,000 for this procurement. As a result of this solicitation, multiple awards will be made. All information required to submit a proposal is contained in this announcement. DATES: Applications for grant awards will be accepted commencing April 18, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications shall be May 20, 1994, at 2:00 p.m. (Eastern Time). ADDRESSES: Applications shall be mailed to the Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Attention: Willie E. Harris, Reference: SGA/DAA 94&hyph;008, Employment and Training Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, Room S&hyph;4203, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Willie E. Harris, Division of Acquisition and Assistance. Telephone (202) 219&hyph;8702 (this is not a toll free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This announcement consists of five parts: Part I_Background, Part II_Application Process, Part III_Statement of Work, Part IV_Evaluation Criteria, and Part V_Reporting Requirements. Part I_Background The Department of Labor's (DOL's) mission is to ensure that all Americans have access to the resources they require to successfully manage their job lives, and that U.S. businesses have access to the skilled workers and training and technical assistance resources they need to successfully compete in a global economy. DOL's strategy for accomplishing this mission involves the building of new relationships with state and local partners and investing federal dollars to strengthen the effectiveness of local labor markets. This solicitation represents an attempt to build such a new relationship through learning consortia, networks of otherwise unrelated for-profit organizations, particularly small businesses, forged to develop interfirm learning and information-sharing systems focused on workforce development and the changing workplace. Through each consortium, DOL hopes (1) to share human resource development tools or information about new work systems implementation, and (2) establish a cooperative learning system like a learning center or teaching factory. Forming a learning consortium makes sense from the individual small companies' standpoint because a network of small organizations are better positioned to facilitate cost-effective, high quality workforce and workplace development programs than a small business acting alone. A consortium enables small businesses to more accurately identify common training needs, to locate and coordinate the services of assistance providers that can effectively address those needs, and to share training programs and other resources among member organizations.
