FR940217-1-00058 FR940217-1-00013 Oil pipeline ruptures also represent a potential source of groundwater contamination. Three oil pipelines run roughly parallel to each other across the Barton Springs segment and its contributing zone and cross Barton Creek near the Hays/Travis county line. Two of these lines ruptured within the recharge zone during the 1980's, about 13 kilometers (8 miles) south of Barton Springs. These two spills constitute the largest spills reported from Hays and Travis counties between 1986 and 1992 (TWC, unpubl. data). The first major spill occurred in 1986, about 270 meters (300 yards) from Slaughter Creek, when an oil pipeline was severed during a construction operation and released about 366,000 liters (96,600 gallons) of oil. The equipment necessary to contain the spill was on-site at the time the spill occurred (Russell 1987), and about 91 percent of the spill was recovered (Rose 1986). The second pipeline break occurred in 1987 near the first spill site and released over 185,000 liters (49,000 gallons) of oil. According to the TWC database, more than 97 percent of this spill was recovered (TWC, unpubl. data). Although the effects of these two spills on the Barton Springs salamander are unknown, similar spills that are not immediately remediated could adversely impact the salamander and its habitat. Peter Rose (1986), a geologist who has studied the effects of pipeline oil spills on the Edwards Aquifer, has estimated that oil spills of 160,000 liters (42,000 gallons) or more pose a ``reasonable danger'' of entering and contaminating the Edwards Aquifer. ``Free oil entering an unconfined aquifer would be expected to spread and travel in the direction of water flow, emerging eventually at springs *␣*␣*'' (Rose 1986). Oil is highly toxic to aquatic life (Pyastolova and Danilova 1987). A study of the effects of oil on the sharp-snouted frog ( Rana arvalis ) showed that ``the presence of crude oil in an aquatic environment, even in small amounts (0.05 ml/l) exerts an unfavorable influence on both embryonic and larval development'' of the frog, including increased mortality and appearance of deformities (Pyastolova and Danilova 1987). Because of physiological similarities among amphibian larvae, the Barton Springs salamander may exhibit similar or possibly more severe reactions. The conveyance and treatment of sewage in the watershed, particularly in the recharge zone, may also result in the impairment of local water quality and negative effects to the Barton Springs salamander. In 1982, high levels of fecal coliform bacteria at Barton Springs were attributed to a sewerline leak upstream from Barton Springs Pool. While fecal coliform bacteria are believed to be harmless, they may indicate the presence of other organisms that are pathogenic to aquatic life (Slade et al. 1986), some of which may pose a threat to salamanders and/or their prey base. The USGS has stated that because ``there are many sewerlines near the springs, fecal coliform contamination of the springs may be a recurring problem'' (Slade et al. 1986). There are over 145 kilometers (90 miles) of wastewater lines in the recharge zone of the Barton Springs segment (Maureen McReynolds, City of Austin Water and Wastewater Utility, pers. comm., 1993). Once an aquifer is contaminated, it can be very difficult to remediate. TDA (1987) maintains that ``contaminated groundwater can be extremely difficult and expensive, and in some cases even impossible, to clean up. The only way to maintain groundwater quality is to prevent contamination in the first place.'' Regarding the effects of oil pipeline spills on the Edwards Aquifer, ``*␣*␣* for all practical purposes, once spilled oil has been introduced into a cavernous carbonate aquifer, only time and nature can take care of the cleanup job'' (Rose 1986). Major contaminant spills that are not quickly remediated could enter the aquifer and contaminate the waters feeding Barton Springs. Response times to hazardous materials spills vary, depending on several factors, including detection capability, location and size of the spill, weather conditions, whether or not the spill is reported, and the party performing the cleanup. Generally, cleanup is initiated within several hours following detection of a spill, but many weeks may be necessary to complete the effort. In some cases in Travis County, cleanup of leaking storage tanks was not initiated until two months following leak detection (Philip Winsborough, TWC, pers. comm., 1993). In other cases, such as the oil pipeline ruptures that occurred within the recharge zone, cleanup was initiated the same day the spill was detected and completed the following day. Chronic water quality degradation of the aquifer resulting from increasing urban activities (including roadway, residential, commercial, and industrial development) may also lead to contamination of the waters feeding Barton Springs (see also discussion under Factor D). Because of the characteristics of karst aquifers discussed in the Background section, Barton Springs is believed to be ``heavily influenced by the quality and quantity of runoff,'' particularly in the recharge zone (City of Austin 1991). A report by USGS (Veenhuis and Slade 1990) on the relationship between urbanization and surface water quality in several streams throughout the Austin area (10 of 18 sample sites were along streams in the Barton Springs segment and its contributing zone) demonstrates that increases in impervious cover can lead to large increases in pollutant runoff. This is indicated in several streams with increased levels of suspended solids, biochemical oxygen demand, total organic carbon, total nitrogen, total phosphorus, fecal-group bacteria, inorganic trace elements, and synthetic compounds. A preliminary review of water quality data for 15 wells in the Barton Springs segment also suggests that increasing impervious cover has resulted in increased concentrations of certain water quality constituents in the groundwater, including total nitrogen and total phosphorus (USGS 1992). These changes in groundwater quality may indicate future water quality changes at Barton Springs as development increases across the recharge and contributing zones.
