FR940208-2-00129 FR940208-2-00082 DOT No: 3895. OMB No: New. Administration: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Title: Drinking and Driving Target Identification Study. Need for Information: The information is needed to identify and target subgroups of drinking drivers. Proposed Use of Information: The primary purpose of this study is to obtain data to describe in detail the people and situations involved in drinking and driving and defining characteristics that would be useful for developing, refining, and targeting countermeasures to specific drinking-driving subpopulations. Frequency: One time. Burden Estimate: 3,479 hours. Respondents: Individuals. Form(s): None. Average Burden Hours Per Response: 12 minutes reporting. DOT No: 3896. OMB No: 2132&hyph;0556. Administration: Federal Transit Administration. Title: Prevention of Prohibited Drug Use in Transit Operations. Need for Information: The Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991 requires any recipient of Federal financial assistance under Sections 3, 9 or 18 of the Federal Transit Act, as amended, and any recipient of Federal financial assistance under Section 103(e) of Title 23 of the U.S. Code, to establish a program designed to help prevent accidents and injuries resulting from the use of prohibited drugs by employees who perform safety-sensitive functions. Proposed Use of Information: The information collected will be used to build a database to determine any necessary modifications or the continuing need for the rule; and to monitor the effectiveness of the program and compliance with the regulation. Frequency: Annually, recordkeeping. Burden Estimate: 42,799 hours. Respondents: State and local governments, businesses or other for-profit institutions, non-profit institutions, and small businesses or organizations. Form(s): FTA Drug Testing MIS Data Collection Form; FTA Drug Testing MIS Data Collection EZ Form; Drug Testing Chain of Custody Form. Average Burden Hours Per Response: 8 hours reporting; 18 hours and 30 minutes recordkeeping. DOT No: 3897. OMB No: 2132&hyph;0557. Administration: Federal Transit Administration. Title: Control of Alcohol Misuse in Transit Operations. Need for Information: The Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991 requires any recipient of Federal financial assistance under Sections 3, 9 or 18 of the Federal Transit Act, as amended, and any recipient of Federal financial assistance under Section 103(e) of Title 23 of the U.S. Code to establish a program designed to help prevent accidents and injuries resulting from the misuse of alcohol by employees who perform safety-sensitive functions. Proposed Use of Information: The information collected will be used to build a database to determine any necessary modifications or the continuing need for the rule; and to monitor the effectiveness of the program and compliance with the regulation. Frequency: Annually, recordkeeping. Burden Estimate: 32,479 hours.
