FR940721-2-00149 FR940721-2-00086 The Native American Languages Act of 1992 (Public Law 102&hyph;524) authorizes financial assistance for projects to promote the survival and continuing vitality of Native American languages (Section 803C of the Native American Programs Act of 1974, as amended). This program announcement is being issued in anticipation of the appropriation of funds for fiscal year 1995, and the availability of funds for the four competitive areas is contingent upon sufficient final appropriations. Proposed projects will be reviewed on a competitive basis against the evaluation criteria under each respective competitive area in this announcement. Eligible applicants may compete for and receive a grant award in each of the three competitive areas. However, ANA continues its policy that an applicant may only submit one application per competitive area. This program announcement consists of three parts. PART I_ANA POLICY AND GOALS Provides general information about ANA's policies and goals for the four competitive areas. PART II_ANA COMPETITIVE AREAS Describes the four competitive areas under which ANA is requesting applications: •Governance, Social and Economic Development (SEDS); •Governance, Social and Economic Development (SEDS) for Alaska Native entities; •Environmental Regulatory Enhancement; and •Native American Languages Preservation and Enhancement. Each competitive area includes the following sections which provide area-specific information to be used in developing a funding application: A␣Purpose and Availability of Funds; B␣Background; C␣Proposed Projects to be Funded; D␣Eligible Applicants; E␣Grantee Share of the Project; F␣Review Criteria; G␣Application Due Date(s); and H␣Contacts to Obtain Further Information PART III_GENERAL APPLICATION INFORMATION AND GUIDANCE Provides information and guidance that applies to all four competitive areas and that must be taken into account in developing an application in any of the four areas. PART I_ANA POLICY AND GOALS The mission of the Administration for Native Americans (ANA) is to promote the goal of social and economic self-sufficiency for American Indians, Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, and other Native American Pacific Islanders. The Administration for Native Americans believes that a Native American community is self-sufficient when it can generate and control the resources necessary to meet its social and economic goals, and the needs of its members. The Administration for Native Americans also believes that the responsibility for achieving self-sufficiency resides with the governing bodies of Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages, and in the leadership of Native American groups. A community's progress toward self-sufficiency is based on its efforts to plan, organize, and direct resources in a comprehensive manner which is consistent with its established long-range goals.
