FR940617-0-00143 FR940617-0-00026 Another indication that section 209(e)(2) was not intended to apply to most in-use regulations of nonroad engines is the fact that neither the Senate nor the House version of the 1990 Act amendments would have preempted state regulation of anything but new nonroad engines. Neither version would have expressly preempted regulation in use. It would be unusual for a bill to come out of conference with a broader preemption than existed in either house and without any mention in the legislative history that such broader preemption had been mandated. In fact, both Senators Chafee and Baucus believed that the scope of the preemption had been narrowed from the House bill, not widened. 30 30 Both Senators declare that state preemption is limited to new locomotives and new small farm and construction equipment. Both mention that states may still regulate other new nonroad equipment, presumably after receiving EPA approval. Finally, each declare that states also fully retain existing authority to regulate emissions from all types of existing or in-use nonroad engines by specifying fuel quality specifications, operational modes or characteristics or measures that limit the use of nonroad engines or equipment. In fact, as the legislative history indicates, it appears that Congress intended the preemption provisions of section 209, as applied to nonroad engines, to be analogous to the preemption provisions as applied to motor vehicles, except that California cannot request any waiver of the Federal preemption of state regulation of new small farm and construction equipment and locomotives. Further indication that section 209(e)(2) was not intended to apply to in-use regulations is the fact that, if the subsection were applied to in-use regulations, then California would be the only government (local, state or federal) that could directly set regulations for nonroad engines in use. EPA's mandate under section 213 applies only to new engines. Therefore, EPA will not promulgate standards for in-use regulation of nonroad engines under section 213, beyond in-use regulations normally associated with new certified engines ( e.g. in-use testing and recall requirements under section 207). States other than California would not be able to regulate nonroad engines in use ( e.g. operation controls under section 209(d)) until California regulates them and could only regulate them in a manner identical to California's regulations. Nothing in the legislative history indicates such a dramatic departure from the current ability of states and local authorities to regulate emissions of mobile sources in use. Therefore, if section 209(e)(2) is determined to apply to in-use regulations, the entire United States regulatory scheme for regulation of nonroad engines in use would be dependent on the actions of one state, California. Congress could not have meant to grant such plenary power to a single state.
