FR940112-2-00144 FR940112-2-00100 (d) Appropriateness of matching contributions. (e) Plan for maintaining the program after the cooperative agreement has expired. 6. Management (10 points): Applicants should specify plans for proper organization, staffing, and management of the implementation process. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Appropriateness and authority of the governing or managing organization to conduct the proposed activities. (b) Qualifications of the project team and its leadership to conduct the proposed activity. (c) Soundness of staffing plans, including recruitment, selection, training, and continuing professional development. (d) Appropriateness of the organizational approach for carrying out the proposed activity. (e) Evidence of significant involvement and support by private industry. Selection Procedures The Director of NIST will appoint an impartial evaluation panel to review and evaluate all qualified proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria and values set forth in this notice. From the qualified proposals a group of finalists will be selected based on this review. This review process should take approximately 30 days. The Director of NIST, or her designee, shall select awardees based on the rank order of total evaluation scores, geographic distribution, and the availability of funds. Eligibility Eligible applicants for these projects are state technology extension programs operated by state governments, or on behalf of state governments by private or public non-profit organizations. States that have received previous implementation grants remain eligible for additional Program Implementation projects. Applicants will be able to propose providing services directly or arranging for the provision of some or all of the proposed services by a second party. More than one proposal may be accepted from each state. Financial Information A matching contribution from each applicant will be required. NIST may provide financial support up to 50 percent of the total budget for the project; however, the federal share may not exceed $250,000. One half of the applicant's required match (i.e. 25% of the total) must be non-federal cash. Cash may include dollar contributions from state, county, industrial or other non-federal sources. The applicant's share of the budget may include in-kind contributions necessary and reasonable for proper accomplishment of project objectives. Required Letters All proposals for Program Implementation projects must contain a letter from the Governor indicating that the applicant is the lead organization in that state for conducting the proposed activities. Where linkages to other organizations are proposed, applicants are advised to include a letter of support and commitment from the linking organization.
