FR940325-2-00089 FR940325-2-00046 Except in unusual situations, this documentation must be in the form of letters of commitment or letters of intent from the organization(s)/individuals from which funds will be received. Line 8_ Col. (a): Enter the project title. Col. (b): Enter the amount of cash or donations to be made by the applicant. Col. (c): Enter the State contribution. Col. (d): Enter the amount of cash and third party in-kind contributions to be made from all other sources. Col. (e): Enter the total of columns (b), (c), and (d). Lines 9, 10, and 11 should be left blank. Line 12_Carry the total of each column of Line 8, (b) through (e). The amount in Column (e) should be equal to the amount on Section A, Line 5, Column (f). Justification Describe third party in-kind contributions, if included. Section D_Forecasted Cash Needs Line 13_Enter the amount of Federal (OCS) cash needed for this grant, by quarter, during the first 12 month budget period. Line 14_Enter the amount of cash from all other sources needed by quarter during the first year. Line 15_Enter the total of Lines 13 and 14. Section F_Other Budget Information Line 21_Include narrative justification required under Section B for each object class category for the total project period. Line 22_Enter the type of HHS or other Federal agency approved indirect cost rate (provisional, predetermined, final or fixed) that will be in effect during the funding period, the estimated amount of the base to which the rate is applied and the total indirect expense. Also, enter the date the rate was approved, where applicable. Attach a copy of the approved rate agreement if it was negotiated with a Federal agency other than the Department of Health and Human Services. Line 23_Provide any other explanations and continuation sheets required or deemed necessary to justify or explain the budget information. 3. SF&hyph;424B ``Assurances Non-Construction'' All applicants must sign and return the ``Assurances'' found at Attachment C with their application. 4. Project Narrative Each narrative section of the application must address one or more of the focus areas described in Part B and follow the format outlined below. a. Need for Assistance b. Work Program c. Significant and Beneficial Impact d. Ability of the Applicants to Perform e. Staffing and Resources a. Need for assistance. The application should identify the problem areas in which State organizations receiving CSBG funds and/or local service providers which receive CSBG funds as subgrantees from States are seeking assistance and how those needs were identified. Applicants also should provide current supporting documentation or other testimonies from State CSBG Directors and local service providers or State and Regional organizations of local service providers, as appropriate, regarding need for the proposed project. b. Work program. The application must contain a detailed and specific work program that is both sound and feasible. Applicants must address how the proposed project will carry out the legislative mandate and the program activities found in Part B. This section of the narrative must include the goals of the project related to the needs, the activities that they propose to carry out to address those goals, the methods by which they will carry out those activities, and the plan for disseminating products resulting from the project, where appropriate. Project activities must be described in a quantitative manner, e.g. number of training days, number of workshops, number of persons to be trained, number of local services providers to be impacted, materials to be developed, etc. The applicant must define the comprehensive nature of the proposed project and the methods which will be used to ensure that it is a nationwide project. For data collection projects, applicants should, at a minimum, describe the methodology to be used to identify the kind of data to be collected, how the data will be collected, how the applicant will assure that the appropriate data will be collected, a plan for data analysis, the methods by which the data will be disseminated and the audiences, and a plan for conducting an assessment of the usefulness of data collected. The application must (1) set forth realistic quarterly time targets by which the various work tasks will be completed; (2) include a plan for conducting an assessment of its activities as they relate to the goals and objectives; and (3) include a description of how the applicant will involve other appropriate organizations in the planning or implementation of the project in order to avoid duplication of effort and to leverage additional resources. c. Significant and beneficial impact. Each applicant must indicate how the project will have a significant and beneficial impact. At a minimum the applicant must provide (1) A description of how the project will result in long-term improvements for the State organization receiving CSBG funds and/or local providers who receive CSBG as a subgrantee of the State and (2) the types and amounts of public and/or private resources it will mobilize and how those resources will directly benefit the project. An applicant proposing a project with a training and technical assistance focus also must indicate the number of local service providers and/or staff it will impact. An applicant proposing a project with a data collection focus also must provide a description of the mechanism the applicant will use to collect data, how it can assure collections from a significant number of states, and how many states will be willing to submit data to the applicant.
