FR940617-0-00074 FR940617-0-00016 Section 290.4␣Confidentiality of Cave Information The majority of respondents focused on three concerns: (1) That the confidentiality language of the proposed rule went beyond the intent of the Act. They specifically noted that the provisions were to apply only to cave locations, not other cave information. Further, they felt that these provisions would inhibit exchange of information between the caving community and the Federal agencies. (2) That caves not designated significant have their locations protected under confidentiality provisions. Otherwise, all information about that cave would become public. (3) That denial of cave location information be subject to appeal. A couple of respondents noted that the requirements for requesting information differed between the FS proposed rule and the USDI proposed rule. Two others expressed the concern that without knowing the exact location of a cave, it is impossible for a mineral lessee to know whether the cave will affect his lease. Paragraph (a) has been revised to indicate that only location information will be held confidential, but other specific information could be withheld if, in the judgment of the authorized officer, it would reveal the location of a cave. Locational information for all caves will be protected until the designation decision is made. This protection will continue for caves listed as significant. The information submitted for caves that are not listed will be returned to the person or organization submitting the nomination. Consequently, the responsibility for maintaining the confidentiality of unlisted caves will rest with the originator of the information and not with the agency. Paragraph (b) of this section has procedures to request confidential information, and has been rewritten to be identical to the language adopted by the USDI in its final rule for uniformity. Paragraph (c), which states the decision regarding access to information is not appealable, has been retained. The Act provides specific exemption from the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act. It is the Department's determination that the appeal process would not further public interest in protecting cave information. A procedure exists to permit the release of cave locations. The authorized officer will release cave location information based on a written request and a determination that the request would further the purposes of the Act and would not create a substantial risk of harm, theft, or destruction of such cave. General Comments on 36 CFR Part 261 Implementation of Proposed Prohibitions One respondent was confused by the prohibitions. Concern was expressed that some additional action must occur for the prohibition to take effect. Prohibitions applying to National Forest System lands are separated into three Subparts: General Prohibitions; Prohibitions in Areas Designated by Order; and Prohibitions in Regions. General Prohibitions are enforced on all National Forest System lands and do not require any formal posting. Prohibitions in Areas Designated by Order require an additional action to inform a forest visitor. The order must be posted in accordance with 261.51 of this chapter. Criminal and Civil Penalties Several respondents noted that existing penalties do not correspond to the penalties described in Sections 7 and 8 of the Act. The primary purpose of the current rulemaking was to establish the criteria for significant caves. Where it was expedient to make minor adjustments to existing prohibitions in order to help protect significant cave resources, this was also done. If experience with administering significant cave resources shows additional regulations and penalties are needed, subsequent rulemaking specific to those management concerns will be undertaken. Collection and Removal From Federal Caves Several respondents noted that the rule is unclear on how collecting permits will be issued or regulated. The Forest Service has an established procedure for issuing special use permits, which is regulated through rules of subpart B of part 251, title 36. All permits for significant caves must be in accordance with this regulation. Section-by-Section Comments on 36 CFR Part 261 Section 261.2␣Definitions All respondents commenting on definitions of caves and cave resources under 290.2, repeated their comments here. Several respondents noted that these definitions should be identical to those defined in section 290.2.
