FR940303-0-00036 FR940303-0-00011 (iii) Amounts not treated as paid or incurred . An amount is not includible in carryover-allocation basis unless it is treated as paid or incurred under the method of accounting used by the taxpayer. For example, a cash method taxpayer cannot include construction costs in carryover-allocation basis unless the costs have been paid, and an accrual method taxpayer cannot include construction costs in carryover- allocation basis unless they have been properly accrued. See paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section for a special rule for fees. (iv) Fees . A fee is includible in carryover-allocation basis only to the extent the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section are met and_ (A) The fee is reasonable; (B) The taxpayer is legally obligated to pay the fee; (C) The fee is capitalizable as part of the taxpayer's basis in land or depreciable property that is reasonably expected to be part of the project; (D) The fee is not paid (or to be paid) by the taxpayer to itself; and (E) If the fee is paid (or to be paid) by the taxpayer to a related person, and the taxpayer uses the cash method of accounting, the taxpayer could properly accrue the fee under the accrual method of accounting (considering, for example, the rules of section 461(h)). A person is a related person if the person bears a relationship to the taxpayer specified in sections 267(b) or 707(b)(1), or if the person and the taxpayer are engaged in trades or businesses under common control (within the meaning of subsections (a) and (b) of section 52). (3) Reasonably expected basis . Rules similar to the rules of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply in determining the taxpayer's reasonably expected basis in a project (land and depreciable basis) as of the close of the second calendar year following the calendar year of the allocation. (4) Examples . The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Example 1 . (i) Facts . C, an accrual-method taxpayer, receives a carryover allocation from Agency, the state housing credit agency, in September of 1993. As of that date, C has not begun construction of the low-income housing building C plans to build. However, C has owned the land on which C plans to build the building since 1985. C's basis in the land is $100,000. C reasonably expects that by the end of 1995, C's basis in the project of which the building is to be a part will be $2,000,000. C also expects that because the project is located in a qualified census tract, C will be able to increase its basis in the project to $2,600,000. Before the close of 1993, C incurs $150,000 of costs for architects' fees and site preparation. C properly accrues these costs under its method of accounting and capitalizes the costs. (ii) Determination of carryover-allocation basis . C's $100,000 basis in the land is includible in carryover-allocation basis even though C has owned the land since 1985. The $150,000 of costs C has incurred for architects' fees and site preparation are also includible in carryover-allocation basis. The expected increase in basis due to the project's location in a qualified census tract is not taken into account in determining C's carryover-allocation basis. Accordingly, C's carryover-allocation basis in the project of which the building is a part is $250,000. (iii) Determination of whether building is qualified . C's reasonably expected basis in the project at the close of the second calendar year following the calendar year of allocation is $2,000,000. The expected increase in eligible basis due to the project's location in a qualified census tract is not taken into account in determining this amount. Because C's carryover-allocation basis is more than 10 percent of C's reasonably expected basis in the project of which the building is a part, the building for which C received the carryover allocation is a qualified building for purposes of section 42(h)(1)(E)(ii) and paragraph (a) of this section. Example 2 . (i) Facts . D, an accrual-method taxpayer, receives a carryover allocation from Agency, the state housing credit agency, on September 11, 1993. As of that date, D has not begun construction of the low-income housing building D plans to build and D does not have basis in the land on which D plans to build the building. In 1993, D incurs some costs related to the planned building, including architects' fees. However, at the close of 1993, these costs do not exceed 10 percent of D's reasonably expected basis in the project. (ii) Determination of whether building is qualified . Because D's carryover-allocation basis is not more than 10 percent of D's reasonably expected basis in the project of which the building is a part, the building for which D received a carryover allocation is not a qualified building for purposes of section 42(h)(1)(E)(ii) and paragraph (a) of this section. The carryover allocation to D is not valid, and is treated as if it had not been made. (c) Verification of basis by Agency _(1) Verification requirement . An Agency that makes a carryover allocation to a taxpayer must verify that, as of the close of the calendar year of allocation, the taxpayer has incurred more than 10 percent of the reasonably expected basis in the project (land and depreciable basis).
