FR940222-2-00093 FR940222-2-00073 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration [Docket No. 94&hyph;11; Notice 01] Evaluation Report on Glass-Plastic Windshield Glazing, Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, Motor Vehicle Glazing Materials agency: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. action: Request for comments. summary: This notice announces the publication by NHTSA of an Evaluation Report concerning Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 205, ``Glazing Materials.'' This staff report evaluates the safety, durability, and cost of glass-plastic windshield glazing which was introduced, for a limited time, in selected new passenger car models. The report was developed in accordance with Executive Order 12866, which requires Federal agencies to carry out periodic reviews of regulations that they have promulgated. NHTSA seeks public review and comment on this evaluation. Comments will be used to complete the review as required by the Executive Order. dates: Comments must be received no later than May 23, 1994. addresses: Report: Interested persons may obtain a copy of the report free of charge by sending a self-addressed mailing label to: Ms. Glorious Harris (NAD&hyph;51), National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Comments: All comments should refer to the docket and notice number of this notice and be submitted to: Docket Section, room 5109, Nassif Building, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. [Docket Hours, 9:30 a.m.&hyph;4 p.m., Monday through Friday.] It is requested but not required that 10 copies of comments be submitted. Submissions containing information for which confidential treatment is requested should be submitted (3 copies) to Chief Counsel, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, room 5219, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590, and 7 copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be sent to the Docket Section. for further information contact: Mr. Frank G. Ephraim, Chief, Evaluation Division, Office of Strategic Planning and Evaluation, Plans and Policy, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, room 5208, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590 (202&hyph;366&hyph;1574). supplementary information: Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) No. 205 (49 CFR 571.205), ``Glazing Materials,'' issued by NHTSA in January 1968, prescribes safety requirements for all glazing materials used in motor vehicles, including the windshield, the windows, and any interior partitions. The purpose of the standard is to reduce injuries resulting from impact with glazing surfaces, to ensure a necessary degree of transparency in motor vehicle windows for driver visibility, and to minimize the possibility of occupants being thrown through the vehicle windshield in collisions. In 1985, the agency published an evaluation study (DOT HS 806 693, February 1985) of conventional windshield glazing which has been standard equipment in American-made vehicles since the mid-1960's. Conventional glazing, often referred to as ``HPR'' (or High Penetration Resistant) glazing, was found to be a significant safety improvement over prior glazing designs, and was credited with bringing about a major reduction in the frequency and severity of head and facial injuries which resulted from occupants being thrown against the windshield in crashes. The primary benefit of the HPR design was a large reduction in the more severe facial lacerations and fractures, with a more modest reduction in minor lacerations, the majority of which still remained after HPR glazing was introduced. In 1983, NHTSA amended FMVSS No. 205 to permit (but not require) the use of a new type of glazing, known as ``glass-plastic'' glazing. Glass-plastic glazing is similar in construction to the type used in the HPR windshield design except for the addition of a thin sheet of plastic bonded to the inside surface of the windshield. This feature was believed to have a high potential for reducing lacerative injuries to occupants who struck the windshield during crashes. At the same time, there was some concern over the durability of the softer plastic liner of the glass-plastic windshield relative to the inner glass surface of the standard HPR windshield. Following NHTSA's amendment of FMVSS No. 205, two motor vehicle manufacturers equipped a number of their cars with glass-plastic windshields for field testing in rental fleets. One of the manufacturers also introduced the windshield to the general public by making it standard equipment on selected make models for a limited period of time. NHTSA is conducting an evaluation study of glass-plastic glazing to assess its potential for lacerative injury reduction, its durability characteristics, and its costs. The report is based on analyses of data from State crash files; fleet tests; and on information from vehicle manufacturers, glass companies, and other sources. The primary findings and conclusions of the study are: • Safety. Although insufficient to support firm conclusions, crash data from both State files and fleet tests indicate that lacerative injury reduction benefits from glass-plastic windshields are substantially less than the virtual elimination of these injuries, originally projected by the agency. While the plastic inner liner does reduce cuts from broken glass, lacerations can still occur from blunt impact with the plastic liner. • Durability. Data from rental fleet operations and manufacturer warranty claims indicate that durability problems are greater than anticipated. Primarily, these problems involve the susceptibility of the plastic inner liner to damage (cuts, scratches) from the everyday motor vehicle environment. • Costs. In volume quantities, it is estimated that a glass-plastic windshield will add $65 to the cost of a new car. Additional consumer costs would accrue due to the lower durability of the windshield compared to the conventional windshield. The cost of replacing a glass-plastic windshield is estimated to be over $1,700, compared to about $500 for replacing a conventional windshield. This high cost difference has caused most replacements of glass-plastic windshields to be made with conventional windshields, thereby negating any safety benefit inherent in the glass-plastic glazing. •Today's high rates of safety belt use, together with the high installation rates of air bags_in contrast to the situation a decade ago when the agency authorized the use of glass-plastic glazing means that the size of the lacerative injury problem due to windshield contact in crashes is now substantially smaller and will continue to decrease. NHTSA invites comments from interested persons on the evaluation study summarized in this notice and on other relevant issues. Comments must not exceed 15 pages in length. (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary comments in a concise fashion. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the docket should enclose a self-addressed stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. (15 U.S.C. 1392, 1401, 1407; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 501.8) Issued on: February 9, 1994. Donald C. Bischoff, Associate Administrator for Plans and Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3871 Filed 2&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
