FR940527-0-00082 FR940527-0-00024 40. Alascom's claim that it was somehow harmed by the Joint Board's use of nonrestricted procedures is especially curious because, at the outset of the proceeding, the Commission unequivocally put the public on notice that such procedures would be used. As Alascom acknowledges, the 1985 Order convening the Joint Board expressly classified the proceeding as a nonrestricted notice and comment rulemaking. 60 In fact, Alascom itself has taken full advantage of the ex parte rules at every stage of the proceeding, and only now complains that it was error for the Commission and Joint Board to employ them. One of the main purposes of providing notice of ex parte procedures at the commencement of proceedings is to obtain timely public comment on those procedures. In light of that, we believe it was incumbent upon Alascom to voice its complaints on this process in a much more timely manner. Alascom, however, remained silent on this issue until the eve of the Joint Board's recommendation. Accordingly, for all of the reasons stated here and in the Final Recommended Decision, we reject Alascom's tardy claims that incorrect procedures were used in this proceeding. 60 Alascom Application for Review at 28. 41. Likewise, Alascom's argument that the Sunshine Act was violated has no merit. The Joint Board explained in detail why a gathering of Joint Board members with no FCC commissioners present cannot properly be called a meeting for purposes of the Sunshine Act. 61 It also discussed why the same is true when only one FCC commissioner is in attendance, or when two FCC commissioners attend a nondeliberative portion of a gathering. 62 Since we are not faced with the various hypotheticals posited by Alascom in its Application, there is no reason to address whether the Sunshine Act might apply in such situation. 63 61 Final Recommended Decision, FCC 93J&hyph;2 at para. 174. 62 Id. at paras. 175&hyph;76. Thus despite Alascom's insinuations, the subject matter of the various meetings among the state members of the Joint Board has no relevance because the meetings were not subject to the Sunshine Act requirements. 63 While Alascom states that it believes that the full Joint Board met and deliberated in Washington, D.C. in March 1993, it provides no basis for this allegation. In fact, no such meeting of the Alaska Joint Board occurred. From its pleading, it appears the Alascom inexplicably has confused the Alaska Joint Board with the Separations Joint Board convened in CC Docket 80&hyph;286, which did conduct an open meeting in Washington, D.C. during the month of March 1993, after notice to the public. See Alascom Application for Review at Attachment A. 42. The remainder of Alascom's contentions with regard to the Sunshine Act stem from its mistaken impression that the FCC's ex parte rules and Sunshine ``open meeting'' rules are one and the same. The ex parte provisions, which are contained in Sections 1.1200 through 1.1216 of the Commission's rules, deal with contacts between the public and the Commission and specify certain time periods when such contact is prohibited (e.g., the Sunshine Agenda period). In contrast, the Sunshine rules, which appear in Section 0.601 through 0.607 of the rules, implement the Sunshine Act and relate to the manner in which the FCC conducts its open meetings. Thus, Alascom's conclusion is incorrect that the language in the Order convening the Joint Board providing that state commissioners be considered FCC commissioners for purposes of the FCC's ex parte rules necessarily required Joint Board compliance with the Sunshine rules governing open meetings. 64 Alascom also is incorrect that the Joint Board was subject to the open meeting rules because it stated in the Tentative Recommendation that ex parte presentations would be permitted ``except during the Sunshine Agenda period.'' 65 Simply stated, the imposition of the FCC's ex parte procedures in a Joint Board proceeding would not subject the Board to the Sunshine Act's open meeting requirements. 66 64 We note that in some circumstances, Joint Board gatherings in this rulemaking proceeding clearly would be subject to the open meeting requirement, e.g. , when three FCC commissioners attend (a quorum of the Commission). Also, the meeting at which we considered the Board's Final Recommended Decision and adopted this order was subject to the open meeting requirement. 65 Alascom Application for Review at 28&hyph;29. 66 Alascom offers no support for its contention that the Joint Board meeting at which the Final Recommended Decision was adopted somehow evaded the purpose of the Sunshine Act because little debate or discussion occurred there, and we are unwilling to presume a violation of the Sunshine Act based on this bald assertion. Indeed, the October 26, 1993 open meeting was convened and conducted in accordance with the FCC's usual procedures. 43. Quoting language from the Final Recommended Decision that ``only the full Joint Board (of which the FCC Commissioners are a minority) is authorized to make recommendations to the Commission,'' Alascom argues that the state members acted beyond their delegated authority when they held state member-only meetings and issued data requests. Even assuming arguendo that only the full Board may make ``recommendations'' to the FCC, it does not follow that the state members are precluded from ``acting'' altogether. We find no basis for Alascom's conclusion that the Communications Act or any other law prohibits the state members from conferring among themselves about Alaska issues or from asking for information from parties to the proceeding. 67 67 Even if Alascom is correct that the state members' data requests do not appear on the record, it is hard to see how it suffered any harm when, as Alascom acknowledges, the responses to the data requests are in the record.
