FR941117-2-00166 FR941117-2-00108 Application Disclaimer The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA, ACTR/ACCELS, IIE, IREX, or Soros Foundations representative. Explanatory information provided by USIA, ACTR/ACCELS, IIE, IREX, or the Soros Foundation that contradicts published language will not constitute a commitment on the part of the Government or the implementing organization. Final notifications cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated, and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification Applications will be notified in writing of the results of the review process on or about April 15, 1995. Final placement of students at institutions is subject to the specific academic interests and needs of individuals selected as Muskie Fellows. Please note: USIA retains the right to determine final selection decisions with regard to the competition for institutions to host Muskie Fellows. The Agency also reserves the right to determine final placement decisions. When the needs of the program warrant, the Agency may invite selected institutions to host Fellows whose academic needs require specialized placement. Options for Renewal Subject to the availability of funding and the satisfactory performance of host institutions, USIA, on behalf of the Muskie Fellowship Program, may invite grantee organizations to submit proposals for renewal of awards. Review Process ACTR/ACCELS, IREX Soros, or IIE will acknowledge receipt of all applications and will review them for technical eligibility. Applications will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein and in the Application Package. Eligible applications will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible applications may also be reviewed by the Agency contracts office, as well as the USIA Office of East European and NIS Affairs, the USIS posts overseas, the Office of General Council, or other Agency elements, where appropriate. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about April 15, 1994. Dated: November 9, 1994. John P. Loiello, Associate Director, Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28061 Filed 11&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
