FR940106-1-00121 FR940106-1-00013 The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to propose this rule. Sacramento splittail have declined by 62 percent over the last 15 years. This species has been extirpated from portions of its range. In the Estuary during the past 2 decades, the entrapment zone, associated with the important nurseries for splittail, has been more frequently shifted upstream to a confined area of greater depth as a result of drought conditions, water management schedules, and the continual and increasing demand for water exports and diversions. These factors will continue to adversely affect all life stages of splittail. Threatened status is proposed for the Sacramento splittail because of several factors. The population has declined by 62 percent within 15 years. The historical and current range of the species is constricted. Changes in water salinity and the reverse flow of water has shifted the distribution of individuals upstream and has caused the fish to be vulnerable to State and Federal pumping plants. The death of these fish due to pumping continues at present and is likely to continue in the future. Water exports also threaten the quality and quantity of habitat at present and for the future. Because Sacramento splittail are long-lived, their decline has been gradual, and extinction is not imminent, listing the splittail as endangered would not be appropriate. Although this species is not in imminent danger of extinction at this time, it is likely to become endangered in the foreseeable future. Therefore, based on the evaluation of all available information on abundance, present distribution, and threats to this species, the Service has determined that proposing to list the Sacramento splittail as threatened is appropriate at this time. Critical habitat is not determinable for reasons discussed in the ``Critical Habitat'' section of this rule. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary propose critical habitat concurrently with proposing a species to be endangered or threatened. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat for the Sacramento splittail is not determinable at this time. Regulations at 50 CFR 424.12(a)(2) state that critical habitat is not determinable if information sufficient to perform required analyses of the impacts of the designation is lacking or if the biological needs of the species are not sufficiently known to permit identification of an area of critical habitat. The Service's efforts to gather information on the potential benefits of designating critical habitat for splittail may lead to the conclusion that designation of critical habitat is not prudent. Regulations at 50 CFR 424.12(a)(1) state that a designation of critical habitat is not prudent when the species is threatened by taking or other human activity, and identification of critical habitat can be expected to increase the degree of such threat to the species, or when such designation would not be beneficial to the species.
