FR940722-1-00029 FR940722-1-00011 (3) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected expenses for such treatment. (4) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his or her employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether he or she is a full-or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost. (5) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings lost. For example, income tax returns for several years prior to the injury in question and the year in which the injury occurred may be used to indicate or measure lost income; a statement of how much it did or would cost the claimant to hire someone else to do the same work he or she was doing at the time of injury might also be used in measuring lost income. (6) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed. (b) Death. In support of a claim based on death, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information: (1) An authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing cause of death, date of death, and age of the decedent. (2) Decedent's employment or occupation at the time of death, including his or her monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of his or her last employment or occupation. (3) Full name, address, birth date, kinship and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent for support upon the decedent at the time of his or her death. (4) Degree of support afforded by the decedent to each survivor dependent upon him or her for support at the time of his or her death. (5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition before his or her death. (6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred by reason of the incident causing death, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses. (7) If damages for pain and suffering prior to death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain, and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injury and death. (8) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or damages claimed. (c) Property damages. In support of a claim for injury to or loss of property, real or personal, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information with respect to each item of property:
