FR941216-1-00123 FR941216-1-00012 (4) Black numbers appear on orange backgrounds as used by NATO, UNO, IMO, and DOT. Relectorized or luminous symbols are preferred. (b) Firefighting procedures. (1) General (i) Fires should be immediately reported and may be fought without specific authorization. However, personnel should evacuate and seek safety if fires involve explosive materials or cannot be controlled by equipment at hand. Training of operational personnel shall cover the characteristics of explosive materials, including their reactions to heat and fire, as well as what to do in case of fire. (ii) Firefighters should be thoroughly informed of the specific reactions of A&E exposed to heat or fire. (iii) Firefighters should be briefed on conditions at the scene before proceeding. (iv) Ammunition contained both explosives and chemicals require special precautionary measures. See Subpart K of this part. (2) Specific. (i) Personnel shall not attempt to fight fires involving A&E in Hazard Divisions 1.1 and 1.2. Because this material detonates with a fragmentation hazard, personnel shall evacuate immediately, using protective cover and activating deluge systems and fire alarms while escaping. Individuals remain in danger until they reach shelters, although reaching inhabited building distances in the open affords some safety. During exit drills, employees shall be advised of the safest escape routes. (ii) If the fire in a Hazard Division 1.1 or 1.2 buildings involves nonexplosive material and is small or in a segregated container, an attempt may be made to extinguish the fire. After summoning firefighters, responsible parties should attempt to meet them as they approach to brief them. When 1.1 or 1.2 materials are directly involved, firefighting forces should maintain inhabited building distance from the fire. The safety of personnel fighting a 1.1 or 1.2 fire depends on the accuracy of the information made available to all firefighting forces. No person shall reenter a burning building containing 1.1 or 1.2 materials. (iii) Personnel in the immediate vicinity of Hazard Division 1.3 explosives should activate deluge systems and alarms. Unless the fire is minor, involves no explosive, and appears controllable, the firefighting organization shall confine its efforts to preventing it from spreading to other buildings. Fire in Hazard Division 1.3 materials creates a wide area of intense radiant heat, dangerous to personnel and equipment. The firefighting organization should exercise extreme caution. (iv) Hazard Division 1.4 A&E present a moderate fire hazard. Fires involving them shall be fought until extinguished. ยง184.107 Automatic sprinkler systems. Properly installed and maintained automatic sprinklers reduce fire losses. They are particularly useful for load lines; explosives manufacturing; receiving, shipping, inspection, and ammunition workshops; and demilitarization. ยง184.108 Clearance under sprinklers. At least 18 inches shall separate sprinkler deflectors from store materials piled 15 feet high or less; in all other cases, the clearance shall be at least 36 inches. A minimum clearance of 36 inches shall be maintained between sprinklers and extremely hazardous materials, and between sprinklers and baled storage, regardless of height. ยง184.109 Deluge systems. (a) Deluge systems should supplement sprinklers when the hazards are high, as in powder hoppers and cutters. Rate of rise, light-actuating, ultraviolet, or other quick-action devices for automatic control of deluge systems are recommended. Quick-acting manual controls should serve as backup. (b) To ensure immediate drenching of all parts of the machine, the distribution outlets (nozzles, sprays, heads, etc.) should be as near the explosive's exposed surface as permitted by the outlet discharge pattern. When explosives are under tight hoods or covers inside machines, distributing outlets belong inside the enclosed space.
