FR940830-2-00096 FR940830-2-00056 Carla M. Stern, Attorney, Midwest Field Office, United States Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, Midwest Field Office, Suite 600, 209 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60604, Telephone: (312) 353&hyph;7530 Nora M. Manella, United States Attorney, Roger E. West, Assistant United States Attorney, Telephone: (213) 894&hyph;2461, Attorneys for Plaintiff United States Of America, Plaintiff, v. California SunCare, Inc., Defendant. Civil Action No. 94&hyph;5522 (For Violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act) The United States of America, plaintiff, by its attorneys acting under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States, brings this civil action against the above-named defendant and complains and alleges as follows: I Jurisdiction And Venue 1. This complaint is filed under Section 4 of the Sherman Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. ยง4), in order to prevent and restrain violations, as hereinafter alleged, by the defendant of Section 1 of the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. ยง1). 2. Defendant transacts business and is found in the Central District of California and maintains its principal office in the Central District of California. II Definitions 3. ``Person'' means any individual, corporation, partnership, company, sole proprietorship, firm or other legal entity. 4. ``Dealer'' means any person, not wholly owned by California SunCare, Inc., who purchases or acquires indoor tanning products manufactured or sold by California SunCare Inc. for resale. 5. ``Indoor tanning products'' means products applied to the skin in order to enhance, promote, preserve, or accelerate the skin tanning process or to protect the skin from adverse effects that may result from the tanning process. III Defendant And Co-Conspirators 6. California SunCare, Inc. (``California SunCare'') is made a defendant herein. California SunCare is a corporation located in the Central District of California, organized and existing under the laws of the State of California. 7. Various companies and individuals who are dealers, not made defendants in this complaint, have been induced to participate by and have participated with the defendant in the offense charged herein and performed acts and made statements in furtherance of it. IV Trade And Commerce 8. California SunCare is a leading seller of indoor tanning products in the United States. The indoor tanning products sold by California SunCare are manufactured by California SunCare in California. 9. California SunCare sells substantial quantities of indoor tanning products to dealers throughout the United States. These dealers resell California SunCare's indoor tanning products throughout the United States to tanning salons which in turn resell the tanning products to consumers. 10. During the period covered by this complaint, there has been a continuous and uninterrupted flow in interstate commerce of indoor tanning products from California SunCare's facilities in California to dealers throughout the United States. The activities of the defendant and its co-conspirators, as hereinafter described, have been within the flow of, and have substantially affected, interstate commerce.
