FR941121-0-00065 FR941121-0-00008 (C) Whether compliance was continuous or intermittent; (D) The method(s) used for determining the compliance status of the early reductions source, currently and over the reporting period consistent with paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and (E) Such other facts as the Administrator may require to determine the compliance status of the early reductions source; (iv) A requirement that all compliance certifications be submitted to the Administrator or the Administrator's designated agent; and (v) Such additional requirements as may be specified pursuant to sections 114(a)(3) and 504(b) of the Act. (4) Such other provisions as the Administrator may require. (d) Permit shield. (1) The Administrator will expressly include in a permit issued pursuant to this subpart a provision stating that compliance with the conditions of the permit shall be deemed compliance with part 63, subpart D, of this chapter (the Early Reductions Rule), as of the date of permit issuance. (2) A permit shield may be extended to all permit terms and conditions for alternate operating scenarios pursuant to paragraph (a)(9) of this section or that allow increases and decreases in hazardous air pollutant emissions pursuant to paragraph (a)(10) of this section. (3) Nothing in this paragraph (d) or in any permit issued pursuant to this subpart shall alter or affect the following: (i) The provisions of sections 112(r) and 303 of the Act (emergency orders); (ii) The liability of an owner or operator of an early reductions source for any violation of applicable requirements prior to or at the time of permit issuance; or (iii) The ability of the Administrator to obtain information from an early reductions source pursuant to section 114 of the Act. (e) Emergency provision._ (1) Definition . An ``emergency'' means any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the control of the early reductions source, including acts of God, which situation requires immediate corrective action to restore normal operation, and that causes the early reductions source to exceed an emission limitation under the permit, due to unavoidable increases in emissions attributable to the emergency. An emergency shall not include noncompliance to the extent caused by improperly designed equipment, lack of preventative maintenance, careless or improper operation, or operator error. (2) Effect of an emergency . An emergency constitutes an affirmative defense to an action brought for noncompliance with such an emission limitation if the conditions of paragraph (e)(3) of this section are met. (3) The affirmative defense of emergency shall be demonstrated through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant evidence that: (i) An emergency occurred and that the permittee can identify the cause(s) of the emergency; (ii) The permitted facility was at the time being properly operated; (iii) During the period of the emergency the permittee took all reasonable steps to minimize levels of emissions that exceeded the emission limitation, or other requirements in the permit; and (iv) The permittee submitted notice of the emergency to the Administrator within 2 working days of the time when emission limitations were exceeded due to the emergency. This notice fulfills the requirement of paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section. This notice must contain a description of the emergency, any steps taken to mitigate emissions, and corrective actions taken. (4) In any enforcement proceeding, the permittee seeking to establish the occurrence of an emergency has the burden of proof. ยง71.26 Permit issuance, reopenings, and revisions. (a) Action on application. (1) A permit or permit revision may be issued only if all of the following conditions have been met:
