FR940627-1-00017 FR940627-1-00009 Three species of introduced plants threaten D. undulata. The historic native flora of Hawaii consisted of about 1,000 species, 89 percent of which were endemic. Of the total native and naturalized Hawaiian flora of 1,817 species, 47 percent were introduced from other parts of the world and nearly 100 species have become pests (Smith 1985, Wagner et al. 1990). Naturalized, introduced species degrade the Hawaiian landscape and compete with native plants for space, light, water, and nutrients (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). Some of these species were brought to Hawaii by various groups of people, including the Polynesian immigrants, for food or cultural reasons. Plantation owners, alarmed at the reduction of water resources for their crops caused by the destruction of native forest cover by grazing feral animals, supported the introduction of alien tree species for reforestation. Ranchers intentionally introduced pasture grasses and other species for agriculture, and sometimes inadvertently introduced weed seeds as well. Other plants were brought to Hawaii for their potential horticultural value (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Wenkam 1969). Passiflora mollissima (banana poka), a woody vine, poses a serious problem to mesic forests on Kauai and Hawaii by covering trees, reducing the amount of light that reaches trees as well as understory, and causing damage and death to trees by the weight of the vines. Animals, especially feral pigs, eat the fruit and distribute the seeds (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Escobar 1990). P. mollissima is a threat to D. undulata and its habitat (J. Giffin, in litt., 1993. Senecio mikanioides (German ivy) is another vine that poses a serious threat to mesic and dry forests on Hawaii. It is becoming established on Maui as well. Senecio mikanioides may be capable of establishing itself over vast areas of the island of Hawaii, including most of Hualalai. The vine covers the forest canopy, which can result in structural damage and the reduction of available light. Senecio mikanioides also can form a significant ground cover in native forests of the southern Kona region of Hawaii where it may limit native plant reproduction (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). Senecio mikanioides threatens D. undulata and its habitat (J. Giffin, in litt., 1993). Pennisetum clandestinum (Kikuyu grass), an aggressive, fire adapted, perennial grass introduced to Hawaii as a pasture grass, withstands trampling and grazing and has naturalized on four Hawaiian Islands in dry to mesic forest. It produces thick mats which choke out other plants and prevent their seedlings from becoming established. It has been declared a noxious weed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (7 CFR 360) (O'Connor 1990, Smith 1985). Because Hawaiian plants were subjected to fire during their evolution only in areas of volcanic activity and from occasional lightning strikes, they are not adapted to recurring fire regimes and are unable to recover well following a fire. Fires may result from natural causes, or they may be accidentally or purposely set by people. Vegetation on the slopes of Hualalai is particularly vulnerable to fire due to the extensive invasion of P. clandestinum. Alien plants are often better adapted to fire than native plant species, and some fire-adapted grasses have become widespread in Hawaii. Native shrubland can thus be converted to land dominated by alien grasses. The presence of such species in Hawaiian ecosystems greatly increases the intensity, extent, and frequency of fire, especially during drier months or drought. Fire-adapted alien species can reestablish in a burned area, resulting in a reduction in the amount of native vegetation after each fire. Fire can destroy dormant seeds as well as mature plants and seedlings, even in steep or inaccessible areas. The only known individual of D. undulata occurs in an area heavily grazed by cattle, and is offered some protection from fires since the cattle reduce the fuel load of P. clandestinum. However, fire remains a potentially serious threat to the only known individual of D. undulata, its potential regeneration, and other suitable habitat (J. Giffin, in litt., 1993). The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by D. undulata in determining to propose this rule. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list D. undulata as endangered. Only one individual of this species is known to exist, and it is threatened by habitat degradation by feral ungulates and alien plants, fire, and lack of legal protection. Small population size makes this species particularly vulnerable to reduced reproductive vigor and/or extinction from stochastic events. Because this species is in danger of extinction throughout all of its range, it fits the definition of endangered as defined in the Act. Critical Habitat
