FR940208-2-00187 FR940208-2-00093 Filing, Service and Communications 29. No document is filed with the Secretariat until one original and five copies of the document are received by the responsible Secretariat during its normal business hours and within the time period fixed for filing. 30. (1) All documents filed by a participant, other than documents required by rule 59 to be served by the responsible Secretary and documents referred to in subrule 39(2), rule 40, subrule 41(2)(a) and rule 42 shall be served by the participant on the counsel of record of each of the other participants or, where another participant is not represented by counsel, on the other participant. (2) Subject to subrules 35(a) and 59(4), a document may be served by (a) delivering a copy of the document to the service address of the participant; (b) sending a copy of the document to the service address of the participant by facsimile transmission or by an expedited delivery courier or expedited mail service, such as express mail in the United States or Priority Post in Canada; or (c) personal service on the participant. (3) A proof of service shall appear on, or be affixed to, all documents referred to in subrule (1). (4) Where a document is served by an expedited delivery courier or expedited mail service, the date of service set out in the affidavit of service or certificate of service shall be the day on which the document is consigned to the courier service or expedited mail service. 31. (1) Where, under these rules, a document containing proprietary information, privileged information or personal information is required to be filed under seal with the Secretariat or is required to be served under seal, the document shall be filed or served in accordance with this rule and, where applicable, in accordance with rule 33. (2) A document filed or served under seal shall be (a) bound separately from all other documents; (b) clearly marked (i) in the case of a document containing proprietary information, ``Proprietary'' or ``Confidential'', (ii) in the case of a document containing privileged information, ``Privileged'', and (iii) in the case of a document containing personal information, ``Personal Information''; and (c) contained in an opaque inner wrapper and an opaque outer wrapper. (3) An inner wrapper referred to in subrule (2)(c) shall indicate (a) that proprietary information, privileged information or personal information is enclosed, as the case may be; and (b) the Secretariat file number of the extraordinary challenge proceeding. 32. Filing or service of proprietary information, privileged information or personal information with the Secretariat does not constitute a waiver of the designation of the information as proprietary information, privileged information or personal information. 33. (1) Where a participant files a pleading that contains proprietary information, the participant shall file two sets of the pleading in the following manner: (a) one set shall be filed under seal, containing the proprietary information and labelled ``Proprietary'' or ``Confidential'', with the top of each page that contains proprietary information marked with the word ``Proprietary'' or ``Confidential'' and with the proprietary information enclosed in brackets; and (b) no later than one day following the day on which the set of pleadings referred to in subrule (a) is filed, another set not containing proprietary information shall be filed and labelled ``Non-Proprietary'' or ``Non-Confidential'', with each page from which proprietary information has been deleted marked to indicate the location from which the proprietary information was deleted.
