FR941107-2-00227 FR941107-2-00112 A. Patient Placement Place the patient in a private room that has (1) monitored negative air pressure in relation to the surrounding areas, (2) a minimum of six air changes per hour, and (3) appropriate discharge of air outdoors or monitored high-efficiency filtration of room air before the air is circulated to other areas in the hospital.23 Keep the room door closed and the patient in the room. When a private room is not available, place the patient in a room with a patient who has active infection with the same microorganism, unless otherwise recommended,23 but with no other infection. When a private room is not available and cohorting is not desirable, consultation with infection control professionals is advised before patient placement. Category IB B. Respiratory Protection Wear respiratory protection when entering the room of a patient with known or suspected infectious tuberculosis.23 Do not enter the room of patients known or suspected to have measles (rubeola) or varicella (chickenpox) if susceptible to these infections. Category IB C. Patient Transport Limit the movement and transport of the patient from the room to essential purposes only. If transport or movement is necessary, minimize patient dispersal of droplet nuclei by placing a surgical mask on the patient, if possible. Category IB D. Additional Precautions for Preventing Transmission of Tuberculosis Consult CDC Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of Tuberculosis in Health-Care Facilities23 for additional prevention strategies. IV. Droplet Precautions In addition to Standard Precautions, use Droplet Precautions, or the equivalent, for a patient known or suspected to be infected with microorganisms transmitted by droplets (large-particle droplets [larger than 5 microns in size] that can be generated by the patient during coughing, sneezing, talking, or the performance of procedures). Category IB A. Patient Placement Place the patient in a private room. When a private room is not available, place the patient in a room with a patient(s) who has active infection with the same microorganism, but with no other infection (cohorting). When a private room is not available and cohorting is not achievable, maintain spatial separation of at least 3 feet between the infected patient and other patients and visitors. Category IB B. Mask In addition to standard precautions, wear a mask when working within 3 feet of the patient. (Logistically, some hospitals may want to implement the wearing of a mask to enter the room.) Category IB C. Patient Transport Limit the movement and transport of the patient from the room to essential purposes only. If transport or movement is necessary, minimize patient dispersal of droplets by masking the patient, if possible. Category IB V. Contact Precautions In addition to Standard Precautions, use Contact Precautions, or the equivalent, for specified patients known or suspected to be infected or colonized with epidemiologically important microorganisms that can be transmitted by direct contact with the patient (hand or skin-to-skin contact that occurs when performing patient-care activities that require touching the patient's dry skin) or indirect contact (touching) with environmental surfaces or patient-care items in the patient's environment. Category IB
