FR940414-1-00006 FR940414-1-00001 List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1210 Agricultural promotion, Agricultural research, Market development, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Watermelons. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, part 1210, Chapter XI of title 7 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 1210_WATERMELON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 1210 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 4901&hyph;4916. Subpart_Procedure for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection with the Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan 2. Section 1210.200 is revised to read as follows: ยง1210.200 General. Referenda to determine whether producers, handlers, and importers favor issuance, suspension or termination of a Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart. 3. Section 1210.201 is amended in paragraph (a) to add at the end of the paragraph ``, as amended.''; in paragraph (g) by removing the phrase ``and handling'' and adding in its place ``, handling, and importing''; in paragraph (h) introductory text by removing the phrase ``five'' and adding in its place ``10''; and adding new paragraphs (j) and (k) to read as follows: ยง1210.201 Definitions. * * * * * (j) Importer means any person who imports watermelons into the United States as principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee for any person who produces watermelons outside the United States for sale in the United States. (k) United States means each of the several States and the District of Columbia. 4. Section 1210.202 is revised to read as follows: ยง1210.202 Voting. (a) Each person who is a producer, handler, or importer as defined in this subpart, at the time of the referendum and who also was a producer, handler, or importer during the representative period, shall be entitled to only one vote in the Referendum: Provided, That each producer in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce watermelons in which more than one of the parties is a producer, shall be entitled to one vote in the referendum covering only that producer's share of the ownership; Provided further, That the vote of a person who both produces and handles watermelons will be counted as a handler vote if the producer purchased watermelons from other producers, in a combined total volume that is equal to 25 percent or more of the producer's own production; or the combined total volume of watermelon handled by the producer from the producer's own production and purchases from other producer's production is more than 50 percent of the producer's own production; Provided further, That the vote of a person who both imports and handles watermelons will be counted as an importer vote if that person imports 50 percent or more of the combined total volume of watermelons handled and imported by that person. (b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of a corporate producer, handler, or importer, or an administrator, executor or trustee of a producing, handling, or importing entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that individual is an officer or employee of the producer, handler, or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of a producing, handling, or importing entity and that individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority. (c) Each producer, handler, or importer shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum. 5. Section 1210.203 is amended by revising paragraphs (b), (d)(2), and (d)(3) and adding a new paragraph (d)(4) to read as follows: ยง1210.203 Instructions. * * * * * (b) Determine procedures for casting ballots. * * * * *
