FR940516-2-00133 FR940516-2-00093 Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary proposes to give an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priority. The Secretary proposes to fund under this program only applications that meet this absolute priority: Proposed Priority: International Exchange of Information and Experts Background Since 1973, NIDRR has had statutory authority to conduct international research and development and to exchange rehabilitation and special education experts with other nations. International research and development activities significantly can change the perspectives of service providers and researchers, provide data for the evaluation of domestic programs, and offer new insights and new practices that can solve some of the old rehabilitation problems. Learning about the technical and cultural aspects of other countries' rehabilitation practices may assist U.S. rehabilitation practioners to improve the effectiveness of the the services they provide, especially for minority and immigrant populations. In the past, NIDRR approached international activities in two ways. NIDRR funded two projects to facilitate fellowships of non-governmental experts to other countries to gather data on practices, legislation, and policy. NIDRR also engaged in international activities on a government-to-government basis, participating in international policy and data generation through international organizations such as the U.N., Federal agencies such as the Department of State and the Peace Corps, direct grants to foreign research agencies, participation in foreign research consortia and conferences, and facilitation of site visits and study tours for foreign visitors. In order to enhance the impact of international activities on the rehabilitation field, NIDRR now seeks to fund a single project that will facilitate the exchange of both domestic and foreign experts in rehabilitation research and technical assistance; facilitate international conferences; disseminate useful information to rehabilitation personnel and researchers, independent living centers, and families; assist in relevant site visitations by foreign government officials; and develop training modules that increase participation in international activities by rehabilitation practitioners, policymakers, and individuals with disabilities. Proposed Priority A project on the international exchange of information and experts shall_ •Gather information on international rehabilitation issues, legislation, and programs, and maintain a library of such information for use by NIDRR and other researchers; •Facilitate small annual conferences to explore international issues or to share rehabilitation information and data with other governments; •Assist both foreign and domestic professionals or consumers to plan trips of particular policy and programmatic value through the development and listing of potential sites; •Establish an international exchange of research and technical assistance experts between foreign nations and the U.S.; •Share information with other Federal government agencies in order to assist them in the development of their research priorities in the area of disability; •Publish and disseminate data and information to relevant target audiencies on relevant policy issues and legislation, which are identified in conjunction with NIDRR; •Develop training activities and materials to sensitize rehabilitation personnel, including special education personnel, to cultural differences that can affect rehabilitation needs and approaches; and •Develop training activities and materials on comparative research techniques, bilateral consultation and technical assistance, utilizing the different international perspectives. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding this proposed priority. All comments submitted in response to this proposed priority will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 3423, Switzer Building, 330 C Street SW., Washington, DC between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Applicable Program Regulations 34 CFR parts 350 and 355. Program Authority: 29 U.S.C. 760&hyph;762. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.133D, Knowledge Dissemination and Utilization Program) Dated: May 10, 1994. Judith E. Heumann, Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11758 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
