FR940114-0-00055 FR940114-0-00020 Response: The Department will consider this suggestion for future rulemaking on wind load requirements. Comment: Special standards should be required for asphalt shingle performance in high wind areas, because of the large number of failures that occurred in Hurricane Andrew and ensuing structural and water damage caused by these failures. Response: The asphalt shingle industry research is not yet completed in this area. As an interim step, this final rule requires each shingle to be secured with two additional fasteners and underlayment to be cemented to the roof decking. Comment: Testing requirements should be specified for windows and doors to avoid missile damage in high winds. Safety standards can be enhanced without affecting affordability, by requiring operating shutters and proper anchoring (88 (2) ). Response: The Department encourages manufacturers to provide shutters or protective devices for homes in Wind Zones II and III. Under this rule manufacturers will be required, at a minimum, to provide instructions for an appropriate method of shutter or cover installation to protect the home, and to include shutter information on the data plate. The instructions must provide a method for protecting the windows and doors that is capable of withstanding design wind pressures without taking the home out of conformance with the standards. The application of shutters does not do away with the need for testing the doors or windows they protect. Comment: A requirement should be added for the use of perforated metal straps at the marriage line of the roof, between sections of doublewides, to transfer wind forces from the windward to the leeward side of the roof. Response: As part of its continuing evaluation of wind design requirements, the Department will assess the merits of this proposal. Comment: The Department needs to establish standards to regulate the addition of appurtenances to manufactured homes, such as porches, carports, and canopies, which experienced a large number of failures in Hurricane Andrew. The danger to occupants is further increased because the rule does not address the effect of dangerous appurtenances (52, 65, 122). Response: Under 24 CFR 3282.8(j) the standards currently do not govern add-ons, as long as the add-on doesn't affect the ability of the home to comply with the standards. However, as noted in that section, the Secretary has authority to promulgate standards for some add-ons. Accordingly, the Department is examining its authority in this area and may establish requirements in the future. In the interim, HUD encourages all States to establish standards covering the construction and attachment of these kinds of appurtenances to manufactured homes. Comment: Exposure D in ASCE 7&hyph;88 should be used for coastal shoreline areas. Response: Under this rule manufacturers are required to include on the data plate a statement that units designed to meet the minimum standards in this rule should not be located within 1500 feet of the coastline in Zones II and III. By this statement, the consumer is alerted that only units designed and anchored according to the higher design standards specified for coastal areas in ASCE 7&hyph;88 should be placed along the coastline. Comment: ``Wind safety'' is a misnomer; the science of weather forecasting allows ample notice of dangerous storms to permit evacuation (296&hyph;314). Homeowner safety is better served by evacuation in high winds than from protection afforded by the manufactured home structure. If a manufactured home is purported to be designed and constructed to withstand higher wind speeds, occupants may be less likely to evacuate the homes at the approach of a dangerous storm. Response: The Department agrees that if it is safe to do so, homeowners should attempt to reach a shelter capable of resisting high winds. However, without the imposition of these enhanced Wind Safety Standards, the numbers of deaths and injuries attributable to the inadequate performance of manufactured homes in high winds will continue unabated. In addition to reducing deaths and injuries, the Department's statutory responsibilities require the implementation of higher wind standards to reduce the insurance cost and amount of property damage resulting from manufactured home accidents and improvement of the quality and durability of manufactured homes. The Department believes that these higher wind standards will fulfill those responsibilities. Comment: The NIST study cited by the Department does not fault the performance of trusses; increasing the uplift requirements would not improve the quality of assembly. The problems associated with manufactured housing are related more to fasteners and tiedowns (13 (2) ). Response: The field studies referenced in the NIST Report identified numerous roof system failures that were generally due to failure of the end connections between the trusses and the sidewalls. However, even if the trusses had been properly connected to the manufactured home structure, the Department believes that trusses not designed to resist the uplift pressures referenced in this rule still may have failed. Therefore, in this final rule the Department has retained the proposed increased design requirements for roof trusses.
