FR941003-0-00119 FR941003-0-00018 (i) HFAs participating in the Risk-Sharing Program will be required to submit data early in the process (generally at the time of the request for HUD-Retained Reviews); (ii) Delegated Processors will be required to submit data within three business days from receipt of the Task-Delivery Order; (iii) Contract appraisers (Technical Discipline and Purchase Orders) will be required to submit data within three days from receipt of the Task/Delivery/Purchase Order. Institutions or individuals who are currently under contract to HUD will be required to furnish this additional information when exercising an option to renew or at any other time which involves a change in a negotiated price. HFAs will be required to submit the additional data as soon as possible after the final rule in the Risk-Sharing Program becomes effective. (6) The single family report and the multifamily information will be available for public inspection during regular business hours at the Office of Insured Single Family Housing, Single Family Development Division, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th St., S.W., Washington, D.C. 20410. (d) Competency. Although appraisers performing appraisals covered by this part must be either state licensed or certified, as appropriate, an appraiser shall not be considered competent or suitable solely by reason of having been licensed or certified by a state. Every determination of competency shall be based upon the appraiser's individual qualifications and character and upon his or her experience and educational background as they relate to a particular appraisal assignment. §267.4 Waiver. The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, or an official designated to act on behalf of the Assistant Secretary-Commissioner, may waive any requirement of this part not mandated by statute upon a finding that application of such requirement would adversely affect the purposes of the National Housing Act. Each waiver pursuant to this section shall be in writing and shall be supported by a statement of the facts and reasons that are the basis for the waiver. The authority conferred under this section may not be redelegated. Subpart B_Single Family Programs §267.5 Definitions applicable to single family programs. In addition to the definitions in §267.2, the following definitions apply to single family programs: Appraisal means a written report independently and impartially prepared by a qualified appraiser setting forth an opinion as to the market value of an adequately described property as of a specific date(s), which statement is supported by the presentation and analysis of relevant market information; except that, in the case of a property which is not valued on the basis of economic soundness, the appraisal shall be based on replacement cost. Complex one-to-four family residential property appraisal means an appraisal in which the nature of the property, the form of ownership, or the market conditions are atypical. One-to-four family residential property means a manufactured home lot or real property upon which is located a structure containing not less than one, nor more than four, dwelling units (or 11 units for a mortgage to be insured under subpart A of part 220(h) of this chapter), including, for purposes of a mortgage to be insured under §203.50 of this chapter, a structure that will contain such units after rehabilitation and for purposes of a mortgage to be insured under part 201 of this chapter, any property regardless of size or nature. The term includes a manufactured home and lot classified as real property, or a manufactured home lot which meets the requirements of §201.2(v) of this chapter. State certified appraiser means any individual who satisfies the requirements for certification in a state which has adopted criteria that currently meet or exceed the minimum certification criteria issued by the Appraiser Qualifications Board of the Appraisal Foundation. The state criteria must include a requirement that the individual have achieved a satisfactory grade upon a state-administered examination that is consistent with and equivalent to the Uniform State Certification Examination issued or endorsed by the Appraiser Qualifications Board of the Appraisal Foundation. Furthermore, if the Appraisal Subcommittee has issued a finding that the policies, practices, or procedures of the state are inconsistent with FIRREA, an individual must comply with any additional standards for state certified appraisers imposed by HUD under §267.7(c)(2). State licensed appraiser means any individual who satisfies the requirements for licensing in a state which has adopted criteria that currently meet or exceed the minimum licensing criteria issued by the Appraiser Qualifications Board of the Appraisal Foundation. The state criteria must include a requirement that the individual have achieved a satisfactory grade on a state-administered examination that is consistent with, and equivalent to, the Uniform State Licensing Examination issued or endorsed by the Appraiser Qualifications Board of the Appraisal Foundation. Furthermore, if the Appraisal Subcommittee has issued a finding that the policies, practices, or procedures of the State are inconsistent with Title XI of FIRREA, an individual must comply with any additional standards for state licensed appraisers imposed by HUD under §267.7(c)(2). §267.6 Transactions requiring a state certified or state licensed appraiser. (a) Appraisal by either a state certified or state licensed appraiser. Every appraisal shall be performed by either a state certified appraiser or a state licensed appraiser, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. With respect to appraisals performed by HUD employees, this requirement is satisfied whether or not the property is located in the certifying or licensing state. (b) Appraisal by a state certified appraiser only. An appraisal shall be prepared by a state certified appraiser if it is: (1) Required in connection with a mortgage of $1,000,000 or more; or (2) A complex one-to-four family residential property appraisal. (c) Recognition of appraisals not governed by this part. An appraisal of a one-to-four family residential property prepared in accordance with standards prescribed under FIRREA, and in response to the requirements of any Federal Financial Institution Regulatory Agency, viz., the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Association or the Office of Thrift Supervision, or with standards of the Resolution Trust Corporation will comply with this section. §267.7 Appraisal standards. (a) Minimum standards. Each appraisal shall follow the requirements of this §267.7. The appraisal shall, at a minimum: (1) Conform to USPAP, except to the extent that such compliance may conflict with the provisions of this part 267.
