FR940513-0-00107 FR940513-0-00029 26. Long-form applications (FCC Form 574) will be due from successful bidders within 10 business days after they have been notified of their winning bidder status. 47 Once we have reviewed the application and made a determination that the applicant is qualified, we will grant the license, conditioned on the timely payment of all monies due. In the Second Report and Order, we decided to require auction winners to make full payment of the balance of their winning bids within 5 business days of the grant of their license, except for small businesses using the preference of installment payments. 48 This time frame appears to be appropriate for IVDS, and we will therefore use it. 47 If a filing fee is required, the general rules governing the submission of fees will apply. See 47 C.F.R. §1.1101 et seq. These rules provide for dismissal of an application if the application fee is not paid, is insufficient, is in improper form, is returned for insufficient funds, or is otherwise not in compliance with our fee rules. See also Second Report and Order at ¶ 167 n. 127. 48 Id. at ¶ 194. D. Default and Disqualification 27. In the Second Report and Order, we concluded that strong incentives are needed to ensure that potential bidders are financially and otherwise qualified to participate in auction proceedings, so as to avoid delays in the deployment of new services to the public. 49 We stated that, for open outcry auctions, we will assess a default penalty if a bidder fails to make the down payment on a license, fails to pay for a license, or is disqualified after the close of an auction. In the case of single round bidding, we stated that we will impose a penalty in instances where the default occurs after the high bidder has been notified by the Commission that it has submitted the high bid. 50 49 Id. at ¶¶ 195&hyph;197. 50 Id. at ¶¶ 156&hyph;157. 28. In an oral auction, a winning bidder that withdraws its bid after signing a bid confirmation form or fails to remit the required down payment or balance of its winning bid in the time frame specified, will be deemed to have defaulted. In a sealed bid auction, a winning bidder is deemed to have defaulted if it withdraws its bid after publication of the initial public notice notifying auction winners or fails to remit the required down payment or balance of its winning bid in the time frame specified. In such instances, we may re-auction the license or offer it to the next highest bidder(s). In cases where disqualification or default occurs after the full down payment has been made, we will hold a new auction for the license. Further, ``if a default or disqualification involves gross misconduct, misrepresentation or bad faith by an applicant, the Commission also may declare the applicant and its principals ineligible to bid in future auctions, and may take any other action that it may deem necessary, including institution of proceedings to revoke any existing licenses held by the applicant.'' 51 Entities who obtain their licenses through the auction process are put on notice that if their licenses are revoked or canceled they will forfeit all monies paid to the Commission regarding those licenses. 52 51 Id. at ¶ 198. 52 This includes licensees who fail to meet the construction benchmarks contained in 47 C.F.R. §95.833. 29. We believe it is important to adopt default penalties for IVDS auctions. If a bidder in an oral auction defaults or is disqualified, a default penalty will be impose equal to the difference between the bidder's high ``winning'' bid and the amount of the winning bid the next time the license is offered by the Commission, if this latter amount is lower. In addition, with open outcry auctions, the defaulting auction winner will be assessed a penalty of three (3) percent of the subsequent winning bid or three percent of its own (the defaulting bidder's) bid, whichever is less. 53 The additional three percent penalty is designed to discourage insincere bidding and to compensate the government for the cost of reauctioning a license. In single round sealed bid auctions, if a high bidder defaults prior to making the required down payment, we will impose a default penalty equal to the difference between the high bid and the next highest bid. If a high bidder defaults after having made the down payment, the additional three percent penalty will be applied. 54 53 Id. at ¶¶154&hyph;157. 54 See id. at ¶157. V. Regulatory Safeguards
