FR941117-0-00137 FR941117-0-00011 (ii) Applications in a thirty-day notice and cut-off filing group. For applications in a thirty-day notice and cut-off filing group, the FCC may attempt to resolve the mutual exclusivity by facilitating a settlement between the applicants. If a settlement is not reached within a reasonable time, the FCC may designate all applications in the filing group for comparative consideration in a hearing. In this event, the result of the hearing disposes all of the applications in the filing group. (iii) Applications in a same-day filing group. If there are two or more mutually exclusive applications in a same-day filing group, the FCC may attempt to resolve the mutual exclusivity by facilitating a settlement between the applicants. If a settlement is not reached within a reasonable time, the FCC may designate all applications in the filing group for comparative consideration in a hearing. In this event, the result of the hearing disposes all of the applications in the filing group. (iv) Applications in a window filing group. Applications in a window filing group are processed in accordance with the procedures for a thirty-day notice and cut-off filing group in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. (c) Terminology. For the purposes of this section, terms have the following meanings: (1) The ``filing date'' of an application is the date on which that application was received in a condition acceptable for filing or the date on which the most recently filed major amendment to that application was received, whichever is later, excluding major amendments in the following circumstances: (i) The major amendment reflects only a change in ownership or control found by the FCC to be in the public interest; or, (ii) The major amendment as received is defective or otherwise found unacceptable for filing. (2) An ``application for initial authorization'' is: (i) Any application requesting an authorization for a new system or station; (ii) Any application requesting authorization for an existing station to operate on an additional channel, unless the additional channel is for paired two-way radiotelephone operation, is in the same frequency range as the existing channel(s), and will be operationally integrated with the existing channel(s) such as by trunking; or, (iii) Any application requesting authorization for a new transmitter at a location more than 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) from any existing transmitters of the applicant licensee on the requested channel. (3) An ``application for modification'' is any application other than an application for initial authorization or renewal. §22.719 Additional channel policy for rural radiotelephone stations. The rules in this section govern the processing of applications for central office stations that request a rural radiotelephone channel pair when the applicant has applied for or been granted an authorization for other rural radiotelephone channel pairs in the same area. The general policy of the FCC is to promote effective use of the spectrum by encouraging the use of spectrum-efficient technologies (i.e. BETRS) and by assigning the minimum number of channels necessary to provide service. (a) Transmitters in same area. Any central office station transmitter on any channel pair listed in §22.725 is considered to be in the same area as another central office station transmitter on any other channel pair listed in §22.725 if the transmitting antennas are located within 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) of each other. (b) Initial channel pairs. The FCC does not assign more than two channel pairs for new central office stations, unless there are more than eight rural subscriber stations to be served. Stations are considered to be new if there are no authorized transmitters on any channel listed in §22.725 controlled by the applicant in the same geographic area. (c) Additional channel pairs. Applications for central office station transmitters to be located in the same area as an authorized central office station controlled by the applicant, but to operate on a different channel pair(s) are considered as requests for additional channel pair(s) for the authorized central office station. The FCC may grant applications for additional channel pairs provided that the need for each additional channel pair (after the first two) is established and fully justified in terms of achieving the required grade of service (blocking probability), and the applicant demonstrates that there will still be adequate spectrum available in the area to meet realistic estimates of current and future demand for paging, two-way mobile and rural radiotelephone services. In the case of conventional rural radiotelephone central office stations, an explanation must be provided as to why BETRS technology is not being used instead of additional channel pairs. Conventional Rural Radiotelephone Stations §22.725 Channels for conventional rural radiotelephone stations. The following channels are allocated for paired assignment to transmitters that provide conventional rural radiotelephone service. These channels may be assigned for use by central office or rural subscriber stations as indicated, and interoffice stations. These channels may be assigned also for use by relay stations in systems where it would be impractical to provide rural radiotelephone service without the use of relay stations. All channels have a bandwidth of 20 kHz and are designated by their center frequencies in MegaHertz.
