FR941103-0-00029 FR941103-0-00007 The designation of a single theory of ratemaking as a constitutional requirement would unnecessarily foreclose alternatives which could benefit both consumers and investors. 488 U.S. at 316. Consistent with our broad ratemaking authority, in this Policy Statement we announce that we will consider various ratemaking methods to encourage proposals that will produce consumer benefits. The Commission's traditional transmission pricing policy has permitted a public utility providing firm transmission service to charge rates designed to yield annual revenues equal to the rolled-in embedded cost 4 of the utility's integrated transmission grid on a postage stamp basis ( i.e. , not distance sensitive), including the rolled-in costs of any new facilities or upgrades that become part of the integrated system. For non-firm transmission service, the Commission has permitted rates to reflect, in addition to the variable costs of providing the service, a charge up to a 100 percent contribution to the fixed costs of providing the service, with the proviso that pricing must reflect the characteristics of the service provided, e.g. , the degree of interruptibility. Traditionally, transmission rates have been based on a ``contract path'' model, i.e. , an assumed transmission path from point A to point B, that may or may not represent the actual flows of power on the grid. 4 Embedded cost is generally viewed as including a fair rate of return on the original cost of facilities, less depreciation, plus operation and maintenance expenses, and taxes. Embedded costs are those costs reflected in the utility's books of account. In recent years, the Commission attempted to address the industry's changing needs by modifying its historical transmission pricing policy 5 to allow a type of incremental cost pricing. 6 In order to provide new or expanded transmission service, a utility may be required to add expensive transmission assets, which can result in an increase in rolled-in embedded cost rates. To address this possibility, the Commission has allowed a utility to charge transmission-only customers the higher of embedded costs (for the system as expanded) or incremental expansion costs, but not the sum of the two. 7 When the transmission grid is constrained and the utility chooses not to expand its system, the Commission has allowed a utility to charge the higher of embedded costs or legitimate and verifiable opportunity costs, but not the sum of the two. The opportunity costs, in turn, are capped by incremental expansion costs. This type of pricing has been referred to as ``or'' pricing or Northeast Utilities pricing. 8 While ``or'' pricing will continue to be allowed under the Commission's pricing policy, the Commission is prepared to move beyond ``or'' pricing to consider other pricing alternatives. 5 See Northeast Utilities Service Company (Re: Public Service Company of New Hampshire), Opinion No. 364&hyph;A, 58 FERC ¶61,070, reh'g denied, Opinion No. 364&hyph;B, 59 FERC ¶61,042, order granting motion to vacate and dismissing request for rehearing , 59 FERC ¶61,089 (1992), affirmed in part and remanded in part sub nom. Northeast Utilities Service Company v. FERC, Nos. 92&hyph;1165, et al., 993 F.2d 937 (1st Cir. 1993), order on remand , 66 FERC ¶61,332, reh'g denied, 68 FERC ¶61,041 (1994), appeal pending No. 94&hyph;1949 (1st Cir. Sept. 6, 1994); Pennsylvania Electric Company, 58 FERC ¶61,278, reh'g denied and pricing policy clarified, 60 FERC ¶61,034, reh'g denied, 60 FERC ¶61,244 (1992), affirmed sub nom. Pennsylvania Electric Co. v. FERC, 11 F.3d 207 (D.C. Cir. 1993) ( Penelec) . 6 Incremental cost is the cost of increasing the level of service provided. In practice, it typically refers to the cost of additional facilities needed to provide the requested service. 7 This current pricing policy is based on three goals that the Commission adopted in the Northeast Utilities case: (1) to hold native load customers harmless, (2) to provide the lowest reasonable cost-based price to third-party firm transmission customers, and (3) to prevent the collection of monopoly rents by transmission owners and promote efficient transmission decisions. 8 See supra note 5. II. Request for Comments On June 30, 1993, the Commission issued a notice of technical conference and request for comments concerning these policies and other transmission pricing issues. Inquiry Concerning the Commission's Pricing Policy for Transmission Services Provided by Public Utilities Under the Federal Power Act, IV FERC Stats. & Regs., Notices ¶35,024 (1993) (Pricing Inquiry). The Commission received comments and reply comments from 165 entities, representing a broad cross-section of parties that participate in, or are affected by, the electric utility industry. The Commission also held technical conferences on April 8 and 15, 1994, that provided further opportunity for public comment and discussion. A summary of the comments received in this proceeding that included proposals for change is presented in Appendix A. 9 9 Appendix A will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations. Those commenting expressed a variety of opinions on many transmission pricing issues, including whether transmission rates should reflect distance sensitivity and whether and how to compensate for flows over parallel paths. The commenters were nearly unanimous in their call for the Commission to provide further guidance concerning acceptable pricing methods. Some commenters indicated that such guidance would assist the formation of regional transmission groups (RTGs) by indicating what pricing policies will be acceptable to the Commission.
