FR940412-1-00038 FR940412-1-00008 (b) Items applicable to operations occurring prior to the current accounting year which were not recorded in the books of account shall be included in the same accounts which would have been charged or credited if the items had not been delayed; except that if any delayed item is relatively so large in amount that its inclusion in the accounts for a single year would materially distort the affected accounts, it shall be included in profit and loss classification 69000 ``Miscellaneous.'' §403.225 Estimated items. (a) If a transaction has occurred but the amount involved is not precisely determinable, the amount shall be estimated, included in the proper accounts and, where significant, noted for financial statement purposes. §403.230 Improvements, additions and betterments. (a) As a general rule, expenditures for additions, betterments or improvements, which increase the productive capacity of units of property or equipment, shall be capitalized rather than charged directly against income of the period in which incurred. Expenditures of insignificant amount may be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized, provided their inclusion as individual items or when aggregated for like items, will not distort current operating results. (b) The costs to be capitalized shall include all costs directly incurred by reason of the acquisition of the capital item, including transportation and installation costs. §403.235 Accounting for transactions in gross amounts. (a) All assets and liabilities shall be stated in balance sheet presentations in gross values, provided that all depreciation, provisions for uncollectible accounts, and other valuation reserves shall be offset against the class of asset to which related. (b) The cost of Treasury Certificates or other tax notes, which are to be surrendered to the United States Treasury, rather than independently sold, in satisfying Federal income tax liabilities, may be offset against accrued Federal income tax liabilities provided both the gross income tax liability and the value of the tax notes are reflected on the face of the balance sheet. The offset of other government securities or other assets against Federal income tax liabilities is prohibited. §403.240 Valuation of assets. All assets shall be recorded at cost to the Association and shall not be adjusted to reflect changes in market value except that items which have been expensed from current inventories, and are recovered, may be returned to inventory at estimated value with contra credit to the expense accounts initially charged. §403.245 Establishment of reserves. (a) Provisions for reserves covering transactions or conditions which do not diminish assets or result in demonstrable liability to the Association, with corresponding diminution in stockholder equity during the period over which accrued, shall not be charged against income but shall be charged directly against balance sheet account 39100 ``Unappropriated retained earnings.'' (b) All reserves shall be classified in balance sheet presentations in terms of their inherent impact upon the Association's financial condition as either valuation of assets (offsetting the assets to which related), accrued liabilities, or appropriations of retained earnings. §403.250 Depreciation and amortization. (a) Assets of a type possessing prolonged service lives significantly longer than one year, and which are generally repaired and reused shall be written off against operations through periodic depreciation or amortization charges from the date first placed in regular service. Assets of a type which are recurrently expended and replaced, rather than repaired and reused, shall not be depreciated or amortized but shall be charged to expense as issued for use. (b) Assets of a type which are subject to depreciation shall not be classified as current assets but shall be carried in property and equipment or other appropriate noncurrent asset account classifications. Assets of a type which are recurrently expended and replaced shall be classified as current assets. (c) Depreciation shall be calculated and reported to the Director using the straight-line depreciation method. §403.255 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities. Contingent assets and contingent liabilities shall not be included in the body of the balance sheet but shall be explained in the footnotes.
