FR940314-2-00113 FR940314-2-00059 Based on the considerations discussed above, the Commission concludes that granting the proposed exemption will not increase the probability of an accident and will not result in any post-accident radiological releases significantly in excess of those previously determined for IP3. The proposed exemption would not otherwise affect radiological plant effluents, nor result in any significant occupational exposure. In addition, the exemption does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological or nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed exemption. Alternatives to the Proposed Action As an alternative to the proposed action, the Commission considered denial of the proposed action. Denial of the application would result in no change in current environmental impacts. The environmental impacts of the proposed action and the alternative action are similar. The alternative would also result in unwarranted expenditures of engineering and financial resources, and could significantly delay restart from the current outage. Alternate Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the ``Final Environmental Statement for the Indian Point Nuclear Generating Station Unit No. 3,'' dated February 1975. Agencies and Persons Consulted The Commission consulted with the State of New York regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed license amendment. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For further details with respect to this action, see the application for exemption dated November 30, 1993. This document is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue, White Plains, New York. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 7th day of March 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Robert A. Capra, Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5826 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
