FR941004-1-00058 FR941004-1-00016 Background Lessingia germanorum (San Francisco lessingia) and Arctostaphylos imbricata (San Bruno Mountain manzanita) are endemic to the northern San Francisco peninsula in California. Lessingia germanorum is found within the central dune scrub community. Arctostaphylos imbricata is a component of the coastal scrub community. The natural communities of the northern San Francisco peninsula have undergone a number of changes as a result of human-caused activities. The northern part of the San Francisco peninsula is highly urbanized. By 1984, over 90 percent of the northern peninsula's natural habitat had been disturbed or eliminated (Orsak and Schooley 1984). Urbanization has eliminated Lessingia germanorum from part of its range, and intensive commercial and residential development are ongoing. San Bruno Mountain was the last large parcel of open space in the northern San Francisco peninsula, and pursuant to section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Act, was the site of the United States' first habitat conservation plan after a decade-long land use battle (Bean et al. 1991). Urban development also has fragmented the remaining habitats for these plants. Habitat fragmentation increases the risks of extinction due to chance events such as pest or disease outbreaks, reproductive failure (which is possibly devastating to annual plants), or other natural or human-caused disasters. Other anthropogenic activities such as sand quarrying, increased pedestrian traffic and recreational activities, change in fire frequency, bulldozing, or the incidental use of fertilizers, also variously threaten the remaining occurrences of these plants. Discussion of the Two Species Proposed for Listing Adelbert von Chamisso first collected Lessingia germanorum in 1816 on the sand hills of San Francisco, California (Howell 1929). Chamisso described L. germanorum in 1829 and named it in honor of the Lessings, a German family of scientists and authors. John Thomas Howell (1929) recognized 11 varieties of L. germanorum. According to the rules for botanical nomenclature, when a new subspecies is described in a species not previously divided into infraspecific taxa, an autonym (an automatically created name) is created (i.e. Lessingia germanorum var. germanorum ). Howell distinguished L. germanorum var. germanorum from the other varieties by the presence of few glands and by the absence of either odorous or bitter glandular secretions. Other treatments (Ferris 1959, Munz and Keck 1968) also recognized varieties of L. germanorum. Currently L. germanorum is recognized as a distinct species (Lane 1993). Lessingia germanorum is a slender annual of the aster family (Asteraceae) with diffusely branched stems 10 to 30 centimeters (cm) (4 to 12 inches (in)) high. The herbage and stems are glandless and covered with grayish, loosely interwoven hairs. Tubular lemon yellow disc flowers with a brownish or purplish band are clustered into heads that are solitary at the end of branchlets. The seeds, which are attached to a crown of hairlike bristles, are light and easily carried by the wind. Lessingia germanorum typically flowers between August and November. Historically, Lessingia germanorum occurred within the coastal dune scrub community throughout the San Francisco peninsula. Currently L. germanorum is restricted to the Presidio area of the San Francisco peninsula, and one occurrence near the base of San Bruno Mountain. L. germanorum grows on remnant sand dunes and sand terraces in open areas with blowing sand (Susan Smith, Yerba Buena Chapter, California Native Plant Society, pers. comm., 1992), at an elevational range between 24 to 91 meters (m) (80 to 300 feet (ft)). It is associated with Chorizanthe cuspidata, Lotus scoparius, and Lupinus arboreous (or Lupinus chamissonis ). Five small populations, four natural and one introduced, occur within the Presidio in San Francisco County. One of the populations on the Presidio was established after approximately 10 cubic yards of sand was removed from the site of another population for use on the base golf course. In 1989, an additional population was discovered on San Bruno Mountain in northern San Mateo County. Collectively, the populations inhabit less than 0.8 hectares (2 acres) (Terri Thomas, Golden Gate National Recreation Area, pers. comm., 1993; Paul Reeberg, National Park Service, pers. comm., 1993). Population numbers for L. germanorum vary from year to year, but from 1980 to 1989 the total on the Presidio was less than 1,500 individuals per year (California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG) 1989). The population on San Bruno Mountain is estimated to have 1,600 to 1,800 individuals (Paul Reeberg, pers. comm., 1993). The five small populations within the Presidio have been managed by the Department of Defense but will be transferred to the National Park Service effective October 1, 1994. The population on San Bruno Mountain is jointly owned by Daly City and a private landowner (Annemarie Quevedo, Assistant Planner for Daly City, in litt., 1992).
