FR941007-1-00052 FR941007-1-00009 Smaller banks and thrifts would continue to be evaluated under a streamlined assessment method that would not require reporting of additional lending data. However, the streamlined method would be the presumptive method for evaluating small institutions and would be applied to every qualifying institution unless the institution affirmatively requests an alternative assessment method. The agencies have also altered the description of the streamlined assessment method in order to make clear that this assessment is not intended to operate as an exemption from the CRA rules. The streamlined assessment method would continue to focus on the institution's loan-to-deposit ratio, degree of local lending, record of lending to borrowers and geographies of different income levels, and record of responding to complaints. The institution's fair lending record would still be taken into account in assigning a final rating. In response to comments, the agencies have eliminated the provision in the December proposal that made a loan-to-deposit ratio of 60% or more presumptively satisfactory. The revised proposal would consider an institution's size, financial condition, and credit needs of its service area in evaluating whether its loan-to-deposit ratio is reasonable. The evaluation would further consider, as appropriate, other lending-related activities, such as originations for sale on the secondary market and community development lending and investment. Every institution would continue to have the option to be evaluated pursuant to a pre-approved strategic plan. The strategic plan option would not relieve an institution from any reporting obligations that it otherwise would have. The revised proposal clarifies, however, that small institutions would not subject themselves to any data reporting responsibilities by electing the strategic plan option. The agencies also have provided more detail as to how the proposed strategic plan option would operate in practice. The revised proposal has eliminated provisions that some comments interpreted as ``safe harbors'' from examination or enforcement action. The revised proposal would not make substantive modifications to the December provisions governing what types of institutions are subject to the proposed regulations, although the agencies have clarified that bankers banks would not be covered. The revised proposal continues to provide that uninsured branches of foreign banks would not be covered by the proposed regulations. However, the agencies are aware that the Interstate Banking Efficiency Act would address the CRA coverage of certain uninsured branches of foreign banks. Should this Act be signed into law, the agencies would modify the revised proposal to reflect the new legal requirements. The December proposal would have made an institution with an assigned rating of ``substantial noncompliance'' subject to an enforcement action under 12 U.S.C. 1818. A number of commenters questioned the legal authority of the agencies under the CRA to use assigned ratings as the basis for an enforcement action. Other commenters endorsed taking enforcement action against institutions with poor CRA ratings. The revised proposal includes the enforcement provisions from the December proposal while the agencies continue to analyze the issues raised by the comments. The agencies invite further comment on these issues before issuing a final rule. The Lending Test The lending test in the December proposal would have evaluated_ on the basis of its performance in relation to other lenders subject to CRA and on an independent basis_the extent to which a retail institution was making loans in the low- and moderate-income portions of its service area. The test would have evaluated an institution's lending performance relative to other lenders by comparing the institution's market share of housing, small business, small farm, and consumer loans in the low- and moderate-income geographies of its service area with its share of such loans in the other parts of its service area. The test would have evaluated performance on an independent basis by examining the ratio of reported loans made (both number and amount) by the institution in the low- and moderate-income geographies of its service area to the reported loans made throughout its entire service area and the geographic distribution of its reported loans across the low- and moderate-income geographies of its service area. At the election of the institution, the agencies would have considered indirect loans under the lending test. Indirect loans were defined to include loans made by third parties, such as lending consortia, subsidiaries of the institution, non-chartered affiliates funded by the institution, and other lenders that lent to low- and moderate-income individuals or geographies and in which the institution had made lawful investments. The agencies would have attributed indirect loans to an institution in proportion to the size of the institution's investment in or funding of the third party lender or participation in the third party's loans, provided the institution reported the indirect loans.
