FR940630-1-00048 FR940630-1-00012 Thursday June 30, 1994 Part III Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 187 Fees for Certification Services and Approvals Performed Outside the United States; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 125␣/␣Thursday, June 30, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 187 [Docket No. 27809; Notice No. 94&hyph;24] RIN 2120&hyph;AE72 Fees for Certification Services and Approvals Performed Outside the United States AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This notice of proposed rulemaking would update existing fees for airmen and repair station certification services performed outside the United States (U.S.) to reflect current cost levels; establish a schedule of fees where no fee currently exists for: tests, authorizations, certificates, permits, or ratings relating to any airmen certification, and repair station certification performed outside the United States; establish the methodology for computing user fees and a timetable for periodic updates of fees; and establish additional methods of collecting those fees. This proposed rulemaking is necessary to allow the FAA to fully recover the costs it incurs in performing airmen certification, and repair station certification services outside the United States and to bring current airmen fees charges more nearly in line with nondiscrimination principles of multilateral trade agreements to which the U.S. is a signatory including the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the GATT Aircraft Code. The intended effect of this proposed action is to recover the costs of providing airmen, and repair station certification services outside the United States. Recovering these costs would allow the FAA to continue to provide airmen, and repair station certification services outside the United States, thereby facilitating the acceptance of U.S. aeronautical products overseas. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this notice should be mailed or delivered in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;10), Docket No. 27809, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments may be examined in the Rules Docket, Room 915&hyph;G weekdays between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., except on Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Emily A. White, Flight Standards Service, AFS&hyph;50, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591, telephone (202) 267&hyph;3301. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments relating to the environmental, energy, federalism, or economic impact that might result from adopting the proposals in this notice are also invited. Substantive comments should be accompanied by cost estimates, if appropriate. Comments should identify the regulatory docket or notice number and should be submitted in triplicate to the Rules Docket address specified above. All comments received on or before the closing date for comments specified will be considered by the Administrator before taking action on this proposed rulemaking. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments received will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact, concerned with the substance of this rulemaking, will be filed in the docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must include a preaddressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 27809.'' The postcard will be date/time stamped and mailed to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center (APA&hyph;200), 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3484. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM.
