FR941117-0-00082 FR941117-0-00011 (b) Notification to stop. If the FCC for any reason determines that construction should not be started or should be stopped while an application is pending, and so notifies the applicant, orally (followed by written confirmation) or in writing, the applicant must not begin construction or, if construction has begun, must stop construction immediately. (c) Assumption of risk. Applicants that begin construction pursuant to this section before receiving an authorization do so at their own risk and have no recourse against the United States for any losses resulting from: (1) Applications that are not granted; (2) Errors or delays in issuing Public Notices; (3) Having to alter, relocate or dismantle the facility; or (4) Incurring whatever costs may be necessary to bring the facility into compliance with applicable laws, or FCC rules and orders. (d) Conditions. Except as indicated, all pre-grant construction is subject to the following conditions: (1) The application is not mutually exclusive with any other application, except for successful bidders and tentative selectees in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service; (2) No petitions to deny the application have been filed; (3) The application does not include a request for a waiver of one or more FCC rules; (4) For any construction or alteration that would exceed the requirements of §17.7 of this chapter, the licensee has notified the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA Form 7460&hyph;1), filed a request for antenna height clearance and obstruction marking and lighting specifications (FCC Form 854) with the FCC, PRB, Support Services Branch, Gettysburg, PA 17325; (5) The applicant has indicated in the application that the proposed facility would not have a significant environmental effect, in accordance with §§1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter; and, (6) Under applicable international agreements and rules in this part, individual coordination of the proposed channel assignment(s) with a foreign administration is not required. §22.144 Termination of authorizations. Authorizations in the Public Mobile Services remain valid until terminated in accordance with this section, except that the FCC may revoke an authorization pursuant to section 312 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 312). (a) Expiration. Authorizations automatically terminate, without specific FCC action, on the expiration date specified therein, unless a timely application for renewal is filed (see §22.145). No authorization granted under the provisions of this part shall be for a longer term than ten years. See 47 U.S.C. 307(c). (b) Failure to commence providing service to subscribers. Authorizations automatically terminate, in whole or in part, without specific FCC action, on the date of required commencement of service, if service to subscribers is not commenced by that date (see §22.142), except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (1) Authorizations do not terminate while a timely filed application for extension of the construction period is pending (see §22.142(c)). (2) If a timely filed application for extension of the construction period is dismissed or denied, the authorization automatically terminates, in whole or in part, without specific FCC action, on the day after the applicant or the applicant's attorney is notified of the FCC's action dismissing or denying the application for extension of the construction period. (c) Service discontinued. Authorizations automatically terminate, without specific FCC action, if service is permanently discontinued as provided in §22.317. (d) STAs. Special Temporary Authorizations (STAs) automatically terminate, without specific FCC action, at the end of the period specified therein, except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, or upon failure to comply with the terms and conditions therein. (1) STAs do not terminate while a timely filed request for an extension of the STA term, in accordance with §22.125(b), is pending. (2) If a timely filed request for extension of the STA term is dismissed or denied, the STA automatically terminates, without specific FCC action, on the day after the applicant or the applicant's attorney is notified of the FCC's action dismissing or denying the request for extension. (e) Cancellation. Authorizations submitted by licensees for cancellation terminate when the FCC gives Public Notice of such action. §22.145 Renewal application procedures. Applications for renewal (FCC Form 405) of expiring authorizations must be filed by the licensee prior to, but no earlier than 30 days before, the expiration date of the authorization. A separate application is required for each authorization (call sign). Competing applications from parties wishing to challenge the renewal must be filed during the same 30 day period. Additional renewal requirements applicable only to specific Public Mobile Services are set forth in the subparts governing those services.
