FR940810-2-00085 FR940810-2-00056 Notice of Availability: Records of Decision and Statement of Findings for the Environmental Impact Statement on Reintroduction of the Gray Wolf to Yellowstone National Park and Central Idaho AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: Pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the United States Department of the Interior, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability of the Records of Decision and Statement of Findings upon consideration of the Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the reintroduction of gray wolves to Yellowstone National Park and central Idaho. The FEIS was filed with the Environmental Protection Agency on May 4, 1994, and its availability was announced to the public on May 13, 1994. DATES: The Record of Decision and Statement of Findings was approved by the Secretary of the Interior on June 15, 1994. A concurring Record of Decision was approved by the Secretary of Agriculture on July 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: The documents announced in this notice are available from: Gray Wolf Reintroduction, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, P.O. Box 8017, Helena, Montana 59601. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Edward E. Bangs, at the above address, or telephone (406) 449&hyph;5202. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Under the provisions of NEPA, the Service prepared an environmental impact statement (EIS) for the reintroduction of gray wolves to Yellowstone National Park and central Idaho. The conference report (House Report No. 102&hyph;256) that accompanied the 1992 U.S. Department of the Interior appropriations bill (Public Law 102&hyph;154) directed the Service to prepare a draft EIS on wolf reintroduction in Yellowstone National Park and central Idaho, in consultation with the National Park Service and Forest Service. The conference report further directed that the EIS cover a broad range of alternatives and follow normal distribution patterns including appropriate Congressional distribution. The 1993 U.S. Department of the Interior appropriations bill (Public Law 102&hyph;381) directed the Service to finalize the EIS and stated that it expected the preferred alternative to conform to existing law. The Service evaluated and considered alternatives for the long range recovery and management of wolf populations in the Yellowstone National Park and central Idaho areas as presented in the FEIS and reviewed and considered public and agency comments. Based upon that evaluation and review, the Service selected the Proposed Action Alternative as described in the FEIS for implementation. Reintroduced populations of gray wolves are proposed to be designated as nonessential experimental populations according to the provisions of section 10(j) of the Act. A proposed nonessential experimental population rule will be published in the Federal Register and provided for review by the public. Based upon public comment and the results of a continuing Service-led monitoring program to document wolf breeding activity in Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming, the Service will decide whether to issue and implement a final rule as soon as practicable. The process to establish these regulatory guidelines and the opportunity for public comment will be widely publicized. This determination was based on a thorough analysis of environmental, social, economic, and similar considerations. On June 15, 1994, the Secretary of the Interior approved a Statement of Findings and Record of Decision adopting the selected alternative. On July 19, 1994, the Secretary of Agriculture approved a concurring Record of Decision. These documents are available from the office named above under ADDRESSES . Dated: August 4, 1994. Mollie H. Beattie, Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19452 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
