FR940516-1-00073 FR940516-1-00005 No plant closures are expected from compliance with this set of alternatives. For more information, consult the background information document for these standards (see the Background Information Documents section near the beginning of this preamble). VI. Rationale A. Selection of Emission Points To Be Covered by the Standards Emissions from BLR and WSR production occur from the following emission points: Storage tanks, process vents, equipment leaks, and wastewater. The proposed standards consider all of these emission points. Wastewater emissions from wet strength resin facilities are negligible, although they are included as an emission point. B. Designation of Sources For these proposed standards, a source is defined as all HAP emission points within a facility that are related to the production of BLR or WSR, including process vents, storage tanks, wastewater, and equipment leaks. For the purpose of developing the standards, the emission points included in the definition of the source are divided into two portions: 1. All process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater emission points; and 2. Equipment leaks. The Administrator considered proposing a single emission limit that would apply to process vents, storage tanks, wastewater and equipment leaks. However, equipment leaks cannot be included with process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater because: (1) The negotiated standard for equipment leaks has no fixed performance level; and (2) no method currently exists for determining the magnitude of allowable emissions to assign for leaks. Without a method to determine the magnitude of allowable emissions to assign for equipment leaks, an averaging policy that included equipment leaks would be difficult to enforce. Therefore, the MACT floor and each regulatory alternative has two components_one for the combination of process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater, and another for equipment leaks. When methods are developed to assign allowable emission levels for particular leak points, the EPA will consider revising these standards to allow inclusion of equipment leaks in the emission limit. The Administrator also considered proposing separate emission limits for each type of emission point, but determined that this approach was not feasible because tanks, and wastewater emission points are intertwined by existing control strategies. For example, in existing BLR facilities, process vents and storage tank emissions are manifolded together and controlled using a common device. The device commonly used to control these emissions is a water scrubber, which functions in transferring potential HAP emissions from gaseous point sources to a wastewater emission source. Therefore, a single emission limit is proposed for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater combined to give facilities flexibility in complying with the standard. Specifying a single emission limit for this combination of emission points gives facilities the latitude to determine the best way for them to achieve emission reductions. Separate regulatory options were identified for equipment leaks for the reasons described at the beginning of this section. C. Selection of Basis and Level of Proposed Standards for Existing Sources 1. BLR Source Category Because there are three existing facilities in the U.S. that produce BLR (all three are believed to be major sources), EPA used the average of the total production-based emission factors achieved by the three facilities to determine the MACT floors. Using this method, the production-based emission limit of 130 lb HAP/MM lb product was established as the MACT floor for the process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater portion of the source based on information from BLR facilities. Existing BLR facilities control equipment leak emissions using various leak detection and repair (LDAR) programs. The impacts associated with the MACT floor and regulatory alternatives for sources at existing BLR facilities are presented in Table 3. Regulatory Alternative II represents the highest level of control identified for existing BLR sources. Because the MACT floor for the process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater portion of the source reflects a high level of control (the use of water scrubbers, carbon adsorbers, refrigerated condensers, and flares on process and storage tank vents, and biodegradation to reduce emissions from wastewater), only one area was identified as a possible additional controlled emission point: the generation of HAP-containing scrubber effluent, which is normally routed to the facility's wastewater treatment system. This wastewater could be controlled by recirculating scrubber effluent to the process. This measure would result in an emission limit of 125 lb HAP/MM production. Therefore, this emission limit was chosen for Regulatory Alternative II for the process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater portion of the source. The control method proposed for the equipment leaks portion of the source was to implement the LDAR program specified in 40 CFR 63, subpart H, which represents a higher level of control than is currently practiced by any existing BLR facility.
