FR940126-2-00047 FR940126-2-00020 (d) Common appeals practices. The National Board does not mandate any particular appeals process. However, some Local Boards have developed processes which work well for them and may offer some help to other communities. Common practices include the following: (1) Set a time period of not more than 30 days for agencies or organizations to appeal a funding decision; (2) Require written notice of appeal, signed by the Chief Volunteer Officer of the organization making the appeal; (3) The first level of appeal is usually to the Local Board, or to an executive committee of the board. (e) Appeals boards, delegations . Some boards appoint one or more members to act as a liaison with the organization making the appeal: (1) In the case of an appeal for the purpose of providing previously unavailable information or correction of erroneous information, the process usually ends with prompt notification of decision (within 10 working days of appeal). (2) In the case of appeals for the purpose of contesting alleged prejudice, violation of law or National Board guidelines, fraud, or misuse of Federal funds, some boards have allowed appeals to a group other than the board itself. This practice is not mandated but is permitted by the National Board. Such groups vary. They may simply be composed of different individuals representing the same organizations that make up the Local Board. They may also include an entirely different group of persons who have knowledge of the program and are deemed by the board to be both responsible and unbiased, and to hold the trust of the community at large. (3) If the board chooses to delegate authority to any third party in an appeals process, the power and authority of that body should be clear. Is it simply advisory to the Local Board? Will the board abide by the decisions of this body as long as they are consistent with the law and the National Board guidelines? (4) The disposition of appeals is often communicated by telephone to the chief professional and volunteer officers of the organization appealing immediately after a decision is made. In such cases, a written communication is sent as soon as possible confirming the action taken. The written communication is, of course, the official notification. (f) National Board role. It is important to reaffirm that no single appeals process is mandated or advised by the National Board. Section 5.0␣Variances and Waivers (a) Variances . Local Boards may receive requests for variances in the budgets they have approved for LROs. Local Boards may allow such changes provided that the requested items are eligible under this program. If there is any doubt on the part of the Local Board as to eligibility, it should contact the National Board for clarification. If an expenditure requested by an LRO falls outside the program guidelines, the Local Board, if in accord, should request in writing a waiver from the National Board in advance of the expenditure. (b) Waivers . Waivers requested because of a compliance exception must be submitted to the Local and then National Board for review. National Board staff will evaluate waiver requests and use discretion to approve or deny requests. In general, the National Board considers waiver requests that are not within the guidelines but address the program's intent. The waiver request from the Local Board should clearly state the need for the exception, approximate costs, timeliness or any other pertinent information it deems necessary for the National Board to make its decision. Section 6.0␣Reporting Requirements Local Boards must monitor LROs' expenditures and eligible cost compliance throughout the program period. An interim report of expenditures is due to the National Board with each LRO's second/third check request. A final report (accompanied by financial documentation for specified LROs) is due one month after the end of each jurisdiction's program. The National Board will provide forms for all required reports. The National Board advises Local Boards to request at least one other report from their LROs at a time deemed appropriate by each Local Board.
