FR940303-0-00055 FR940303-0-00017 48 CFR Parts 1807, 1834, 1852, and 1870 Changes to NASA FAR Supplement Streamlining the Major System Acquisition Process by Eliminating the Requirement for a Formal Solicitation Between Each Phase of the Procurement AGENCY: Office of Procurement, Procurement Policy Division, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This notice amends the NASA FAR Supplement to provide for selection/down-selection between phases of a Major System Acquisition utilizing a streamlined approach that eliminates the previous NASA requirement to provide a new, formal solicitation for each phase of the acquisition. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 31, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tom O'Toole, NASA Headquarters, Office of Procurement, Procurement Policy Division (Code HP), Washington, DC 20546. Telephone: (202) 358&hyph;0478. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On November 4, 1993, an interim rule to amend the NASA FAR Supplement to streamline the major system acquisition process was published in the Federal Register for comment (58 FR 58791&hyph;58798). In addition to pointing out errata and inconsistencies that are corrected in the final rule, the public comments on the interim rule addressed several substantive issues and suggested NASA consider revising its policy to address them. The first of these issues is that the NASA interim rule, by prohibiting the establishment of contractual requirements for subsequent phase proposals, may not provide a mechanism to ensure that the contractors in the initial phase of the procurement complete their efforts and submit proposals for the subsequent phase in a timely and responsive manner. The comment suggests that, absent the appropriate leverage, contractors could ``game'' the system to gain a competitive advantage in the down-selection by delaying proposal submission until their designs matured. The comment recommends that NASA revise its interim rule to ensure the integrity of the process in this area. Although the comment correctly cites the NASA prohibition against establishing a contract requirement for subsequent phase proposals, it apparently misunderstands the NASA policy relative to requesting these proposals and ensuring their timely submittal. As stated in the interim rule, NASA will request proposals for the subsequent phase of the procurement from the preceding phase contractors (and any outside source that wishes to submit one) at a defined point during initial phase performance. This request will advise offerors that proposals will be required by a date certain and that FAR 52.215&hyph;10, Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Proposals, applies. This clause states that any proposal received after the required submission date will not be considered unless one of the specified exceptions applies. Consequently, if an initial phase contractor does not submit a proposal by the due date and one of the exceptions in FAR 52.215&hyph;10 does not apply, they forfeit the opportunity to continue in the competition, and the procurement will proceed without them. NASA believes that this procedure best suits our goals. We are not interested in requiring a contractor to submit a proposal if that offeror believes its design approach is not competitive. To do so would be to force a contractor to expend its resources in pursuit of a contract it has no reasonable expectation of winning, and the resultant ``competition'' could fairly be labeled a sham. Moreover, we expect contractors in progressive competition procurements to be committed to satisfying our requirements, and to work diligently toward providing, at the times specified, the products required for the Government's down-selection decisions. It is not in their interests to do otherwise. The hypothetical instance described in the public comment of a contractor attempting to ``game'' the system is effectively precluded by the proposal request procedures described above that would eliminate them from consideration for subsequent phase awards. No revision to our policy is necessary in this area. A second public comment requested clarification of the interim rule to address the issue of proposals submitted for subsequent phases by sources other than the preceding phase contractors and how they would be treated. By way of example, the comment questioned whether such outside offerors have the right to protest and debriefing. NASA's progressive competitions are full and open competitions throughout the process. All proposals received, whether from preceding phase contractors or from outside sources, are considered to be solicited and are given full, unbiased evaluation under NASA SEB procedures. Since outside offerors enjoy the same standing as the preceding phase contractors, they have the full rights of any offeror on a NASA procurement, including protest and debriefing. To accord a diminished set of rights to outside offerors would compromise both the commitment to full and open competition and the agency's source selection process. Even-handed treatment of all offerors is inherent in both our SEB procedures and the progressive competition policy, and no revision to our policy is necessary to address the public comment.
