FR941006-1-00017 FR941006-1-00006 D. ``Terms and Conditions'' While the proposed rule does not distinguish institutional from retail orders, the Commission believes that larger-sized orders may qualify for special treatment. The language of the proposed rule that would allow the parties to set the specific terms and conditions for acceptance of limit orders is intended to permit market makers to employ the appropriate strategy in filling a larger sized order without being subjected to the requirements of the proposed ban. By distinguishing the protection afforded a limit order by its size or dollar value, the rule would recognize the greater significance of larger size orders to market makers seeking to establish or liquidate a position and the ability of larger sized customers to negotiate specific order handling procedures. Market makers actively compete for customer order flow. A customer dealing in greater size or amount generally can better monitor the market for the security and negotiate alternative execution procedures with another market maker. 29 29 There are an average of 11.9 market makers for every NASDAQ/NMS security. See NASD, 1994 NASDAQ Fact Book and Company Directory (1994). The Commission preliminarily believes that larger sized orders should be distinguished by measurable characteristics such as number of shares or dollar amount. To this end, comment is requested on the appropriate level of a size limit, i.e. 5,000 or 10,000 shares, and/or a dollar value limit, i.e. $50,000, $100,000 or $200,000, that would determine market maker obligations with respect to these two types of orders in the final rule. This will insure that the rule ultimately adopted includes limit order protection for retail investors while maintaining the ability of market makers to negotiate order handling arrangements with their institutional clients. E. Exceptions The rule proposal also establishes exceptions for all-or-none and odd-lot orders as well as a general exemptive provision [paragraph (d)]. The specific exceptions to the rule [paragraph (b)] are discussed below. The Commission requests comment on the need for an all-or-none or odd-lot order exception and a general exemptive provision. Exception for All-or-None Orders The proposed rule includes an exception for all-or-none customer limit orders [paragraph (b)(2)]. An all-or-none customer limit order is defined in paragraph (c)(1) as one that carries a condition that instructs the market maker to execute all of the shares in the order only if it can be done all at once. The purpose of this exception is to prevent delays in executing other orders that a market maker may be receiving at the time the market maker is handling the all-or-none order. In the example above, the customer's limit order for 1,000 shares of stock could be filled in several separate transactions. With an all-or-none order, a market maker must execute all the shares of the order in a single trade. The market maker may not have immediate access to that number of shares. In the meantime, other orders may be received that require the market maker to purchase shares from other market makers or their customers. Without this exception, the market maker would not be able to buy any stock at less than the all-or-none limit order price and, ultimately, the execution quality of other customer orders would suffer. Thus, using the above example, the exception would permit a market maker handling an all-or-none order to purchase shares in the security for its own account at $20 1/4 or lower without filling the customer's limit order, but only for amounts smaller than the 1,000 shares in the all-or-none order. The market maker could not, however, purchase 1,000 shares or more at $20 1/4 or lower for its own account without satisfying the customer limit order.
