FR940721-2-00112 FR940721-2-00065 3. Inspection The State regulatory program shall provide for the inspection of the possession and use of radioactive materials by the regulatory authority. The State inspection of licensee facilities, equipment, procedures and use of materials shall provide reasonable assurance that the public health and safety is being protected. Inspection and testing shall be conducted to assist in determining compliance with regulatory requirements. Frequency of inspection shall be related directly to the hazards associated with amount and kind of material and type of operation licensed. The minimum inspection frequency, including initial inspections, shall be no less than the NRC inspection frequency. An adequate inspection program includes: preparation and use of procedures and policy memoranda to assure technical quality in the inspection program and review of inspection actions by senior staff or supervisors. The inspection staff technical expertise should be similar to NRC staff qualifications. 4. Enforcement Program Licensee noncompliance with requirements necessary for the safe possession and use of radioactive materials shall be subject to enforcement through legal sanctions, and the regulatory authority shall be authorized by law with the necessary powers for prompt enforcement. 5. Staffing and Personnel Qualifications The regulatory agency shall be sufficiently staffed with an adequate number of qualified personnel to implement the radiation control program effectively. Agreement State staff shall be qualified using criteria no less stringent than criteria used for NRC staff. 6. Administrative Procedures State practices for assuring the effective administration of the radiation control program, including provisions for public participation where appropriate, shall be incorporated in procedures for: (a) Formulation of rules of general applicability; (b) Approving or denying applications for licenses authorizing the possession and use of radioactive materials; and (c) Taking enforcement actions. 7. Statutes State statutes and/or duly promulgated regulations shall be established to authorize the State to carry out the requirements under Section 274b of the Atomic Energy Act, as amended and any other statutes as appropriate, such as Public Law 95&hyph;604, Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act (UMTRCA). 8. Laboratory Support The State shall have available calibrated field and laboratory instrumentation sufficient to independently determine the licensee's control of materials, to validate the licensee's measurements, and to respond to events involving radioactive material. 9. Licensing The State regulatory program review of license applications for the purpose of evaluating the applicant's qualifications, facilities, equipment, procedures and use of materials shall provide reasonable assurance that the public health and safety are being protected. An adequate licensing program includes: preparation and use of licensing guides and policy memoranda to assure technical quality in the licensing program and review of licensing actions by senior staff or supervisors. In addition, procedures involving the licensing of products containing radioactive material intended for interstate commerce should require a high degree of uniformity with those of the NRC. The review staff technical expertise should be similar to NRC staff qualifications. 10. Investigation (Response to Events) The State regulatory program shall provide for timely and effective investigation of incidents, reportable events, allegations and any potential wrongdoing.
