FR940916-1-00156 FR940916-1-00016 (4) Instructions on how to proceed in the event of a failure of a step of the test. (c) Periodic freight brake, single car and single passenger train set test procedures shall be adequate to demonstrate that all components of the car or train set brake system function as intended by their design. (d) Railroads operating passenger trains sets shall have the option to develop a single train set test that is the equivalent of performing a series of single car tests on the cars comprising the train set. ยง232.603 Required tasks. (a) Periodic freight brake test. Periodic freight brake tests shall be performed in accordance with the Association of American Railroads standard S&hyph;486, Section 3.0, contained in the AAR ``Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Section E, Part II'' (November 1992). (b) Freight brake single car test. Freight brake single car tests shall be performed in accordance with the Association of American Railroads standard S&hyph;486, Section 4.0, contained in the AAR ``Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Section E, Part II'' (November 1992). (c) Passenger car single car test. Passenger car single car tests shall be performed in accordance with the Association of American Railroads standard S&hyph;044, contained in the AAR ``Instruction Pamphlet 5039&hyph;4, Supp. 3'' (April 1991). (d) New technology or unconventional brake equipment. Tests on cars or passenger train sets equipped with new brake system technology or unconventional brake equipment shall be adequate to demonstrate that equipment is capable of applying its designed retarding force to decelerate the train. ยง232.605 Unscheduled tests. (a) A single car test (passenger or freight) or a single passenger train set test of the brake system shall be performed prior to further operation_ (1) When a car has one or more of the following wheel defects: (i) Built-up tread, (ii) Wheel slid flat, (iii) Wheel with thermal cracks, or (iv) Discolored wheel; (2) When one or more of the following conventional air brake equipment items is removed, repaired or replaced: (i) Service portion, (ii) Emergency portion, or (iii) Pipe bracket. (b) A periodic freight brake test or a passenger single car test of the brake system shall be performed prior to further operation when one or more of the following conventional air brake equipment items is removed, repaired or replaced: (1) Brake reservoir, (2) Brake cylinders, (3) Piston assemblies, (4) Retaining valve, (5) Vent valve, (6) Quick service valve, (7) Empty/load equipment, (8) Brake cylinder release valve (AB type), (9) Modulating valve or slack adjuster, or (10) Relay valves; (11) When a passenger coach is placed in service after having been out of service for 90 days or more; or (12) When a car or passenger train set equipped with new or unconventional brake technology is sent to a shop or repair track (i) To remedy a defect that could affect the ability of the new or unconventional brake technology to provide its designed retarding force to decelerate the train or (ii) To remove, repair, or replace a brake system component. ยง232.607 Scheduled tests. (a) Scheduled periodic freight brake tests, single passenger car tests and single passenger train set tests shall be conducted at the following intervals: (1) No less than once every 24 months for non-high utilization equipment used in conventional freight trains. (2) No less than once every 12 months for high utilization equipment used in conventional freight trains. (3) No less than once every 6 months for equipment used in intermediate speed freight trains. (4) No less than once every 6 months for equipment used in conventional commuter trains. (5) No less than once every 4 months for equipment used in intermediate speed commuter trains. (6) No less than once every 6 months for equipment used in conventional passenger trains. (7) No less than once every 4 months for equipment used in intermediate speed passenger trains. (8) No less than once every 3 months for equipment used in high speed passenger trains. (b) If equipment is used in more than one type of train, that equipment shall be subject to the test interval of the train type requiring the most frequent test. (c) An unscheduled periodic freight brake test or single car test may be used to meet the requirement for conducting a scheduled test within a given time period. ยง232.609 Periodic freight brake test or single car test phase-in period. (a) A railroad shall develop and implement a phase-in program so that all non-high utilization equipment operated by that railroad receives a periodic freight brake test or single car test within two years from [THE EFFECTIVE DATE of the final rule]. (b) A railroad shall develop and implement a phase-in program so that all high utilization equipment operated by that railroad receives a periodic freight brake test or single car test within one year from [THE EFFECTIVE DATE of the final rule]. (c) A railroad shall develop and implement a phase-in program so that all passenger and commuter equipment operated by that railroad receives a single car test within one year from [THE EFFECTIVE DATE of the final rule]. (d) A railroad shall have all equipment stencilled with the due date of its next required periodic freight brake or single car test within the time periods given in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section for the types of equipment it operates.
