FR940628-1-00010 FR940628-1-00001 Cleaning and Disinfection The current regulations regarding both END and chlamydiosis also require the cleaning and disinfection of vehicles, premises, and accessories for various reasons. (See current §§82.3(a)(2)(ii), 82.4(d), and 82.5.) We propose to make several changes in all of these regulations. (See proposed §§82.10, 82.14, 82.21, and 82.22.) First, we propose to replace the word ``accessories,'' wherever it is used, with the word ``equipment.'' We believe ``equipment'' is clearer. Second, we are proposing to clarify which functions may be carried out by an accredited veterinarian. The current regulations have two provisions concerning cleaning and disinfecting of vehicles, premises, and equipment for END that specify who must supervise the work. (See current §§82.4(d) and 82.5(a).) Section 82.4(d) states that a Federal or State inspector must supervise. Section 82.5(a) states that a Federal or State inspector, or an accredited veterinarian, must supervise. There is no reason why these requirements should be different. END is not endemic to the United States. Should an outbreak occur, we and the States involved will handle it as an emergency, and send all needed personnel to the scene. Therefore, we are proposing to amend the requirements to provide that only a Federal or State representative may supervise cleaning and disinfection with regard to END. (See proposed §§82.10(c) and 82.14 (f), (g), and (h).) It should be noted that there are similar regulations concerning cleaning and disinfecting for chlamydiosis. These regulations currently provide that a Federal or State inspector, or an accredited veterinarian, supervise cleaning and disinfecting. (See current §§82.5 (a), (b), and (c).) This difference between the END regulations and the chlamydiosis regulations exists because chlamydiosis occurs sporadically in the United States, and we handle outbreaks on a routine basis. This type of program may require that a great number of personnel be available throughout the country. Therefore, to ensure that personnel are available when and where they are needed, we provide in the proposed regulations that accredited veterinarians, as well as Federal representatives and State representatives, may supervise cleaning and disinfecting for chlamydiosis. The proposed regulations clarify what is meant by ``supervise,'' as discussed in the following paragraph, but do not change who can perform the work. The current regulations require a Federal or State representative (or, in the case of psittacosis/ornithosis (chlamydiosis), an accredited veterinarian) to ``supervise'' cleaning and disinfecting. It is not clear what ``supervise'' means. We believe that requiring a Federal or State representative (or, in the case of chlamydiosis, an accredited veterinarian) to inspect vehicles, premises, and equipment after they are cleaned, and to be present while they are disinfected, would ensure that the cleaning and disinfecting are thorough and, therefore, effective. Accordingly, we are including such provisions in the proposed regulations, instead of using the term ``supervise.'' Definitions We are also proposing to revise the list of definitions that apply to current subpart A of part 82 (current §82.1; proposed §82.1 for proposed subpart A, END; and proposed 82.19 for proposed subpart B, chlamydiosis). We are proposing to revise some of the existing definitions to make them clearer and more exact. We are also proposing to remove some existing definitions and to add some new definitions to the definitions already existing in current subpart A. This is necessary because the terms we use in the proposed regulations are not all the same as the terms in the current regulations. We are proposing to remove the definitions of: Director of the task force, Deputy Administrator, exposed group, Federal inspector, infected group, psittacosis or ornithosis, State inspector, and Task Force. In addition to the terms in current subpart A, except as noted above, we are proposing to include in proposed §82.1 definitions of: Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), dressed carcasses, exposed, Federal representative, Federal veterinarian, hatching eggs, infected, known to be exposed, known to be infected, litter, official seal, recognized slaughtering establishment, render, State representative, and State veterinarian. In addition to those terms already defined in current §82.1 for use in the psittacosis/ornithosis regulations, we are proposing to include in proposed §82.19 definitions of: Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), chlamydiosis, Federal representative, Federal veterinarian, infected, and State representative. Internal Agency Policy Also, in order to reflect internal agency policy, we refer in this proposal to the ``Administrator'' when discussing functions ascribed to the ``Deputy Administrator'' in the current regulations. For the same reason, we have replaced the term ``Veterinary Services'' in this proposal with the term ``Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.'' Obtaining Information The current regulations indicate in various places how to obtain forms, information, and help. In some cases, the names, addresses, or locations given are incorrect. We are therefore proposing to update these references, as necessary, to include the correct names, addresses, and locations. Part 53 Part 53 of Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, concerns, among other things, the payment of indemnity for poultry and materials destroyed because of contamination by or exposure to END. The definition of disease in 9 CFR 53.1 refers to exotic Newcastle disease as ``presently existing in the States of California, Florida, New Mexico, and Texas.'' This reference is outdated. Currently END is not known to exist in any State. Therefore, we are proposing to revise the definition of disease in §53.1 to remove this reference.
