FR940712-0-00003 FR940712-0-00001 •Highly reliable and less complex shutdown and decay heat removal systems. The use of inherent or passive means to accomplish this objective is encouraged (negative temperature coefficient, natural circulation, etc.). •Longer time constants and sufficient instrumentation to allow for more diagnosis and management before reaching safety systems challenge and/or exposure of vital equipment to adverse conditions. •Simplified safety systems that, where possible, reduce required operator actions, equipment subjected to severe environmental conditions, and components needed for maintaining safe shutdown conditions. Such simplified systems should facilitate operator comprehension, reliable system function, and more straightforward engineering analysis. •Designs that minimize the potential for severe accidents and their consequences by providing sufficient inherent safety, reliability, redundancy, diversity, and independence in safety systems. •Designs that provide reliable equipment in the balance of plant (BOP) (or safety-system independence from BOP) to reduce the number of challenges to safety systems. •Designs that provide easily maintainable equipment and components. •Designs that reduce potential radiation exposures to plant personnel. •Designs that incorporate defense-in-depth philosophy by maintaining multiple barriers against radiation release, and by reducing the potential for and consequences of severe accidents. •Design features that can be proven by citation of existing technology or that can be satisfactorily established by commitment to a suitable technology development program. If specific advanced reactor designs with some or all of the above foregoing attributes are brought to the NRC for comment and/or evaluation, the Commission can develop preliminary design safety evaluation and licensing criteria for their safety-related aspects. Combination of some or all of the above attributes may help obtain early licensing approval with minimum regulatory burden. Designs with some or all of these attributes are also likely to be more readily understood by the general public. Indeed, the number and nature of the regulatory requirements may depend on the extent to which an individual advanced reactor design incorporates general attributes such as those listed above. However, until such time as conceptual designs are submitted, the Commission believes that regulatory guidance must be sufficiently general to avoid placing unnecessary constraints on the development of new design concepts. To provide for more timely and effective regulation of advanced reactors, the Commission encourages the earliest possible interaction of applicants, vendors, other government agencies, and the NRC to provide for early identification of regulatory requirements for advanced reactors, and to provide all interested parties, including the public, with a timely, independent assessment of the safety characteristics of advanced reactor designs. Such licensing interaction and guidance early in the design process will contribute toward minimizing complexity and adding stability and predictability in the licensing and regulation of advanced reactors. While the NRC itself does not develop new designs, the Commission intends to develop the capability for timely assessment and response to innovative and advanced designs that might be presented for NRC review. Prior experience has shown that new reactor designs_even variations of established designs_may involve technical problems that must be solved in order to ensure adequate protection of the public health and safety. The earlier such design problems are identified, the earlier satisfactory resolution can be achieved. Prospective applicants are reminded that, while the NRC will undertake to review and comment on new design concepts, the applicants are responsible for documentation and research necessary to support a specific license application. (NRC research is conducted to provide the technical bases for rulemaking and regulatory decisions, to support licensing and inspection activities, and to increase NRC's understanding of phenomena for which analytical methods are needed in regulatory activities.) During the initial phase of advanced reactor development, the Commission particularly encourages design innovations that enhance safety and reliability (such as those described above) and that generally depend on technology that is either proven or can be demonstrated by a straightforward technology development program. In the absence of a significant history of operating experience on an advanced concept reactor, plans for innovative use of proven technology and/or new technology development programs should be presented to the NRC for review as early as possible, so that the NRC can assess how the proposed program might influence regulatory requirements. To achieve these broad objectives, the Advanced Reactor Projects Directorate (PDAR) was established in the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. This group is the focal point for NRC interaction with the Department of Energy, reactor designers, and potential applicants, and coordinates the development of regulatory criteria and guidance for proposed advanced reactors. In addition, the group maintains knowledge of advanced reactor designs, developments, and operating experience in other countries, and provides guidance on an NRC-funded advanced reactor safety research program to ensure that it supports, and is consistent with, the Commission's advanced reactor policy. The PDAR also provides guidance regarding the timing and format of submittals for review. The Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards plays a significant role in reviewing proposed advanced design concepts and supporting activities. The NRC believes that conversion to the metric system is important to the national interest. The Commission strongly encourages its licensees and license applicants to employ the metric system of measurement wherever and whenever its use is not potentially detrimental to the public health and safety or is not economically infeasible. In order to facilitate use of the metric system by licensees and applicants, the NRC began publishing, as of January 7, 1993, the following documents in dual units: new regulations, major amendments to existing regulations, regulatory guides, NUREG-series documents, policy statements, information notices, generic letters, bulletins, and all written communications directed to the public. Licensees and applicants should follow the guidance outlined in the Commission's position and final policy statement on metrication published on October 7, 1992 (57 FR 46202). Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 5th day of July, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Acting Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16818 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P
