FR940505-1-00075 FR940505-1-00012 3. Regulations for Specific Source Categories in the FIP Areas a. Introduction_(1) Rationale for Selection of Categories and Requirements. As discussed in section III.C.1 of this NPRM, EPA believes the FIP should include traditional category-specific stationary source rules where possible. Such rules improve the State/federal partnership, minimize federal intrusion into State affairs, and contribute to other goals described in section I.B of this NPRM. While EPA is unable to develop rules for all stationary source categories, the proposed FIP includes 15 rules for specific categories as described in sections III.C.3.b-p and 3 statewide area source regulations presented in section III.C.4 below. Many of these rules have been adapted from regulations already existing or proposed in parts of California. In such cases, EPA has generally selected the most stringent requirements available and relied on the technical work performed by CARB and local Districts to estimate associated costs and emission reductions. While there may be additional rules that EPA could have adapted for the FIP under this effort, EPA used the amount of potential emission reductions as a primary screening device for evaluating which rules were appropriate for the FIP proposal. Thus, rules projected to reduce emissions by more than 0.1 percent of the uncontrolled attainment year inventory were considered good candidates. EPA also considered cost-effectiveness and District recommendations in selecting categories and specific requirements under this effort. Examples of proposed FIP elements adapted from existing District rules are those affecting solvent cleaning operations, wood products coatings, and auto refinishing. Many of these category-specific rules are based on regulations adopted by the SCAQMD or CARB. EPA's application of these rules to Sacramento and Ventura should not discourage the SCAQMD and CARB from pursuing further emission reductions from these source categories in order to meet the progress and attainment requirements of federal and State law. EPA also developed rules for source categories which have not yet been regulated under the Clean Air Act but which contribute substantial emissions in the FIP areas. For these categories, EPA worked with the State and Districts to evaluate various mechanisms for reducing emissions. Among the FIP rules developed under this effort are those affecting pesticides, aerosol coatings, and livestock waste management. (2) Relationship to existing and pending SIP provisions Some stationary sources proposed for control through category-specific FIP rules are already regulated by existing State or District SIP rules. Architectural coating, for example, has been regulated in the South Coast by versions of South Coast Rule 1113 since 1977. EPA's proposed FIP rule (section 52.2959), however, would reduce architectural coating emissions even further. Where a State or local rule has been approved by EPA into the SIP (as, for example, Rule 1113 was approved in 57 FR 8104, August 11, 1992), affected sources would have to meet the tighter of each element in the two rules. 38 Sources will, however, need to continue to comply with applicable State and local rules. 38 Section 302(q) of the Act defines the applicable implementation plan as that ``portion .␣.␣. or most recent revision thereof, which has been approved under section 110, or promulgated under section 110(c) .␣.␣.'' While the regulations discussed in sections III.C.3 and 4 of this notice may effectively supersede less stringent provisions of federally approved SIP rules addressing the same source categories, the State or local rules would remain in the SIP and be enforceable. As discussed in section III.J. and elsewhere in this NPRM, EPA intends to delegate the FIP rules and/or remove them whenever the State submits an approvable, equivalent SIP provision. 39 If, for example, SCAQMD submits a proposed SIP amendment that makes Rule 1113 an approvable substitute for the FIP rule, upon EPA approval, EPA would amend section 52.2959 to rescind its applicability within the South Coast. In many cases, CARB and affected Districts are already developing rules similar to those proposed in this NPRM. If these are submitted to EPA before February 1995, EPA may, upon SIP approval, simply amend or remove the analogous component from the final promulgated FIP. Alternatively, EPA may remove FIP elements under separate action. 39 Pursuant to §110(1) of the Act, State rules are not approvable as revisions to an implementation plan if they `interfere with any applicable requirement concerning attainment and reasonable further progress .␣.␣. or any other applicable requirement of this Act.'' If, however, EPA determines that a new or modified State rule does not achieve emission reductions equivalent to the FIP rule, and no other State rule compensates for the differences, EPA will maintain implementation of the FIP measure. 40 In such cases, sources could again be subject to overlapping State and federal requirements. Therefore, EPA encourages the State to adopt approvable regulations as soon as possible to avoid duplicative effort for both regulators and affected sources. 40 EPA could also approve a substitute SIP attainment demonstration relying on a different mix of control measures to achieve attainment and interim progress that at least equals the FIP's schedule. In this case, EPA may rescind individual FIP rules that are more stringent than the substitute SIP provisions, if the particular FIP rules are no longer necessary to provide for expeditious attainment because the SIP achieves greater reductions from controls on other source categories. (3) Relationship to other applicable FIP provisions. Many of the sources subject to the proposed category-specific rules described here will also be affected by the cap regulations described in section III.C.5 of this NPRM. As proposed, the cap regulations require almost all significant stationary sources to reduce emissions by a specified percentage. The reduction rates are currently the same for sources which are affected by category-specific rules and for sources which are not. As discussed in section III.C.5 of this NPRM, EPA specifically requests comments on whether fairness and other concerns justify adjusting the reduction requirements to give sources credit for emission reductions required in the proposed FIP rules described in sections III.C.2&hyph;4 of this NPRM. (4) Rule structure. These proposed rules generally follow the structure of New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) in 40 CFR part 60. They contain sections on applicability, definitions, specific requirements, exemptions, reporting, recordkeeping, test methods, and additional components as necessary. Where immediate or near-term compliance is feasible, the effective dates of the substantive requirements are generally January 1, 1996, roughly one year after final FIP promulgation is due. Issues specific to individual rules are discussed in sections III.C.3.b-p and III.C.4 below. (b) Solvent Cleaning Operations (Sacramento, Ventura). Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(a) controls VOC emissions resulting from certain solvent cleaning operations in the Sacramento and Ventura nonattainment areas. Emission reductions are achieved by: (1) Limiting the VOC content and vapor pressure of solvents used in solvent cleaning operations; (2) allowing the use of add-on control equipment in lieu of meeting the VOC content and vapor pressure limits; and (3) prescribing procedures and requirements for solvent cleaning operations. The proposed rule applies to facilities that use VOC-containing materials in the production, repair, maintenance, or servicing of parts, products, tools, machinery, equipment, or general work areas, or that store and dispose of VOC-containing materials used in solvent cleaning operations. Affected facilities include manufacturing plants, printing presses, shipyards, and repair and refinishing facilities such as auto garages, auto body shops and workshops for buses, aircraft, trains and trucks. This proposed rule also applies to repair, service, and production operations at institutional facilities such as government buildings, schools, hospitals, sanitariums, prisons, restaurants, health clubs, and theaters.
