FR940512-2-00194 FR940512-2-00078 b. Specific efforts shall be conducted by the project directed toward establishing working relationships with law enforcement and other juvenile justice system personnel. 7. Aftercare Services. The project shall provide a continuity of services to all youth served on a temporary shelter basis and/or their families following the termination of such temporary shelter both directly and through referrals to other agencies and individuals. 8. Recreational Program. The project shall provide a recreational-leisure time schedule of activities for youth admitted to the project for residential care. 9. Case Disposition. The project shall determine, on an individual case basis, the disposition of each youth provided temporary shelter, and shall assure the safe arrival of each youth home or to an alternative living arrangement. a. To the extent feasible, the project shall provide for the active involvement of the youth, the parent(s) or legal guardian, and the staff in determining what living arrangement constitutes the best interest of each youth. b. The project shall assure the safe arrival of each youth home or to an alternative living arrangement, following the termination of the crisis services provided by the project, by arranging for the transportation of the youth if he/she will be residing within the area served by the project; or by arranging for the meeting and local transportation of the youth at his/her destination if he/she will be residing beyond the area served by the project. c. The project shall verify the arrival of each youth who is not accompanied home or to an alternative living arrangement by the parent(s) or legal guardian, project staff or other agency staff within 12 hours after his/her scheduled arrival at his/her destination. 10. Staffing and Staff Development. Each center is required to develop and maintain a plan for staffing and staff development. a. The project shall operate under an affirmative action plan. b. The project shall maintain a written staffing plan which indicates the number of paid and volunteer staff in each job category. c. The project shall maintain a written job description for each paid and volunteer staff function which describes both the major tasks to be performed and the qualifications required. d. The project shall provide training to all paid and volunteer staff (including youth) in both the procedures employed by the project and in specific skill areas as determined by the project. e. The project shall evaluate the performance of each paid and volunteer staff member on a regular basis. f. Case supervision sessions, involving relevant project staff, shall be conducted at least weekly to review current cases and the types of counseling and other services which are being provided. 11. Youth Participation. The center shall actively involve youth in the design and delivery of the services provided by the project. a. Youth shall be involved in the ongoing planning efforts conducted by the project. b. Youth shall be involved in the delivery of the services provided by the project. 12. Individual Client Files. The project shall maintain an individual file on each youth admitted into the project. a. The client file maintained on each youth should, at a minimum, include an intake form which minimally contains the basic background information needed by FYSB; counseling notations; information on the services provided both directly and through referrals to community agencies and individuals; disposition data; and, as applicable, any follow-up and evaluation data which are compiled by the center. b. The file on each client shall be maintained by the project in a secure place and shall not be disclosed without the written permission of the client and his/her parent(s) or legal guardian except to project staff, to the funding agency(ies) and its(their) contractor(s), and to a court involved in the disposition of criminal charges against the youth. 13. Ongoing Center Planning. The center shall develop a written plan at least annually. a. At least annually, the project shall review the crisis counseling, temporary shelter, and aftercare needs of the youth in the area served by the center and the existing services which are available to meet these needs. b. The project shall conduct an ongoing evaluation of the impact of its services on the youth and families it serves. c. At least annually, the project shall review and revise, as appropriate, its goals, objectives, and activities based upon the data generated through both the review of youth needs and existing services (13a) and the follow-up evaluations (13b). d. The project's planning process shall be open to all paid and volunteer staff, youth, and members of the Board of Directors and/or Advisory Body. 14. Board of Directors/Advisory Body (Optional). It is strongly recommended that the centers have a Board of Directors or Advisory Body. a. The membership of the project's Board of Directors or Advisory Body shall be composed of a representative cross-section of the community, including youth, parents, and agency representatives.
