FR941206-1-00098 FR941206-1-00008 The test methods and procedures described in the previous section will be used to determine compliance. Failure to meet the emission limits as measured by these procedures would be an enforceable violation of the emission limits of the standard. When add-on controls are used, monitoring shall be capable of detecting deviations from each applicable emission limitation or other standard with sufficient reliability and timeliness to determine continuous compliance over the applicable reporting period. Although the term ``continuous'' generally means at all times, the Agency has determined that less frequent measurements or determinations of compliance can ensure continuous compliance. The potential variability of the emissions or parameters is a primary factor in establishing the frequency of measurements. G. Notification Requirements The proposed rule would require affected sources to follow the notification requirements in §§63.9(a)-(d) and (h)-(j) of subpart A of the general provisions. In addition to the initial notification requirements in §§63.9(b)(2) and (3) of subpart A, sources would be required to include in the initial notification: (1) the compliance procedure(s) that they intend to use; (2) procedures for ensuring compliance with the handling, transfer, and storage standard; and (3) procedures for maintaining records. These are subject to the approval of the Administrator. In addition, they would be required to submit a notification of compliance status on a quarterly basis, with any exceedances reported on a quarterly basis. Following the first year, the owner or operator of a source that has had no exceedances for a full year (can be any year after the first year), may request Administrator approval to reduce the frequency of notification to semiannual. H. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements The proposed rule would require affected sources to follow the general recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§63.10(a)-(b) and (f) of subpart A of the general provisions. Sections 63.10(c)-(e) of subpart A do not apply unless a source uses a control device to comply with the standards except for the excess emission report required by §63.10(e)(3) which applies regardless of how emissions are controlled. In addition, each owner or operator of an affected source would be required to certify annually that all personnel involved with coatings, thinning of coatings, keeping coating records, or handling/transferring VOHAP-containing materials have received the training required by the regulation. A record of the certification is required, but no report is required. The purpose of the certification is to ensure that the training does occur at least once per year, and that documentation does exit for an enforcement official to review. Affected sources would be required to keep all records needed to demonstrate compliance with the standards, including calculations and records of any Method 24 or alternate VOHAP tests. All records would be compiled each calendar month and compliance status determined every month. In addition, a source is required to report on a quarterly basis any exceedances to the EPA and to provide in the excess emissions report the data needed to confirm and quantify the reported exceedance. All records must be maintained for a minimum of 5 years. The quarterly report should include: 1. A summary of the number and duration of deviations during the reporting period classified by reason, including known causes for which a Federally-approved or promulgated exemption from an emission limitation or standard may apply; 2. Identification of the data availability achieved during the reporting period, including a summary of the number and total duration of incidents during which the monitoring protocol failed to operate in accordance with design or produced data that did not meet minimum data accuracy and precision requirements (classified by reason); 3. Identification of the compliance status as of the last day of the reporting period and whether compliance was continuous or intermittent during the reporting period; 4. If, pursuant to (2) of this section, the owner or operator identifies any deviation as resulting from a known cause for which no Federally-approved or promulgated exemption from an emission limitation or standard applies, the monitoring report shall also include all records that the source is required to maintain that pertain to the periods during which such deviation occurred and: a. The magnitude of each deviation; b. The reason for each deviation; c. A description of the corrective action taken for each deviation, including action taken to both minimize it and prevent recurrence; and d. All quality assurance activities performed on any element of the monitoring protocol. IV. Summary of Estimated Environmental, Energy, and Economic Impacts of the Proposed Standards The nationwide impacts presented below are the impacts the proposed standards would have on existing facilities. Because of downsizing of military forces, no new major sources are expected to be built in the next five years. Therefore, impacts on new sources are expected to be zero. A. Number and Type of Affected Facilities Approximately 437 facilities (shipyards) are involved in the construction and repair of ships nationwide. Based on industry information and data reported in the U.S. Department of Commerce's ``U.S. Industrial Outlook '92_Shipbuilding and Repair'' (January 1992) and the U.S. Maritime Directory Listings (June 1992). It is estimated that only 25 qualify as major sources of HAP emissions and would be affected by the proposed rule.
