FR940802-2-00083 FR940802-2-00048 [Finance Docket No. 31989] The Elk River Railroad, Inc._Exemption_Construction and Operation of a Line of Railroad in Clay and Kanawha Counties, WV AGENCY: Interstate Commerce Commission. ACTION: Notice of final scope of study for environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: This notice announces the final scope of study prepared in response to written comments, as well as oral comments given at public meetings, for the environmental impact statement to be prepared for the above proceeding. Written comments on the final scope are requested. DATES: Written comments on the final scope of work are due August 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Victoria J. Dettmar, Interstate Commerce Commission, Section of Environmental Analysis, Room 3221, 12th and Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20423. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael Dalton (202) 927&hyph;6202 or Victoria Dettmar (202) 927&hyph;6211. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Elk River Railroad (TERRI) has filed a petition for exemption with the Commission seeking authority to construct and operate a 30 mile line from Hartland to Falling Rock, West Virginia. The proposed line would connect TERRI's existing line with a Consolidated Rail Corporation (Conrail) line near Blue Creek, West Virginia, thus allowing TERRI to interchange traffic with either CSXT or Conrail. We believe that if the Commission approves the construction and operation, this action would constitute a major Federal action having the potential to significantly affect the quality of the human environment. Therefore, we will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS). A notice of intent to prepare an EIS and to hold public scoping meetings for this proceeding was published on May 6, 1994. The notice requested comments in writing or orally at public scoping meetings that were held in Clendenin, West Virginia and Clay, West Virginia on May 31 and June 1, 1994, respectively. Over 100 parties provided comments and/or attended the scoping meetings. In accordance with the Commission's environmental rules at 49 CFR 1105, the final scope of study is summarized below. SUMMARY OF THE SCOPE OF STUDY: Construction and operation activities may significantly affect the environment in the project area. Based on the comments and our initial evaluation, the proposed construction and operation may result in a number of environmental impacts. These impacts may include: Land Use Impacts Socioeconomic Impacts from Physical Environmental Changes Impacts to Water Resources Impacts to Wildlife Transportation and Safety Impacts Energy Impacts Air Quality Impacts Noise Impacts Impacts to Historic and Cultural Resources Impacts to Recreational Resources. Copies of the complete scope of study have been served on all the parties to this proceeding. A copy of the scoping document may be obtained by contacting Michael Dalton at (202) 927&hyph;6202 or Victoria Dettmar at (202) 927&hyph;6211. A notice of availability of the draft EIS will be announced in the Federal Register and served on parties to the proceeding. By the Commission, Elaine K. Kaiser, Chief, Section of Environmental Analysis. Vernon A. Williams, Acting Secretary. Scope of Environmental Impact Statement Executive Summary Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives 1. Summary of the existing rail line 2. Description of the proposed action 3. Description of alternatives a. Proposed route b. No action (denial of the proposal) Description of Existing Environment Specific description including existing land use, transportation, physiography and soil, water resources, biological resources, air quality, noise, socioeconomic setting, historic and cultural resources, and recreational resources in the project area. Environmental Analysis of Proposed Action and Alternatives A. Land Use Impacts 1. Present and future access to properties located along the right-of-way. 2. Assessment of impacts to other land use, including encroachments on the right-of-way: a. playground located on the right-of-way. b. parking lots located on the right-of-way. c. sheds and other structures located on the right-of-way. 3. Assessment of the need for noxious weed control and use of herbicides. 4. Assessment of the project's effect on designed flood zones or floodplains. B. Transportation and Safety Impacts 1. Effect of train operations on Clendenin and other communities. 2. Potential delays experienced by general vehicles, school buses, and emergency calls at rail/road crossings. 3. Evaluation of the need for warning signals or gates at grade crossings. 4. Access across rail line for emergency vehicles. 5. Degradation of area road systems. 6. Evaluation of the impact of rail service on transportation safety, including the occurrence of accidents and release of hazardous materials. 7. Potential for derailments and clean-up plans and procedures. 8. Concerns regarding children attempting to jump on trains passing through towns. C. Energy Impacts 1. Assessment of impacts on transportation of any energy resources. 2. Anticipated impacts on any recyclable commodities. 3. Impact on overall energy consumption and efficiency that would result from increased use of trains.
