FR940620-1-00102 FR940620-1-00010 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Notice of Availability of Draft Modifications to the Recovery Action Plan for the Recovery Implementation Program for the Endangered Fish Species in the Upper Colorado River Basin AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of draft modifications to the Recovery Implementation Program Recovery Action Plan (RIPRAP) dated October 15, 1993. The RIPRAP identifies specific actions and timeframes currently believed to be necessary to recover the endangered fish in the most expeditious manner possible in the Upper Colorado River Basin (Upper Basin). The Upper Basin is defined as the Colorado River drainage upstream of Lake Powell, with the exception of the San Juan River drainage. The RIPRAP will serve as a measure of accomplishment so the Recovery Program can continue to serve as the reasonable and prudent alternative to avoid the likelihood of jeopardy to the continued existence of the endangered fish for projects undergoing section 7 consultations. Critical habitat for the endangered fish was formally designated on April 20, 1994. The Recovery Program is also intended to serve as the reasonable and prudent alternative to avoid the likely destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. Therefore, modifications to the RIPRAP are being proposed so the Recovery Program can serve as the reasonable and prudent alternative to avoid adverse modification to critical habitat as well as to avoid the likelihood of jeopardy resulting from depletion impacts of new projects and all existing or past impacts related to historic water projects with the exception of the discharge by historic projects of pollutants such as trace elements, heavy metals, and pesticides. The proposed modifications were developed by FWS in coordination with the Recovery Program's Management Committee. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on the draft changes to the RIPRAP. DATES: Comments on the revised RIPRAP must be received on or before August 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft RPRAP modifications may obtain copies by contacting the Assistant Regional Director_Ecological Services U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, P.O. Box 25486, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colorado 80225; FAX (303) 236&hyph;0027. Written comments should be sent to the address given above. Comments received are available upon request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address.
