FR940112-2-00081 FR940112-2-00057 The foregoing framework underscores the dual nature of an ALJ's inquiry into whether a claimant is engaging in SGA. Under the substantiality prong of the analysis, an ALJ considers the nature of the undertakings comprising the claimant's work activity. Thus, the degree to which a claimant's work requires the use of ``expertise, skills, supervision and responsibilities'' becomes relevant in determining whether that work constitutes SGA. See 20 CFR 416.973(a). Additionally, an ALJ will consider how well a claimant performs his or her work activities: If you do your work satisfactorily, this may show that you are working at the substantial gainful activity level. If you are unable, because of your impairments, to do ordinary or simple tasks satisfactorily without more supervision or assistance than is usually given other people doing similar work, this may show that you are not working at the substantial gainful activity level. If you are doing work that involves minimal duties that make little or no demands on you and that are of little or no use to your employer, or to the operation of a business if you are self-employed, this does not show that you are working at the substantial gainful activity level. Id. at §416.973(b). In evaluating the gainfulness of a claimant's work, an ALJ's inquiry is more circumscribed. Here, as noted above, the claimant's undertakings need be only of the type that normally result in pay or profit. In other words, a claimant can be found to be engaging in SGA without earning any income. See Callaghan, 992 F.2d at 695&hyph;96 (unprofitable business owner was engaging in SGA). 5 This is not to say that a claimant's earnings are irrelevant for purposes of determining whether he or she is engaging in SGA. See, e.g., 20 CFR 416.974(a)(1). To the contrary, a claimant who earns on average less than $300 per month is presumed not to be engaging in SGA, while a claimant who makes more than an average of $500 per month is presumptively ineligible for SSI benefits. Id. at §§416.974(b)(3)(vii), (b)(2)(vii). 6 As with most legal presumptions, however, these income guidelines are rebuttable and ``do not relieve an ALJ of the duty to develop the record fully and fairly.'' Dugan v. Sullivan, 957 F.2d 1384, 1390 (7th Cir. 1992) (citations and internal quotations omitted). 5 Accordingly, substantial but non-remunerative volunteer work would fall short of SGA because people normally do not volunteer their services for pay or profit. See Social Security Law and Practice §37:4 at 8 (Timothy E. Travers et al. eds., 1987). Evidence of such volunteer work, however, could be used to deny a claimant benefits at a later stage in the sequential evaluation process. See 20 CFR 416.971. 6 In contrast to the OASDI provisions of the Act, the SSI program is particularly concerned with a claimant's financial situation: The basic purpose underlying the supplemental security income program is to assure a minimum level of income for people who are age 65 or over, or who are blind or disabled and who do not have sufficient income and resources to maintain a standard of living at the established Federal minimum income level. 20 CFR 416.110 (emphasis added); see also id . at §416.1100 (``the amount of income you have is a major factor in deciding whether you are eligible for SSI benefits''). Thus, a claimant not engaging in SGA and otherwise eligible for the SSI program will be denied benefits if he or she has too much income or too many resources. See 42 U.S.C. 1382(a); generally 20 CFR subpts. K, §416.1100 se seq. (income) and L, §416.1201 et seq. (resources). Against this background, Dotson concedes_as he must_that in at least some instances illegal activity can be substantial gainful activity. Dotson continues, however, that the context in which his thievery occurs precludes its use in determining whether he has been engaging in SGA. In his own words: A drastic distinction exists between a person who is engaged in illegal activity for effectively the equivalent of a legal career such as being a drug dealer, illegal drug importer or other illegal activity which has counterparts in lawful activities such as business managers, business owners and the like, and a thief who steals merely to feed the cravings of unquenchable drug addiction. Aplnt's. Br. at 18. Considering Dotson's claim under the scheme set forth above, we conclude that he forwards a distinction without a difference.
