FR940513-0-00109 FR940513-0-00029 (2) Tax certificates will be available to initial investors in minority and women-owned enterprises upon divestiture of their non-controlling interests, and to licensees who transfer their authorizations to minority or women-owned businesses; and (3) Installment payments will be made available to small businesses. We also incorporate and adopt the unjust enrichment provisions adopted in the Second Report and Order applicable to each of the preferences we adopt here, and adopt the designated entities eligibility requirements of the Second Report and Order. 61 61 See 47 CFR 1.2111; Second Report and Order at ¶¶ 267&hyph;278. 37. We received IVDS-specific comments favoring the preferences of spectrum set-asides 62 and royalty payments. 63 As we noted in the Second Report and Order, however, the appropriateness of preferences is best determined in light of the characteristics of the particular service and the nature of its expected pool of bidders, and we find that these preferences are not appropriate for the IVDS. Concerning set-asides, we note that the total spectrum available in the service is small: two 500 kilohertz channels available in each service area. Thus for the IVDS, with its licensing scheme of two licenses per market, the use of set-asides would result in one of every two licenses being reserved for designated entities. We decline to reserve so great a proportion of the service's spectrum. Furthermore, in the Second Report and Order we decided, for all services, not to use the preference of royalty payments. 64 While we will continue to assess the feasibility of these preferences as we gain experience with auctions in the context of this and other services, we are not persuaded to change our decision for the IVDS. 62 Breen and ICC favor set-asides as a means to encourage applications from small businesses. Comments of Breen 9; ICC at 4&hyph;6. ICC also argues that, without set-asides, large telecommunications providers might attempt to stifle IVDS technology or permit it only as an adjunct to existing offerings. ICC comments at 5&hyph;6. 63 Breen and ICC state that this option will encourage participation by designated entities. Breen at 7; ICC comment at 7, reply comment at 8. 64 Id. at ¶¶ 252&hyph;253. 38. We note that the IVDS, with its expected relatively low capital entry requirements, is well suited for ownership by designated entities and other potential bidders that might otherwise lack the financial resources to compete by auction for a license. This, combined with the variety of uses possible with the service, makes it likely that the IVDS will promote economic growth and enhance the access of consumers to new and innovative service offerings. As we gain experience with IVDS auctions, we intend continually to assess the effectiveness of our measures, and will apply any knowledge gained to subsequent auctions for other services. B. Bidding Credits 39. In the Second Report and Order we stated that we would consider using bidding credits to encourage participation by designated entities in auctions. Upon consideration and review of the record on this subject, we believe that affording businesses owned by minorities and women a substantial bidding credit for certain specified IVDS licenses is the most cost-effective and efficient means of achieving Congress' objective of ``ensuring'' the opportunity of these designated entities to participate in the provision of IVDS offerings. Bidding credits will provide minority and women-owned firms with a significant advantage, which we believe is necessary to achieve this congressional goal, while preserving the advantages of open bidding competition. In effect, the bidding credit will function as a discount on the bid price a minority- or women-owned firm will actually have to pay to obtain a license and, thus, will address directly the financing obstacles encountered by these entities. We believe that a bidding credit in the amount of twenty-five (25) percent is necessary to provide these designated entities with a significant enough advantage to ensure their ability to compete successfully for some IVDS licenses. Thus, in each market, a single 25 percent bidding credit will be awarded to a business owned by minorities and/or women if it is a winning bidder. 65 65 Only one bidding credit is available in each market. If it happens that the two highest bidders are both designated entities eligible for a bidding credit, the second highest bidder will be given the option of accepting the remaining license without the credit, or declining the remaining license. 40. As discussed in the Second Report and Order, Congress mandated that the Commission ``ensure'' the opportunity for participation in spectrum-based services by each category of designated entity, including businesses owned by minorities and women. This plain language leads us to conclude that adequate measures must be taken to assure that minority and women-owned businesses have the ability to participate in the provision of services subject to competitive bidding. Moreover, in enacting this legislation, it is clear that Congress was concerned about disseminating licenses to a wide variety of applicants and wanted the Commission to take meaningful steps to accomplish this goal. 66 Indeed, Congress included a requirement in the statute that the Commission report to it in 1997 about, among other things, whether competitive bidding facilitated the introduction of new companies into the telecommunications market and whether designated entities ``were able to participate successfully in the competitive bidding process.'' 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(12)(iv). 66 We have decided not to provide bidding credits (or other separate preferences) to rural telephone companies bidding on IVDS spectrum because we conclude that, given the relatively modest build-out costs for systems in this service, such preferences are unnecessary to ensure the participation of rural telephone companies in the provision of IVDS offerings to rural areas. The preferences are also, therefore, unnecessary in this context to meet Congress' intent to ensure that rural consumers receive the benefit of new technologies such as IVDS. Rural telephone companies will, however, be eligible for bidding credits if they are owned by minorities or women. They may also qualify for installment payments if they satisfy the eligibility criteria for small businesses.
