FR940919-0-00110 FR940919-0-00016 1. Methodology Section In today's final rule, the Agency is establishing treatment standards for newly identified and listed wastes, as well as any soils and debris which are contaminated with such wastes. (The Agency plans to develop alternative standards for hazardous soils as a part of the Hazardous Wastes Identification Rule (HWIR).) The newly identified wastes covered under today's rule include wastes displaying the organic toxicity characteristic (TC), and pesticide wastes that were not previously hazardous by the EP leaching procedure. The newly listed wastes are Coke By-product wastes and Chlorotoluene wastes. Of the newly regulated hazardous soil in today's rule, the only existing volumes are soils contaminated with TC wastes. (Any volumes of soil contaminated with F037 and F038 listed wastes which exist are not covered in today's rule, but are being covered in a future Agency rulemaking.) Finally, the Agency is promulgating new testing and recordkeeping requirements, as well as reducing other recordkeeping requirements. Furthermore, today's final rule proposes Universal Treatment Standards (UTS) for wastes already regulated under the LDRs. The Agency's analysis includes an analysis of the volumes affected by this change in treatment levels. (In the switch to UTS levels there are cases where the new UTS level is less stringent than the existing listing levels, as well as cases where the UTS is more stringent than existing levels. Either of these cases would have the potential to change the costs associated with treatment of these wastes.) a. Methodology for Estimating the Affected Universe In determining the costs, economic impacts, and benefits associated with today's rule, the Agency estimated the volumes of TC nonwastewaters, Coke By-Product wastes, and Chlorotoluene wastes affected by today's rule. For the TC wastes, the Agency employed the 1995 volume estimates presented for each affected waste in the Agency's 1992 TC Census Database (hereafter referred to as the ``TC Survey''). (There are several ways in which the volumes employed for the capacity determinations differ from those used in the RIA.) The capacity determinations section of the preamble describes the methods used there to determine volumes. The scope of the RIA differs from that of the capacity determination in the ``time window'' analyzed. The RIA examines the short- and long-term impacts from the rule. Capacity determinations, on the other hand, are made for a two year time frame beginning at the promulgation of today's rule. The Agency employed the volumes of Coke By-Products and Chlorotoluene wastes estimated in their respective listing analyses. For Coke By-Products, current management practices suggest that no volumes will be land disposed. b. Cost Methodology The cost analysis estimates the national level incremental costs which will be incurred as a result of today's rule. The cost estimates for both the baseline and post-regulatory scenarios are calculated employing: (i) The facility wastestream volume, (ii) the management practice (baseline or post- regulatory) assigned to that wastestream, and (iii) the unit cost associated with that practice. Summing the costs for all facilities produces the total costs for the given waste and scenario. Subtracting the baseline cost from the post-regulatory cost produces the national incremental cost associated with today's rule for the given waste. The unit costs include costs for Subtitle D and Subtitle C disposal (as appropriate), and transportation costs where necessary; all dollar estimates are in 1993 dollars (unless otherwise noted.) Each section below summarizes the baseline and post- regulatory management practices assignments for each waste. The unit costs employed for the management practices are summarized in the RIA background document for today's rule. The cost methodology section includes three sub-sections: (i) TC organic wastes, (ii) Other newly identified wastes, (iii) Testing, record-keeping, and permit modification costs. i. Organic Toxicity Characteristic Wastes (D018&hyph;D043) The standards established in today's rule for the organic TC wastes require the treatment of all underlying hazardous constituents. The affected TC wastes can be divided into three groups: TC nonwastewaters, TC soils, and TC debris. While TC wastewaters which are not managed in CWA or CWA-equivalent units are being regulated in today's rule, the current management practices for these volumes do not trigger land disposal (RCRA exempt tanks, etc.), and therefore are not subject to the LDRs. Below, EPA describes the method of estimating the costs incurred in complying with the TC standards in today's rule. In establishing a baseline for the TC nonwastewaters, TC hazardous soils, and TC hazardous debris affected by today's rule, the Agency assumed Subtitle C landfilling as the current management practice. The Agency believes that there are TC wastes which are not affected by today's rule because they are already being treated to comply with the standards established in today's rule (e.g.: wastes with high BTU value which are being used as fuel, etc.). The Agency assumed that landfilling was occurring on-site for noncommercial (company captive) facilities, and off-site for commercial facilities. Employing today's requirement of treating for all underlying constituents reasonably expected to be present, the Agency developed technology assignments for the wastes at each facility. The assignments include a treatment technology (or treatment train where required), and subsequent Subtitle D disposal. These assignments were based on waste characterization and constituent concentration data. Where little or no such data were available for a wastestream, the weighted average unit cost was assigned (the weighted average unit cost was calculated separately for nonwastewaters, soils, and debris). The Agency allows a generator of hazardous soil to apply for a treatability variance. The Agency, however, has not analyzed the potential short-term savings which could be realized in the management of hazardous soil, and therefore may have overestimated the cost impacts of the rule in the short-term. There is also some uncertainty where certain technologies will be available to treat TC nonwastewaters. The Agency performed a sensitivity analysis to characterize this uncertainty, which is included in the RIA Background Document.
