FR940318-0-00201 FR940318-0-00023 The toxicity of these three solvents has been the subject of extensive analysis. Without regulation, their use has the potential to pose high risks to workers as well as to residents in nearby communities or consumers using household products containing such chemicals. However, while the Agency generally discourages the use of these chemicals in aerosol applications, they may be necessary in products where nonflammability is a critical characteristic. The Agency encourages formulators of aerosols to restrict their use of chlorinated solvents to products that must be nonflammable. Given that the use of chlorinated solvents may be necessary to offset risks of flammability, the Agency has determined chlorinated solvents to be acceptable substitutes since risks to workers can be reduced by adhering to OSHA standards. Residual risks to residents in nearby communities may remain. The Agency is aware of these potential risks and has the authority to address them under section 112 of the CAA. This section of the CAA lists three of these solvents as Hazardous Air Pollutants, and authorizes the Agency to establish controls for their use. EPA will pursue any appropriate regulations under this authority. Any risks arising from use of these compounds as pesticide aerosols in reformulated products can be addressed using FIFRA authorities. These solvents are occasionally found in consumer products. Consumer risks were not analyzed under the SNAP risk screens since these risks are controlled under authorities implemented by the Consumer Safety Product Commission, which has already established labeling requirements for use of these solvents. (d) Oxygenated organic solvents. Oxygenated organic solvents (ketones, esters, ethers, and alcohols) are acceptable substitutes for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;113, MCF and HCFC&hyph;141b as solvents in the aerosols sector. Most of these compounds have a long history of safe use, and regulations to control any risks due to tropospheric ozone formation or worker exposure are already in place under other relevant authorities. (e) Terpenes. Terpenes are acceptable substitutes for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;113, MCF and HCFC&hyph;141b as solvents in the aerosols sector. Terpene-based formulations have a long history of safe use as industrial solvents, and any increased risks due to increased tropospheric ozone formation can be controlled through existing regulations. Additionally, many of these chemicals are naturally occurring organic hydrocarbons and exhibit significant biodegradability. The use history of these chemicals does not negate the toxicity of these compounds to aquatic life. However, the Agency does not believe that in this case significant adverse effects are to be expected, since in aerosol applications the terpenes volatilize during use and would consequently not be discharged to surface or ground water where aquatic species are to be found. (f) Water-based formulations. Water-based formulations are acceptable substitutes for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;113, MCF and HCFC&hyph;141b as solvents in the aerosols sector. The Agency did not identify any significant environmental concerns associated with use of these products. They can contain small amounts of VOCs, but these amounts are minor in comparison to products formulated solely with organic solvents. b. Substitutes acceptable subject to use conditions. (None). c. Substitutes acceptable subject to narrowed use limits. (None). d. Unacceptable substitutes. (None). J. Tobacco Expansion 1. Overview Tobacco expansion is the process of puffing leaves of tobacco to decrease the volume of tobacco used in cigarette production. Currently, one of the primary technologies used to expand tobacco in the U.S. relies on CFC&hyph;11. One and one half million pounds of CFC&hyph;11 are used annually in the U.S. in this sector. In the CFC&hyph;11 process, tobacco is saturated with CFC&hyph;11 in a stainless steel vessel maintained at 120 degrees Fahrenheit and pressurized to 20 psi. The tobacco is then permeated with hot air (330 F) which expands the tobacco. The CFC&hyph;11 is vaporized and recovered by cooling and compressing, and is continually recovered and recycled. The Agency received notification on two potential substitutes: (1) Carbon dioxide technology, an alternative process substitute, and (2) HFC&hyph;227ea. In this final rule, the Agency is listing carbon dioxide as an acceptable substitute for CFC&hyph;11 in tobacco expansion. Similarly, HFC&hyph;227ea is (currently under review and will be listed in the FRM pending completion of review of the data). 2. Comment Response
