FR940407-2-00108 FR940407-2-00058 The NASD believes that extension of the Service through June 1, 1994 is fully consistent with the foregoing provisions of the Act. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD believes that the rule change will not result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The NASD requests that the Commission find good cause, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, for approving the proposed rule change prior to the 30th day after its publication in the Federal Register to avoid any interruption of the Service. Otherwise, the NASD will be required to suspend operation of the Service pending Commission action on the proposed extension. The NASD believes that accelerated approval is appropriate to ensure continuity in the Service's operation pending a determination on permanent status for the Service, as required in File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;92&hyph;7. Continued operation of the Service will ensure the availability of an electronic quotation medium to support member firms' market making in approximately 4,182 OTC Equities and the widespread dissemination of quotation information on these securities. The Service's operation also expedites price discovery and facilitates the execution of customer orders at the best available price. From a regulatory standpoint, the NASD's capture of quotation data from participating market makers supplements the price and volume data reported by member firms pursuant to section 2 of Schedule H to the NASD By-Laws. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withhheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by April 28, 1994. V. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval The Commission finds that approval of the proposed rule change is consistent with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, and, in particular, with the requirements of section 15A(b)(11) of the Act, which provides that the rules of the NASD relating to quotations must be designed to produce fair and informative quotations, prevent fictitious or misleading quotations, and promote orderly procedures for collecting, distributing, and publishing quotations. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the 30th day after the date of publishing notice of the filing thereof. Accelerated approval of the NASD's proposal is appropriate to ensure continuity in the Service's operation as an electronic quotation medium that supports NASD members' market making in these securities and that facilitates price discovery and the execution of customers' orders at best available price. Additionally, continued operation of the Service will materially assist the NASD's surveillance of its members trading in OTC Equities that are eligible and quoted in the Service, and in non-Tape B securities that are listed on regional exchanges and quoted in the OTCBB by NASD members. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change be, and hereby is, approved for an interim period through June 1, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8278 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
