FR941202-2-00161 FR941202-2-00098 The Contributors Committee. This committee is composed of five Contributors. Its function is to serve as a focal point for the Contributors. The committee shall propose a slate of candidates to the EPA as potential appointees to the ELAB. It solicits information from and provides feedback to the Contributors. 1.3.4␣The Membership The Membership consists of two classes_Active Members and Contributors. Active Membership. Active membership is limited to State and Federal Officials. The Active Members may vote and serve on the Committees. At the annual conference the voting Members are divided into a House of Representatives and a House of Delegates. The House of Representatives is composed of one officially designated State Representative from each State or Territory, two representatives from each of seven EPA Assistant/Associate Administrators (OSWER, OAR, ORD, OW, OPPTS, OECA, and OROSLR), and one officially designated Federal Representative from each other participating federal program. The state representative should be the director of the state environmental laboratory accreditation, or a high level technically competent scientist who is knowledgeable about environmental laboratory analysis and accreditation programs, or his or her designee. The Federal Representative is designated by the appropriate person in charge of the federal program. All other State and Federal Officials are grouped as a body known as the House of Delegates. Contributors. The contributors are all other interested parties and groups. They include, but are not limited to, laboratory personnel, industry representatives, environmental groups, the general public, laboratory associations, industry associations, accreditation associations, and retired active members. The Contributors may not vote, but can make presentations, comments or input at all stages of the standards and procedures making process. 1.3.5␣The Generation of Standards The standards for the accreditation of laboratories begin in the various committees (see Figure 1&hyph;2). Draft standards proposed by the committees are published in the Federal Register by EPA. After providing an appropriate time for review, an Interim Meeting is held and presentations, comments and other input are received. The draft proposals are processed and either presented at the Annual Conference or returned to committee for further work. These resolutions presented at the Annual Conference are voted upon by the Active Membership. (See Constitution and Bylaws for voting procedures.) If rejected, they go back to committee for reassessment or shelving. If approved, they are presented in the Federal Register in final form by EPA. 1.3.6␣Adoption of Standards Participating States must adopt the standards to maintain status as a NELAP accreditor. If a State chooses not to participate in all or part of the accreditation program, laboratories in that State may obtain certification from a participating State that is approved under NELAP. 1.4␣Roles and Responsibilities of the Federal Government, the States, and Other Parties 1.4.1␣Federal Government (USEPA) The role of the federal government, as represented by the USEPA (the Agency), shall be that of oversight and evaluation of the accrediting authorities and that of administration of NELAP program elements which require a high degree of standardization between different accrediting authorities. In addition, the USEPA shall provide staff support to the Conference as provided for in the Bylaws and agreed to by the Agency. The EPA shall assist the Conference by publishing in the Federal Register all proposed and final standards. The EPA will also evaluate state and federal laboratories to assure compliance with NELAC standards. The EPA Administrator will appoint a Director of the National Environmental Laboratory Program. The Director shall serve as an ex officio member of the Board of Directors. He or she shall select a senior member of EPA with laboratory accreditation experience as the Executive Secretary of the Conference (a full time position). The Director's Office shall establish a program which evaluates, approves, and reports on the accreditation programs implemented by the state accrediting authorities. In these reports, state accreditation programs shall be evaluated against the national standard as established by the Conference. The EPA shall evaluate, inspect, and approve state and federal laboratories as complying with NELAC standards. In addition, the Agency shall establish a five member board, the Accrediting Authority Review Board, composed of representatives from the states, EPA, and other federal agencies, to review the process and procedures used by EPA to approve State and Federal laboratories and accrediting authorities. It is recommended that the Agency provide administrative support to a performance evaluation sample program so as to ensure uniformity of sample composition and performance evaluation standards. 1.4.2␣State Governments
