FR940317-2-00080 FR940317-2-00054 Legal name and residence; Home telephone number; Work or campus telephone number; Current [JR: campus] address; How legal residence is established: place of registration to vote, in-state tuition eligibility, other; Congressional district of legal residence; Whether or not applicant is a U.S. citizen or U.S. national Yes or No; Date of birth; Sex; Social Security Number (optional); SR: School name; SR: Name of school principal or head; SR: School address; SR: School type (check one): public, private, parochial; SR: School location (check one): urban, suburban, rural; JR: Name of the institution from which you will receive or did receive your baccalaureate degree; JR: Institution president's name; JR: Institution address; JR: College type (check one): public, private; JR: College type (check one): college, university; JR: Cumulative grade point average as of January or upon graduation; JR: Date degree expected or received (month/year); Name of baccalaureate degree sought or held. Questions Requiring Factual and Explanatory Information Beginning with secondary school from which you graduated, list in chronological order all secondary schools and colleges you attended, including academic summer or special schools and courses. If more than four months elapsed between any phase of your education or between your education and your initial full-time teaching position, indicate your main activities during that period. If you are a teacher, beginning with your first full-time teaching position, list in chronological order all full-time teaching positions you have held, including summer or special positions. List your current position and responsibilities. If more than three months elapsed between any phase of your professional career, explain the reasons for those breaks. Why did you choose to become a secondary school teacher of American history, American government, or social studies? What do you hope to achieve as a secondary school teacher? How does secondary school teaching fit into your long-term career plans? List and briefly describe the school, college, and community activities in which you have participated without compensation that may have influenced your decision to become a teacher, that may have contributed to your preparation for teaching, or that may relate to your responsibilities as a teacher. Indicate the dates, and degree of your involvement and explain the significance of these activities to your personal and professional aspirations. List any awards, scholarships, fellowships, and appointments you have received in recognition of your achievements, activities, and leadership. If you are a teacher, briefly describe and provide examples of your methods and approaches to classroom instruction. Be specific. If you are a teacher, briefly describe your school and/or school district. Explain any particular circumstances about your school or district that affect your teaching. What strengths of character, intelligence, personality, and ability do you have that contribute toward your success as a secondary school teacher of American history, American government, or social studies? What limitations of character, intelligence, personality, and ability must you work to overcome in order to perform successfully as a secondary school teacher of American history, American government, or social studies?
