FR940525-2-00121 FR940525-2-00064 Public Service Electric & Gas Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;272 and 50&hyph;311, Salem Nuclear Generating Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, Salem County, New Jersey Date of amendment request: April 12, 1994. Description of amendment request: This amendment request would revise the Emergency Diesel Generator hot restart test by separating it from the 24-hour endurance run and from the load sequence testing. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: (1) Do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously analyzed. The proposed changes would revise the Salem Emergency Diesel Generator (EDG) surveillance criteria to allow the hot restart test to be performed independent of the Engineered Safety Features (ESF) load sequencing test and the 24-hour endurance run. The proposed surveillance requirements would continue to demonstrate that the objectives of each of these tests are met. Specifically, the EDG's are shown to be capable of starting the ESF loads in the required sequence, operating at full load for an extended period of time, and restarting from a full load temperature condition. Therefore, the proposed changes would not adversely affect the EDG's ability to support mitigation of the consequences of any previously evaluated accident. The proposed changes to the surveillance requirements do not affect the initiation or progression of any accident sequence. (2) Do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed change affects surveillance test criteria such that increased scheduling flexibility is allowed while the test objectives associated with demonstrating EDG operability continue to be met. The proposed changes do not allow any plant configurations that are presently prohibited by the Salem Technical Specifications. (3) Do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Surveillance testing per the proposed Technical Specifications would continue to demonstrate the ability of the EDG's to perform their intended function of providing electrical power to ESF systems needed to mitigate design basis transients, consistent with the plant safety analyses. The margin of safety demonstrated by the plant safety analyses is therefore not affected by the proposed change. Therefore, [Public Service Electric and Gas Company] PSE&G has concluded that the changes proposed herein do not involve a Significant Hazards Consideration. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Salem Free Public library, 112 West Broadway, Salem, New Jersey 08079. Attorney for licensee: Mark J. Wetterhahn, Esquire, Winston and Strawn, 1400 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005&hyph;3502. NRC Project Director: Charles L. Miller.
