FR940202-2-00115 FR940202-2-00071 PART II. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PREVENTION OF NOSOCOMIAL PNEUMONIA Introduction The recommendations are presented according to the etiology of the infection, in the following order: bacterial pneumonia, including Legionnaires' disease; fungal pneumonia (aspergillosis); and virus-associated pneumonia (RSV and influenza infections). Each topic is subdivided according to the following general approaches for nosocomial infection control, as applicable to the infection: 1. Staff education and infection surveillance; 2. Interruption of transmission of microorganisms by eradicating infecting; microorganisms from their epidemiologically important reservoirs, and/or preventing person-to-person transmission; and 3. Modifying host risk for infection. As in previous CDC guidelines, each recommendation is categorized on the basis of existing scientific evidence, theoretical rationale, applicability, and economic impact. 213,214,605&hyph;609 However, the previous CDC system of categorizing recommendations has been modified as follows: CATEGORY IA _Strongly recommended for all hospitals and strongly supported by well-designed experimental or epidemiologic studies. CATEGORY IB _ Strongly recommended for all hospitals and viewed as effective by experts in the field and a consensus of HICPAC based on strong rationale and suggestive evidence, even though definitive scientific studies may not have been done. CATEGORY II _Suggested for implementation in many hospitals. Recommendations may be supported by suggestive clinical or epidemiologic studies, a strong theoretical rationale, or definitive studies applicable to some but not all hospitals. NO RECOMMENDATION; UNRESOLVED ISSUE . Practices for which insufficient evidence or consensus regarding efficacy exists. Prevention and Control of Bacterial Pneumonia I. Staff Education and Infection Surveillance A. Staff Education Educate healthcare workers regarding nosocomial bacterial pneumonias and infection control procedures to prevent their occurrence. 610&hyph;613 CATEGORY IA B. Surveillance 1. Conduct surveillance for bacterial pneumonia in ICU patients at high-risk for nosocomial bacterial pneumonia (e.g., patients with mechanically assisted ventilation, selected postoperative patients) to determine trends and identify potential problems. 7,34,35,59,60,614&hyph;616 Include data regarding the causative microorganisms and their antimicrobial susceptibility patterns. 2&hyph;4 Express data as rates (e.g., number of infected patients or infections per 100 ICU days or per 1,000 ventilator-days) to facilitate intra- and inter-hospital comparisons. 63,617&hyph;619 CATEGORY IA 2. Do not routinely perform surveillance cultures of patients or of equipment or devices used for respiratory therapy, pulmonary-function testing, or delivery of inhalation anesthesia. 62,620,621 CATEGORY IA II. INTERRUPTION OF TRANSMISSION OF MICROORGANISMS A. Sterilization or Disinfection, and Maintenance of Equipment and Devices 1. General Measures a. Thoroughly clean all equipment and devices to be sterilized or disinfected. Decontaminate equipment or device before or during cleaning if it is contaminated with blood and/or marked ``contaminated'' and received from patients who are on certain types of isolation. 245,246,622 CATEGORY IA b. Sterilize semicritical equipment or devices, i.e., items that touch mucous membranes (See device list, Appendix A). If sterilization is not feasible, use high-level disinfection either by wet heat pasteurization (76 ○C for 30 minutes), or by using liquid disinfectants approved as sterilants or disinfectants by the Environmental Protection Agency. 240,242,244,246,623 Follow disinfection with appropriate rinsing, drying, and packaging, taking care not to contaminate the items in the process. CATEGORY IB c. Use sterile (not distilled, nonsterile), pyrogen-free water for rinsing reusable equipment and devices after they have been chemically disinfected. 227,233,234,248 CATEGORY IB d. Do not reprocess an equipment or device that is manufactured for single use only, unless data show that reprocessing the equipment or device poses no threat to the patient, is cost-effective, and does not change the structural integrity or function of the equipment or device. 624,625 CATEGORY IB 2. Mechanical Ventilators, Anesthesia Machines and Circle Systems, and Pulmonary-Function Testing Equipment a. Do not routinely sterilize or disinfect the internal machinery of mechanical ventilators or anesthesia-breathing machines and their circle systems. 626,627 CATEGORY IA b. Do not routinely sterilize or disinfect the internal machinery of pulmonary-function testing machines between uses on different patients. 628,629 CATEGORY II 3. Ventilator Circuits with Humidifiers a. Do not routinely change more frequently than every 48 hours the breathing circuit, including tubing and exhalation valve, and the attached bubbling or wick humidifier of a ventilator that is in use on an individual patient. 34,257,262 CATEGORY IA
