FR940719-0-00024 FR940719-0-00007 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms 27 CFR Part 9 [T.D. ATF&hyph;357, Re: Notice No. 787] RIN 1512&hyph;AA07 Seiad Valley Viticultural Area (93F&hyph;022P) AGENCY: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF); Treasury. ACTION: Final rule, Treasury decision. SUMMARY: This final rule establishes a viticultural area in Siskiyou County, California, named ``Seiad Valley.'' The petition was filed by Brian J. Helsaple of Seiad Valley Vineyards. The establishment of viticultural areas and the subsequent use of viticultural area names as appellations of origin in wine labeling and advertising allows winemakers to distinguish their products from wines made in other areas and enables consumers to better identify the wines they may purchase. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 20, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marjorie D. Ruhf, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 650 Massachusetts Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20226. (202&hyph;927&hyph;8230). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On August 23, 1978, ATF published Treasury Decision ATF&hyph;53 (43 FR 37672, 54624) revising regulations in 27 CFR part 4. These regulations allow the establishment of definite American viticultural areas. The regulations also allow the name of an approved viticultural area to be used as an appellation of origin in the labeling and advertising of wine. On October 2, 1979, ATF published Treasury Decision ATF&hyph;60 (44 FR 56692) which added a new part 9 to 27 CFR, providing for the listing of approved American viticultural areas. Section 4.25a(e)(1), Title 27, CFR, defines an American viticultural area as a delimited grape-growing region distinguishable by geographical features, the boundaries of which have been delineated in subpart C of part 9. Section 4.25a(e)(2) outlines the procedure for proposing an American viticultural area. Any interested person may petition ATF to establish a grape-growing region as a viticultural area. The petition should include: (a) Evidence that the name of the proposed viticultural area is locally and/or nationally known as referring to the area specified in the petition; (b) Historical or current evidence that the boundaries of the viticultural area are as specified in the petition; (c) Evidence relating to the geographical features (climate, soil, elevation, physical features, etc.) which distinguish the viticultural features of the proposed area from surrounding areas; (d) A description of the specific boundaries of the viticultural area, based on features which can be found on United States Geological Survey (U.S.G.S.) maps of the largest applicable scale; and (e) A copy of the appropriate U.S.G.S. map(s) with the boundaries prominently marked. Petition ATF received a petition from Brian J. Helsaple of Seiad Valley Vineyards to establish a viticultural area in Siskiyou County, California, to be known as ``Seiad Valley.'' The viticultural area is located in northwestern California, about 15 miles south of the Oregon border. It contains approximately 2,160 acres, of which approximately 2.5 acres are planted to vineyards. Seiad Valley Vineyards is the only commercial grower and the only wine producer currently active within the viticultural area. Notice of Proposed Rulemaking In response to Mr. Helsaple's petition, ATF published a notice of proposed rulemaking, Notice No. 787, in the Federal Register on January 11, 1994 (59 FR 1510), proposing the establishment of the Seiad Valley viticultural area. The notice requested comments from all interested persons by March 14, 1994. Comments on Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Nine comments were received concerning the proposal to establish the Seiad Valley viticultural area. All nine commenters stated that they fully support the proposed area as delineated in Notice 787. United States Senator Barbara Boxer noted in her comment that ``[d]esignating this distinct region as a viticultural area will help to spark economic growth in a community that has been hard-hit by the disappearance of timber and mining-based industries.'' One commenter, Barbara Holder, Forest Supervisor, Klamath National Forest, United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service, addressed a question asked in the notice of proposed rulemaking. ATF had asked for comments concerning the extension of the area to the south of the Klamath River. She stated ``[t]he area proposed, including lands south of the Klamath River along Grider Creek, does comprise a distinctive zone with regard to geographical features, topography, soil and climate.'' Evidence of Name Evidence that the name of the area is locally and/or nationally known as referring to the area specified includes:
