FR941110-1-00094 FR941110-1-00011 (5) Insulation boards, panels and pipe covers; (6) Pre-polymers. Controlled substance means any substance listed in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart, whether existing alone or in a mixture, but excluding any such substance or mixture that is in a manufactured product other than a container used for the transportation or storage of the substance or mixture. Thus, any amount of a listed substance in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart that is not part of a use system containing the substance is a controlled substance. If a listed substance or mixture must first be transferred from a bulk container to another container, vessel, or piece of equipment in order to realize its intended use, the listed substance or mixture is a ``controlled substance.'' The inadvertent or coincidental creation of insignificant quantities of a listed substance in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart; during a chemical manufacturing process; resulting from unreacted feedstock; from the listed substance's use as a process agent present as a trace quantity in the chemical substance being manufactured; or as an unintended byproduct of research and development applications, is not deemed a controlled substance. Controlled substances are divided into two classes, Class I in appendix A to this subpart, and Class II listed in appendix B to this subpart. Class I substances are further divided into seven groups, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V, Group VI, and Group VII, as set forth in appendix A to this subpart. Copenhagen Amendments means the Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, as amended at the Fourth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in Copenhagen in 1992. Destruction means the expiration of a controlled substance to the destruction efficiency actually achieved, unless considered completely destroyed as defined in this section. Such destruction does not result in a commercially useful end product and uses one of the following controlled processes approved by the Parties to the Protocol: (1) Liquid injection incineration; (2) Reactor cracking; (3) Gaseous/fume oxidation; (4) Rotary kiln incineration; or (5) Cement kiln. Destruction Credits means those privileges that may be obtained under ยง82.9 of this subpart to produce or import controlled substances. Emissive Use means that use of a controlled substance that does not result in the transformation or destruction of the controlled substance as defined in this subpart. Essential-Uses means those uses of controlled substances designated by the Parties to the Protocol to be necessary for the health and safety of, or critical for the functioning of, society; and for which there are no available technically and economically feasible alternatives or substitutes that are acceptable from the standpoint of environment and health. Beginning January 1, 2000 (January 1, 2002 for methyl chloroform) the essential use designations for class I substances must be made in accordance with the provisions of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Essential-Use Allowances means the privileges granted by ยง82.4(o) of this subpart to produce class I substances, effective January 1, 1996 until January 1, 2000, as determined by allocation decisions made by the Parties to the Montreal Protocol and in accordance with the restrictions delineated in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Export means the transport of virgin or used controlled substances from inside the United States or its territories to persons outside the United States or its territories, excluding United States military bases and ships for on-board use. Exporter means the person who contracts to sell controlled substances for export or transfers controlled substances to his affiliate in another country. Facility means any process equipment (e.g., reactor, distillation column) used to convert raw materials or feedstock chemicals into controlled substances or consume controlled substances in the production of other chemicals. Foreign state means an entity which is recognized as a sovereign nation or country other than the United States of America (Taiwan is not considered a foreign state).
