FR940419-1-00064 FR940419-1-00009 (b) Recognition. A resident organization may request that it be recognized as the official organization representing the residents in meetings with the HA or with other entities. (c) Written understanding. At a minimum, the HA and the RO shall put in writing their understanding concerning the elements of their relationship. ยง905.965 Funding Resident Participation. Funding will be provided under subpart J, for the following: (a) Resident Organizations. Subject to appropriations, the HA shall provide funds to ROs for resident participation activities. Eligibility to receive operating subsidy for RO activities at $25 per unit per year is a separate cost item under the Performance Funding System. Of this amount, $15 per unit per year shall fund resident participation activities of the RO. Ten dollars per unit per year shall fund HA costs incurred in carrying out resident participation activities. (b) Stipends. HAs may provide stipends to officers of the RO. The stipend, which may be up to $200 per month per officer, shall be decided locally by the RO and HA. (See definition of annual income in ยง905.102 for exclusion for these stipends.) Tenant Opportunities Program ยง905.966 General. The Indian Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP) (which is the program similar to the public housing TOP for public housing residents) provides technical assistance for various activities including resident management for ROs/RMCs as authorized by Section 20 of the Act. The TOP provides opportunities for RO/RMCs to improve living conditions and resident satisfaction in Indian housing communities. ยง905.967 Eligible TOP Activities. Activities to be funded and carried out by an eligible resident council or resident management corporation, as defined in subpart B, must improve the living conditions and public housing operations and may include any combination of, but are not limited to, the following: (a) Resident Capacity Building. (1) Training Board members in community organizing, Board development, and leadership training; (2) Determining the feasibility of resident management enablement for a specific project or projects; and (3) Assisting in the actual creation of an RMC, such as consulting and legal assistance to incorporate, preparing by-laws and drafting a corporate charter. (b) Resident Management. (1) Training residents, as potential employees of an RMC, in skills directly related to the operation, management, maintenance and financial systems of a project; (2) Training of residents with respect to fair housing requirements; and (3) Gaining assistance in negotiating management contracts, and designing a long-range planning system. (c) Resident Management Business Development. (1) Training related to resident-owned business development and technical assistance for job training and placement in RMC developments; (2) Technical assistance and training in resident managed business development through: (i) Feasibility and market studies; (ii) Development of business plans; (iii) Outreach activities; and (iv) Innovative financing methods including revolving loan funds. (3) Legal advice in establishing resident managed business entity. (d) Social Support Needs (such as self-sufficiency and youth initiatives ). (1) Feasibility studies to determine training and social services needs; (2) Training in management-related trade skills, computer skills, etc; (3) Management-related employment training and counseling; (4) Coordination of support services; (5) Training for programs such as child care, early childhood development, parent involvement, volunteer services, parenting skills, before and after school programs; and (6) Training programs on health, nutrition and safety.
