FR941207-2-00005 FR941207-2-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness Programmatic Management Plan, Boise, Bitterroot, Nez Perce, Payette, and Salmon-Challis National Forests; Boise, Custer, Idaho, Lemhi and Valley Counties, ID AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare Environmental Impact Statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to document the analysis. It will disclose the environmental impacts of proposed actions to develop goals and objectives, describe desired future condition(s), establish indicators and standards, delineate management zones, develop management prescriptions and establish monitoring requirements for the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness, an area of 2,361,767 acres in Central Idaho. This Wilderness contains both the Middle Fork and Main Salmon Wild Rivers and the Upper Selway Wild River. The action will amend the existing Land and Resource Management Plans as part of the Final Environmental Impact Statement. This new management direction will apply to projects implemented after site-specific analysis has been conducted. The coordinated management direction established by the Record of Decision for the Final Environmental Impact Statement will be incorporated into all land and resource management plans within the administrative boundaries of the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness. DATES: Written comments concerning the scope of the analysis described in this Notice should be received on or before December 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to FC&hyph;RONR Wilderness Coordinator, P.O. Box 729, Salmon, ID 83467. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ken Wotring, Wilderness Coordinator, Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness, 208&hyph;756&hyph;5131. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This EIS will update the existing Management Plans and the Land and Resource Management (Forest) Plans that govern the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness by developing goals and objectives, describing Desired Future Conditions, selecting indicators of wilderness conditions, establishing standards for these indicators, identifying possible management actions for sites where standards could be or are being exceeded, delineating management zones, developing management prescriptions and establishing monitoring requirements for the Bitterroot, Boise, Nez Perce, Payette and Salmon-Challis National Forests lands within this wilderness area. Preliminary issues identified to date include: •What effect will management decisions have on the Wilderness' ecological values and the preservation of natural biodiversity? •How will exotic plants and animals be managed? •Will expanding exotic plant and animal populations significantly affect wilderness values? •Will management actions have an effect on fish habitat, particularly salmon and steelhead trout? •Will natural fire regimes and fire management practices be affected? •Will wildlife species and their habitats be impacted by this action? •How will existing mining claims be affected by this action? •Will it be possible to establish long term baseline monitoring of the wilderness resource after implementation of this decision? •How will research be affected by this decision? •What will be the effects of human waste and litter impacts? •Will it be possible to minimize user impacts and reduce crowding to ensure a positive wilderness experience? •How will recreational activities be managed to allow for use while minimizing impacts to the natural resource and wilderness experience? •How can the Wilderness' cultural and historical values be protected and maintained while at the same time be share with the public? •How will unique qualities and management policies of the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness, such as authorized motorboats on the main Salmon River and established aircraft use, be effected by this decision? •How can stock use be managed while minimizing impacts to the natural resource and wilderness experience? •How will the decision affect consistency and uniformity in regulations, cooperation among Ranger Districts and accountability in management?
