FR940217-2-00056 FR940217-2-00031 Subcategory (B): system enhancement grants. System enhancement grants will fund activities that represent the next logical step or steps to take in institutionalizing EMSC activities within the State EMS system and achieving program goals outlined in this announcement and further elaborated in the 1993 Institute of Medicine Report to Congress entitled Emergency Medical Services for Children. (A copy of the Executive Summary of this report will be enclosed with the application kit. The full report is available for $49.95 from National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Avenue, NW., Box 285, Washington, DC 20055.) For example, funding might be used to improve linkages between local and regional or State agencies, to develop pediatric standards for a region, or to assure effective field triage of the child in physical or emotional crisis to appropriate facilities and/or other resources. Activities implemented under prior EMSC program funding but not completed or made self-sustaining during the original implementation project period will not be considered suitable. States that have previously received EMSC funds may apply for a system enhancement grant, as long as they will not also be receiving implementation grant funds during the project period of the systems enhancement grant. Grants of up to $150,000 are anticipated for the first year, with grants of up to $100,000 for the second year. Category (3): Targeted Issues Grants The third funding category is that of targeted issues grants on topics of importance to EMSC. These grants are intended to address specific, focused issues related to the development of EMSC capacity, with the potential to serve as national or regional models. Proposals in this category must have a well conceived methodology to evaluate the impact of the activity. The Director of the Maternal and Child Health Bureau (MCHB) will judge the acceptability of projects proposed in this category. Prospective applicants are urged to contact EMSC program staff well in advance of submitting their formal applications, so that the work of proposal development can be avoided if the proposed project is judged to be inappropriate for submission in this category. Priorities for this category have been chosen from topics recommended by the 1993 Institute of Medicine Report on EMSC. Priorities and examples include: _Education and Training. For this priority, proposals are sought which develop or evaluate education or training geared to improving EMS providers' ability to address underdeveloped elements in EMSC. They may relate to particular areas of attention, such as the psychosocial aspects of EMSC, or to particular populations that are underserved or isolated. Proposals focusing on underserved or isolated populations of children might target the needs of Native Americans, Native Alaskans, or Native Hawaiians, adolescents, developmentally disabled, mentally ill, homeless, or children living in rural areas or inner cities. Educational programs might also be developed for particular groups, such as parents, volunteers, caretakers, teachers, firefighters, medical control or medical dispatch personnel. Assessment of the effectiveness of the training, using appropriate outcome measures, is a key objective for proposals in this category. Proposals are expected to incorporate existing materials whenever possible; however, innovations in media or instructional techniques are encouraged. Projects could include the conversion of previously developed teaching materials to interactive video format, the development of curricula or training exercises to promote improved EMS management of psychosocial crises, or the utilization of multidisciplinary seminars or study groups to enhance collaboration on pediatric emergency care between primary and specialty providers.
