FR940617-0-00073 FR940617-0-00016 (3) Geologic/Mineralogic/Paleontologic. Respondents felt that the terms ``outstanding'' and ``important'' were too restrictive. Most recommended that ``outstanding'' be replaced with ``other interesting'' or that it and ``important'' be deleted completely. Several respondents felt these criteria would allow every cave to be determined significant. One recommended that this paragraph be completely eliminated; another recommended tying the criteria to only ``fragile or outstanding'' examples. In the final rule the qualifiers ``outstanding'', ``useful'' and ``important'' have been eliminated and replaced with more tangible terms. However, while some restrictive qualifiers have been expanded, there are still qualifiers that could appropriately eliminate caves from listing under this criteria. (4) Hydrologic. One respondent felt this criterion should be limited to waters that are necessary to maintain municipal water supplies and maintain scientifically important biota or cave features. The Department disagrees. This criterion is adopted without change from the proposed rule since it addresses hydrological resources associated with caves and cave resources. (5) Recreational. Most respondents requested that ``challenge'' be replaced and values such as wilderness, sporting, natural, aesthetic, exploration, educational, and scientific be substituted. One respondent felt that this section should be completely removed. Another noted that scenic values and challenge must have an important value. This criterion responds to the Act which recognizes caves for their perpetual use, enjoyment, and benefit for all people and further notes that people utilize caves for recreational purposes. The qualifier ``by virtue of challenge'' has been eliminated since it does not describe a type of recreational opportunity that can be measured. In the final rule, this paragraph is written broadly enough to incorporate the suggested values of wilderness, sporting, aesthetic, and exploration if they tie to recreational and scenic opportunities. (6) Educational or scientific. One respondent noted that any new cave discoveries would automatically qualify as significant under this proposed criterion. Several other respondents felt that qualifiers should be deleted to make the criteria less restrictive. One suggested adding wilderness and uniqueness to this category. Other felt that these criteria must either note an important value or it should be removed. Changes to this paragraph in the final rule are minor. ``Contemporary'' is inserted before ``human disturbance'' to ensure that cultural resources are considered rather than recent acts of vandalism. New cave discoveries could be designated significant if they lack evidence of contemporary human disturbance or impact. This acknowledges that a pristine cave offers potential values from a scientific, educational, and recreational standpoint. A new paragraph (d), Specially designated areas, has been added to recognize that some management decisions have already been made wholly or in part due to caves. Where special management designations are already associated with protecting caves, it is efficient to designate them as significant without re-evaluating them under the requirements of paragraph (c). Paragraph (e) Designation and Documentation Several respondents felt clarification was needed for the authorized officer's designation of significant caves. They felt that designation should be tied to the authorized officer confirming that a cave met one of the criteria rather than evaluating the criteria itself. Another respondent requested that the rule be specific as to what information must be provided. The wording of this paragraph in the final rule clarifies that the authorized officer will confirm whether or not a cave meets one of the criteria listed in ยง290.3(c). This clearly defines the role of authorized officer as a decisionmaker not a reviewer of the criteria. The paragraph also specifies the minimum documentation to be retained for each cave designated as significant. A new paragraph (f), Undiscovered passages, has been added to clearly recognize that once a cave has been listed, the designation applies to the entire cave on federal land, regardless of agency jurisdiction or extent of exploration. A decision to place a cave on the significant cave list is an inventory type decision, and as such, is not appropriately subject to administrative appeal. Accordingly, new paragraph (g), Decision final , has been added to clearly state that this determination is not subject to appeal. However, paragraph (a) of this section of the final rule contains a new sentence that makes explicit that a nomination may be resubmitted for listing, thus acknowledging that a decision not to list a cave may be changed when better or new information accompanies the nomination.
