FR940214-2-00089 FR940214-2-00054 [Release No. 34&hyph;33593; File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;2] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. to Establish a Temporary Policy Relating to the Automatic Execution Feature of the Midwest Automated Execution System. February 8, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on January 26, 1994, the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CHX'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On February 3, 1994, the CHX submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 See letter from J. Craig Long, Foley & Lardner, to Louis A. Randazzo, Attorney, Commission, dated February 2, 1994. Amendment No. 1 modifies the CHX's proposal to provide for a ``sunset'' provision whereby the effectiveness of the filing will terminate sixty days from the release date of this notice. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The CHX has published to its members a temporary policy 2 relating to the automatic execution feature of the Midwest Automated Execution (``MAX'') System which, inter alia , automates The Exchange's Guaranteed Execution System (``BEST System'') pursuant to Article XX, Rule 37 of the CHX Rules. 3 2 The effectiveness of the proposal will terminate on April 9, 1994. See Amendment No. 1, supra note 1. 3 The temporary policy states that in an effort to ensure accurate executions to the customers, the Committee on Floor Procedures has decided that once the analyst's report is broadcast, the auto-execution system will be turned off and all issues will be executed manually. After the issue is named, and two members from the Committee on Floor Procedure agree that there is no longer an influx of orders in this issue, the system will be set back to automatic execution. All specialists are reminded that during the period that the system is set to manual, it is their responsibility to properly price all orders within the context of the CHX rules. The Committee on Floor Procedure and Surveillance will review all trades in the affected issues to insure that proper reports are given to the customers. This will be on a trial procedure only. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule charge. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose Recently, the Exchange has experienced an abnormal influx of orders through the MAX system at the same time that a certain analyst' report is broadcast on cable T.V. Because of the near instantaneous automatic execution feature of the MAX system, the executions of those orders are taking place before the quotes for those stocks can be updated to reflect the analyst's comments. The MAX system automates the requirements of Rule 37 of Article XX which guarantees executions at the best market up to a certain size for agency orders. Paragraph 7 under Rule 37 allows specialists and floor brokers to seek relief from the requirements of the BEST system in unusual trading situations. 4 The Committee on Floor Procedures has determined that the broadcast of the above described report creates unusual trading situations that warrant relief from the automatic execution feature for a short period of time so that proper quotes can be entered. As a result, the purpose of the proposed rule change is to published the Committee on Floor Procedure's determination to all trading floor members. 5 4 CHX Rule 37, Paragraph 7 states that in unusual trading situations, a specialist or floor broker may seek relief from the requirements of Rule 37, Paragraphs 1 through 6 from two members of the Committee on Floor Procedure or a designated member of the Exchange staff who would have authority to set execution prices. 5 As noted above, the proposal is in effect for a temporary sixty day period. By that time the Commission expects that CHX to develop systems capability to implement manual execution on a stock-by-stock basis. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments and to perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest.
