FR940912-1-00028 FR940912-1-00010 B. Cost Impacts The fifth-year cost impacts of the proposed standard are considered to be reasonable. Total annualized cost of the rule in the fifth year, on a nationwide basis, is estimated at $8.8 million. This results in a cost effectiveness of about $540 per Mg of emission reduction. The fifth-year national capital cost is estimated at approximately $5.8 million. The estimated cost impacts assume that most of the regulated SOCMI plants with affected process units have an existing steam stripping system with sufficient excess capacity to treat the wastewater streams regulated under the NSPS or will be able to modify steam stripping systems that are currently being designed and constructed for compliance with other regulations (e.g., the HON) to add sufficient capacity to treat the wastewater streams covered by the proposed NSPS that do not require control under these other regulations. The estimate also assumes that a small number (about 12 percent) do not have an existing steam stripper and will have to install a new system. These assumptions reflect the Agency's best estimate of the way the industry will comply with the rule. C. Economic Impacts The proposed rule is not expected to pose significant adverse economic impacts. The impact estimates are also produced assuming the costs of control are passed on to the consumer, as is the case in competitive markets in the long run. The EPA estimates, on average, a maximum price increase of less than 1 percent for SOCMI chemicals. This assumes the entire mix of chemicals produced by an affected SOCMI facility are proportionately affected by the NSPS, and assumes that the chemicals produced at those SOCMI facilities in the EPA database are reasonably representative of the mix of chemicals in the industry. The market price impacts of specific chemicals may be greater than the average presented above. This may be especially true for affected chemicals produced in low volumes and affected chemicals that have lower-than-average market prices. Chemicals with lower-than-average prices could experience higher-than-average control costs per unit of revenue. Due to economies of scale in pollution control, affected chemicals that are produced in low volumes are likely to have a higher-than-average cost of control per unit of production. The feature of the proposed rule that exempts low volume wastewater streams from selected process units may mitigate the price impact of low production volume chemicals that produce low volume waste streams. Finally, there will be no adverse effects on industry employment or expansion because the proposed standards will not appreciably affect the demand for chemicals covered by these standards.
