FR940831-2-00091 FR940831-2-00067 Purpose(s): Information in this system serves as the official record of immigration proceedings. EOIR employees use the information to prepare, process and track the proceedings. The information is further used to generate statistical reports and various documents, i.e., hearing calendars and administrative orders. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information may be disseminated to the Department of State; Federal courts; Members of Congress; the alien or alleged alien's representative or attorney of record; and, to Federal, State and local agencies. Information is disseminated to the Department of State, pursuant to 8 CFR 208.11, to allow its preparation of advisory opinions regarding applications for political asylum; to the Federal courts to enable their review of EOIR administrative decisions on appeal; to Members of Congress to respond to constituent inquiries; and, to the representative or attorney of record to ensure fair representation. Finally, in any claim in which there is an indication of a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, information, including investigatory information, may be disseminated to the appropriate Federal, State or local agency charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or with enforcing or implementing such law. Release of information to the news media and the public: Information permitted to be released to the news media and the public pursuant to 28 CFR 50.2 may be made available from systems of records maintained by the Department of Justice unless it is determined that release of the specific information in the context of a particular matter would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Release of information to Members of Congress: Information contained in the system, not otherwise required to be released pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552, may be made available to a Member of Congress or staff acting upon the Member's behalf when the Member or staff requests the information on behalf of and at the request of the individual who is the subject of the record. Release of information to the National Archives and Records Administration: A record from the system of records may be disclosed to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) for records management inspections conducted under the authority of 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are maintained in file folders which are stored in file cabinets. A subset of the records is maintained on fixed disks or removable disk packs which are stored in file cabinets. All records are stored in secured EOIR office space. Retrievability: Manual records are indexed by alien file number. Automated records are retrievable by a variety of identifying data elements including, but not limited to, alien file number, alien name and nationality. Safeguards: Information maintained in the system is safeguarded in accordance with Department of Justice rules and procedures. Record files are maintained in file cabinets accessible only to EOIR employees. Automated information is stored on either fixed disks or removable disk packs which are stored in cabinets. Only EOIR employees in possession of specific access codes and passwords will be able to access automated information. All manual and automated records and mediums are located in EOIR office space accessible only to EOIR employees and locked during off-duty hours. Retention and disposal: Record files are retained for six months after the final disposition of the case, then forwarded to regional Federal Records Centers. Automated records are maintained in EOIR field office data, bases for ninety days after final disposition, then transferred to the host computer at EOIR headquarters and retained indefinitely. System manager(s) and addresses: Counsel to the Director, Executive Office for Immigration Review, Office of the Chief Immigration Judge, U.S. Department of Justice, 5107 Leesburg Pike, Suite 2400, Falls Church, Virginia 22041. Notification procedure: Address all inquiries to the system manager listed above. Record access procedures: Portions of this system are exempt from disclosure and contest by 5 U.S.C. 522a (k)(1) and (k)(2). Make all request for access to those portions not so exempted by writing to the system manager identified above. Clearly mark the envelope and letter ``Privacy Access Requests'': provide the full name and notarized signature to the individual who is the subject of the record, his/her date and place of birth, or any other identifying number or information which may assist in locating the record; and, a return address. Contesting record procedure: Direct all requests to contest or amend information maintained to the system manager listed above. State clearly and concisely what information is being contested, the reasons for contesting it, and the proposed amendment to the information. Record source categories: Department of Justice offices and employees, primarily those of the Immigration and Naturalization Service; the Department of State and other Federal, State and local agencies; and the parties to immigration proceedings and their witnesses. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: The Attorney General has exempted certain records of this system from the access provisions of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a (d)) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(1) and (k)(2). Rules have promulgated in accordance with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553(b), (c) and (e) and have been published in the Federal Register .
