FR940513-1-00074 FR940513-1-00017 The EPA is proposing that standards for the control of vapors captured during the loading operations be one of the following: (1) A combustion device meeting 98 percent or greater destruction efficiency or (2) A recovery device meeting 95 percent or greater recovery efficiency. The difference in control efficiencies between recovery and combustion is designed to not prohibit recovery systems, which have smaller secondary air emission (sulfur dioxide, nitrous oxides, and carbon monoxide) impacts than combustion systems. The smaller emissions reduction is also warranted because these emissions are recovered as product instead of destroyed. Additionally, the EPA has data supporting the 95- and 98-percent control efficiencies as achievable for recovery and combustion devices, respectively (Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44, items II&hyph;A&hyph;7 and II&hyph;B&hyph;1). For terminals that use recovery devices for control of gasoline vapor emissions, the EPA is proposing an alternative means of compliance. Such sources can comply by ensuring an outlet concentration of 1,000 ppmv or less for emissions from gasoline loadings. The EPA believes the 1,000 ppmv limit for gasoline vapor is generally more strict than the 95 percent reduction requirement. Data from an existing facility show this limit to be achievable (Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44, item II&hyph;B&hyph;13). The intent of the concentration alternative is to allow those facilities that operate at a higher efficiency than required by the proposed standard to perform a simpler compliance test, as they would only have to test at the outlet of the control device. Because of the lower emission factors associated with crude oil emissions, the fact that hydrogen sulfide present in crude oil may poison the activated carbon, and that there are no known facilities controlling crude oil emissions with carbon adsorbers, the EPA is not proposing a concentration alternative for controlling vapors from crude oil emissions. 5. Impacts of the Proposed RACT Standards The environmental, costs, energy, and economic impacts of the proposed RACT standards are summarized in Tables 1 through 3, and are represented by Regulatory Alternative II. They are also discussed in parts C.2. and C.3. above. Economic effects of the proposed RACT standards include a maximum price increase of approximately 0.2 percent and nationwide employment reductions of less than fifty. Up to five terminals controlled under the proposed standards could be under increased competitive pressure. Economic effects on oil tankers include an average control cost per barrel of crude oil loaded equal to $0.002. A primary concern in the implementation of the proposed standards is safety. Section 183(f)(1) dictates that the EPA consult with the Coast Guard and consider safety when promulgating these standards. Section 183(f)(2) states: Regulations on Equipment Safety._Within 6 months after the date of the enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall issue regulations to ensure the safety of the equipment and operations which are to control emissions from the loading and unloading of tank vessels, under section 3703 of title 46 of the United States Code and section 6 of the Ports and Waterways Safety Act (33 U.S.C. 1225). The standards promulgated by the Administrator under paragraph (1) and the regulations issued by a State or political subdivision regarding emissions from the loading and unloading of tank vessels shall be consistent with the regulations regarding safety of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating. The Coast Guard regulations (55 FR 25396) were promulgated in June 1990, before the passage of the amended Act. These standards dictate equipment, system, and operational requirements for vapor control systems for benzene, gasoline, and crude oil. The EPA has maintained communication with the Coast Guard throughout the rulemaking process. All control systems installed as a result of this proposed regulation would be subject to the Coast Guard regulations, and nothing in the proposed standard should be construed as to require any act or omission that would be in violation of any regulation or other requirements of the United States Coast Guard or prevent any act or omission necessary to secure the safety of a vessel or for saving life at sea. Representatives from the United States Coast Guard have participated in all phases of the development of these proposed rules. The EPA is confidant that these regulations are consistent with the Coast Guard regulations and that the safety factors have been adequately addressed. 6. Attainment/Nonattainment Status and Site Specific Risk Assessment At one time, the Agency was considering planning regulating based exclusively under the authority of section 183(f). During this time, the Agency held a public meeting to discuss a possible approach for considering a facility's attainment/non-attainment status with respect to NAAQS ozone program and a facility's site specific risk to the public in developing the standards (see Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44, item II&hyph;E&hyph;42). This approach would have required intensive effort on the part of the Agency and the regulated community to develop acceptable criteria and technological methodologies for demonstrating whether the criteria have been met. However, with regulation under section 112, any facility that might have been exempted from RACT under section 183(f) with the approach discussed at the public meeting would ultimately be regulated under the MACT standards of section 112. Therefore, no further consideration was given to this approach. D. Selection of MACT Regulatory Approach
