FR940516-2-00135 FR940516-2-00094 More significantly, section 905 has established FHIP as a permanent program. As originally promulgated by section 561, FHIP was a demonstration program authorized to expire on September 30, 1992. Since this demonstration period has passed, and FHIP is now a permanent program, the Department has determined that the requirements specifically tied to the demonstration period, namely, the testing guidelines at ยง125.405, are no longer applicable to FHIP. Accordingly, the use of these testing guidelines is not required under this NOFA. The Department has executed a waiver of ยง125.405 for the purposes of this NOFA, pending the elimination of this provision in the revision of 24 CFR part 125. Because section 905 does not eliminate any FHIP provisions other than those related to its status as a demonstration program, the Initiatives and activities currently eligible under 24 CFR part 125 remain eligible under this NOFA. This NOFA further incorporates the HCDA 1992 section 905 FHIP additions to the extent of including the new eligible applicants and activities, and the new Fair Housing Organizations Initiative. For the purpose of future funding rounds, the Department is soliciting in a separate proposed rule comments on the amendment of 24 CFR part 125 by section 905. The proposed rule will be published shortly in the Federal Register . However, applications for FY 1994 funds will be subject to the requirements and deadlines in this NOFA. Eligible applicants should not wait for the rule's publication to prepare and submit their FY 1994 applications in response to this NOFA. Two of the new eligible applicants, fair housing enforcement organizations and qualified fair housing enforcement organizations, are given specific definitions, which apply to this NOFA, in section 905: Fair housing enforcement organization means any organization that_ (1) Is organized as a private, tax-exempt, nonprofit, charitable organization; (2) Is currently engaged in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims; and (3) Upon the receipt of FHIP funds will continue to be engaged in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims. Qualified fair housing enforcement organization means any organization, whether or not it is solely engaged in fair housing enforcement activities, that_ (1) Is organized as a private, tax-exempt, nonprofit, charitable organization; (2) Has at least 2 years experience in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims; and (3) Is engaged in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims at the time of application for FHIP assistance.
