FR940224-0-00062 FR940224-0-00012 Written comments responding to the notice were received, and a public hearing was held on April 5, 1993. After consideration of all written and oral comments regarding the proposed amendments, those amendments are adopted as revised by this Treasury decision. Explanation of Provisions Changes Made by the Final Regulations The proposed regulations generally describe an administrative error and omission and include illustrative examples. Commentators have requested that the final regulations include an ``accounting error'' as an administrative error or omission. The Service and the Treasury Department are concerned that the term ``accounting error'' is too vague. However, in order to address the commentators' concerns, the final regulations clarify that an administrative error or omission includes an error in tracking the housing credit dollar amount an Agency has allocated (or that remains to be allocated) in a calendar year. For example, assume an Agency, believing that it has $100 of credit remaining in its credit ceiling for the current calendar year, allocates $100 to a project and agrees to allocate an additional $30 from the next calendar year's credit ceiling. Later, in the current calendar year, the Agency discovers that it failed to include in its credit ceiling for the current calendar year $50 of credits that were returned in the current calendar year. The error in tracking the $50 of credits that were returned is an administrative error or omission. One commentator asked for clarification of the correction procedure an Agency should use when correcting a document without the Secretary's prior approval. Under the final regulations, a document that corrects a document containing an error or omission that has not yet been filed with the Internal Revenue Service should be filed as the original. If a document containing an error has already been filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the Agency should refile a copy of the document containing the error that prominently and clearly notes the correction. The Agency should indicate at the top of the document(s) that the correction is being made under ยง1.42&hyph;13 of the Income Tax Regulations. The proposed regulations require that an Agency obtain the prior approval of the Secretary to correct an administrative error or omission if (1) the correction is not made before the close of the calendar year of the error or omission, and (2) the correction is a numerical change to the housing credit dollar amount allocated for the building or project. One commentator suggested that an Agency should have until February 28, the date by which an Agency must file its Form 8610, to correct an administrative error or omission that changes the housing credit dollar amount allocated to a building or project without obtaining the Secretary's prior approval. Another commentator made a similar suggestion solely for credits returned in the same year in which they were allocated. These suggestions have not been adopted. Section 42(h)(1) requires that an allocation for a certain calendar year be made by the close of that calendar year. Consistent with that approach, these regulations do not permit an Agency to make a post-year allocation without the Secretary's prior approval. Of course, for a correction of an administrative error or omission that an Agency cannot correct on its own, an Agency, or the Agency and the affected taxpayer, may seek the Secretary's prior approval. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury Decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, a copy of the proposed regulations was submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business.
