FR940406-0-00109 FR940406-0-00011 Thus, NHTSA views the changed circumstances, including the final test procedure and the use of integrated systems, as addressing many of their previous concerns. They also acknowledge that absent actual data they cannot determine the level of risk, and thus conclude that risks are unquantifiable. While the NHTSA report contained a brief assessment as to why trucks might be different than cars and stated that truck prototype systems and field tests for truck ORVR systems would be beneficial, no special safety risks were cited for using ORVR canisters to control LDT/HDV refueling emissions. 4. EPA Assessment EPA is withdrawing its April, 1992 finding that ORVR canisters pose unreasonable safety risks. First, that determination was based on an improper comparison with Stage II controls. NRDC v. Reilly, 983 F. 2d at 271. Considered on their own, ORVR canisters do not appear to pose significant safety risks. Indeed, as the Agency noted in 1987, this appears to be particularly true for integrated evaporative/refueling control systems_which now appear to be the preferred control system. Second, EPA is swayed because NHTSA has reviewed the safety of ORVR systems in light of recent developments and subsequently has withdrawn most of the adverse conclusions in the 1991 report. NHTSA also indicates (1993 Report pp. 17&hyph;24) that some of its remaining concerns can be addressed by choosing proper designs for canister systems. As noted above, EPA has taken NHTSA's views strongly into account throughout the course of this rulemaking, and accordingly is influenced by NHTSA's more positive outlook on ORVR canister safety. The record further indicates that installation of ORVR canisters can have some positive impacts on safety. See EPA's ``Summary and Analysis of Comments on the Potential Safety Implications of ORVR Systems'' (IV&hyph;H&hyph;04). Safety benefits include removal of the external fuel vapor vent line from the fillneck of these vehicles, the expected move of the canister from the engine compartment to the rear of the vehicle, the resultant shortening of the vapor vent line, and the capture of fuel vapor previously vented at the service station during refueling. All of these actions directionally reduce the risk of vehicle fires in crash and non-crash situations. In sum, given that the manufacturers indicate that integrated evaporative/refueling control systems minimize their safety concerns, NHTSA's significant reduction in concerns, EPA's longstanding view of the safety of integrated refueling/evaporative control systems and the safety benefits of ORVR controls, EPA has decided to withdraw its April 15, 1992 finding (57 FR 13230&hyph;13231). Specifically, EPA concludes that onboard canister controls do not pose an unreasonable risk to public safety. ORVR canister systems are not inherently unsafe. Several commenters expressed concern about applying the ORVR requirement to trucks and incomplete vehicles (i.e., those produced by secondary manufacturers). However, for the most part, EPA does not believe the technical circumstances here to be substantially different than for LDVs. All trucks, including those produced by secondary manufacturers, are subject to the enhanced evaporative emission requirements and will have to upgrade their control systems in response to these new requirements. Also, the ORVR test procedure for these vehicles, as for LDVs, would facilitate the use of integrated evaporative/ refueling control systems. Potential safety concerns of vehicles completed by secondary manufacturers should not be substantially different for integrated enhanced evaporative/refueling control systems than they are for enhanced evaporative control systems alone. This is especially the case for those incomplete vehicles delivered to the secondary manufacturer with a complete fuel system as are most incomplete LDTs. Also, the potential safety benefits of ORVR systems would accrue to trucks and secondary manufacturer vehicles as well as to LDVs. Thus, EPA believes the safety concerns, if any, to be similar to those for LDVs. In fact, while the manufacturers opposed extending the ORVR requirement to trucks on several grounds, none indicated that safe truck ORVR systems were not possible. In any event, EPA's decision not to finalize ORVR requirements for HDVs (both complete and incomplete HDVs) at this time and to delay LDT implementation for three years or more should minimize any remaining safety concerns about ORVR systems for trucks (IV&hyph;H&hyph;23). 5. Safety Reviews Nonetheless, EPA is very sensitive to the uncertainties expressed by NHTSA, and plans a program to implement its authority to ensure safe systems. Sections 202(a)(4) and 206(a)(3)(A), (B) of the CAA give EPA broad authority to address the safety of emission control systems. Section 202(a)(4) reads:
