FR940216-0-00200 FR940216-0-00010 (C) The amount of compound in a sample (the corrected amount) is calculated using the equation determined in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section for that compound. (D) The percent normalized amount of a compound is calculated using the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER16FE94.001 where: A n = percent normalized amount of a compound A c = corrected amount of the compound A s = sum of all the corrected amounts for all identified compounds in the sample (E) The total aromatics is the sum of all the percent normalized aromatic amounts in the sample. (F) This method allows quantification of non-aromatic compounds in the sample. However, correct quantification can only be achieved if the instrument's calibration table can identify the compounds that are responsible for at least 95 volume percent of the sample and meets the following quality control criteria. (2) Quality assurance. (i) The performance standards will be from repeated measurement of the calibration mixture, standard reference material, or process control gasoline. The uncertainty in the measured aromatics percentages in the standards must be less than 2.0 volume percent in the fuel at a 95% confidence level. (ii) If the bias of the standard mean is greater than 2% of the theoretical value, then the standard measurement and measurements of all samples measured subsequent to the previous standard measurement that met the performance criteria must be repeated after re-calibrating the instrument. (iii) Replicate samples must be within 3.0 volume percent of the previous sample or within 2.0 volume percent of the mean at the 95% confidence level. (3) Alternative test method. (i) Prior to January 1, 1997, any refiner or importer may determine aromatics content using ASTM standard method D&hyph;1319&hyph;93, entitled ``Standard Test Method for Hydrocarbon Types in Liquid Petroleum Products by Fluorescent Indicator Adsorption,'' for purposes of meeting any testing requirement involving aromatics content; provided that (ii) The refiner or importer test result is correlated with the method specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. (g) Oxygen and oxygenate content analysis. Oxygen and oxygenate content shall be determined by the gas chromatographic procedure using an oxygenate flame ionization detector (GC-OFID) as set out in paragraphs (g) (1) through (8) of this section. (1) Introduction; scope of application. (i) The following single-column, direct-injection gas chromatographic procedure is a technique for quantifying the oxygenate content of gasoline. (ii) This method covers the quantitative determination of the oxygenate content of gasoline through the use of an oxygenate flame ionization detector (OFID). It is applicable to individual organic oxygenated compounds (up to 20 mass percent each) in gasoline having a final boiling point not greater than 220 ○C. Samples above this level should be diluted to fall within the specified range. (iii) The total concentration of oxygen in the gasoline, due to oxygenated components, may also be determined with this method by summation of all peak areas except for dissolved oxygen, water, and the internal standard. Sensitivities to each component oxygenate must be incorporated in the calculation. (iv) All oxygenated gasoline components (alcohols, ethers, etc.) may be assessed by this method. (v) The total mass percent of oxygen in the gasoline due to oxygenated components also may be determined with this method by summing all peak areas except for dissolved oxygen, water, and the internal standard. (vi) Where trade names or specific products are noted in the method, equivalent apparatus and chemical reagents may be used. Mention of trade names or specific products is for the assistance of the user and does not constitute endorsement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. (2) Summary of method. A sample of gasoline is spiked to introduce an internal standard, mixed, and injected into a gas chromatograph (GC) equipped with an OFID. After chromatographic resolution the sample components enter a cracker reactor in which they are stoichiometrically converted to carbon monoxide (in the case of oxygenates), elemental carbon, and hydrogen. The carbon monoxide then enters a methanizer reactor for conversion to water and methane. Finally, the methane generated is determined by a flame ionization detector (FID). (3) Sample handling and preservation. (i) Samples shall be collected and stored in containers which will protect them from changes in the oxygenated component contents of the gasoline, such as loss of volatile fractions of the gasoline by evaporation. (ii) If samples have been refrigerated they shall be brought to room temperature prior to analysis. (iii) Gasoline is extremely flammable and should be handled cautiously and with adequate ventilation. The vapors are harmful if inhaled and prolonged breathing of vapors should be avoided. Skin contact should be minimized. (4) Apparatus. (i) A GC equipped with an oxygenate flame ionization detector. (ii) An autosampler for the GC is highly recommended. (iii) A 60-m length, 0.25-mm ID, 1.0-μm film thickness, nonpolar capillary GC column (J&W DB&hyph;1 or equivalent) is recommended. (iv) An integrator or other acceptable system to collect and process the GC signal. (v) A positive displacement pipet (200 μL) for adding the internal standard. (5) Reagents and materials. Gasoline and many of the oxygenate additives are extremely flammable and may be toxic over prolonged exposure. Methanol is particularly hazardous. Persons performing this procedure must be familiar with the chemicals involved and all precautions applicable to each. (i) Reagent grade oxygenates for internal standards and for preparation of standard solutions. (ii) Supply of oxygenate-free gasoline for blank assessments and for preparation of standard solutions. (iii) Calibration standard solutions containing known quantities of suspected oxygenates in gasoline. (iv) Calibration check standard solutions prepared in the same manner as the calibration standards.
