FR941202-2-00178 FR941202-2-00098 3.5.1␣Length of Evaluation The length of an on-site assessment will depend upon a number of factors, such as the number of tests evaluated, the number of assessors available, the size of the laboratory, the number of problems encountered during the assessment, and the cooperativeness of the laboratory staff. The accrediting body should assign an adequate number of assessors to complete the evaluation within a reasonable period of time. Assessors must strike a balance between thoroughness and practicality, assuring that the assessment covers all aspects of the laboratory operation. 3.5.2␣Opening Conference Arrival at the facility should occur during normal working hours. The facility representative should be located as soon as the assessment team arrives on the premises. A laboratory's refusal to admit the assessment team for an evaluation may result in an automatic failure or loss of accreditation on the part of the laboratory, unless there are extenuating circumstances that are accepted by the accreditation body. The team leader should notify the accrediting body as soon as possible after refusal of entry. When the appropriate official has been located, the team leader should introduce the team and should present credentials. Many companies require that the assessment team sign a visitor's sheet that contains the name, time, reason for visit, organization, etc., which should be signed. However, any request for any assessment team member to sign a ``visitor's release'' or ``waiver'' that would relieve the company of responsibility for injury or that would limit the rights of the accrediting body to use the data obtained should not be signed. If such a waiver or release is presented, the team leader should politely explain that they cannot sign and request a blank sign-in sheet. The assessment team leader should brief the appropriate responsible official(s) of the facility to introduce team members, explain areas to be evaluated and verify application information. The assessment team leader should request relevant documents for review that were not part of the application materials, such as standard operating procedures, chain-of-custody forms, report forms, etc. The assessment appraisal form should be presented to the appropriate laboratory official with a request that the form be completed and returned to the accrediting authority after the assessment. This form will allow feedback from the laboratory on the manner in which the assessment was conducted. 3.5.3␣Records Review The records requested during the opening conference will be reviewed by assessment team members for accuracy, completeness and proper methodology for each area to be evaluated. Trade secrets and confidential business information are protected from public disclosure. The type of information that may be considered confidential business information is defined in Title 40, Code of Federal Regulation, Part 2. All financial and trade information should be kept confidential, if so requested by the laboratory. All other information for all aspects of application, assessment and accreditation of laboratories is considered public information. If the laboratory requests that information other than that noted above is confidential, the information should be treated as confidential until a ruling can be made by the accreditation body. The team leader must mark all confidential information received and handle it as required by appropriate laws and regulations.
