FR941207-2-00043 FR941207-2-00034 Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) Notification; Recommendations From CITES Secretariat on Prohibitions of Trade in Certain Animal Species From Twelve Countries AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of Information No. 23. SUMMARY: This is a schedule III notice. Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Violators may also be subject to criminal or civil prosecution. On April 21, 1994, the CITES Secretariat issued Notification to the Parties No. 800 urging the Parties to suspend imports of certain animal species from the following twelve countries: Argentina, Azerbaijan, China, India, Indonesia, Latvia, Lithuania, Peru, Republic of Moldova, Togo, Ukraine, and the United Republic of Tanzania. This notification was based on a decision made by the CITES Standing Committee during meeting held in March, 1994, which asked CITES Party countries to suspend imports in certain animal species from the affected countries. This action was required by CITES Resolution Conference 8.9, adopted at the Eighth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties in Kyoto, Japan, in 1992, which established a procedure for developing remedial actions and implementing them through import suspensions, if voluntary compliance by exporting countries is not satisfactory. DATES: This notice is effective on December 7, 1994. This notice will be effective until further notice. The import measures announced in this notice shall apply to shipments of wildlife which have a date of export fifteen (15) days after the effective date of this Notice. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Marshall P. Jones, Chief, or Dr. Susan S. Lieberman, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Office of Management Authority, 4401 N. Fairfax Dr., room 420C, Arlington, VA 22203, telephone (703)358&hyph;2093, regarding Notification to the Parties No. 800, or Frank S. Shoemaker Jr., Special Agent in Charge, Investigations, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of Law Enforcement, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive., room 500, Arlington, VA 22203, telephone (703)358&hyph;1949, for enforcement actions. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Article IV, paragraph 2(a) of the CITES treaty allows commercial and noncommercial trade in species listed in CITES Appendix II, but export permits for such trade may be issued only if a designated Management Authority of the country has determined that the specimens were legally acquired, and if a designated Scientific Authority of that country has advised the Management Authority that the export will not be detrimental to the survival of the species. Article IV, paragraph 3 goes on to require that exports of Appendix II species be limited in any way necessary to ensure that the population level of a species is consistent with that species' role in its ecosystem and that the population level of that species be maintained well above the level where it might qualify for inclusion in Appendix I. Over the past decade, CITES parties have become increasingly concerned that certain Appendix II species are subject to particularly high volumes of trade without sufficient biological data for Scientific Authorities to make the necessary judgments that exports are not detrimental to the species, as required by Article IV. In 1983, CITES parties adopted a resolution at the Fourth Conference of the Parties in Gaborone, Botswana, acknowledging that many parties are not effectively implementing Article IV and thus risk losing the benefits of continued availability of these resources. This resolution, Conf. 4.7, established a project to identify Appendix II species involved in significant levels of international trade, and to develop and negotiate with exporting and importing countries whatever measures were necessary to bring trade down to levels consistent with Article IV. In 1987, at the Sixth Conference of the Parties in Ottawa, Canada, parties charged the newly established CITES Animals Committee with the task of establishing a list of Appendix II species being significantly affected by trade, reviewing all available information, and formulating remedial measures for these species. The CITES Secretariat coordinated or contracted for studies to develop lists of mammal, bird, and reptile species and collect relevant information about these species, in cooperation with the IUCN World Conservation Union. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) cooperated with and provided financial support for a number of these studies.
