FR940407-1-00039 FR940407-1-00012 However, most regulatory agencies use the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (``WACC'') methodology to set allowable rates of return, including, for example the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Interstate Commerce Commission (``ICC''), the Federal Communications Commission, and the Maryland Public Service Commission. Indeed, the most recent yearbook published by the National Association of Regulatory Commissioners shows that virtually every state regulatory commission in the U.S. uses some variation of the WACC. 6 Further, current economic literature recognizes the WACC approach as the most generally accepted method of setting allowable rates of return. 6 See ``Table 47_Agency Authority Over Rate Of Return_All Utilities,'' in Utility Regulatory Policy in the United States and Canada Compilation 1992&hyph;1993, National Association of Utility Regulatory Commissioners (``NARUC''), Washington D.C., 1993, pp. 110&hyph;111. The WACC approach recognizes that there are several methods by which a firm may raise capital and each has its attendant cost. Typically, the total capital of a firm has come from three different sources, long-term debt, preferred stock 7 and common-stock equity. Thus, the total capital of a firm may have a debt component, a preferred stock component and a common-stock equity component. Under the WACC methodology, 8 the cost of each of these components is calculated separately and weighted by the proportion the component is to the total capital of the firm. 9 7 Preference stock, also known as prior-preferred stock, is preferred stock that has a higher claim than other issues of preferred stock on dividends and assets in liquidation. 8 Charles E. Phillips, Jr., The Regulation of Public Utilities, 3rd ed., Public Utilities Reports, Inc., Arlington, Virginia, 1993, p. 388. 9 Short term debt that has become a permanent portion of the regulated firm's financing is also included in the computation. Deferred taxes are included at zero cost (unless they have been deducted from rate base). To illustrate the calculation of the WACC, consider a hypothetical regulated company that has total invested capital of $100 million, consisting of $25 million of long-term debt, $15 millon of preferred stock, and $60 million of common-stock equity. Assume that the firm's cost of long-term debt is 7 percent, cost of preferred stock is 9 percent, and cost of common-stock equity is 12 percent. Further, assume that the firm operates in a world where corporate taxes do not exist. The WACC for this firm is calculated as follows: Calculation of WACC 10 1Capital component 1Amount (millions of dollars) 1Proportion (percent) 1Cost (percent) 1WACC (percent) Long-term debt 25 25 7 1.75 Preferred stock 15 15 9 1.35 Common-stock equity 60 60 12 7.20 n,s Total 100 100 10.30 10 The algebraic expression for the overall cost of capital or the WACC, is as follows (ignoring taxes): E:GRAPHICSEP07AP94.006 where: K d is the regulated firm's cost of long-term debt capital; K p is the regulated firm's cost of preferred stock capital; K e is the regulated firm's cost of common-stock equity capital; D is the value of the regulated firm's long-term debt outstanding; P is the value of the regulated firm's preferred stock outstanding; and E is the value of the regulated firm's common-stock equity outstanding. Thus, given the assumptions of this example, the WACC is 10.30 percent. The allowable rate of return for this hypothetical company should, therefore, be set at 10.30 percent, which would provide the firm with the opportunity to earn revenues sufficient to service the company's overall cost of capital. 11 11 In reality, a regulated firm typically does pay taxes, and the WACC must be adjusted to arrive at a final number for an allowable rate of return. Such adjustment is made by calculating the WACC on a before-tax basis (``BTWACC''). The BTWACC is described in detail later. The costs of long-term debt and preferred stock capital may be calculated with relative precision. For the debt component, this is done by computing the actual total annual fixed charges on long-term debt for all issues, including any amortized discount or premium and issuance expense. The total annual fixed charges are then divided by the actual total value of long-term debt outstanding for all issues in order to arrive at the cost of debt stated as a percentage. For example, if the annual fixed charges on long-term debt are $1,750,000 and the total long-term debt outstanding is $25 million, the cost of debt would be 7 percent ($1,750,000/$25 million=.07). The cost of preferred stock is calculated in similar fashion. The actual total annual dividend requirements on the preferred stock for all issues is divided by the actual total value of preferred stock outstanding for all issues in order to arrive at the cost of preferred stock stated as a percentage. For example, if the actual total annual dividend requirements amounted to $1,350,000 and the total value of outstanding preferred stock is $15 million, the cost of preferred stock would be 9 percent ($1,350,000/$15 million=.09). The calculation of the cost of common stock equity capital, the third component of the WACC, is more difficult. Commonly used methods are the Discounted Cash Flow (``DCF''), the Capital Asset Pricing Model (``CAPM'') and the Risk Premium (``RP''). Each of these models is based on market variables (e.g., stock market prices and bond yields) which reflect the expectations of investors in capital markets. More specifically, the DCF, CAPM and RP models are constructed under the generally accepted assumption that a company's stock market price at any moment in time reflects completely investors' current expectations. Because these market-based models are designed to reflect the expectations of investors, and because a company's cost of capital is defined as the rate of return expected by investors on alternative investments of equivalent risk, the WACC framework implemented through the use of such models will, in general, equate the allowable rate of return with the cost of capital.
