FR941212-0-00003 FR941212-0-00002 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 1 RIN 3150&hyph;AE86 Statement of Organization and General Information; Agency Consolidation and Minor Amendments AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is amending its regulations to reflect the completion of the NRC Headquarters consolidation effort, the merger of the Office of Administration and the Office of Consolidation, the reconstitution of the Office of the Licensing Support System Administrator as an organizational unit of the Office of Information Resources Management, and the transfer of the responsibility for administering the Licensing Support System from the Commission staff to the Office of the Executive Director for Operations (EDO). These amendments also reflect the change in the name of the Office of Small Business and Civil Rights, the deletion of the Uranium Recovery Field Office, and the change of the Region V office to a Region IV field office. This final rule corrects several minor typographical errors. The amendments are necessary to inform the public of these administrative changes to the NRC's regulations. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sarah N. Wigginton, Acting Chief, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone: (301) 415&hyph;7164. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background When the NRC began to consolidate its Headquarters offices, the NRC published a Federal Register notice on December 29, 1987 (52 FR 49100), that announced the relocation of several of its Headquarters offices to One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. On January 1, 1988 (53 FR 1744), the NRC amended its regulations to codify the relocation of those offices. The NRC has completed its consolidation effort by relocating its remaining Headquarters offices to the agency's new office building located at Two White Flint North, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. This final rule is necessary to codify these consolidation changes. This final rule also reflects the merger of the NRC's Office of Administration and the Office of Consolidation and the reconstitution of the Office of the Licensing Support System Administrator (LSSA) as an organizational unit within the Office of Information Resources Management (IRM). IRM reports to the EDO. This final rule also notifies the public of the name change of the Office of Small Business and Civil Rights, the deletion of the Uranium Recovery Field Office, and the change of the Region V office to a Region IV field office. Because these amendments deal with agency practice and procedures, the notice and comment provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act do not apply pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(A). The amendments are effective upon publication in the Federal Register . Good cause exists to dispense with the usual 30-day delay in the effective date because these amendments are of a minor and administrative nature, dealing with the agency's reorganization. Environmental Impact: Categorical Exclusion The NRC has determined that this final rule is the type of action described in categorical exclusion 10 CFR 51.22(c)(2). Therefore, neither an environmental impact statement nor an environmental assessment has been prepared for this final rule. Paperwork Reduction Act Statement This final rule contains no information collection requirements and, therefore, is not subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). List of Subjects in 10 CFR Part 1 Organization and functions (Government agencies). For the reasons set out in the preamble and under the authority of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and 5 U.S.C. 552 and 553, the NRC is adopting the following amendments to 10 CFR Part 1. PART 1_STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
