FR940511-2-00217 FR940511-2-00129 ``The subjects should be informed that the institution and investigators will make every effort to provide protection from the media in an effort to protect participants' privacy; ``The subjects should be informed that representatives of applicable Federal agencies (e.g., NIH, Food and Drug Administration), representatives of collaborating institutions, vector suppliers, etc., will have access to medical records of the participants.'' XIII. Deletion of Appendix L of the NIH Guidelines Regarding Release Into the Environment/Dr. Wivel On April 29, 1994, Dr. Nelson Wivel of the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, requested that Appendix L, Release into the Environment of Certain Plants, be deleted from the NIH Guidelines. The Office of Recombinant DNA Activities (ORDA) requests that Appendix L, Release into the Environment of Certain Plants, be deleted from the NIH Guidelines based on the following: (1) Section I of the NIH Guidelines allows experiments to proceed that are reviewed and approved by another Federal agency that has jurisdiction for review and approval without the necessity for NIH review or approval (52 FR 31849); (2) The Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee has not reviewed any deliberate release experiment involving recombinant DNA since 1984; (3) At its May 30&hyph;31, 1991, meeting, the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee recommended that Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2 be deleted from the NIH Guidelines; and (4) Experiments involving deliberate release into the environment are currently reviewed within the framework of existing Federal regulations, i.e., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Section I of the NIH Guidelines was amended on August 24, 1987, such that any recombinant DNA experiment (other than human gene transfer) may proceed without Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee and NIH approval if it has been reviewed and approved by another Federal agency that has jurisdiction over such a proposal. The amended version (52 FR 31849) of Section I reads as follows: Section I&hyph;A. Purpose ``*␣*␣* Any recombinant DNA experiment, which according to the NIH Guidelines requires approval by the NIH, must be submitted to the NIH or to another Federal agency that has jurisdiction for review and approval. Once approval, or other applicable clearances, has been obtained from a Federal agency other than the NIH (whether the experiment is referred to that agency by the NIH or sent directly there by the submitter), the experiment may proceed without the necessity for NIH review or approval *␣*␣*.'' On December 6, 1990, the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee Planning Subcommittee recommended that the requirement for Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee review of experiments involving deliberate environmental release of organisms containing recombinant DNA be eliminated from the NIH Guidelines. This recommendation reflected the fact that the Federal regulatory agencies, the USDA and EPA, are responsible for the review and approval of environmental release experiments. The Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee reviewed the request and recommended that the following sections be deleted from the NIH Guidelines: Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2 Deliberate release into the environment of any organism containing recombinant DNA except those listed below. The term ``deliberate release'' is defined as a planned introduction of recombinant DNA-containing microorganisms, plants, or animals into the environment. Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2&hyph;a. Introductions conducted under conditions considered to be accepted scientific practices in which there is adequate evidence of biological and/or physical control of the recombinant DNA-containing organisms. The nature of such evidence is described in appendix L. Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2&hyph;b. Deletion derivatives and single base changes not otherwise covered by the NIH Guidelines. Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2&hyph;c. For extrachromosomal elements and microorganisms (including viruses), rearrangements and amplifications within a single genome. Rearrangements involving the introduction of DNA from different strains of the same species would not be covered by this exemption. Based on these amendments to the NIH Guidelines, that have previously been recommended by the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, and the fact that the principals of planned introduction are now in place which provide a risk-assessment method by other Federal regulatory agencies, the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities requests that Appendix L be deleted from the NIH Guidelines. Appendix L will be deleted as follows: Appendix L. Release Into the Environment of Certain Plants Appendix L&hyph;I. General Information ``Appendix L specifies conditions under which certain plants as specified below, may be approved for release into the environment. Experiments in this category cannot be initiated without submission of relevant information on the proposed experiment to NIH, review by the RAC Plant Working Group, and specific approval by the NIH Director. Such experiments also require the approval of the IBC before initiation. Information on specific experiments which have been approved will be available in ORDA and will be listed in appendix L&hyph;III when the Guidelines are republished. ``Experiments which do not meet the specifications of appendix L&hyph;II fall under section III&hyph;A and require RAC review and NIH and IBC approval before initiation.
