FR940523-1-00008 FR940523-1-00002 §1040.5 [Amended] 2. Section 1040.5 is amended by removing the phrase ``in the marketing area'' at the end of the section. 3. Section 1040.7 is amended by revising the introductory text of the section, paragraph (a), and the first sentence of the introductory text of paragraph (b), to read as follows: §1040.7 Pool plant. Pool plant means: (a) A distributing plant: (1) From which total route disposition, except filled milk, during the month is not less than 50 percent of the combined Grade A milk received in bulk at such plant direct from producers, from supply plants, from a cooperative association as described in §1040.9(c) or diverted by the plant operator or by a cooperative association pursuant to §1040.13 as producer milk, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section; or (2) That qualified as a pool plant in either of the immediately preceding 2 months on the basis of performance standards described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section; or (3) That meets the following conditions, regardless of the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section: (i) The plant is located in the marketing area; (ii) The plant has total route disposition, except filled milk, during the month of not less than 50 percent of the combined Grade A milk received in bulk at such plant direct from producers, from supply plants, from a cooperative association as described in §1040.9(c) or diverted by the plant operator or by a cooperative association pursuant to §1040.13 as producer milk; and (iii) The principal activity of such plant is the processing and distributing of aseptically processed fluid milk products. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a supply plant which during the month meets one of the performance requirements specified in paragraph (b) (1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section. *␣*␣* * * * * * Marketing Agreement Regulating the Handling of Milk in Certain Marketing Areas The parties hereto, in order to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, and in accordance with the rules of practice and procedure effective thereunder (7 CFR part 900), desire to enter into this marketing agreement and do hereby agree that the provisions referred to in paragraph I hereof as augmented by the provisions specified in paragraph II hereof, shall be and are the provisions of this marketing agreement as if set out in full herein. I. The findings and determinations, order relative to handling, and the provisions of §§ XXXXX 1 to XXXXX , all inclusive, of the order regulating the handling of milk in the ( XXXXX Name of order XXXXX ) marketing area (7 CFR XXXXX PART XXXXX 2 ) which is annexed hereto; and 1 First and last sections of order. 2 Appropriate part number. II. The following provisions: § XXXXX 3 Record of milk handled and authorization to correct typographical errors. 3 Next consecutive section number. (a) Record of milk handled. The undersigned certifies that he/she handled during the month of XXXXX 4 , XXXXX hundredweight of milk covered by this marketing agreement. 4 Appropriate representative period for the order. (b) Authorization to correct typographical errors. The undersigned hereby authorizes the Director, or Acting Director, Dairy Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, to correct any typographical errors which may have been made in this marketing agreement. § XXXXX 3 Effective date. This marketing agreement shall become effective upon the execution of a counterpart hereof by the Secretary in accordance with Section 900.14(a) of the aforesaid rules of practice and procedure. In Witness Whereof, The contracting handlers, acting under the provisions of the Act, for the purposes and subject to the limitations herein contained and not otherwise, have hereunto set their respective hands and seals. Signature By (Name) (Title) (Address) (Seal) Attest [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12274 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
