FR940504-1-00015 FR940504-1-00002 (i) The District Office will check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), following the Forms Manual Insert for Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny credit can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the District office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (ii) An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. If the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive the rejection upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. (iii) For the purposes of this paragraph, applicant is defined as the applicant entity. In the case of a limited partnership, the applicant entity and each general partner will be considered. * * * * * Subpart J_Section 504 Rural Housing Loans and Grants 23. Section 1944.467 is amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: ยง1944.467 Processing applications. * * * * * (c) Credit investigation. Credit reports will be used for all loans of more than $7,500, and will be ordered at no cost to the applicant in accordance with subpart B of part 1910 (available in any FmHA office). Credit reports will not be used for grant assistance or loans of $7,500 or less. In all cases, before making a loan, the County Office will check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), following the Forms Manual Insert for Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny credit can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the County Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. If the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive the rejection upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. * * * * * PART 1945_EMERGENCY 24. The authority citation for part 1945 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart D_Emergency Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations 25. Section 1945.162 is amended in paragraph (b)(1) in the fourth sentence by changing the reference from ``INS Form G&hyph;641, `Application for Verification of Information from Immigration and Naturalization Records,''' to ``INS Form G&hyph;639, `Verification Request Form,''' and in the last sentence by changing the reference from ``INS Form G&hyph;641'' to ``INS Form G&hyph;639,'' by revising the introductory text and paragraph (g), and by adding paragraph (n) to read as follows: ยง1945.162 Eligibility requirements. Subject to the restrictions listed in paragraph (n) of this section, an applicant is eligible for loan assistance if the following requirements are met: * * * * * (g) Training and experience. An applicant must have sufficient applicable training or farming experience in managing and operating a farm or ranch (1 year's complete production and marketing cycle within the last 5 years immediately preceding the application) which indicates the managerial ability necessary to assure reasonable prospects of success in the proposed plan of operation and have the character (emphasizing credit history, past record of debt repayment and reliability), and industry necessary to carry out the proposed operation. If an applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt, in accordance with ยง1941.14 of subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter), it is automatically ineligible for loan assistance.
