FR940128-2-00044 FR940128-2-00023 Procurement List Additions AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Additions to the Procurement List. SUMMARY: This action adds to the Procurement List commodities to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On October 22, 1993, the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled published notice (58 FR 54560) of proposed additions to the Procurement List. Comments were received from the two current contractors for the folders. One of the commenters enclosed letters in support of its comments from three nonprofit agencies employing people with severe disabilities which have subcontracts to package folder tabs for the folders. That commenter indicated that addition of the folders to the Procurement List would have a severe impact on the firm and its employees, particularly when other recent Committee actions impacting the firm are taken into account. The commenter also indicated that these folders provide most of the work it subcontracts to three agencies employing people with severe disabilities which make tabs for use with the folders. According to the figures available to the Committee, the impact of the loss of sales for the folders on this company, together with the impact of the earlier actions, does not rise to a level which the Committee normally considers severe adverse impact. As for the possible loss of employment for the commenter's workers, the Committee feels that it is outweighed by the creation of jobs for people with severe disabilities, whose unemployment rates greatly exceed those of people without disabilities. In addition, for at least the first two years after the JWOD agencies assume supply responsibility, the commenter will be afforded the opportunity to compete as a supplier of folder tabs to the nonprofit agencies which will produce the folders. Thus, any impact on this commenters and its employees would be mitigated by the opportunity they will have initially to compete to supply the folder tabs. One of the three nonprofit agencies which are the commenter's subcontractors for the folder tabs participates in the JWOD Program. According to that agency, its subcontract with the commenter only recently produced work for its people with severe disabilities, and at very low wages. While the nonprofit agency has been led to expect a constant flow of this work, it has no guarantee that this will occur. If the JWOD-participating agency's subcontract work volume is typical of that provided to the other two nonprofit agencies (which both the JWOD agency and the figure for subcontractor employees provided by the commenter suggest it is), the commenter's Government business for these folders is only a portion of its total folder business. Consequently, even if the commenter is not successful in competing to supply the folder tabs to the nonprofit agencies which will produce the folders, addition of these folders to the Procurement List should not markedly diminish the amount of subcontract work which would be available to the three nonprofit agencies employing people with disabilities. Moreover, if the commenter (or the JWOD-participating subcontractor agency) is successful in bidding to supply the folder tabs to the nonprofit agencies which will produce the folders, the work for the subcontractor agencies could actually increase for at least two years since the commenter currently provides less than half of the Government requirement for the folders. Also, it should be noted that the commenter could discontinue providing this work to the nonprofit agencies employing persons with severe disabilities if it chose. The commenter indicated that it would take only a small investment to automate this work. On the other hand, placing the folders on the Procurement List guarantees that people with severe disabilities will be involved in producing them for the Government. The Committee believes the jobs its action would create outweigh the possible loss of employment for employees of the commenter's subcontractors. The other commenter also indicated that it was being significantly impacted by this and other recent additions to the Procurement List. It also provided a small amount of information to substantiate its claim that small businesses like itself are being forced out of the commercial market by large office products companies. Because of this development, the impact of additions to the Procurement List is magnified as there are fewer opportunities to recoup losses to the Procurement List in the commercial market. The impact of this and other recent Procurement List additions on this commenter, as a percentage of the commenter's sales, is less than half the impact on the first commenter. In the Committee's view, neither impact rises to the level of severe adverse impact. Given the small impact figure for this commenter, the Committee does not believe that the effect of a shrinking office products market for small businesses, if such is the case, is significant enough to make the impact on this commenter severe. After consideration of the material presented to it concerning capability of qualified nonprofit agencies to provide the commodities, fair market price, and impact of the addition on the current or most recent contractors, the Committee has determined that the commodities listed below are suitable for procurement by the Federal Government under 41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c and 41 CFR 51&hyph;2.4. I certify that the following action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The major factors considered for this certification were:
