FR941003-1-00050 FR941003-1-00003 * * * * * (d) > Unless ordered otherwise by an administrative patent judge, briefs shall be double-spaced (except for footnotes, which may be single-spaced) and shall comply with the requirements of §1.653(g) for records except the requirement for binding. < Briefs may be printed or typwritten. If typewritten, legal-size paper may be used. The opening brief of each party in excess of 50 legal-size double-spaced typewritten pages or any other brief in excess of 25 legal-size double spaced typewritten pages shall be printed unless a satisfactory reason be given why the brief should not be printed. Any printed brief shall comply with the requirements of §1.653(g). Any typewritten brief shall comply with the requirements of §1.653(h), except legal-size paper may be used and the binding and covers specified are not required. (e) An original and > four < three copies of each brief must be filed. * * * * * (g) Any party, separate from its opening brief, but filed concurrently therewith, may file an original and > four < three copies of concise proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. Any proposed findings of fact shall be > in numbered paragraphs and < supported by specific references to the record. Any proposed conclusions of law shall be > in numbered paragraphs and < supported by citation of cases, statutes, or other authority. Any opposing party > opponent < , separate from its opening or reply brief, but filed concurrently therewith, may file a paper accepting or objecting to any proposed findings of fact or conclusions of law; when objecting, a reason must be given. The Board may adopt the proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law in whole or in part. (h) If a party wants the Board in rendering its final decision to rule on the admissibility of any evidence, the party shall file with its opening brief an original and > four < three copies of a motion (§1.635) to suppress the evidence. The provisions of §1.637(b) do not apply to a motion to suppress under this paragraph. Any objection previously made to the admissibility of > the evidence of an opponent < an opponent's evidence is waived unless the motion required by this paragraph is filed. > A party that failed to challenge the admissibility of the evidence of an opponent on a ground that could have been raised in a timely objection under §1.672(c), 1.682(c), 1.683(b) or 1.688(b) may not move under this paragraph to suppress the evidence on that ground at final hearing. < An original and > four < three copies of an opposition to the motion may be filed with an opponent's opening brief or reply brief as may be appropriate. (i) When a junior party fails to timely file an opening brief, an order may issue requiring the junior party to show cause why the Board should not treat failure to file the brief as a concession of priority. If the junior party fails to > show good cause < respond within a time period set in the order, judgment may be entered against the junior party. 53. Section 1.657 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.657 Burden of proof as to date of invention. > (a) < A rebuttable presumption shall exist that, as to each count, the inventors made their invention in the chronological order of the earlier of their filing dates or effective filing dates. The burden of proof shall be upon a party who contends otherwise. > (b) In an interference involving copending applications or involving a patent and an application having an effective filing date on or before the date the patent issued, a junior party shall have the burden of establishing priority by a preponderance of the evidence. (c) In an interference involving an application and a patent and where the effective filing date of the application is after the date the patent issued, a junior party shall have the burden of establishing priority by clear and convincing evidence. < 54. Section 1.658 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §1.658 Final decision. (a) After final hearing, the Board shall enter a decision resolving the issues raised at final hearing. The decision may (1) enter judgment, in whole or in part, (2) remand the interference to an > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief for further proceedings, or (3) take further action not inconsistent with law. A judgment as to a count shall state whether or not each party is entitled to a patent containing the claims in the party's patent or application which correspond to the count. When the Board enters a decision awarding judgment as to all counts, the decision shall be regarded as a final decision > for the purpose of judicial review (35 U.S.C. 141&hyph;144, 146) unless a request for reconsideration under paragraph (b) of this section is timely filed < . (b) Any request for reconsideration of a decision under paragraph (a) of this section shall be filed within one month after the date of the decision. The request for reconsideration shall specify with particularity the points believed to have been misapprehended or overlooked in rendering the decision. Any reply > opposition < to a request for reconsideration shall be filed within 14 days of the date of service of the request for reconsideration. Where reasonably possible, service > Service < of the request for reconsideration shall be such that delivery is accomplished by hand or `` Express Mail. '' The Board shall enter a decision on the request for reconsideration. If the Board shall be of the opinion that the decision on the request for reconsideration significantly modifies its original decision under paragraph (a) of this section, the Board may designate the decision on the request for reconsideration as a new decision. > A decision on reconsideration is a final decision for the purpose of judicial review (35 U.S.C. 141&hyph;144, 146). < * * * * *
