FR941110-1-00104 FR941110-1-00011 (i) The identity and address of the person; (ii) The name, quantity and volume of controlled substance destroyed or transformed; (iii) A copy of the invoice or receipt documenting the sale or transfer of the controlled substance to the person; (iv) A certification of the previous use of the controlled substance; (v) For destruction credits, a certification that the controlled substance was destroyed and a certification of the efficiency of the destruction process; and (vi) For transformation credits, an IRS certificate of feedstock use or transformation of the controlled substance. (2) Effective January 1, 1996, and until January 1, 2000, the Administrator will issue the person destruction or transformation credits equivalent to the class I controlled substance (except class I, Group VI) produced for emissive uses that the Administrator determines were destroyed or transformed, subtracting the offset of 15 percent. For controlled substances completely destroyed under this rule, the Agency will grant destruction credits equal to 100 percent of volume destroyed minus the offset. For those controlled substances destroyed at less than a 98 percent destruction efficiency, the Agency will grant destruction credits commensurate with that percentage of destruction efficiency that is actually achieved minus the offset. The grant of credits will be effective on the date that the notice is issued. (3) Effective January 1, 1996, and until January 1, 2000, if the Administrator determines that the request for destruction or transformation credits does not satisfactorily substantiate that the person destroyed or transformed a class I controlled substance (except class I, Group VI) as claimed, or that the controlled substance was not previously used for an emissive purpose, the Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the request for additional destruction or transformation credits. Within ten working days after receipt of notification, the person may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator. The Administrator may affirm the disallowance or grant an allowance, as she/he finds appropriate in light of the available evidence. If no appeal is taken by the tenth day after notification, the disallowance will be final on that day. ยง82.10 Availability of consumption allowances in addition to baseline consumption allowances. (a) Until January 1, 1996, for all class I controlled substances, except Group VI, and until January 1, 2001 for class I, Group VI, any person may obtain, in accordance with the provisions of this subsection, consumption allowances equivalent to the level of class I controlled substances (other than used controlled substances or transhipments) that the person has exported from the United States and its territories to a Party (as listed in Appendix C to this subpart).
