FR940617-0-00245 FR940617-0-00026 (ii) The instruction under paragraph (3)(i) of this section must not include any condition on the ultimate purchaser's using, in connection with such engine, any component or service (other than a component or service provided without charge under the terms of the purchase agreement) which is identified by brand, trade, or corporate name. Subject instructions also must not directly or indirectly distinguish between service performed by the franchised dealers of such manufacturer, or any other service establishments with which such manufacturer has a commercial relationship, and service performed by independent nonroad engine repair facilities with which such manufacturer has no commercial relationship. (iii) The prohibition of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section may be waived by the Administrator if: (A) The manufacturer satisfies the Administrator that the engine will function properly only if the component or service so identified is used in connection with such engine, and (B) The Administrator finds that such a waiver is in the public interest. (iv) In addition, the manufacturer shall indicate by means of a label or tag permanently affixed to the engine that the engine is covered by a certificate of conformity issued for the purpose of assuring achievement of emission standards prescribed under section 213 of the Act. This label or tag shall also contain information relating to control of emissions as prescribed under ยง89.110&hyph;96. (b) The manufacturer bears all cost obligation a dealer incurs as a result of a requirement imposed by paragraph (a) of this section. The transfer of any such cost obligation from a manufacturer to a dealer through franchise or other agreement is prohibited. (c) If a manufacturer includes in an advertisement a statement respecting the cost or value of emission control devices or systems, the manufacturer shall set forth in the statement the cost or value attributed to these devices or systems by the Secretary of Labor (through the Bureau of Labor Statistics). The Secretary of Labor, and his or her representatives, has the same access for this purpose to the books, documents, papers, and records of a manufacturer as the Comptroller General has to those of a recipient of assistance for purposes of section 311 of the Act. (d) Any inspection of a nonroad engine for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, after its sale to the ultimate purchaser, is to be made only if the owner of such vehicle or engine voluntarily permits such inspection to be made, except as may be provided by any state or local inspection program. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13956 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
