FR941221-2-00015 FR941221-2-00011 Technology Administration [Docket No. 941246&hyph;4346] RIN 0693&hyph;AB37 Financial Assistance for Research and Development, U.S.-Israeli Science and Technology Program AGENCY: Technology Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds. SUMMARY: The Under Secretary for Technology of the United States Department of Commerce announces the availability of financial assistance under a pilot U.S.-Israeli Science and Technology Program (the ``Program''). The Program will assist U.S.-based industrial firms that have entered into U.S.-Israeli joint ventures (partnerships of United States and Israeli companies) to carry out research and development on long-term, medium- to high-risk technologies. This Program is separate from the existing Bi-national Industrial R&D Foundation (BIRD), which continues to offer support for commercial joint ventures. Inquiries about BIRD assistance should be addressed directly to the BIRD Foundation, Tel Aviv, Israel. Such projects should focus on research, development and commercialization of technologies that are not appropriately funded by other U.S. or Israeli government-funded research and development efforts. This assistance will take place through the use of cooperative agreements with U.S.-based industrial firms pursuant to this Notice. Funding will be made directly to the U.S. firms that are partners in the U.S.-Israeli joint ventures. Funding from the U.S. Department of Commerce for the pilot Program is limited to the U.S. partner(s) to a U.S.-Israeli joint venture, with funding for the Israeli partner(s) to be provided by the Israeli Government. DATES: Applications must be received on or before January 20, 1995. Preliminary applications (in the form of a Letter of Intent) to be considered for a possible second round of awards, which is planned to be conducted in the spring of 1995, may also be submitted during this time period. This letter should provide the name, address, and phone number of the principal point of contact for the anticipated proposal and a brief (one paragraph) abstract of the proposal. Technical areas to be covered by the proposal program should be summarized in the abstract. It is expected that the review and selection process will take approximately thirty (30) days. ADDRESSES: Applications must be submitted to: U.S.-Israel Science and Technology Commission, Room 7068, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. 20230. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lee Bailey, Executive Director, Office of International Technology Policy, telephone number (202) 482&hyph;6351.
