FR940830-2-00161 FR940830-2-00071 Following the public meetings, the Cost Guard will consider the input from the public and may revise its implementation plan accordingly. Background Vessel Documentation is a form of national registration for vessels, which among other things, serve to establish a vessel's nationality and qualification to be employed in specified trades. The benefits of documenting a vessel are practical, legal and financial. The salient practical benefit of documentation is to ensure unencumbered interstate and international commerce. The existence of a Federal system of documentation serves to preempt state numbering and regulatory schemes, with the result that a vessel operated under a Federal endorsement is ensured access to state waters for various activities. Another practical benefit of Federal documentation stems from the preferential customs and tax treatment accorded to ``vessels of the United States''. Established national policy seeks to promote the existence of an American merchant marine as a resource to be drawn upon in time of emergency or war. To the extent that documentation is a condition precedent to the receipt of preferential customs and tax treatment, it serves as a tool to promote national policy interests. The legal benefits of documentation include establishing conclusive evidence of nationality for international purposes, thereby conferring the privileges, protections, and immunities contemplated by long-standing international law and custom. Vessels on the high seas which are not registered in a national system may be deemed to be ``stateless'' vessels, subject to boarding by foreign authorities without restriction. Another legal benefit conferred by documentation is the establishment of entitlement to engage in certain restricted trades and employments, such as coastwise or Great Lakes trade, the U.S. fisheries, towing, and dredging. The major financial benefit conferred by documentation is preferred mortgage financing. The availability of capital for maritime financing often hinges upon the existence of the preferred mortgage as security for loans against vessels. Unlike so-called ``ordinary mortgages,'' preferred mortgages rise to the level of a maritime lien, thereby taking precedence over non-maritime liens as well as maritime liens which arise after perfection of the preferred mortgage. Preferred mortgages, which are enforceable against the vessel in Federal court wherever the vessel is found are critical not only for large commercial vessels, but also provide protection for mortgages of recreational vessels, thereby helping to ensure the continued existence of the recreational vessel building industry in the U.S. Purpose of Centralization The vessel documentation program has grown exponentially during the course of recent years. The Coast Guard has identified centralization as a means by which it can meet the challenge of maintaining and improving levels of service to its customers through significant gains in functional and administrative practices. No longer will it be necessary for members of industry, law enforcement officials, and the boating public to make inquiries at multiple points to receive information on documented vessels. Mortgagees and lien claimants will have a single point for filing instruments. Inconsistencies that result from interpretation of statutory, regulatory, and policy requirements at multiple points would be eliminated. Workloads will be evenly distributed so that backlogs caused by seasonal fluctuations in maritime activities could be reduced or eliminated. The impact of absence of personnel due to retirement, illness, or unforeseen circumstances will be minimized. With all records consolidated, it will be feasible to develop a system permitting the public to file instruments through electronic means, thus enhancing vessel financing by permitting instantaneous perfection of mortgages and related instruments. Management overhead will be reduced through better space management by eliminating duplicate facilities in 14 locations. Moreover, most offices are currently located in high cost areas; consolidation will make it possible to locate all facilities in an area with lower real estate costs for the government. Meetings The meetings will be held in New Orleans, LA; Washington, DC; New York, NY; Miami, FL; St. Louis, MO; Los Angeles, CA; and Seattle, WA. The meetings are open to the public and will convene as follows: On September 7, 1994, from 9 a.m. to noon in Room 1120, Hale Boggs Federal Building, 501 Magazine Street, New Orleans, LA, 70130. On September 9, 1994, from 9 a.m. to noon in Room 2415, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001. The dates and addresses for the remaining meetings will be announced in a future edition of the Federal Register . Dated: August 24, 1994. J.F. McGowan, Captain, U.S. Coast Guard, Acting Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21387 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
