FR940106-2-00082 FR940106-2-00038 (6) Implement integrated recruitment and retention strategies. (7) Establish curriculum elements that address the uniqueness of health conditions and ethnic or cultural characteristics of the populations in the rural areas to be served. (8) Enroll a significant proportion of individuals from rural areas, particularly rural health professions shortage areas or medically underserved areas. Review Criteria The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria: (1) The potential effectiveness of the proposed project in carrying out the training purposes of section 778 of the Act; (2) The extent to which the project explains the need for the project in the rural area to be served; (3) The degree to which the proposed project adequately provides for the interdisciplinary training of health professionals to practice in the rural area to be addressed by the project; (4) The degree to which the applicant offers appropriate clinical training experiences in rural health care settings; (5) The degree to which the applicant demonstrates a commitment to establishing and maintaining long-term collaborative relationships between academic institutions and health care facilities and providers in rural areas; (6) The effectiveness of the organizational arrangements necessary to carry out the project; (7) The administrative and management capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project in a cost-effective manner; (8) The capability of the proposed staff and faculty to provide the proposed instruction; (9) The extent to which the trainee recruitment and selection process assures that qualified trainees with significant interest or background in rural health care are involved in the project; (10) The extent to which the budget justification is reasonable and indicates that institutional and community support to the project are provided to the maximum extent possible; and (11) The extent to which the financial information provided indicates an effective utilization of grant funds and indicates that the project will continue on a self-sustaining basis. Other Considerations In addition, the following funding factors may be applied in determining funding of approved applications. A funding preference is defined as the funding of a specific category or group of approved applications ahead of other categories or groups of approved applications. A funding priority is defined as the favorable adjustment of aggregate review scores of individual approved applications when applications meet specified criteria. It is not required that applicants request consideration for a funding factor. Applications which do not request consideration for funding factors will be reviewed and given full consideration for funding. Established Funding Preference The following funding preference was established in FY 1990, after public comment (55 FR 24321, June 15, 1990), and the Administration is extending it in FY 1994. A funding preference will be given to interdisciplinary training involving three or more disciplines. This funding preference will be given to applicants that propose and implement training for health care practitioners, faculty or students representing three or more disciplines.
