FR940617-0-00168 FR940617-0-00026 Subpart C_Averaging, Banking, and Trading Provisions §89.201&hyph;96 Applicability. Nonroad compression-ignition engines subject to the provisions of subpart A of this part are eligible to participate in the averaging, banking, and trading program described in this subpart. §89.202&hyph;96 Definitions. The definitions in subpart A of this part apply to this subpart. The following definitions also apply to this subpart: Averaging for nonroad engines means the exchange of emission credits among engine families within a given manufacturer's product line. Banking means the retention of nonroad engine emission credits by the manufacturer generating the emission credits for use in future model year averaging or trading as permitted by these regulations. Emission credits represent the amount of emission reduction or exceedance, by a nonroad engine family, below or above the emission standard, respectively. Emission reductions below the standard are considered as ``positive credits,'' while emission exceedances above the standard are considered as ``negative credits.'' In addition, ``projected credits'' refer to emission credits based on the projected applicable production/sales volume of the engine family. ``Reserved credits'' are emission credits generated within a model year waiting to be reported to EPA at the end of the model year. ``Actual credits'' refer to emission credits based on actual applicable production/sales volume as contained in the end-of-year reports submitted to EPA. Some or all of these credits may be revoked if EPA review of the end-of-year reports or any subsequent audit action(s) uncovers problems or errors. Trading means the exchange of nonroad engine emission credits between manufacturers. §89.203&hyph;96 General provisions. (a) The averaging, banking, and trading program for NO X emissions from eligible nonroad engines is described in this subpart. Participation in this program is voluntary. (b) A nonroad engine family is eligible to participate in the averaging, banking, and trading program for NO X emissions if it is subject to regulation under subpart B of this part with certain exceptions specified in subsection (c) of this section. No averaging, banking, and trading program is available for meeting the HC, CO, PM, or smoke emission standards specified in subpart B of this part. (c) Nonroad engines may not participate in the averaging, banking, and trading program if they are subject to state engine emission standards, are exported, or use an alternate or special test procedure under §89.114&hyph;96. (d) A manufacturer may certify one or more nonroad engine families at family emission limits (FELs) above or below the applicable emission standard, provided the summation of the manufacturer's projected balance of all credit transactions in a given model year is greater than or equal to zero, as determined under §89.207&hyph;96. (1) FELs for NO X may not exceed 14.6 grams per kilowatt hour. (2) An engine family certified to an FEL is subject to all provisions specified in subparts B, D, E, G, H, I, J, and K of this part, except that the applicable FEL replaces the NO X emission standard for the family participating in the averaging, banking, and trading program. (3) A manufacturer of an engine family with an FEL exceeding the applicable emission standard must obtain emission credits sufficient to address the associated credit shortfall via averaging, banking, or trading. (4) An engine family with an FEL below the applicable standard may generate emission credits for averaging, banking, trading, or a combination thereof. Emission credits may not be used to offset an engine family's emissions that exceed its applicable FEL. Credits may not be used to remedy nonconformity determined by a Selective Enforcement Audit (SEA) or by recall (in-use) testing. However, in the case of an SEA failure, credits may be used to allow subsequent production of engines for the family in question if the manufacturer elects to recertify to a higher FEL.
