FR941216-2-00143 FR941216-2-00085 III Pursuant to 10 CFR 73.5, ``Specific exemptions,'' the Commission may upon application of any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant such exemptions in this part as it determines are authorized by law and will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security, and are otherwise in the public interest. The Code of Federal Regulations at 10 CFR 73.55 allows the Commission to authorize a licensee to provide alternative measures for protection against radiological sabotage provided the licensee demonstrates that the proposed measures meet the general performance requirements of the regulation, and that the overall level of system performance provides protection against radiological sabotage equivalent to that which would be provided by the regulation. Currently, unescorted access into the protected area for both employee and contractor personnel into the Haddam Neck Plant and the Millstone plants is controlled through the use of picture badges. Positive identification of personnel which are authorized and request access into the protected area is established by security personnel making a visual comparison of the individual requesting access and that individual's picture badge. In accordance with 10 CFR 73.55(d)(5), contractor personnel are not allowed to take their picture badges offsite. In addition, in accordance with the plant's physical security plan, the licensee's employees are also not allowed to take their picture badges offsite. The proposed system will require that all individuals with authorized unescorted access have the physical characteristics of their hand (hand geometry) registered with their picture badge number in a computerized access control system. Therefore, all authorized individuals must not only have their picture badge to gain access to the protected area, but must also have their hand geometry confirmed. All individuals, including contractors, who have authorized unescorted access into the protected area will be allowed to keep their picture badges in their possession when departing the Haddam Neck Plant and the Millstone plants. All other access processes, including search function capability and access revocation, will remain the same. A security officer responsible for access control will continue to be positioned within a bullet-resisting structure. It should be noted that the proposed system is only for individuals with authorized unescorted access and will not be used for those individuals requiring escorts. Sandia National Laboratories conducted testing which demonstrated that the hand geometry equipment possesses strong performance characteristics. Details of the testing performed are in the Sandia report, ``A Performance Evaluation of Biometric Identification Devices,'' SAND91_0276 UC_906 Unlimited Release, June 1991. Based on the Sandia report, the false acceptance rate for the proposed hand geometry system would be at least equivalent to that of a photo picture identification system. The site security plans will also be revised to allow implementation of the hand geometry system and to allow employees and contractors with unescorted access to keep their badges in their possession when leaving the Haddam Neck Plant and the Millstone plants. IV For the foregoing reasons, the Commission has determined that the proposed alternative measures for protection against radiological sabotage meet the same high assurance objective and the general performance requirements of 10 CFR 73.55. In addition, the staff has determined that the overall level of the proposed system's performance will provide protection against radiological sabotage equivalent to that which is provided by the current system in accordance with 10 CFR 73.55. Accordingly, the Commission has determined that, pursuant to 10 CFR 73.5, the exemption is authorized by law and will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security and is otherwise in the public interest and hereby grants an exemption from those requirements of 10 CFR 73.55(d)(5) relating to the returning of picture badges upon exit from the protected area such that individuals not employed by the licensee, i.e., contractors, who are authorized unescorted access into the protected area, can take their badges offsite. Pursuant to 10 CFR 51.32, the Commission has determined that the issuance of this exemption will have no significant impact on the quality of human environment (59 FR 63385). This exemption is effective upon issuance. Dated at Rockville, Maryland the 9th day of December 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John F. Stolz, Acting Director, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30933 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
