FR941012-1-00052 FR941012-1-00010 Accordingly, we also propose to eliminate the regulations at 49 CFR parts 1162 and 1163 governing TA and ETA applications. However, we will continue to entertain TA requests for motor and water carrier authority in those rare instances (i.e., natural disasters or national emergencies) where an applicant can document an immediate need for its service that cannot be met by an existing carrier and for which service must be available in less than the 30 days we anticipate will be required to process fully a permanent authority application under the procedures proposed here. Essentially, the greatly curtailed TA process noted in the proposed regulations at 49 CFR 1160.4(g) would displace what has been known as ETA. We expect that any such filings can be acted upon by the Commission's regional offices ( see 49 CFR 1011.6(f)(1)) within 5 business days of their receipt, the time frame generally allotted for ETAs under current practices. Comments We invite public comment on the licensing reforms proposed here. We have provided for a 20-day comment period. This should ensure that the Commission has sufficient time to review the comments and devise final application forms and procedures prior to the January 1, 1995 effective date of TIRRA's revised licensing standards. The final decision and rules issued in this proceeding will include matters addressed in the pending Application Forms proceeding. Environmental and Energy Analysis We preliminarily conclude that the proposed action will not significantly affect either the quality of the human environment or the conservation of energy resources. Nevertheless, we specifically invite parties to comment on these issues. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601, et seq. [RFA], the Commission is required to examine specifically the impact of a proposed action on small businesses and small organizations. We expect that the proposed revised application form and corresponding regulations will result in significant cost savings to both applicants and the Commission over the long term and will present immediate benefits in terms of simplified administrative processes and expedited licensing procedures. Despite the clear prospects for cost savings and enhanced administrative efficiencies, we do not anticipate that the proposal will have a significant economic impact as contemplated by RFA standards. The projected impact on individual small entities, albeit positive, will be incremental and clearly not substantial within the meaning of RFA.
