FR940628-1-00094 FR940628-1-00015 PART 676_LIMITED ACCESS MANAGEMENT OF FEDERAL FISHERIES IN AND OFF OF ALASKA 1. The authority citation for 50 CFR part 676 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 773 et seq. and 1801 et seq. §676.16 [Amended] 2. Section 676.16 is amended by removing and reserving paragraphs (i) and (n). 3. Section 676.20 is amended by revising paragraph (a) and the first sentence of the introductory text of paragraph (f) to read as follows: §676.20 Individual allocations. * * * * * (a) Initial allocation of quota share. The Regional Director shall initially assign to qualified persons, on or after October 18, 1994, halibut and sablefish fixed gear fishery QS that are specific to IFQ regulatory areas and vessel categories. QS will be assigned as a block in the appropriate IFQ regulatory area and vessel category if that QS would have resulted in an allocation of less than 20,000 lb (9 mt) of IFQ for halibut or sablefish based on: (1) The 1994 TAC for fixed gear in those fisheries for specific IFQ regulatory areas, and (2) The QS pools of those fisheries for specific IFQ regulatory areas as of October 17, 1994. * * * * * (f) *␣*␣* The Regional Director shall assign halibut or sablefish IFQs to each person holding unrestricted QS for halibut or sablefish, respectively, up to the limits prescribed at §676.22 (e) and (f). *␣*␣* * * * * * 4. Section 676.21 is revised to read as follows: §676.21 Transfer of QS and IFQ. Transfer of QS or IFQ means any transaction requiring QS, or the use thereof in the form of IFQ, to pass from one person to another, permanently or for a fixed period of time, except that transactions requiring IFQ cards to be issued in the name of a vessel master employed by an individual or a corporation are not transfers of QS or IFQ. (a) Transfer procedure. A person who receives QS by transfer may not use IFQ resulting from that QS for harvesting halibut or sablefish with fixed gear until an Application for Transfer of QS/IFQ (Application for Transfer) is approved by the Regional Director. The Regional Director shall provide an Application for Transfer form to any person on request. Persons who submit an Application for Transfer to the Regional Director for approval will receive notice of the Regional Director's decision to approve or disapprove the Application for Transfer, and, if applicable, the reason(s) for disapproval, by mail posted on the date of that decision, unless another communication mode is requested on the Application for Transfer. QS or IFQ accounts affected by an Application for Transfer approved by the Regional Director will change on the date of approval. Any necessary IFQ permits will be sent with the notice of the Regional Director's decision. (b) Application for Transfer approval criteria. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, an Application for Transfer will not be approved until the Regional Director has determined that: (1) The person applying for transfer received the QS or IFQ to be transferred: (i) By initial assignment by the Regional Director as provided in §676.20(a); or (ii) By approved transfer; (2) The person applying to receive the QS or IFQ meets the requirements of eligibility in paragraph (c) of this section; (3) The person applying for transfer and the person applying to receive the QS or IFQ have their notarized signatures on the Application for Transfer; (4) There are no fines, civil penalties, or other payments due and owing, or outstanding permit sanctions, resulting from Federal fishery violations involving either person; (5) The person applying to receive the QS or IFQ currently exists; (6) The transfer would not cause the person applying to receive the QS or IFQ to exceed the use limits in §676.22 (e) or (f); (7) The transfer would not violate the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section; and (8) Other pertinent information requested on the Application for Transfer has been supplied to the satisfaction of the Regional Director. (c) Eligibility to receive QS or IFQ by transfer. All persons applying to receive QS or IFQ must submit an Application for Eligibility to Receive QS/IFQ (Application for Eligibility), containing accurate information, to the Regional Director. The Regional Director will not approve a transfer of IFQ or QS to a person until the Application for Eligibility for that person is approved by the Regional Director. The Regional Director shall provide an Application for Eligibility form to any person on request. (1) A person must indicate on the Application for Eligibility whether the eligibility sought is as: (i) An individual; or (ii) A corporation, partnership, or other entity.
