FR940711-2-00042 FR940711-2-00024 ␣ 1Customer 1KW Alabama Electric Cooperative 9,000 South Carolina Public Service Authority 60,000 South Mississippi Electric Power Association 7,000 Customers in Duke Power Company service area 65,000 Customers in S.C. Electric & Gas Co. service area 5,000 Customers in The Southern Company service area 114,000 Power From Pumped Water. Southeastern will utilize its combination pumped storage and generation resources to produce high-value on-peak power. Pumping power, whether generated within the system of projects or obtained by purchasing or exchange agreement, will be used in pumped storage operations, at Southeastern's discretion. Should the purchase alternative be selected, Southeastern will obtain pumping energy from utilities offering the best terms, and/or resulting in the most benefits to the system. Should the exchange alternative be selected, pumped storage operations will be handled with public bodies, cooperatives and the utilities in a manner not involving the direct purchase and sales approach, with preference given to public bodies and cooperatives. Utilization Of Utility Systems. In the absence of transmission facilities of its own, Southeastern will use area generation and transmission systems to integrate the Government's projects, provide firming, wheeling, exchange and backup services and such other functions as may be necessary to dispose of system power under reasonable and acceptable marketing arrangements. Utility systems providing such services shall be entitled to adequate compensation. Specific terms and conditions of all such arrangements shall be the subject of negotiations between Southeastern and the generation and transmission utilities providing the services. Individual preferred agencies directly affected by the negotiations shall, through representatives selected at the outset of negotiations, be kept currently advised on the status and progress of negotiations. Southeastern also will consult with and seek advice from these affected parties. Wholesale Rates. Rate schedules shall be drawn to recover all costs associated with producing and transmitting the power in accordance with then current repayment criteria. Production costs will be determined on a system basis and rate schedules will relate to the integrated output of the projects. Rate schedules may be revised periodically. Resale Rates. Resale rate provisions requiring the benefits of Southeastern power to be passed on to the ultimate consumer will be included in each Southeastern customer contract that provides for Southeastern to supply more than 25 percent of the customers' total power requirements during the term of the contract. Energy and Economic Efficiency Measures. Each customer who purchases Southeastern's power is encouraged to participate in an integrated resource plan that considers both supply and demand side alternatives. It is recognized that some Southeastern customers are members of a power supply organization that does resource planning for its customers (i.e., power supply cooperatives and joint action agencies). Where a customer, or a power supply organization that does resource planning for a Southeastern customer, is responsible to a regulatory body or another Government agency for an integrated resource plan, the customer will make a copy of such integrated resource plan available to Southeastern. All Southeastern customers shall agree to encourage the efficient use of energy by ultimate customers. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16708 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
