FR941013-2-00108 FR941013-2-00079 B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth St., NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;31 and should be submitted by November 3, 1994. IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b). 7 In particular, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the Section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, protect investors and the public interest. 7 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). For various reasons, such as state and federal regulations, many institutions may write call options only on a covered basis in a cash account. 8 Many of these institutions, however, are legally restrained from having deposits of cash or securities at a brokerage firm. Accordingly, in lieu of such a deposit, a bank may issue to the broker an escrow receipt on behalf of their mutual customer, in order to meet the margin requirements for any short options the customer may have written. 9 8 In the context of a short call position, an options writer is covered if he owns the securities underlying the options he has written. 9 Pursuant to Regulation T of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (``Federal Reserve Board''), in a cash account, an escrow agreement may be used in lieu of margin for a short call option position if a bank holds the underlying security for the customer writing the option. See 12 CFR 220.8(a)(4)(i) (1990). Because it is difficult to apply the traditional concept of ``cover'' to broad-based, cash-settled index options, 10 the Commission approved in 1984 an Amex proposal to allow index options writers to enter into escrow agreements without requiring them to collateralize the agreements with all the securities underlying the index. 11 The original MIOER program permitted the use of escrow receipts for short call positions if, among other things, a bank or trust company held for the customer a ``basket'' of at least ten qualified equity securities. Due to inadequate recordkeeping procedures, settlement delays and financial disincentives, many market participants found this program to be impracticable and uneconomic, particularly in comparison to similar products traded on commodities exchanges. 12 10 Existing options on broad-based stock indexes overlie from 20 to over 2,000 securities. As a result, it can be impracticable for an index options writer to be ``covered'' by having appropriate positions in each component security. In addition, because index options are cash-settled, the securities underlying an index option are never delivered upon assignment. 11 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 20732 (March 7, 1984), 49 FR 9665 (March 14, 1994) (File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;84&hyph;05). At that time, the staff of the Federal Reserve Board indicated that it believed a MIOER could be used as cover in a cash account. See letter from Laura Homer, Securities Credit Officer, Federal Reserve Board, to Richard G. Ketchum, Associate Director, SEC, Division of Market Regulation, dated January 27, 1984. 12 In addition, OCC, at that time, did not accept escrow receipts for index options margin For further discussion of the original MIOER program and the problems encountered thereunder, see pilot approval order, supra , note 4.
