FR941230-1-00049 FR941230-1-00004 (v) Certain requirements contracts treated as take or take or pay contracts _(A) In general. An agreement by a nongovernmental person to purchase all of its output requirements (a requirements contract ) is not a take or take or pay contract unless the purchaser agrees to pay a guaranteed minimum payment or if the purchaser has no substantial ability to purchase its output requirements from other sources. (B) Requirements for certain contracts. A requirements contract entered into on or after the date that is 60 days after publication of final regulations is a take or take or pay contract if the purchaser has priority rights to the output (or rights to control the allocation of the available output), if it is reasonably expected that the purchaser will purchase at least 10 percent of the available output of the facility, or if the purchaser under the contract is a regulated utility that is in the business of reselling output of the type purchased. For these purposes, to the extent that the amount of output under the contract does not increase, a contract is treated as entered into before the date that is 60 days after publication of final regulations notwithstanding an extension of the contract term or changes to other terms of the contract, provided that there is no change, directly or indirectly, in the parties to the contract and the weighted average maturity of the bonds financing the facility is not extended. (vi) Reasonable expectations determinations. The provisions of this paragraph (a) regarding renewals of output contracts and the issuer's requirements for output from the facility are applied on the basis of the issuer's reasonable expectations as of the issue date. (4) Benefits and burdens test not exclusive. The benefits and burdens test of this section is not the exclusive means by which bonds financing output facilities may satisfy the private business use or private security or payment tests. Thus, for example, an output facility that is leased to a nongovernmental person may satisfy the private business use test. (b) Pooling, exchange, spot sales, and wheeling arrangements_ (1) Swapping and pooling arrangements. An agreement that provides for swapping or pooling of power by one or more governmental persons and one or more nongovernmental persons does not result in private business use of the output facility owned by the governmental person if_ (i) Net importers. (A) Under the agreement, on an annual basis and without regard to emergency consumption, the governmental person is a net importer of power (for example, output produced at a particular facility that is owned by a governmental person is provided to a nongovernmental person in exchange for output with a greater value to be delivered by the nongovernmental person at a different location); and (B) The facilities are not designed differently, sized larger, built sooner, or constructed in a more costly manner than is reasonably necessary for the ordinary customers of the owner of the facilities; or
