FR940602-2-00050 FR940602-2-00038 (a) Give to each potential client a separate document entitled ``Maintenance Information,'' which shall include all the information required by paragraph I.B. and subparagraphs I.C.(1)&hyph;(3) of this order and shall be formatted in the exact type size and style as the example form below, and shall include the heading (Helvetica 14 pt. bold), lead-in (Times Roman 12 pt.), disclosures (Helvetica 14 pt. bold), acknowledgment language (Times Roman 12 pt.) and signature block therein; provided, further, that no information in addition to that required to be included in the document required by this subparagraph I.D.(2) shall be included therein: Maintenance Information You may have seen our recent ad about maintenance success. Here's some additional information about our maintenance record. [Disclosure of maintenance statistics goes here For many dieters, weight loss is temporary. I have read this notice. (Client Signature)␣␣(Date) (b) require each potential client to sign such document; and (c) give each client a copy of such document; and Provided, however, that if any potential participant who does not then participate in the program refuses to sign or accept a copy of such document, respondent shall so indicate on such document and shall not, for that reason alone, be found in breach of this subparagraph I.D.(2); and (3) retain in each client file a copy of the signed maintenance notice required by this paragraph; Provided, further, that: (i) Compliance with the obligations of this paragraph I.D. in no way relieves respondent of the requirement under paragraph I.A. of this Order to substantiate any representation about the success of participants on any weight loss program in maintaining weight loss; and (ii) respondent must comply with both paragraph I.D. and paragraph I.C. of this Order if respondent includes in any such short broadcast advertisement a representation about maintenance success that states a number or percentage, or uses descriptive terms that convey a quantitative measure such as ``most of our customers maintain their weight loss long-term''; and provided, however, that the provisions of paragraph I.D. shall not apply to endorsements or testimonials referred to in paragraph I.E. herein.
