FR941202-2-00159 FR941202-2-00098 The Board of Directors consists of the Conference Chair, the Chair-Elect, the most recent still active Past Chair, the Treasurer, six members elected at large from the active membership (to serve 3-year staggered terms), an EPA official to be appointed by the EPA Administrator as the NELAP Director (see section 1.4.1), and an Executive Secretary to be named by the Director. The Board of Directors serves as a policy and coordinating body in matters of national and international significance. The Board of Directors also makes interim policy decisions when necessary before the Voting Delegates have an opportunity to vote on the issues in question. 1.3.2␣The Environmental Laboratory Advisory Board The ELAB consists of nine members composed of eight nongovernmental representatives and chaired by an EPA representative. The members may be selected from a slate of nominees prepared by the Contributors' Committee. This FACA board advises the EPA on matters affecting the interests of the contributors and other interested parties. 1.3.3␣The Committees The committees are the Standing Committees and the Administrative Committees. Both are overseen by the Board of Directors. 1.3.3.1␣The Standing Committees These committees each consist of five members elected from the Active Membership of the Conference. They serve five years and one new member is elected each year. The committee elects a chair. The committees shall generate standards and policies for which they have responsibility to be presented at the annual Conference for vote. The committees shall receive input via comments and presentations at the interim and annual conferences. The committees shall draft resolutions which shall be published by EPA in the Federal Register . The committees shall prepare and arrange timely agendas for Interim Meetings and Annual Conferences. The Program Structure Committee. This committee shall develop modifications to the scope, structure, and requirements to the tiers and fields of testing. The Accrediting Authority Committee. This committee provides the standards used by EPA to approve state authorities. The Quality System Committee. This committee shall establish and keep current the key elements of a quality system including record keeping and staffing requirements. The Committee shall also define uniform standard criteria for each of the elements of the quality system.
