FR940413-0-00058 FR940413-0-00023 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 663 [Docket No. 940254&hyph;4104; I.D. 012894A] RIN 0648&hyph;AF95 Pacific Coast Groundfish Fishery AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NMFS issues this final rule to allocate annually the U.S. Pacific whiting harvest guideline or quota, in 1994 through 1996, between fishing vessels that either catch and process at sea or catch and deliver to at-sea processors, and fishing vessels that deliver to processors located on shore. In each of the 3 years, after 60 percent of the annual harvest guideline (or quota) for whiting is taken, further at-sea processing in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) will be prohibited. The remaining 40 percent (104,000 metric tons (mt) in 1994) will be reserved initially for fishing vessels that deliver to shore-based processors. On or about August 15, any amount of the harvest guideline (including any part of the 40 percent initially held in reserve) that is determined by the Director, Northwest Region, NMFS, not to be needed by the shoreside sector during the remainder of the year will be made available to the at-sea processing sector. This action is intended to promote the goals and objectives of the Pacific Coast Groundfish Fishery Management Plan (FMP) by equitably sharing the harvest guideline between shore-based and at-sea processors, by contributing to the economies of coastal communities by providing reasonable opportunity for shoreside processing of the whiting harvest guideline, and by promoting stability in the West Coast fishing industry by diverting effort from other fully utilized fisheries. EFFECTIVE DATES: April 8, 1994 through December 31, 1996. ADDRESSES: Copies of the Environmental Assessment/Regulatory Impact Review (EA/RIR) can be obtained from the Pacific Fishery Management Council, 2000 SW First Avenue, suite 420, Portland, OR 97201. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William L. Robinson at 206&hyph;526&hyph;6140, or Rodney R. McInnis at 310&hyph;980&hyph;4030. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: NMFS issues this final rule to implement a recommendation from the Pacific Fishery Management Council (Council) for a 3-year framework to allocate the annual Pacific whiting harvest guideline or quota between the shoreside and at-sea industry sectors. The background, problem, and Council recommendation were fully described in the notice of proposed rulemaking for this action (58 FR 8896, February 24, 1994). Public comments were requested through March 21, 1994. Eleven letters were received and are addressed later in the preamble to this final rule. The comments resulted in no change to the regulatory text of the proposed rule. In summary, the problems the Council identified and is seeking to solve are: Too much fishing and processing capacity and not enough fish, inequitable distribution of economic benefits among the competing sectors, and regulatory instability that has prevented the industry from making timely business decisions. To resolve these problems, the Council identified the following priorities: (1) Ensure that the shore-based sector has reasonable opportunity to participate; (2) foster stability of the shore-based processing sector by providing replacement revenues for other faltering fisheries; (3) help stabilize faltering rural coastal economies by providing fishing, processing, and supporting industry revenues to replace income declines in other industries; (4) achieve maximum net benefit to the Nation by putting economic benefits directly into coastal communities and distributing income impacts/benefits along traditional geographic paths; (5) spread the fishery over time and area, reducing potential pulse fishery impacts on whiting, salmon, and rockfish stocks; (6) prevent effort shift to other species; (7) address management of the entire groundfish resource rather than piecemeal; (8) contribute to increased long-term product yield and employment opportunities by spreading harvest over a longer season; and (9) discourage additional capital investment in harvesting or processing facilities. The Council convened an ad hoc industry subcommittee in July 1993 in Portland, Oregon, to develop an allocation option that would be acceptable to all sectors. The subcommittee included a representative from each major sector in the whiting industry: Catcher vessels delivering at-sea, shoreside, and ``at-large''; shoreside processors; catcher/processors; and mothership processors. The ad hoc committee, after considering a number of alternatives, successfully negotiated a 3-year agreement that was acceptable to all participants, and subsequently was adopted by the Council and recommended to NMFS.
