FR940606-2-00031 FR940606-2-00022 However, as we have done in many prior refund cases, we will adopt a number of presumptions regarding injury for claimants in each category listed below. These presumptions are intended to ease what would be a time-consuming and potentially expensive process if an applicant were forced to demonstrate that they absorbed the alleged overcharges. 1. End-Users In accordance with prior Subpart V proceedings, we are adopting the presumption that an end-user or ultimate consumer of Ginther NGL products whose business is unrelated to the petroleum industry was injured by the alleged overcharges settled by the consent order. See, e.g. , Texas Oil and Gas Corp. , 12 DOE ¶ 85,069, at 88,209 (1984) ( TOGCO ). Unlike regulated firms in the petroleum industry, members of this group generally were not subject to price controls during the consent order period and were not required to keep records which justified selling price increases by reference to cost increases. Consequently, analysis of the impact of the alleged overcharges on the final prices of goods and services produced by members of this group would be beyond the scope of the refund proceeding. Id. Therefore, end-users of Ginther NGL products need only document their purchase volumes from Ginther during the consent order period to make a sufficient showing that they were injured by the alleged overcharges. 2. Regulated Firms and Cooperatives In order to receive a full volumetric refund, a claimant whose prices for goods and services are regulated by a governmental agency, i.e. , a public utility, or an agricultural cooperative which is required by its charter to pass through cost savings to its member purchasers, need only submit documentation of purchases used by itself or, in the case of a cooperative, sold to its members. However, a regulated firm or a cooperative will also be required to certify that it will pass any refund received through to its customers or member-customers, provide us with a full explanation of how it plans to accomplish the restitution, and certify that it will notify the appropriate regulatory body or membership group of the receipt of the refund. See Marathon , 14 DOE at 88,514&hyph;15. This requirement is based upon the presumption that, with respect to a regulated firm, any overcharge would have been routinely passed through to its customers. Similarly, any refunds received should be passed through to its customers. With respect to a cooperative, in general, the cooperative agreement which controls its business operations would ensure that the alleged overcharges, and similarly refunds, would be passed through to its member-customers. Accordingly, these firms will not be required to make a detailed demonstration of injury. 3 3 A cooperative's purchases of Ginther products which were resold to non-members will be treated in a manner consistent with purchases made by other resellers. See Total Petroleum, Inc./Farmers Petroleum Cooperative, Inc. , 19 DOE ¶ 85,215 (1989). 3. Refiners, Resellers, and Retailers a. Small claims presumption. We will adopt a ``small claims'' presumption that resellers requesting relatively small refunds were injured by the alleged overcharges. Under the small claims presumption, a refiner, reseller, or retailer seeking a refund of $5,000 or less, exclusive of interest, will not be required to submit evidence of injury beyond documentation of the volume of Ginther products it purchased during the consent order period. See TOGCO , 12 DOE at 88,210. This presumption is based on the fact that there may be considerable expense involved in gathering the types of data necessary to support a detailed claim of injury; for small claims the expense might even exceed the potential refund. Consequently, failure to allow simplified refund procedures for small claims could deprive injured parties of their opportunity to obtain a refund. Furthermore, use of the small claims presumption is desirable because it allows the OHA to process the large number of routine refund claims in an efficient manner. 4 4 In order to qualify for a refund under the small claims presumption, a refiner, reseller, or retailer must have purchased less than 877,280 gallons of Ginther products during the consent order period. However, an applicant, who has purchased more than 877,280 gallons of Ginther products during the consent order period, may elect to limit its refund to the small claims presumption. b. Mid-Level Claim Presumption. In addition, a refiner, reseller, or retailer claimant whose allocable share of the refund pool exceeds $5,000, excluding interest, may elect to receive as its refund either $5,000 or 40 percent of its allocable share, up to $20,000, 5 whichever is larger. 6 The use of this presumption reflects our conviction that these larger, mid-level claimants were likely to have experienced some injury as a result of the alleged overcharges. See Marathon , 14 DOE at 88,515. We are adopting a 40 percent presumptive level of injury for all mid-level claimants in this proceeding. Consequently, an applicant in this group will only be required to provide documentation of its purchase volumes of Ginther NGL products during the consent order period in order to be eligible to receive a refund of 40 percent of its total allocable share, up to $20,000, or $5,000, whichever is greater. 7 5 In most prior proceedings, we have used a $50,000 mid-level claim presumption. However, due to the small size of the Ginther consent order fund and the rather small volumetric figure, this amount would be impractical. 6 That is, claimants who purchased more than 877,281 gallons of Ginther products during the consent order period (mid-level claimants) may elect to utilize this presumption. 7 A claimant who attempts to make a detailed showing of injury in order to obtain 100 percent of its allocable share but, instead, provides evidence that leads us to conclude that it passed through all of the alleged overcharges, or that it is eligible for a refund of less than the applicable presumption-level refund, may not then be eligible for a presumption-based refund. Instead, such a claimant may receive a refund which reflects the level of injury established in its application. No refund will be approved if its submission indicates that it was not injured as a result of its purchases from Ginther. See Exxon , 17 DOE at 89,150 n.10. c. Spot purchasers. We are adopting a rebuttable presumption that a reseller that made only spot purchases from Ginther did not suffer injury as a result of those purchases. As we have previously stated, spot purchasers generally had considerable discretion as to the timing and market in which they made their purchases and therefore would not have made spot market purchases from a firm at increased prices unless they were able to pass through the full amount of the firm's selling price to their own customers. See, e.g. , Vickers , 8 DOE at 85,396&hyph;97. Accordingly, a spot purchaser claimant must submit specific and detailed evidence to rebut the spot purchaser presumption and to establish the extent to which it was injured as a result of its spot purchases from Ginther. 8 8 In prior proceedings, we have stated that refunds will be approved for spot purchasers who demonstrate that: (1) They made the spot purchases for the purpose of ensuring a supply for their base period customers rather than in anticipation of financial advantage as a result of those purchases and (2) they were forced by market conditions to resell the product at a loss.
