FR941212-0-00136 FR941212-0-00019 (ii) Eighth U.S. Army, Korea. (iii) USARSO. (2) Area claims offices are delegated authority to approve, in full or in part, Non-NAFI RIMP claims presented in the amount of $15,000 or less, and to approve such claims regardless of the amount claimed provided an agreed settlement of $15,000 or less is accepted in full satisfaction of the claim, but only when the total value of all settlements, claims, and potential claims arising out of a single incident does not exceed $25,000. (3) The above authorities are not delegated authority to deny or make a final offer on claims under this section. Claims requiring such action will be forwarded to the Commander, USARCS, with an appropriate recommendation. (c) The decision of a settlement or approval authority on a Non-NAFI RIMP claim is final and conclusive and is not subject to reconsideration or appeal. Subpart M_Affirmative Claims General §536.213 Authority. (a) Federal statutory authority. (1) The Federal Claims Collection Act (31 U.S.C. 3711), as amended by the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and Pub. L. 101&hyph;552 (15 November 1990). The Federal Claims Collection Act states that Federal agencies will try to collect all claims of the United States for money or property. Among other things, it provides a basis for agencies to recover for damage to Government property. (2) Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651&hyph;53) (hereinafter ``FMCRA''). The FMCRA provides for the recovery of the reasonable value of medical care furnished by the United States on account of injury or disease incurred under circumstances creating tort liability upon some third person. The FMCRA is implemented by EO 11060 and 28 CFR 43; the Federal Claims Collection Standards (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix M) also apply, as appropriate. However, some procedures appropriate for liquidated debts may not be appropriate for unliquidated claims. (3) 10 U.S.C. 1095. 10 U.S.C. 1095 provides authority for military health care facilities to collect the reasonable cost of health care from health insurance and medicare supplemental policies. As amended by Pub. L. 101&hyph;510 (5 November 1990), this statute provides claims offices with additional authority to assert claims against automobile insurers for care provided in an MTF on or after that date. (b) Other authority. (1) State Workers' Compensation laws. (2) State hospital lien laws. (3) Contract rights under terms of insurance policies include medical payment coverage, uninsured and underinsured coverages, and no-fault. (4) State automobile no-fault laws. §536.214 Recovery judge advocate/attorney. (a) General. A JA or claims attorney (designated per §536.6) assigned responsibility for asserting affirmative claims may be designated as a recovery judge advocate (RJA) or recovery attorney, as appropriate. This designation may be in addition to or in lieu of designation as a claims JA or claims attorney, depending on the local command needs and available personnel. When assertion of affirmative claims is a full-time responsibility of an attorney or JA, the table of distribution and allowances (TDA) position title can also reflect the recovery function. (b) Designation. (1) The chief of a command claims service, an area claims office, or a claims processing office with approval authority may designate an RJA or recovery attorney for all or part of the area of responsibility assigned to the service or office. All designations will be in writing. A command claims service may withhold designation authority within its area of operations or place reasonable restrictions on such designation by subordinate offices through appropriate command directives. (2) The Commander, USARCS will designate RJAs and recovery attorneys for areas not within the responsibility of a command claims service or area claims office. §536.215 Purpose and policy. (a) This subpart prescribes procedures for the administrative determination, assertion, collection, settlement, and waiver of claims in favor of the United States for damage to, loss, or destruction of Army property, and for the recovery of the reasonable value of medical care furnished or to be furnished by the United States, under the statutes cited in §536.213. Sound governmental policy in the collection of claims of the United States for money or property requires aggressive agency collection action. Responsible officials within DA will ensure that personnel asserting claims are properly trained and supported to take timely and effective action. (b) The subpart does not apply to the following: (1) Claims between Federal agencies. If such a claim cannot be resolved by negotiation, it should be referred to GAO. (2) Maritime claims under subpart H. (3) Affirmative actions for nonmonetary relief (for example, evictions, specific performance, and injunctive relief). (4) Claims arising out of tax aspects of a contract, or other transaction or activity involving either nonappropriated or appropriated funds. (c) The senior Judge Advocate of a command having a command claims service, or the commander, USACSEUR, will prescribe procedures for implementing single service claims responsibility under DODD 5155.8 and for implementing any provision in a treaty or international agreement that limits or provides special methods for asserting claims in favor of the U.S. With the concurrence of the Commander, USARCS, the senior JA of a command having a command claims service, or the commander, USACSEUR, is authorized to modify the procedures in this subpart to accommodate special circumstances. The SJA will provide the Chief, Personnel Claims and Recovery Division, with a copy of all published guidance. §536.216 Delegation of Authority. Claims offices may accept the full amount asserted on an affirmative claim. In addition_ (a) TJAG; TAJAG; the Commander, USARCS; and the Chief, Personnel Claims and Recovery Division, USARCS, may compromise or terminate collection action on a property damage claim asserted for $100,000 or less; and may compromise, waive or terminate collection action on a medical care claim asserted for $100,000 or less. (b) The senior JA of a command having a command claims service, or the commander, USACSEUR, may compromise, waive or terminate collection action on a medical care or property damage claim asserted for $100,000 or less. (c) Unless authority is withheld by the Commander, USARCS or the chief of a command claims service, the head of an area claims office may: (1) Compromise up to $25,000 of the amount asserted on a property damage or medical care claim asserted for $40,000 or less (see §536.229(b)).
