FR940930-1-00012 FR940930-1-00005 ATF has approved the application from the industry member, pending the final outcome of the rulemaking process, to use these two processes in a closed system to remove VA from wine. Other persons wishing to use these two processes in a similar fashion should submit letter applications to ATF requesting permission to do so. If it is determined, through this rulemaking process, that the use of reverse osmosis and ion exchange in combination in a closed system to remove VA from wine is in accordance with ``good commercial practice,'' this procedure will be authorized in 27 CFR 24.248 by amending the use column of reverse osmosis to state that it can be used to remove off flavors in wine. Once this change to the regulations is made, no further letter applications will be required to use these two processes in combination in a closed system to remove VA from wine. The footnote concerning processes which must be done on distilled spirits plant premises, located at the end of 27 CFR 24.248, has been revised to state that under certain limited conditions, reverse osmosis may be used on bonded winery premises if ethyl alcohol is only temporarily created within a closed system. Ultrafiltration An industry member has requested that the limitation imposed on the use of ultrafiltration by 27 CFR 24.248 be changed to allow transmembrane pressures greater than 100 pounds per square inch (psi). The industry member states that they need to employ transmembrane pressures of up to approximately 200 psi rather than the current maximum of 100 psi which is provided for in ยง24.248. The industry member indicates that their laboratory tests have shown an increase in throughput of 4 to 5-fold when the pressure is increased from 100 to 150 psi with no change in the character of the finished wine. Without this increase in throughput, the industry member states that the process is not economically viable since they can achieve the same result with other methods at a much lower cost. The industry member states that they chose the less than 200 psi limitation as the upper limit in order to maintain a clear distinction between ultrafiltration and reverse osmosis in terms of pressure. The industry member points out that the two processes are also differentiated by the fact that the membranes specified for reverse osmosis have a much smaller pore size than those used in ultrafiltration. The industry member submitted two samples of ultrafiltered apple wine to the ATF laboratory for analysis. The first sample was processed at 95 psi and the second sample was processed at 195 psi. The ATF laboratory analysis, based on the analytical data and on an organoleptic evaluation, showed there is no significant difference between the samples at these different pressure ratings. As a result of this analysis, the ATF laboratory stated that the basic character of the wine was not altered by increasing the authorized pressure rating from 100 psi to 195 psi. Consequently, ATF approved the industry member's request to be allowed to use pressures of less than 200 psi when conducting operations using ultrafiltration. Other industry members wishing to use ultrafiltration at higher pressures may submit letter applications to ATF requesting permission to do so. ATF may require samples prior to giving such approval. If it is determined through the rulemaking process that ultrafiltration using pressures of less than 200 psi is considered ``good commercial practice,'' then the regulations will be changed to incorporate this more liberal pressure limitation. New Wine Treating Material Urease Enzyme An industry member has requested to be allowed to use urease enzyme derived from Lactobacillus fermentum to reduce levels of naturally occurring urea in wine to prevent the formation of ethyl carbamate during storage. The enzyme is derived from the nonpathogenic, nontoxicogenic bacterium Lactobacillus fermentum . It contains the enzyme urease (CAS Reg. No. 9002&hyph;13&hyph;5) which facilitates the hydrolysis of urea to ammonia and carbon dioxide. It is produced by a pure culture fermentation process and by using materials that are generally recognized as safe (GRAS) or are food additives that have been approved for this use by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Urease enzyme from Lactobacillus fermentum was approved for use in wine by FDA on December 21, 1992, effective January 21, 1993. The FDA regulation cite is 21 CFR 184.1924, Urease Enzyme Derived From Lactobacillus fermentum . The manufacturer of the urease enzyme, Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd., has also submitted several letters confirming that the urease enzyme preparation is derived from Lactobacillus fermentum . The company states that the enzyme is standardized with glucose syrup solids and the urease activity is adjusted to 3.5 units/mg. The company indicates that the urease enzyme meets the general and additional requirements for enzyme preparations in the ``Food Chemicals Codex,'' 3rd edition (1981). In addition, the urease enzyme is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice as defined in 21 CFR 184.1924. Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd., states that the composition of the urease enzyme preparation is as follows: Killed whole cells of Lactobacillus fermentum : 20&hyph;35% Glucose Syrup Solids 65&hyph;80% Takeda also states that they have confirmed that due to the low usage level (10&hyph;200 ppm) and objective of usage, addition of glucose syrup solids in this case is not considered ``sweetening'' of the beverage, which is prohibited in the State of California for table wine. The industry member states that urease enzyme derived from Lactobacillus fermentum is economically self-limiting due to the high cost of the material. In addition, FDA, in their approval, did not set a specific numerical limit but rather limited its use to ``good commercial practice.'' The industry member states that if a numerical limit needs to be set, it should be set no lower than 200 mg/L. The industry member also indicated that no water is required to use urease enzyme. The industry member also submitted to the ATF laboratory two 750-milliliter samples of wine, one before and one after treatment, as well as a sample of the material. Based on an analysis of the samples and an organoleptic evaluation, the ATF laboratory concluded there were no significant differences between the control and experimental wine samples. The ATF laboratory stated that they have no objections to this enzyme preparation being used as a wine treating material at a maximum usage rate of 200 mg/L provided that the enzyme is filtered prior to final packaging of the wine as practiced in ``good commercial practice.''
