FR940429-0-00302 FR940429-0-00016 Discussion: The discussion following comment 38 also applies to a false certification discharge. Change: None. Section 682.402(e)(7)(iv) 58. Comment: Some commenters believed the guaranty agency, not the lender, should notify the borrower that a false certification discharge has been granted. Discussion: The discussion following comment 39 also applies to a false certification discharge. Change: None. Section 682.402(l)(3) 59. Comment: Some commenters believed that any payments received by a guaranty agency from or on behalf of a borrower whose loan obligation has been discharged should be returned to the borrower or the party who made the payment. Discussion: If a borrower, or a borrower's representative remits a payment for a loan obligation that has been discharged, even though he or she previously has had the payment returned with a notice that the obligation has been discharged and no further payments are required, the Secretary believes it is reasonable to conclude that a subsequent payment from that individual is an indication that he or she has expressed a desire to repay the discharged loan. The Secretary does not believe that the borrower's (or his or her representative's) desire to repay the loan should be frustrated or the taxpayer denied the recovery of such payments. Change: None. Section 682.410(b)(6)(i) 60. Comment: Some commenters believed the proposed regulations would prohibit a guaranty agency from attempting an annual IRS offset against a borrower if the agency had initiated wage garnishment procedures against the borrower. Discussion: Under the proposed regulations, a guaranty agency was required to attempt an annual IRS offset against a borrower who owed a defaulted loan if the agency had not attempted to garnish the borrower's wages. Conversely, if an agency had initiated wage garnishment procedures against the borrower, it was not required to attempt an annual IRS offset, but could do so if it decided that it would be an appropriate action to take in addition to wage garnishment. Based on Public Law 102&hyph;589, the Secretary will now require a guaranty agency to attempt an annual IRS tax refund offset against both categories of borrowers. Change: The final regulations have been revised to incorporate this requirement. Section 682.410(b)(6)(vii)(B) 61. Comment: Some commenters noted that the Secretary's guidance to guaranty agencies in July 1993 concerning Public Law 102&hyph;589 explained that the law no longer required the Secretary to hold a loan to be collected by IRS offset, therefore, a guaranty agency was no longer required to assign a loan temporarily to the Secretary in order to allow the Secretary to collect the loan by federal income tax refund offset. The commenters recommended that references to such assignments be deleted from the regulations. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Change: Sections 682.410(b)(5)(vi)(H) and (L), §682.410(b)(6)(i), (iii), (iv)(B), (vii)(A)-(D), (viii)(A), (xii), and §682.410(b)(7(iv)(B) of the final regulations have been revised, renumbered, or deleted to remove references to such assignments. Section 682.410(b)(10)(i) 62. Comment: Some commenters objected to the requirement that a guaranty agency must follow the procedures prescribed in the regulations if it decided to garnish the wages of a borrower who owed a defaulted loan. The commenters believed that a guaranty agency that possessed authority under state law to effect a garnishment should be permitted to garnish the borrower's wages under the state's wage garnishment procedures. Discussion: The procedures that a guaranty agency must follow when attempting to garnish a borrower's wages are mandated by section 488A of the HEA. Those procedures supersede any state garnishment laws that do not comply with the requirements of the national wage garnishment authority established by the HEA. Change: None. 63. Comment: Some commenters asked if the wage garnishment procedures would apply against borrowers and employers who were subject to tribal laws. The commenters noted that section 488A(a) of the HEA does not refer to tribal laws, but simply states that the garnishment provisions of the HEA apply ``*␣*␣*␣ (N)otwithstanding any provision of State law *␣*␣*.'' The commenters observed that because of the difficulty and low success ratio of obtaining a judgment through tribal courts, most creditors no longer even make the attempt. Discussion: Section 488A(a) of the HEA preempts state laws that might prohibit garnishment to collect student loan debts; it does not preempt such laws of a foreign nation. Certain tribes of American Indians are considered to have the same relationship with the United States as do foreign nations. Therefore, the laws of those tribes are not preempted by the wage garnishment provisions of the HEA. Change: None. Section 682.410(b)(10)(i)(A) 64. Comment: Some commenters believed the regulations should specify that the amount of a borrower's wages that may be garnished is the lesser of 10 percent of the borrower's disposable pay or the amount allowed by 15 U.S.C. 1673. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Change: The final regulations have been revised to incorporate this clarification. 65. Comment: Some commenters believed the regulations should specify the deductions from a borrower's wages that would take precedence over a wage garnishment order.
