FR940825-0-00088 FR940825-0-00016 Outlays or expenditures mean charges made to the project or program. They may be reported on a cash or accrual basis. For reports prepared on a cash basis, outlays are the sum of cash disbursements for direct charges for goods and services, the amount of indirect expense charged, the value of third party in-kind contributions applied and the amount of cash advances and payments made to subrecipients. For reports prepared on an accrual basis, outlays are the sum of cash disbursements for direct charges for goods and services, the amount of indirect expense incurred, the value of in-kind contributions applied, and the net increase (or decrease) in the amounts owed by the recipient for goods and other property received, for services performed by employees, contractors, subrecipients and other payees and other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance are required. Personal property means property of any kind except real property. It may be tangible, having physical existence, or intangible, having no physical existence, such as copyrights, patents, or securities. Prior approval means written approval by an authorized HHS official evidencing prior consent. Program income means gross income earned by the recipient that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the award (see exclusions in ยง74.24 (e) and (h)). Program income includes, but is not limited to, income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under federally-funded projects, the sale of commodities or items fabricated under an award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and interest on loans made with award funds. Interest earned on advances of Federal funds is not program income. Except as otherwise provided in the terms and conditions of the award, program income does not include the receipt of principal on loans, rebates, credits, discounts, etc., or interest earned on any of them. Project costs means all allowable costs, as set forth in the applicable Federal cost principles (see ยง74.27), incurred by a recipient and the value of the contributions made by third parties in accomplishing the objectives of the award during the project period. Project period means the period established in the award document during which HHS awarding agency sponsorship begins and ends. Property means, unless otherwise stated, real property, equipment, intangible property and debt instruments. Real property means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, but excludes movable machinery and equipment. Recipient means an organization receiving financial assistance directly from an HHS awarding agency to carry out a project or program. The term includes public and private institutions of higher education, public and private hospitals, commercial organizations, and other quasi-public and private nonprofit organizations such as, but not limited to, community action agencies, research institutes, educational associations, and health centers. The term may include foreign or international organizations (such as agencies of the United Nations) which are recipients, subrecipients, or contractors or subcontractors of recipients or subrecipients at the discretion of the HHS awarding agency. The term does not include government-owned contractor-operated facilities or research centers providing continued support for mission-oriented, large-scale programs that are government-owned or controlled, or are designated as federally-funded research and development centers. For entitlement programs listed at 45 CFR 92.4(a)(3), (a)(7), and (a)(8) ``recipient'' means the government to which an HHS awarding agency awards funds and which is accountable for the use of the funds provided. The recipient in this case is the entire legal entity even if only a particular component of the entity is designated in the award document.
