FR941110-0-00054 FR941110-0-00016 •When the basis for imposing a civil money penalty exists, the administrative law judge or State hearing officer may not set a penalty of zero, reduce the penalty to zero, or review the exercise of discretion to impose the civil money penalty. •In the case of civil money penalties, facilities may challenge the level of noncompliance found by HCFA or the State if a successful challenge on the issue would affect the range of civil money penalty amounts from which HCFA or the State could collect a civil money penalty. •We add a provision to direct the State during a complaint investigation to follow the specific procedures found at §488.335 (§488.185 of the proposed rule), action on complaints of resident neglect and abuse, and misappropriation of resident property, when there is reason to believe that an identifiable individual neglected or abused a resident or misappropriated a resident's property. •We add a requirement that the State must have written procedures for the timely review and investigation of allegations of resident neglect and abuse and misappropriation of resident property. In addition, we have required that the State should take appropriate precautions to protect a complainant's anonymity and privacy, if possible. •If arrangements have been made with other State components for investigation of complaints, we require that the State have a means of communicating information among appropriate entities, and that the survey agency retain the responsibility for the investigation process. •We require that findings of investigations be included in the nurse aide registry within 10 working days of the findings. •We require that the survey agency determine if complaints violate any requirements of part 483, subpart B and take appropriate enforcement action as necessary if the allegation of neglect, abuse or misappropriation of property against an individual is a complaint against the facility. •We require the notification of physicians of those residents identified as receiving substandard quality of care. •We clarify that survey findings are reported with recommendations for corrective action to officials in the enforcing agency who determine what remedies to impose. •With respect to the disclosure of survey information, we revise the provisions on fees, charges, and timeframes for release of information to provide that, with certain exceptions, HCFA or the State will disclose survey-related information and may charge the public in accordance with pre-existing Federal regulations and State procedures. •We eliminate 120 days of FFP for a Medicaid NF and retain, for now, 120 days of FFP for an ICF/MR while the facility waits for a post-termination hearing. •We formalize the opportunity for informal dispute resolution currently in the State Operations Manual for providers to raise unresolved issues to the State agency or the respective HCFA regional office after the provider's receipt of the official deficiency statement, and have prohibited challenges by providers from postponing or otherwise delaying the effective date of any enforcement action. •We specify that a provider in substantial compliance at the end of 6 months may continue to participate without repayment of Federal funds. •We delete the section on validation surveys from the regulation text because the statutory provisions are self- implementing and regulatory interpretation is not needed to clarify them. The few elaborations on the requirements in sections 1819(g)(3) and 1919(g)(3) of the Act are duplicated elsewhere in the regulation and there is little reason to repeat them.
