FR941206-2-00037 FR941206-2-00027 Western Area Power Administration Proposed Principles of Integrated Resource Planning for Use in Resource Acquisition and Transmission Planning AGENCY: Western Area Power Administration, DOE. ACTION: Notice of proposed principles and request for public comments. SUMMARY: Western Area Power Administration (Western) proposes to use principles of integrated resource planning (IRP) in its acquisition of resources (supply-side and demand-side) and in its transmission planning program. Western has developed the proposal contained in this notice for public consideration. After considering public comment on this proposal, Western will adopt final principles of IRP as the policy under which project-specific resource acquisition and transmission planning procedures will be developed. These project-specific procedures will be developed through separate public processes. DATES: Western seeks comments on the proposed principles outlined in this notice. To be considered, comments need to be received by March 7, 1995. In addition to publication in the Federal Register , Western is mailing this notice to parties it has identified as likely to be interested, including those who have expressed an interest in the public involvement processes for Western's power marketing and transmission planning programs. Western will also send information on these principles to those who request it. At this time, Western plans to hold one public information and comment meeting to provide information about and to accept public comment on these proposed principles. This public meeting will be held in Denver, Colorado, at 1 p.m., January 12, 1995, at the Stapleton Plaza Hotel, 3333 Quebec Street. Additional public meetings at other locations will be considered. Written comments will also be accepted. A summary of comments received and Western's responses will be provided in a subsequent Federal Register notice and to parties indicating they wish to continue receiving information about this process. FURTHER INFORMATION: To receive information on these principles, and/or to make requests to receive subsequent mailings on this process, contact: Mr. Michael S. Cowan, Director, Division of Power Operations and Resources, Western Area Power Administration, P.O. Box 3402, Golden, CO 80401&hyph;0098, (303) 275&hyph;1630. Background On August 9, 1994, Western provided notice of its proposed Energy Planning and Management Program (Program), 59 FR 40543, concerning requirements for Western's customers to undertake integrated resource planning consistent with the statutory requirements of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. In that notice, Western committed to develop and use principles of IRP in its resource acquisition and transmission planning programs. The separate public process to develop IRP principles for Western's programs begins with publication of these draft principles. The draft principles outlined in this notice differ from those proposed for Western's customers. Western's resource aquisitions are primarily short-term purchases of supplemental resources to firm variable hydropower generation, not aquisition's of resources to meet long-term load growth through the principles set forth in section 114 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. The principles have also been modified so that they can be applied to Western's transmission planning process, which does not deal with new generation resources, only new or upgraded transmission facilities. Western is currently involved in other public processes that can have an impact on future purchase power requirements. These processes are the Replacement Resources Process, pursuant to the Grand Canyon Protection Act of 1992 (Public Law 102&hyph;575); the Central Valley Project 2004 Power Marketing Environmental Impact Statement (EIS); and the Salt Lake City Area Integrated Projects Power Marketing EIS. The principles being developed under this public process will be applied when acquiring resources related to the decisions from these other public processes. These principles will serve as the policy under which specific procedures are developed as each project identifies the need to acquire resources or increase Western's transmission capability. Scope The proposed formal principles of IRP would apply specifically to: 1. Resource acquisitions involving a commitment to purchase a resource continuously or a commitment to make recurring purchases. Normally, formal principles would not be applied to unpredictable seasonal purchases, day-to-day economy energy purchases, and other short-term transactions. 2. New or upgraded transmission system construction with a 1995 total cost estimate in excess of $5 million for an individual project. This 1995 cost level would be adjusted each year using the construction cost index. Where practicable, principles of IRP will also be applied informally to other Western transmission projects and/or resource acquisitions. Proposed Principles of Integrated Resource Planning I. Resource Acquisition Principles: Western's resource acquisition activities would be determined by project-specific power marketing plans, hydropower production capability, and the application of the following proposed principles of IRP: 1. Western will consider a full range of resource options, both supply-side and demand-side, as well as renewable resource options. 2. On a project-by-project basis, Western, in concert with interested stakeholders, will develop (1) methods and procedures to determine the need for resource acquisition and (2) criteria to be used in evaluating power resource alternatives.
