FR940805-1-00005 FR940805-1-00001 At the time the rule was published, about 48 percent of distribution borrowers had equity levels of 40 percent or more, and an additional 31 percent had between 30 and 40 percent equity levels. At the end of 1992, before borrowers were significantly impacted by the new requirement, the percentage of distribution borrowers with equity levels of 40 percent or more had increased to 53 percent, and the percentage with levels between 30 and 40 percent had increased to about 32 percent. For power supply borrowers, the percentage of borrowers with equity levels less than 10 percent dropped from about 60 percent to about 50 percent between the time the 1992 rule was published and the end of 1992. At the same time, there has been a great deal of confusion as to what constitutes an acceptable plan that will demonstrate reasonable progress toward increasing equity and have no significant adverse effects on rate payers or on the borrower's competitive position. Consequently, REA is proposing to drop the requirement that an equity development plan be submitted as part of a loan application. REA does, however, continue to support and encourage borrower efforts to achieve and maintain sound levels of equity. REA will continue to review the borrower's total capital structure based on the borrower's audited financial reports submitted pursuant to 7 CFR Part 1773; on financial and statistical reports (REA Form 7 for distribution borrowers and REA Form 12 for power supply borrowers) submitted by the borrower to REA; the Long-Range Financial Forecast submitted in support of the loan, and on other information known to REA. Capital structure will be a factor in REA's evaluation of loan feasibility pursuant to §1710.112, in determining borrower eligibility for advance approval of a lien accommodation pursuant to 7 CFR 1717.854, and in evaluating certain other borrower requests under the REA mortgage. Credit Reform A policy change mandated by the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661f), affects loans approved on or after October 1, 1991. The Federal Credit Reform Act requires Federal agencies to match funds obligated, disbursed, and collected with their intended purposes. Therefore, this rule proposes, in §1710.106(f), that advances of funds from a loan made on or after that date be made only for primary budget purposes included in that particular loan, unless the borrower applies for and REA approves a budget transfer. Primary budget purposes as listed in REA Bulletin 26&hyph;1, Budgetary Control and Advance of Loan Funds, and on REA Form 595, Financial Requirement and Expenditure Statement, are (1) Distribution, (2) Transmission, (3) Generation, (4) Headquarters Facilities, (5) Acquisitions, and (6) All Other. Loan Application Documents Finally, REA proposes to add new subpart I to part 1710 to set forth the documents and procedures required for a loan application. REA has determined that publishing the entire list of loan application and primary support documents in a single regulation would facilitate the application process for borrowers and supplemental or other lenders. The general requirement to submit each of the documents is set forth in existing part 1710 or in other REA regulations. The proposed new subpart I is simply a summary list for the convenience of the public. To avoid imposing any unnecessary burdens, REA proposes, in some cases, to accept copies of forms the borrower is required to submit to the Department of Energy, instead of requiring the borrower to follow a different format. REA is exploring possibilities for electronic submission of certain documents. Other Issuances This proposed rule consolidates, updates, and, in some instances, revises information contained in REA's Electric Operations Manual, EOM&hyph;1 Guide for the Preparation of Electric Distribution Loan Applications and in the following existing REA Bulletins: 20&hyph;5␣Extensions of Payments of Principal and Interest 20&hyph;9␣Loan Payments and Statements 26&hyph;1␣Budgetary Control and Advance of Electric Loan Funds 86&hyph;3␣Headquarters Facilities for Electric Borrowers
