FR940526-0-00053 FR940526-0-00021 Response : Warsaw grouper and speckled hind are rare and overfished. The Council recognizes that most harvest of warsaw and speckled hind is bycatch and that survival of released individuals is low. However, the Council is following stock rebuilding guidelines with regard to these species. The Council received public testimony that some fishermen may target these species at certain times during the year. The Council proposed the prohibition on sale to reduce directed fishing mortality, but allowed retention of one warsaw and one speckled hind per vessel per trip to minimize waste. Fishermen are encouraged to donate these fish to ``good causes,'' such as charitable organizations. Many marine species in the United States are subject to restrictions on sale, either seasonally or geographically. Both the market and law enforcement agencies have adjusted accounting procedures and other practices to implement such restrictions. Partial Disapproval of Amendment 6 On May 5, 1994, the Regional Director, Southeast Region, NMFS (Regional Director), partially disapproved Amendment 6. Specifically, the Regional Director disapproved Action 12 of the amendment, which would have required all permitted vessels to maintain and submit vessel logbooks. The Regional Director believes that the methods of obtaining necessary management data and the appropriate sampling system for such data are determinations properly made by NMFS. The regulations at 50 CFR 646.5(a) require vessel logbooks to be maintained and submitted by all vessels fishing for wreckfish and for other permitted vessels selected by the Science and Research Director, Southeast Fisheries Science Center, NMFS. Currently all permitted vessels are selected to maintain and submit logbooks. Vessel logbooks provide catch and effort data, which the Council believes are needed for quota monitoring, stock assessments, catch histories, and indications of shifts in fishing effort. NMFS agrees that catch and effort data via logbooks are needed for all of these purposes except for quota monitoring. In the snapper-grouper fishery, NMFS has chosen to use dealer reports for quota monitoring rather than vessel logbooks. These collections of information have been approved previously under Office of Management and Budget control numbers 0648&hyph;0016 (logbooks) and 0648&hyph;0013 (dealer reports). NMFS agrees with the Council that good and sufficient reasons continue to exist for the current requirement that all permitted vessels maintain and submit vessel logbooks. Accordingly, NMFS intends to continue to select all permitted vessels to maintain and submit logbooks. When NMFS believes that the 100-percent level of submission is no longer required, it will reduce the percentage of vessels required to maintain and submit logbooks, without the necessity of amending the FMP. Changes From the Proposed Rule As a consequence of the partial disapproval of Amendment 6, discussed above, the proposed change to ยง646.5(a)(1) is not included in this final rule and the proposed change to ยง646.5(d) introductory text is modified. Classification The Regional Director determined that Amendment 6 is necessary for the conservation and management of the snapper-grouper fishery and that it is consistent with the national standards, other provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable law, with the exception of the measure that would have required all permitted vessels to maintain and submit vessel logbooks. This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. The Council prepared an initial regulatory flexibility analysis (initial RFA) for this action. The initial RFA has been adopted as final without change. The final RFA concludes that this final rule may have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, as summarized in the proposed rule. The commercial vessel trip limits established in ยง646.25 of this final rule are intended to prolong the commercial seasons for snowy grouper and golden tilefish under the newly established commercial quotas. Prolonging the seasons will have considerable economic benefits for the fisheries. Delay in implementing these trip limits will reduce significantly the potential benefits. However, immediate implementation might adversely affect commercial fishermen when this final rule is published because they may be at sea. Accordingly, to maximize the potential economic benefits of the trip limits without undue adverse effect on fishermen now on fishing trips, the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA, finds for good cause under section 553(d)(3) of the Administrative Procedure Act that the effective date of ยง646.25 should not be delayed beyond 10 days from the date of publication of this final rule. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 646 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: May 20, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 646 is amended as follows: PART 646_SNAPPER-GROUPER FISHERY OF THE SOUTH ATLANTIC
