FR941117-0-00096 FR941117-0-00011 ยง22.383 In-building radiation systems. Licensees may install and operate in-building radiation systems without applying for authorization or notifying the FCC, provided that the locations of the in-building radiation systems are within the protected service area of the licensee's authorized transmitter(s) on the same channel or channel block. Subpart D_Developmental Authorizations ยง22.401 Description and purposes of developmental authorizations. Communications common carriers may apply for, and the FCC may grant, authority to construct and operate one or more transmitters subject to the rules in this subpart and other limitations, waivers and/or conditions that may be prescribed. Authorizations granted on this basis are developmental authorizations. In general, the FCC grants developmental authorizations in situations and circumstances where it cannot reasonably be determined in advance whether a particular transmitter can be operated or a particular service can be provided without causing interference to the service of existing stations. For example, the FCC may grant developmental authorizations for: (a) Field strength surveys to evaluate the technical suitability of antenna locations for stations in the Public Mobile Services; (b) Experimentation leading to the potential development of a new Public Mobile Service or technology; or, (c) Stations transmitting on channels in certain frequency ranges, to provide a trial period during which it can be individually determined whether such stations can operate without causing excessive interference to existing services. ยง22.403 General limitations. The provisions and requirements of this section are applicable to all developmental authorizations. (a) Developmental authorizations are granted subject to the condition that they may be cancelled by the FCC at any time, upon notice to the licensee, and without the opportunity for a hearing. (b) Except as otherwise indicated in this subpart, developmental authorizations normally terminate one year from the date of grant. The FCC may, however, specify a different term. (c) Stations operating under developmental authorizations must not interfere with the services of regularly authorized stations. (d) A grant of a developmental authorization does not provide any assurance that the FCC will grant an application for regular authorization to operate the same transmitter(s), even if operation during the developmental period has not caused interference and/or the developmental program is successful. ยง22.409 Developmental authorization for a new Public Mobile Service or technology. The FCC may grant applications for developmental authority to construct and operate transmitters for the purpose of developing a new Public Mobile Service or a new technology not regularly authorized under this part, subject to the requirements of this section. Such applications may request the use of any portion of the spectrum allocated for Public Mobile Services in the Table of Frequency Allocations contained in part 2 of this chapter, regardless of whether that spectrum is regularly available under this part. Requests to use any portion of the spectrum for a service or purpose other than that indicated in the Table of Frequency Allocations in part 2 of this chapter may be made only in accordance with the provisions of part 5 of this chapter. (a) Preliminary determination. The FCC will make a preliminary determination with respect to the factors in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section before acting on an application for developmental authority pursuant to this section. These factors are: (1) That the public interest, convenience or necessity warrants consideration of the establishment of the proposed service or technology; (2) That the proposal appears to have potential value to the public that could warrant the establishment of the new service or technology; (3) That some operational data should be developed for consideration in any rule making proceeding which may be initiated to establish such service or technology. (b) Petition required. Applications for developmental authorizations pursuant to this section must be accompanied by a petition for rule making requesting the FCC to amend its rules as may be necessary to provide for the establishment of the proposed service or technology. (c) Application requirements. Authorizations for developmental authority pursuant to this section will be issued only upon a showing that the applicant has a definite program of research and development which has reasonable promise of substantial contribution to the services authorized by this part. The application must contain an exhibit demonstrating the applicant's technical qualifications to conduct the research and development program, including a description of the nature and extent of engineering facilities that the applicant has available for such purpose. Additionally, the FCC may, in its discretion, require a showing of financial qualification. (d) Communication service for hire prohibited. Stations authorized under developmental authorizations granted pursuant to this section must not be used to provide communication service for hire, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the FCC. (e) Adherence to program. Carriers granted developmental authorization pursuant to this section must substantially adhere to the program of research and development described in their application for developmental authorization, unless the FCC directs otherwise. (f) Report requirements. Upon completion of the program of research and development, or upon the expiration of the developmental authorization under which such program was permitted, or at such times during the term of the station authorization as the FCC may deem necessary to evaluate the progress of the developmental program, the licensee shall submit a comprehensive report, containing: (1) A description of the progress of the program and a detailed analysis of any result obtained; (2) Copies of any publications produced by the program; (3) A listing of any patents applied for, including copies of any patents issued; (4) Copies of any marketing surveys or other measures of potential public demand for the new service; (5) A description of the carrier's experiences with operational aspects of the program including_ (i) The duration of transmissions on each channel or frequency range and the technical parameters of such transmissions; and,
