FR940817-0-00067 FR940817-0-00017 §287.10 Expedited internal review process. (a) Violations of standards for enforcement activities. Alleged violations of the standards for enforcement activities established in accordance with the provisions of §287.8 shall be investigated expeditiously consistent with the policies and procedures of the Office of Professional Responsibility and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Justice and pursuant to guidelines to be established by the Attorney General. Within the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Office of Internal Audit is responsible for coordinating the reporting and disposition of allegations. (b) Complaints. Any persons wishing to lodge a complaint pertaining to violations of enforcement standards contained in §287.8 may contact the Department of Justice, P.O. Box 27606, Washington, DC, 20038&hyph;7606, or telephone 1&hyph;800&hyph;869&hyph;4499. (c) Expedited processing of complaints. When an allegation or complaint of violation of §287.8 is lodged against an employee or officer of the Service, the allegation or complaint shall be referred promptly for investigation in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Department of Justice. At the conclusion of an investigation of an allegation or complaint of violation of §287.8, the investigative report shall be referred promptly for appropriate action in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Department of Justice. (d) Unsubstantiated complaints. When an investigative report does not support the allegation, the employee or officer against whom the allegation was made shall be informed in writing that the matter has been closed as soon as practicable. No reference to the allegation shall be filed in the official's or employee's official personnel file. (e) Jurisdiction of other Department of Justice organizations. Nothing in this section alters or limits, is intended to alter or limit, or shall be construed to alter or limit, the jurisdiction or authority conferred upon the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Professional Responsibility, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Attorneys, the Criminal Division or the Civil Rights Division, or any other component of the Department of Justice, or any other order of the Department of Justice establishing policy or procedures for the administration of standards of conduct within the Department of Justice. §287.11 Scope. With regard to this part, these regulations provide internal guidance on specific areas of law enforcement authority. These regulations do not, are not intended to, and shall not be construed to exclude, supplant, or limit otherwise lawful activities of the Immigration and Naturalization Service or the Attorney General. These regulations do not, are not intended to, shall not be construed to, and may not be relied upon to create any rights, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by any party in any matter, civil or criminal. The Attorney General shall have exclusive authority to enforce these regulations through such administrative and other means as he or she may deem appropriate. Dated: August 7, 1994. Janet Reno, Attorney General. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19792 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;10&hyph;M
