FR940617-2-00245 FR940617-2-00121 Friday June 17, 1994 Part IX Department of Education Training Personnel for the Education of Individuals With Disabilities Program Administered by the Office of Special Education Programs, Office of Education and Rehabilitative Services; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 116␣/␣Friday, June 17, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Training Personnel for the Education of Individuals With Disabilities Program Administered by the Office of Special Education Programs, Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of Intent to Collect Data. SUMMARY: The Assistant Secretary provides notice that the Department intends to revise the forms it requires grantees under Part D of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) to use in submitting their Annual Performance Reports under Section 634 of Pub. L. 101&hyph;476, as amended. These forms are the Personnel Data Form and the Parent Data Form. The Department is publishing this notice of intent to collect data to solicit public comment from State education agencies, institutions of higher education, parent organizations, professionals in the field of special education, individuals with disabilities, professional organizations and advocacy groups for persons with disabilities, researchers, other Federal agencies, and other appropriate parties regarding the utility and burden of collecting and reporting data in addition to that specified in IDEA. The new data would be (1) Outcomes and placement information from grantees training personnel to serve children with disabilities and their families; and (2) the names of organizations networked or consulted with by parent information and training center grantees. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning this notice should be addressed to Norman D. Howe, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue SW., room 3072, Switzer Building, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;2643. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Janice S. Ancarrow, U.S. Department of Education, Maryland Avenue SW., room 3515, Switzer Building, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;2643. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8274. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at (202) 205&hyph;9999. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Statutory Provisions and Legislative History Part D of the Act (IDEA) provides support for programs to increase the quantity and improve the quality of personnel trained to provide early intervention, education, and related services to infants, toddlers, children, youth, and their families. The Division of Personnel Preparation (DPP) in the Office of Special Education Programs (OSEP), Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services (OSERS), administers this program. As amended in 1990 through 1992, section 634(a) (1) and (2) of IDEA requires personnel training grantees funded under 631(a) to report the number of personnel enrolled under each grant by category of training and level of training; and the number of individuals trained receiving degrees and certification, by category and level of training. The law further requires that applicants for training grants must provide a description of detailed strategies to recruit and train members of minority groups and persons with disabilities, as well as to give them priority consideration for stipend support when selecting among qualified trainees. See section 631(a)(2)(B) and (3) of IDEA. Therefore, trainees' race or ethnicity, and their disability status were added to the Personnel Data Form, as well as the information required by Section 634. Under section 631(e)(11), as amended in 1990 through 1992, grantees who are parent training and information centers must report detailed information on their clients served. OSEP developed a separate Parent Data Form to capture these data. Both forms were provisionally approved for one year by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) on November 12, 1992. Proposed Data Elements To assist the Department of Education in monitoring the efficacy of this training program in meeting the educational and related needs of infants, children, youth, and their families, and to examine how grantees are implementing statutory requirements, the Department intends to add further data elements to the Personnel Data Form, as well as to the Parent Data Form. The planned revision of the Personnel Data Form would add a Part III, which would include individual counts for student trainee outcomes data on: (1) Completers (such as length of time to the degree) and (2) noncompleters (such as reasons for not completing); and aggregate counts for placement outcomes (such as type of employment and geographic location). The revised Parent Data Form would include data on the names of organizations networked or consulted with under IDEA section 631(e)(11) (E) and (F). Invitation To Comment The Assistant Secretary is interested in receiving public comment on the utility and burden of obtaining from personnel training grantees various outcomes data, including placement data by aggregated counts or by individual trainee; and from parent training and information centers, the names of organizations they networked or consulted with. The DPP data collection package previously approved by OMB, and all comments submitted in response to this notice will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in Room 3072, Switzer Building, 330 ``C'' Street SW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. To familiarize the public with the format of the proposed changes, copies of the draft proposed Part III of the Personnel Data Form (Form 1) and the draft revised Parent Form (Form 2) are available by calling (202) 205&hyph;9554. Please note that the Department has not yet submitted the proposed revised forms to OMB for its formal review and approval. Public comments received under this Notice will be considered prior to finalizing the forms for submission to OMB. Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1409(g). Dated: June 13, 1994. Judith E. Heumann, Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14858 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;U
