FR940426-0-00022 FR940426-0-00004 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 51 [Docket No. 93&hyph;023&hyph;2] Animals Destroyed Because of Brucellosis AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the brucellosis indemnity regulations to provide for the payment of indemnity to owners who have brucellosis exposed cattle or bison destroyed that were previously sold or traded from any herd that has, subsequent to the sale or trade, been found to be affected with brucellosis. This action is necessary to give herd owners sufficient incentive to destroy their exposed animals in a timely manner. Prompt destruction of brucellosis-affected animals will assist in eradicating the disease in the United States. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 26, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. M.J. Gilsdorf, National Brucellosis Epidemiologist, Cattle Diseases and Surveillance Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 731, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;4918. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Brucellosis, also called Bang's disease or undulant fever, is a serious infectious disease of cattle, bison, and other species, including humans, caused by bacteria of the genus Brucella. Brucellosis in cattle and bison is characterized by fever, sterility, slow breeding, abortion, and loss of milk production. To help prevent the spread of the disease, the regulations in 9 CFR part 51 (referred to below as the regulations) provide for payment of Federal indemnity to owners of certain animals destroyed because of brucellosis. The payment of indemnity is intended to provide owners with a financial incentive for promptly destroying animals affected with or exposed to brucellosis. Because the continued presence of brucellosis in a herd seriously threatens the health of animals in that herd and possibly other herds, the prompt destruction of brucellosis-affected cattle or bison is critical if brucellosis-eradication efforts in the United States are to succeed. In accordance with ยง51.3(a)(1) of the regulations, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) may authorize the payment of Federal indemnity by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to any owner whose cattle or bison are destroyed as brucellosis reactors. In accordance with ยง51.3(a)(2)(i) of the regulations, the Administrator of APHIS may also authorize the payment of Federal indemnity by USDA to any owner whose herd of cattle or bison is destroyed because of brucellosis. The Administrator may authorize the payment of Federal indemnity by USDA for brucellosis exposed cattle or bison in the herd only when the Administrator determines that destruction of all cattle and bison in the herd will contribute to the brucellosis eradication program. Until this final rule becomes effective, the regulations do not provide for the payment of indemnity for destroying brucellosis exposed cattle and bison that were sold or traded from a herd prior to the time that herd was found to be affected with brucellosis. On December 28, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 68561&hyph;68563, Docket No. 93&hyph;023&hyph;1) a proposal to amend the regulations to allow for payment of Federal indemnity to owners who have brucellosis exposed cattle or bison destroyed that were previously sold or traded from any herd that has, subsequent to the sale or trade, been found to be affected with brucellosis. The amendments were intended to provide an economic incentive for the timely removal of brucellosis-exposed animals from such herds, thus minimizing the risk of those animals spreading brucellosis to a new herd. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 30-day comment period ending January 27, 1994. We received four comments by that date. They were from livestock marketing associations and a representative of the Federal government. All responses were in favor of the proposal. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The change in the regulations allows for a per-head indemnity payment as cited in ยง51.3(a)(2)(ii) if the owner chooses to destroy the exposed animals within a specified amount of time. In all States except Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States, the amount of Federal indemnity will not exceed $250 for any registered cattle, $250 for any nonregistered dairy cattle, $150 for any nonregistered cattle other than dairy cattle, and $150 for any bison. In Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States, the amount of Federal indemnity will not exceed $250 for any cattle or bison. If an owner chooses to accept the indemnity payment, the owner will stand to lose less money than through either depopulation or quarantine. If the owner chooses to accept the indemnity payment, the Government will also save money through eliminating the need for quarantining the entire herd and performing numerous retests. At the same time, there will be less risk of spreading brucellosis to the rest of the animals in the owner's herd and to adjacent herds. APHIS experts estimate that there are about 50 owners nationwide (owning approximately 100 to 150 animals total, all of which are used for breeding purposes), who may be affected by this change in the regulations. All of the farmers can be considered ``small'' entities (annual gross receipts of $0.5 million or less, according to Small Business Administration size standards). While an owner still stands to lose money by destroying exposed animals because the amount of the indemnity will not fully compensate an owner for the loss of an animal, the amount will likely be minimal in comparison to the potential loss if the entire herd were to become infected. In summary, by allowing for an indemnity payment as specified in ยง51.3(a)(2)(ii) for each animal that was part of a herd prior to the time that herd was found affected with brucellosis, the risk of spreading brucellosis in the new herd should be minimized. Payment of the specified indemnity per head will give owners an economic incentive to destroy an exposed animal that was part of a herd prior to the time that herd was found affected with brucellosis. The indemnity payment will provide an economic benefit to owners by minimizing their financial losses. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.) Executive Order 12778 This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule: (1) Preempts all State and local laws and regulations that are in conflict with this rule; (2) Has no retroactive effect; and (3) Does not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the information collection or recordkeeping requirements included in this final rule will be submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget. List of Subjects in 9 CFR Part 51 Animal diseases, Cattle, Hogs, Indemnity payments, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
