FR941221-2-00091 FR941221-2-00067 G. Statement of Work/Grant Application 1. Description of the Local One-Stop Career Center System_ The grant application must provide a detailed description of the current delivery system for employment and training programs. Written materials, such as brochures and other promotional material, should be included as supporting documentation. Any local agreements among participating agencies, State and local, must also be included. (a) In completing this section the grant application should specifically address the extent to which the local One-Stop Career Center system achieves the following four broad outcome objectives: (i) Universality. The application should include a description of the geographic area (including major industries/employers, demographics, size, relationship to the labor market) being served. Applicants must also address the following: (A) The specific, basic services available to all customers to include, as a minimum: customer-oriented information on careers, labor markets, jobs and the availability and quality of education and training programs; testing and assessment; job openings; hiring requirements and referrals; assistance with job search skills; and initial eligibility information on programs available within the community; (B) The approach to ensuring that these services are available to all individuals (e.g., areas with large migrant/English as a Second Language (ESL) populations, severely economically depressed areas/enterprise zones); and (C) Any other additional or customized services not listed above that are available. (ii) Customer Choice. Applications must describe: (A) The extent to which choice in location of One-Stop services is available or whether other alternatives, such as kiosks and toll-free lines provide some degree of customer choice for these areas; and (B) How customers are provided information on the quality of education and training services, particularly in consideration of the current capacity of qualitative data. (iii) Integration. Applications must describe: (A) The programs which are integrated through the One-Stop system, e.g., Dislocated Worker programs, Employment Service programs, Veterans Employment Service programs, Title II of JTPA, Senior Community Service Employment program under Title V of the Older Worker Act, and Unemployment Insurance programs. Additional DOL-funded programs are also encouraged to be included, e.g., Migrant Seasonal Farm Workers, Homeless Training, Native American programs, School-to-Work Opportunities programs, Job Corps, and Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training programs; (B) How these programs are integrated_e.g., exclusively delivered through One-Stop; delivered through One-Stop and also elsewhere; not delivered through One-Stop but accessible; information provided only, including a description of these services; and (C) The local body that coordinates these programs and services, including the membership of this body, its functions and responsibilities for the local One-Stop system and any other functions, and its relationship, if any, to the State governing and advisory entities. (iv) Performance-Driven Outcome-Based Measures. Grant applications must describe: (A) The measures used to assess the performance of the One-Stop Career Center system and how these measures are used to improve performance;
