FR940617-0-00114 FR940617-0-00026 As pointed out in the NPRM, in numerous nonattainment areas, other sources are regulated that have lower emissions than the total from nonroad engines in the area. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that the higher contributions from nonroad sources in those areas are also significant enough to justify the regulation of NO X , VOC and CO emissions from nonroad engines and vehicles. 4. Operation in Rural Areas Some commenters stated that some equipment covered by the proposed regulations operates primarily (almost 80 percent based on number of units) in areas already meeting federal clean air requirements; therefore, these commenters concluded that such equipment should not be regulated. The Agency believes that these pieces of equipment can reasonably be expected to contribute to ozone nonattainment. Also, the Agency has determined that it should not regulate engines only in urban nonattainment areas. Most commenters made strong arguments substantiating the need for national uniformity of treatment for all equipment incorporating regulated engines regardless of the intended geographic area of equipment use. Moreover, Title II of the Act generally requires national regulation of mobile sources, given the inherent ability of such sources to move from one area to another. Also, as discussed, nonroad sources have been clearly shown to contribute significantly to pollution in several nonattainment areas. 5. Significance Determination for Classes and Categories of Nonroad Engines Some commenters stated that various subcategories of nonroad equipment (e.g., farm equipment, mining equipment) individually represent only a small contribution to national pollutant inventories and to nonattainment and that a significance determination should be made for each specific subcategory of nonroad engine, not for nonroad engines as a whole. These comments have misinterpreted the clear language of section 213(a). Paragraphs one and two of section 213(a) make it clear that EPA's determination of significance should be based on whether emissions from all new and existing nonroad engines are significant contributors to ozone or CO concentrations. There is no indication that the significance determination should be based on contributions from various subcategories of nonroad engines or vehicles. By contrast, if the Administrator makes an affirmative decision regarding significance, then section 213(a)(3) requires the Administrator to promulgate regulations for those classes and categories of nonroad engines and vehicles ``which in the Administrator's judgment cause, or contribute to, such air pollution.'' This mandate does not include any reference to a determination of significance for classes and categories. Thus, the Agency believes that Congress did not intend a showing of significant contribution to be required for regulation of classes or categories of nonroad engines and vehicles. This interpretation is echoed by the language in section 213(a)(4) which allows the Agency to regulate new nonroad engine emissions that were not referred to in the Nonroad Study. Under this paragraph, if the Agency determines that any such emissions significantly contribute to air pollution which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger the public health or welfare, the Agency may promulgate regulations applicable to those classes or categories of new nonroad engines and vehicles which in the Administrator's judgment cause or contribute to such air pollution. Once again, there is a reference to significant contribution regarding the initial determination on emissions from all nonroad engines or vehicles, but there is no such reference to significance in the subsequent language regarding regulation of classes or categories of engines and vehicles. Therefore, it seems clear that Congress intended that a showing of significance is not required for regulation of classes or categories of nonroad engines and vehicles. One commenter suggested that EPA had misinterpreted the statute's requirements based on a perceived inconsistency between that interpretation and the Agency's proposed consent decree settling several lawsuits. 10 This commenter stated that, in the proposed consent decree, EPA had implicitly acknowledged its obligation to make the significance determination for each category or class of products it intends to regulate by specifically reserving its ``right'' to determine that large gasoline and/or small diesel nonroad engines do not cause or contribute to air pollution within the meaning of section 213(a)(3). Such a reservation, this commenter argued, would be meaningless if EPA were permitted, as proposed in the NPRM, to regulate any category or class of nonroad engine or nonroad vehicle regardless of its contribution to ozone or CO concentrations in nonattainment areas. 10 Sierra Club v. Browner, Civ. No. 93&hyph;0197 NHJ (D.D.C. 1993). The Agency disagrees with the assertion that there is an inconsistency between the Agency's proposed consent decree and the NPRM. In fact, the consent decree does not discuss any determination of ``significant contribution'' for classes or categories of nonroad engines. The decree only discusses ``contribution''. The Agency assumes this comment is meant to suggest that prior to regulating, EPA must first show that each equipment type (agricultural, construction, mining, and so forth) contributes significantly to nonattainment. As discussed above, the Agency interprets the Act to provide for regulation of any classes or categories of nonroad engines and vehicles that can be shown to cause or contribute to air pollution. The NPRM discussed the contribution to air pollution of the engine size and type being regulated today. The Agency reserves the right to use other class or category types in future nonroad emissions regulations. 6. Equipment Distribution/Use of Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Areas (CMSA) Some commenters stated that EPA's use of CMSAs to define the urban areas was inappropriate. These commenters asserted that since many CMSAs encompass an area roughly equivalent to a 100 mile diameter, much of the CMSA is rural. Consequently, EPA has assumed a uniform distribution of nonroad equipment resulting in as many farm tractors in downtown New York City as in the surrounding countryside, according to comments.
