FR940810-0-00257 FR940810-0-00021 11. At the beginning of each exercise, the aerosol concentration shall be replenished using one-half the number of squeezes as initially described in C9. 12. The test subject shall indicate to the test conductor if at any time during the fit test the taste of saccharin is detected. 13. If the saccharin is detected the fit is deemed unsatisfactory and a different respirator shall be tried. 14. At least two facepieces shall be selected by the IAA test protocol. The test subject shall be given the opportunity to wear them for one week to choose the one which is more comfortable to wear. 15. Successful completion of the test protocol shall allow the use of the half mask tested respirator in contaminated atmospheres up to 10 times the PEL of asbestos. In other words this protocol may be used assign protection factors no higher than ten. 16. The test shall not be conducted if there is any hair growth between the skin and the facepiece sealing surface. 17. If hair growth or apparel interfere with a satisfactory fit, then they shall be altered or removed so as to eliminate interference and allow a satisfactory fit. If a satisfactory fit is still not attained, the test subject must use a positive-pressure respirator such as powered air-purifying respirators, supplied air respirator, or self-contained breathing apparatus. 18. If a test subject exhibits difficulty in breathing during the tests, she or he shall be referred to a physician trained in respirator diseases or pulmonary medicine to determine whether the test subject can wear a respirator while performing her or his duties. 19. Qualitative fit testing shall be repeated at least every six months. 20. In addition, because the sealing of the respirator may be affected, qualitative fit testing shall be repeated immediately when the test subject has a: (1) Weight change of 20 pounds or more, (2) Significant facial scarring in the area of the facepiece seal, (3) Significant dental changes; i.e.; multiple extractions without prothesis, or acquiring dentures, (4) Reconstructive or cosmetic surgery, or (5) Any other condition that may interfere with facepiece sealing. D. Recordkeeping. A summary of all test results shall be maintained in each office for 3 years. The summary shall include: (1) Name of test subject (2) Date of testing. (3) Name of test conductor. (4) Respirators selected (indicate manufacturer, model, size and approval number). (5) Testing agent. III. Irritant Fume Protocol A. Respirator selection. Respirators shall be selected as described in section IB above, except that each respirator shall be equipped with a combination of high-efficiency and acid-gas cartridges. B. Fit test. 1. The test subject shall be allowed to smell a weak concentration of the irritant smoke to familiarize the subject with the characteristic odor. 2. The test subject shall properly don the respirator selected as above, and wear it for at least 10 minutes before starting the fit test. 3. The test conductor shall review this protocol with the test subject before testing. 4. The test subject shall perform the conventional positive pressure and negative pressure fit checks (see ANSI Z88.2 1980). Failure of either check shall be cause to select an alternate respirator. 5. Break both ends of a ventilation smoke tube containing stannic oxychloride, such as the MSA part # 5645, or equivalent. Attach a short length of tubing to one end of the smoke tube. Attach the other end of the smoke tube to a low pressure air pump set to deliver 200 milliliters per minute.
