FR940505-1-00093 FR940505-1-00012 However, because pesticide use is estimated to represent a significant component of the VOC emissions inventory in the Sacramento, South Coast and Ventura areas, EPA considers emission reductions from pesticides an important part of the overall FIP attainment strategy. 59 59 As with all components of the FIP, §52.2960 is proposed under authority of the Clean Air Act. Failure to comply with any provision of §52.2960 will violate the applicable implementation plan for purposes of section 113 of the Clean Air Act, and be subject to all administrative, civil, and criminal penalties described therein. Under the proposed rule, EPA will establish a VOC limit that all pesticides must meet to be distributed or applied in the affected area. Specific pesticides are not regulated, and the proposed rule does not conflict with FIFRA's registration cancellation or suspension procedures (7 U.S.C. 136d). Nonetheless, EPA expects that many pesticides will need to be reformulated in order to meet the VOC limit and be useable in the affected area. EPA has accounted for the costs of reformulation in the technical support to this proposed rule. EPA specifically requests comment on how to minimize the costs of this regulation in light of existing FIFRA regulations while still achieving the necessary emission reductions. 5. Cap Regulations a. Introduction _EPA is today proposing to promulgate Federal control measure rules to reduce emissions of VOC from sources located in all three FIP areas, and NO X from sources in the Ventura FIP area. 60 The proposed measures impose an annual rate of reduction on affected sources for as many controllable VOC and NO X categories as possible. The purpose of these proposed rules is to ensure that the FIP areas achieve attainment of the ozone NAAQS by the statutory attainment dates for each area. These proposed rules are designed to supplement reductions achieved by other proposed FIP and SIP measures as necessary to make up for any emission reduction shortfalls in the affected FIP areas. 60 EPA assumes that the South Coast's NO X RECLAIM program will be submitted to EPA as a SIP revision and that EPA will take some form of approval action on NO X RECLAIM so that the South Coast FIP area can be credited with those reductions. In the event that NO X RECLAIM is not submitted to EPA in an approvable form, then EPA will prepare regulations for NO X emissions similar to those proposed for the Ventura FIP area. The FIP cap measures proposed today differ in several ways from those proposed in the 1990 South Coast FIP (55 FR 36458). Most importantly, the current FIP proposal adds complete regulations for most categories of industrial sources of NO X emissions, whereas the 1990 proposal dealt only with VOC sources. The NO X cap regulations proposed today for Ventura (and discussed as an alternative for the South Coast) contain comprehensive control requirements, including specific detailed provisions for source monitoring. EPA's cap regulations proposed today also make significant changes from the 1990 rules in terms of the cap compliance period, penalties for noncompliance with emission limits, and establishment of emissions baselines. In addition, this NPRM significantly revises the discussion of two potential amendments to the cap program: the development of an emissions trading element and the replacement of the industrial solvents/coatings rules with a manufacturers bubble. Many of these changes from the 1990 proposal derive from extensive EPA involvement in the evolution of SCAQMD's RECLAIM program. However, EPA's proposed cap rules deviate from the RECLAIM program in several areas. For example, in RECLAIM, which is currently a NO X and SO X market, the term of each emission cap is one year. In the proposed FIP measures, the term of each emission cap is one month. EPA selected the shorter compliance term as providing more certainty that the one-hour ozone NAAQS would not be exceeded. EPA will continue to evaluate the compliance period as more information becomes available. For each FIP area, data may allow EPA to determine that different compliance periods would provide sufficient security against short-term emission increases that jeopardize air quality progress. The 1990 proposal did not include regulations specifying the noncompliance penalty structure. This NPRM proposes penalty provisions for emissions cap exceedances based on EPA's conclusion (expressed repeatedly in the context of the RECLAIM development process) that exceedance-based systems of establishing penalties are the most appropriate for the use of mass emission caps. Exceedance-based penalty systems establish violations based on the amount of excess emissions above the facility cap. This penalty structure is most protective of the NAAQS and comports best with the Act and with EPA's established enforcement policies. EPA has included in this FIP a much more detailed method for setting baselines for the facilities subject to the cap program. The method requires sources to examine the following data to calculate their year 2001 cap emissions: •1990 annual emissions, and •Reductions to be made as a result of compliance with SIP and/or FIP control measures between the years 1990 and 2001. This methodology will inherently rely on emission inventory data and planning projections to set year 2001 emissions caps. However, the methodology has the advantage that it will not unfairly penalize facilities which have made reductions ahead of schedule. This baseline proposal provides flexibility beyond the 1990 proposal for facilities which have made early reductions of NO X and VOC emissions. EPA is not now proposing to incorporate a trading system into the program in regulatory form. EPA will observe the functioning of the RECLAIM market system, the Acid Rain (CAA Title IV) market system, and other markets to determine the design which is most successful for reducing emissions in the FIP areas while achieving other program goals, including the avoidance of air toxics hotspots. In the 1990 FIP proposal, EPA indicated that a trading scheme would be proposed in the future; in this round, given that there will be more experience with trading markets by the time this FIP is finalized, EPA chose to observe the developing markets in parallel with its own research effort prior to selecting a market structure. Finally, the 1990 proposal discussed the use of a manufacturers bubble as an alternative to emissions caps for users of industrial and commercial solvents and coatings. The current FIP proposal describes this concept in greater detail and discusses EPA's various reasons for preferring this approach, if EPA is able to successfully resolve certain issues involved in regulating manufacturers at the national level. (1) Rationale for Approach. All of the California FIP areas suffer from emission reduction shortfalls when the FIP attainment analysis is performed. The shortfalls, or reductions beyond the other proposed FIP and SIP measures, which must be accounted for in order to bring the FIP areas into attainment, range from at least 20 percent additional reductions for VOC to at least 30 percent additional reductions for NO X . 61 In consideration of the limitations of available technology-based regulations, and to provide the regulated community with maximum flexibility when trying to achieve the shortfall reductions, EPA is proposing a facility-wide declining emission cap program. 61 The rates of reduction shown here represent the results of EPA's preliminary analysis of the FIP areas' emission inventories. Further analysis of these inventories is currently being performed and may ultimately impact the final rates of reduction for the FIP cap program. The reates of reduction may increase or stay the same as appropriate. The current rates of reduction analysis shows that a 4 percent to 9 percent annual rate of reduction for VOC and 6 percent to 9 percent for NO X may be necessary to demonstrate attainment in the FIP areas.
