FR941116-2-00004 FR941116-2-00002 Recreation Goals Manage for a broad range of high-quality recreation settings and opportunities in a manner compatible with the primary objectives set forth in the HCNRA Act. Manage outdoor recreation to ensure that recreational and ecological values and public enjoyment of the area are enhanced and compatible with the objectives of the HCNRA Act. Provide for a broad range of education and resource interpretation opportunities for visitors to learn about HCNRA resources, protection, and management. Objectives Develop a recreation-related capital investment project schedule which includes campground rehabilitation, and compliance with health and safety requirements and the American with Disabilities Act. Standards and Guidelines Modify S&Gs to refine recreation opportunity spectrum (ROS) classifications that emphasize maintaining the level of available recreation opportunities and focus on more refined standards for: _Motorized/non-motorized use, _Limits of acceptable change for recreational capacities within the HCNRA, _And administrative and recreation facilities development and maintenance, including site furniture, information boards, and interpretation. Develop S&Gs that establish a minimum and maximum number of special use permits for outfitting and guiding (including, but not limited to: aviation, horsepacking, backpacking, auto tours, hunting, and fishing), within the HCNRA that are compatible with the limits of acceptable change listed under Recreation and the primary objectives of the HCNRA Act. Develop S&Gs to evaluate new recreation activities to ensure compatibility with the primary objectives of the HCNRA Act. Access and Facilities Goals Manage the transportation system (roads, trails, airstrips, and waterways) to meet the primary objectives for which the HCNRA was established and to provide a wide range of experiences. Manage the transportation system to provide safe and efficient access for the movement of people and materials involved in the use and protection of the HCNRA. Right-of-way acquisition will continue to be actively pursued. Provide and manage facilities that permit access to a variety of HCNRA settings, opportunities, and experiences, regardless of visitor's physical abilities. Manage recreation facilities so they are in compliance with health and safety regulations and meet regional ROS standards. Manage water developments and water rights in compliance with applicable laws to meet resource objectives of the HCNRA. Objectives Develop a right-of-way acquisition plan. Develop a road-related capital investment schedule. Develop a trail-related capital investment needs. Develop a water use/water rights plan. Develop a facilities capital investment schedule. Standards and Guidelines Develop S&Gs that emphasize maintaining the level of available access/transportation opportunities, including over-snow travel, and provide for the long-term management of the transportation system (roads, trails, air-strips, airspace, and waterways) to meet management goals and objectives. Develop S&Gs that implement the LURs prohibiting motorized and mechanical equipment from using designated roads, trails and airstrips. Modify S&Gs to establish construction and maintenance standards for the transportation system. Develop S&Gs for selection, placement, and management of electronic transmission sites. HCNRA Act Section 7(1) the maintenance and protection of the free-flowing nature of the rivers within the recreation area. Wild and Scenic Rivers Goals Manage wild and scenic rivers within the HCNRA in a manner compatible with protecting and enhancing the values for which the river was designated. Manage use of motorized and mechanical equipment to be compatible with the outstandingly remarkable values of each river designated recreation, scenic, and wild. Manage use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft on the Wild and Scenic Snake River in a manner compatible with the protection and enhancement of the river's outstanding remarkable values. Perpetuate forested stands within wild and scenic rivers in ``scenic'' and ``recreational'' designations to protect and enhance the river's outstandingly remarkable values and compatibility with the primary objectives of the HCNRA Act. Forested areas within ``wild'' designations would only be treated to provide for recreational facilities, such as trails, to reduce the risk of hazard trees, or to provide for the desired ecosystem function as a result of natural events provided the activity is consistent with the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. Manage recreation and administrative facilities in a manner compatible with protecting and enhancing the values for which the river was designated. Objectives No proposed changes. Standards and Guidelines No proposed changes. HCNRA Act Section 7(2) conservation of scenic, wilderness, cultural, scientific, and other values contributing to the public benefit. Scenery Goals Manage the scenery resources for which the HCNRA was created to ensure their conservation and preservation. Objectives Develop a scenery management plan. Standards and Guidelines Develop S&Gs for sight sensory objectives and acceptable management techniques based on the new scenery management system (Agriculture Handbook 701).
