FR940725-0-00056 FR940725-0-00008 (7) Provide technical assistance to professionals in Section 6 School Arrangements involved in, or responsible for, the education of preschool children or children with disabilities. (8) Ensure that child-find activities are coordinated with other relevant components and are conducted to locate and identify every individual with disabilities. (9) Issue guidance implementing this part. (10) Undertake evaluation activities to ensure compliance with this part through monitoring, technical assistance, and program evaluation. (11) Chair the DoD Coordinating Committee on Domestic Early Intervention, Special Education, and Related Services, which shall be composed of representatives of the Secretaries of the Military Departments, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)), the General Counsel of the Department of Defense (GC, DoD), and the Director, Section 6 Schools. (12) Through the DoD Coordinating Committee on Demestic Early Intervention, Special Education, and Related Services, monitor the provision of special education and related services and early intervention services furnished under this part, and ensure that related services, special education, and early intervention services are properly coordinated. (13) Ensure that appropriate personnel are trained to provide mediation services in cases that otherwise might result in due process proceedings under this part. (14) Ensure that transition services from early intervention services to regular or special education and from special education to the world of work are provided. (15) Ensure that all DoD programs that provide services to infants and toddlers and their families (e.g., child care, medical care, recreation) are involved in a comprehensive intercomponent system for early intervention services. (16) Ensure, whenever practicable, that planned construction not yet past the 35 percent design phase and new design begun after the date of this part of renovation of school or child care facilities includes consideration of the space required for the provision of medically related services and early intervention services. (17) Shall establish the Domestic Advisory Panel that shall: (i) Consist of members appointed by the USD (P&R) or Principal Deputy USD (P&R). Membership shall include at least one representative from each of the following groups: (A) Individuals with disabilities. (B) Parents, including minority parents of individuals with disabilities from various age groups. (C) Section 6 School Arrangements special education teachers. (D) Section 6 School Arrangements regular education teachers. (E) Section 6 School Arrangements Superintendent office personnel. (F) The Office of Director, Section 6 Schools. (G) The Surgeons General of the Military Departments. (H) The Family Support Programs of the Military Departments. (I) Section 6 School Arrangements School Boards. (J) Early Intervention service providers on installations with Section 6 School Arrangements. (K) Other appropriate personnel. (ii) Meet as often as necessary. (iii) Perform the following duties: (A) Review information and provide advice to ASD (P&R) regarding improvements in services provided to individuals with disabilities in Section 6 Schools and early intervention programs. (B) Receive and consider the views of various parent, student, and professional groups, and individuals with disabilities. (C) When necessary, establish committees for short-term purposes composed of representatives from parent, student, family and other professional groups, and individuals with disabilities. (D) Review the findings of fact and decision of each impartial due process hearing conducted pursuant to this part. (E) Assist in developing and reporting such information and evaluations as may aid Section 6 Schools and the Military Departments in the performance of duties under the part. (F) Make recommendations, based on program and operational information, for changes in the budget, organization, and general management of the special education program, and in policy and procedure. (G) Comment publicly on rules or standards regarding the education of individuals with disabilities. (H) Assist in developing recommendations regarding the transition of toddlers with disabilities to preschool services.
