FR940512-0-00053 FR940512-0-00018 (g) For an otherwise eligible student who is attending secondary school, is a student whom the State determines can reasonably be expected to meet the student eligibility requirements of 34 CFR 668.7 for Federal student financial assistance and such other requirements as necessary to qualify for State, local, or private student financial assistance, at such time as the student enrolls in postsecondary education. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a-23) Subpart E_How Does a State Award a Scholarship to a Student? ยง693.40 What are the requirements for a student to receive a scholarship under this program? To be eligible for a scholarship under the scholarship component of this program, a student must_ (a) Apply for the scholarship by following the application procedures and deadlines established by the State agency approved by the Secretary under ยง693.10(b)(1) to administer the NEISP Program in the State in which the individual resides; (b) Meet the relevant eligibility requirements contained in 34 CFR 668.7; (c) Be less than 22 years old at the time his or her first scholarship is awarded; (d) Have a high school diploma or a certificate of high school equivalence received on or after January 1, 1993; (e) Be enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a program of instruction at an institution of higher education that is located within the State's boundaries, except that a State, at its option, may offer such a scholarship to a student who attends an eligible institution of higher education outside of the State; (f) If a State includes academic milestones in a student agreement under ยง693.11(a)(3) and requires the student to meet the milestones to be eligible for a scholarship, have met or exceeded the academic milestones to receive a scholarship; and (g)(1) Have participated in the early intervention component of the program under this part; (2) At the State's option, be a student whom the State documents as having successfully participated in a Federal Upward Bound Program funded under section 402C, chapter 1, subpart 2, part A of title IV of the HEA as determined by an administrator of the Federal Upward Bound program in which the student participated; or (3) At the State's option, be a student whom the State determines as having successfully participated in an early intervention program comparable to the early intervention component of the program under this part. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a-24) Subpart F_What Postaward Conditions Must Be Met by a State? ยง693.50 What are allowable costs attributable to administration of the early intervention component? A State may use its NEISP Program funds for the following allowable costs not specifically covered by 34 CFR parts 76 or 80 that are reasonably related to carrying out the early intervention component of the NEISP Program: (a) In-service training of project staff. (b) Transportation and meal costs for participants and staff for_ (1) Approved visits to postsecondary educational institutions in the area; (2) Participation in ``College Days'' and ``College Fair'' activities; and (3) Field trips to observe and meet with people who are employed in various career fields and who can act as role models for early intervention participants. (c) Purchasing testing materials. (d) Admission fees, transportation, and other costs necessary to participate in field trips, attend educational activities, visit museums, and attend other events that have as their purpose the intellectual, social, and cultural development of early intervention participants. (e) Courses in English language instruction for participants with limited proficiency in English, if these classes are limited to early intervention component participants and if these classes are not otherwise available to those participants. (f) For participants in an early intervention residential summer activity, room and board_computed on a weekly basis_not to exceed the weekly rate a host institution charges regularly enrolled students at the institution. (g) Room and board for those people responsible for dormitory supervision of early intervention component participants during a residential summer activity.
