FR940810-0-00295 FR940810-0-00021 (4) Inspection of protective clothing. (i) The competent person shall examine worksuits worn by employees at least once per workshift for rips or tears that may occur during performance of work. (ii) When rips or tears are detected while an employee is working, rips and tears shall be immediately mended, or the worksuit shall be immediately replaced. (j) Hygiene facilities and practices for employees. (1) Requirements for employees performing Class I asbestos jobs involving over 25 linear or 10 square feet of Tsi or surfacing ACM and PACM. (i) Decontamination areas: the employer shall establish a decontamination area that is adjacent and connected to the regulated area for the decontamination of such employees. The decontamination area shall consist of an equipment room, shower area, and clean room in series. The employer shall ensure that employees enter and exit the regulated area through the decontamination area. (A) Equipment room. The equipment room shall be supplied with impermeable, labeled bags and containers for the containment and disposal of contaminated protective equipment. (B) Shower area. Shower facilities shall be provided which comply with 29 CFR 1910.141(d)(3), unless the employer can demonstrate that they are not feasible. The showers shall be adjacent both to the equipment room and the clean room, unless the employer can demonstrate that this location is not feasible. Where the employer can demonstrate that it is not feasible to locate the shower between the equipment room and the clean room, or where the work is performed outdoors, the employers shall ensure that employees: ( 1 ) Remove asbestos contamination from their worksuits in the equipment room using a HEPA vacuum before proceeding to a shower that is not adjacent to the work area; or ( 2 ) Remove their contaminated worksuits in the equipment room, then don clean worksuits, and proceed to a shower that is not adjacent to the work area. (C) Clean change room. The clean room shall be equipped with a locker or appropriate storage container for each employee's use. When the employer can demonstrate that it is not feasible to provide a clean change area adjacent to the work area or where the work is performed outdoors, the employer may permit employees engaged in Class I asbestos jobs to clean their protective clothing with a portable HEPA-equipped vacuum before such employees leave the regulated area. Such employees however must then change into street clothing in clean change areas provided by the employer which otherwise meet the requirements of this section. (ii) Decontamination area entry procedures. The employer shall ensure that employees: (A) Enter the decontamination area through the clean room; (B) Remove and deposit street clothing within a locker provided for their use; and (C) Put on protective clothing and respiratory protection before leaving the clean room. (D) Before entering the regulated area, the employer shall ensure that employees pass through the equipment room. (iii) Decontamination area exit procedures. The employer shall ensure that: (A) Before leaving the regulated area, employees shall remove all gross contamination and debris from their protective clothing. (B) Employees shall remove their protective clothing in the equipment room and deposit the clothing in labeled impermeable bags or containers. (C) Employees shall not remove their respirators in the equipment room. (D) Employees shall shower prior to entering the clean room. (E) After showering, employees shall enter the clean room before changing into street clothes. (iv) Lunch Areas. Whenever food or beverages are consumed at the worksite where employees are performing Class I asbestos work, the employer shall provide lunch areas in which the airborne concentrations of asbestos are below the permissible exposure limit and/or excursion limit. (2) Requirements for Class I work involving less than 25 linear or 10 square feet of TSI or surfacing ACM and PACM, and for Class II and Class III asbestos work operations where exposures exceed a PEL or where there is no negative exposure assessment produced before the operation. (i) The employer shall establish an equipment room or area that is adjacent to the regulated area for the decontamination of employees and their equipment which is contaminated with asbestos which shall consist of an area covered by a impermeable drop cloth on the floor or horizontal working surface. (ii) The area must be of sufficient size as to accommodate cleaning of equipment and removing personal protective equipment without spreading contamination beyond the area (as determined by visible accumulations). (iii) Workclothing must be cleaned with a HEPA vacuum before it is removed. (iv) All equipment and surfaces of containers filled with ACM must be cleaned prior to removing them from the equipment room or area. (v) The employer shall ensure that employees enter and exit the regulated area through the equipment room or area. (3) Requirements for Class IV work. Employers shall ensure that employees performing Class IV work within a regulated area comply with the hygiene practice required of employees performing work which has a higher classification within that regulated area. Otherwise employers of employees cleaning up debris and material which is TSI or surfacing ACM or identified as PACM shall provide decontamination facilities for such employees which are required by paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
