FR940428-1-00020 FR940428-1-00008 A discussion of the proposal, keyed to the section numbers of the proposed rule, follows. Proposed Section 222.1_Purpose and Scope This section sets forth the purpose of the rule as governing domestic livestock grazing on National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control. The scope of the rule, as described in this proposed section, is to specifically address decision points related to NEPA procedures for determining suitability for and authorization of grazing use and to address specific and general requirements and standards related to the issuance and administration of grazing permits. Proposed Section 222.2_Definitions In the current rule, definitions are set out in ยง222.1 entitled ``Authority and definitions.'' Because existing paragraph (a) of ยง222.1 is a restatement of the authority delegated to the Chief of the Forest Service by the Assistant Secretary at 7 CFR 2.60, this paragraph would be removed and ยง222.2 would be limited solely to definitions. Under this proposed rule, a number of terms would be added, revised, or removed. Terms Proposed To Be Added The following terms and their definitions would be added: 1. The term affiliates is used to denote entities that have a business relationship with permit applicants or holders. The term is used in proposed ยง222.7 in relation to determinations that the applicants have satisfactory records of performance. The definition is derived from the definition of affiliation used by the Small Business Administration and found at 13 CFR 121.3. 2. The term authorized officer needs to be defined because it is used throughout the subpart. The term and the definition is consistent with the use of this term under 36 CFR part 251, which governs administration of special use authorizations. 3. The term escrow waiver is used within the subpart and needs to be defined. The term has been used by permittees and the Forest Service since 1938. The definition in the proposed rule is derived from the definition currently found in the Forest Service Grazing Permit Administration Handbook 2209.13, Chapter 10 (36 CFR part 200). 4. The term National Forest System lands in the Eastern States would be added for ease of reference and to distinguish certain livestock management provisions that apply solely in the Western United States. 5. Where grazing permit requirements apply only to lands in the Western United States, the term National Forest System lands in the Western States would be added. 6. The term NEPA procedures is used throughout the subpart to refer to the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. 7. A definition of rangelands would be added to reflect that rangelands are a category of land, not a type of use. This proposed definition of rangelands is derived from the definition provided by the Society for Range Management following consultations with the Soil Conservation Service and the Bureau of Land Management. This definition is qualified to note that rangelands may include other lands that do not fall within the technical definition of rangelands if there is grazing activity by wild and domestic herbivores on these lands. 8. The term rangeland improvement is used to denote any structural or nonstructural improvements which occur on or benefit rangelands. 9. The term unauthorized use would be added to define all livestock use except for certain temporary livestock uses explicitly provided for in the rule that is not authorized by a grazing permit.
