FR940921-2-00081 FR940921-2-00069 Recordation: Treatment of Instruments With Proprietary Information Intentionally Omitted; Legal Opinion AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of legal opinion. SUMMARY: This notice of legal opinion is issued by the FAA Chief Counsel to advise interested parties of the treatment of instruments, including leases, with certain proprietary information intentionally omitted, when they are submitted to the Civil Aviation Registry for recordation as conveyances. ADDRESSES: Information concerning this opinion may be requested from the Assistant Chief Counsel for the Aeronautical Center, P.O. Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125&hyph;4904. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joseph R. Standell, Assistant Chief Counsel for the Aeronautical Center, address above, or by calling (405) 954&hyph;3296. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 503(a)(1) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 App. U.S.C. 1403(a)(1)) requires the Secretary of Transportation to establish and maintain a system for the recording of conveyances which affect title to, or any interest in, civil aircraft of the United States. Under section 101(20) of the Federal Aviation Act (49 App. U.S.C. 1301(20)), a ``conveyance'' means a bill of sale, contract of conditional sale, mortgage, assignment of mortgage, or other instrument affecting title to, or interest in, property. Consistent with that definition, aircraft leases are treated as conveyances. Leases and other conveyances are frequently submitted for recordation to the Civil Aviation Registry (the Registry). Prior to submitting documents to the Registry, law firms will often request the opinion of the FAA Assistant Chief Counsel for the Aeronautical Center with respect to questions concerning registration or recordation. In the last several years, when submitting such documents, law firms have typically asked the Assistant Chief Counsel a question similar to this: We hereby request your opinion that the Lease Amendment, with (i) Exhibit B (Table of Stipulated Loss Values), (ii) Exhibit C (Table of Basic Rents) and (iii) Exhibit D (End of Term Buyout Percentage) intentionally omitted from the FAA filing counterpart thereof as containing confidential information, is eligible for recordation under section 503(a) of the Act. The Assistant Chief Counsel typically responds by permitting recordation with such omissions. Airlines and other parties that record conveyances involving large aircraft strongly favor continuation of such permission. Now, the editor of the ``Commercial Aviation Report'' and persons who appraise the market value of large aircraft oppose continuation of such recordations and request that the Registry record only complete documents. Their position is set out in the Locke Parnell Rain Harrell (hereinafter, Locke Parnell) law firm's letter of September 1, 1993. Following receipt of the Locke Parnell letter, the views of interested persons were solicited. This option addresses the concerns of all interested parties and states the agency position with respect to the recordability of conveyances with redactions and omissions. Accordingly, consistent with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1)(D), the FAA publishes its response to Locke Parnell in the Appendix to this document. Issued in Washington, D.C., September 16, 1994. John H. Cassady, Deputy Chief Counsel. Appendix_Text of Locke Parnell Letter Bruce K. Packard, Esquire, Locke Parnell Rain Harrell, 2200 Ross Avenue, # 2200, Dallas, TX 75201&hyph;6776. Treatment of Instruments With Proprietary Information Intentionally Omitted Dear Mr. Packard: Thank you for your letter of September 1, 1993, in which, on behalf of your client, ``Commercial Aviation Report,'' you object to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) permitting air carriers and lessors to submit purchase, sale, and lease documents to FAA for recordation with certain financial information deleted. You say that the omitted information includes lease rates, maintenance reserves, amortization schedules and debt loans. You argue that FAA's permitting the nondisclosure of such information is contrary to the public interest because the deleted information is essential in making fair and accurate assessments of a carrier's financial status, its safety and maintenance reserves and meaningful debt analysis. You request FAA to immediately stop its policy of permitting recordation of incomplete document, or, in the alternative, to initiate formal rulemaking procedures allowing for public comment. As your know, your letter was distributed as an attachment to FAA's letter of September 27, 1993, which requested advice from interested persons concerning the legal and policy issues. We received responses from 17 concerned parties including attorneys, airlines, appraisers, the Air Transport Association, and the editor of ``Commercial Aviation Report.'' Twelve responses favored continuation of the FAA policy of permitting omissions. Five responses opposed it. Their positions will be discussed herein. Based on review of the comments and our reconsideration of the issues, we have decided to continue permitting the recordation of documents with limited omissions or redactions. As set out in your letter of September 1, 1993, and letters from Rocklin D. Lyons and Associates; Jack B. Feir and Associates; Aircraft Information Services, Inc.; Avitas Aviation; and ``Commercial Aviation Report,'' principal arguments in support of FAA acceptance of only complete instruments are the following: It is urged that obtaining capital to finance transactions involving transport aircraft is highly competitive. In making decisions, lenders rely heavily on information concerning financial health of an airline, as well as the real market value of aircraft. The market value is frequently determined by appraisals which are based on recent comparable transactions. A principal source of information about comparables is found in the Registry's aircraft records. If financial and other information considered proprietary is permitted to be deleted, market value appraisals become more speculative. As a result, conservative investors are less likely to back transactions where the real value of the collateral is not reliable. It is urged that will hurt the aviation industry., Additionally, it is urged that the overall financial situation of an airline is often discernible from a review of recorded transactions. As an example, one commenter pointed out that although a particular airline, as a public company, had filed all documents required by the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Department of Transportation (DOT), it was only through a thorough review of the Registry's aircraft record that the ``true extent of its financial woes'' became known. The resulting publication of the ``carrier's precarious condition'' allegedly resulted in financial institutions withdrawing from transactions with the airline. The same commenter pointed out that SEC and DOT do not provide current information and retain such information only for a limited time. With respect to legality, an attorney suggests that a document with schedules deleted is not a ``conveyance'' because in defining a contract, Black's Law Dictionary says: the writing *␣*␣* contains the agreement of the parties with the terms and conditions*␣*␣*. He argues that:
