FR940407-1-00071 FR940407-1-00014 (d) When determining eligibility for programs provided under this part, cash distributed per capita pursuant to Public Law 97&hyph;458, Public Law 98&hyph;64 and Public Law 100&hyph;241, shall be disregarded to the extent that such cash does not, in the aggregate, exceed $2000 per individual each year. The $2000 limit is applied separately each year, and cash distributions which an individual received in a prior year and retained into subsequent years will not be counted as a resource in those years. (e) When determining eligibility for programs provided under this part, income and resources of legally responsible relatives or individuals shall be considered as available to meet the need of the applicant(s). Legal relationships between husband and wife, parent and minor child, and guardian and ward are considered as relationships in which support is deemed. (f) Upon written request of a tribal governing body and the recommendation of the appropriate Area Director and/or Agency Superintendent, the Assistant Secretary may designate near reservation service areas that are adjacent or contiguous to reservations. Upon approval by the Assistant Secretary, each designated near reservation service area will be published in the Federal Register as a locale(s) appropriate for the extension of financial assistance and/or social services. Requests for the designation of a near reservation service area shall be based on the following general criteria: (1) Number of Indian people native to the reservation residing in the area; (2) Written designation by the tribal governing body that members of their tribe and family members who are Indian residing in the area, are socially, culturally and economically affiliated with their tribe and reservation; (3) Geographical proximity of the area to the reservation; and (4) Administrative feasibility of providing an adequate level of services to the area. ยง20.23 Burial and disaster assistance. In the absence of other resources, burial and disaster assistance shall be provided to eligible Indians meeting the requirement prescribed in ยง20.20(a) provided that they reside in areas where the needed services are not available to all residents on the same basis from a state, county, or local public jurisdiction. Case records shall be documented to reflect need and substantiate all relevant eligibility factors. (a) Burial assistance. Burial assistance shall be provided to meet minimum burial expenses for eligible Indians. (1) The deceased is considered the applicant and the determination of eligibility is based on the resources available to him/her, including, but not limited to, tribal burial programs, veterans' death benefits, Individual Indian Money (IIM) accounts, insurance policies, and cash on hand. (2) Requests and applications for burial assistance shall be received from relatives or other persons who have assumed responsibility for making burial arrangements. In no instance, however, shall an application for burial assistance be approved after interment of the individual on whose behalf burial assistance is sought. (3) Applications made on behalf of a deceased Indian person are subject to eligibility determinations in accordance with criteria specified at ยง20.20(a). Prior to final burial arrangements, the caseworker shall evaluate each case relative to all available resources and income. (4) Upon the request of a relative or other responsible party, the actual cost for transporting the body of a deceased Indian person determined to be eligible and without resources may be provided if the following conditions are met: (i) No other resources for transportation are available; (ii) The death occurred while the decedent was away from the reservation or other approved service area and the absence did not exceed a duration of sixty (60) days; and (iii) Transportation costs are reasonable relative to distance and the prevailing rate for others in similar circumstances.
