FR941216-2-00078 FR941216-2-00043 Section D. Reporting Requirements 1. Change in Discharge The permittee shall give notice to the Permit Issuing Authority as soon as possible of any planned physical alterations or additions to the permitted facility. Notice is required only when: a. The alteration or addition to a permitted facility may meet one of the criteria for determining whether a facility is a new source; or b. The alteration or addition could significantly change the nature or increase the quantity of pollutants discharged. This notification applies to pollutants which are subject neither to effluent limitations in the permit, nor to notification requirements under Section D, Paragraph D&hyph;10(a). 2. Anticipated Noncompliance The permittee shall give advance notice to the Permit Issuing Authority of any planned change in the permitted facility or activity which may result in noncompliance with permit requirements. Any maintenance or facilities, which might necessitate unavoidable interruption of operation and degradation of effluent quality, shall be scheduled during noncritical water quality periods and carried out in a manner approved by the Permit Issuing Authority. 3. Transfer of Ownership or Control A permit may be automatically transferred to another party if: a. The permittee notifies the Permit Issuing Authority of the proposed transfer at least 30 days in advance of the proposed transfer date; b. The notice includes a written agreement between the existing and new permittees containing a specific date for transfer of permit responsibility, coverage, and liability between them; and c. The Permit Issuing Authority does not notify the existing permittee of his or her intent to modify or revoke and reissue the permit. If this notice is not received, the transfer is effective on the date specified in the agreement mentioned in paragraph b. 4. Monitoring Reports See Part III of this permit. 5. Additional Monitoring by the Permittee If the permittee monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by this permit, using test procedures approved under 40 CFR 136 or as specified in this permit, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the calculation and reporting of the data submitted in the Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR). Such increased frequency shall also be indicated. 6. Averaging of Measurements Calculations for limitations which require averaging of measurements shall utilize an arithmetic mean unless otherwise specified by the Permit Issuing Authority in the permit. 7. Compliance Schedules Reports of compliance or noncompliance with, or any progress reports on, interim and final requirements contained in any compliance schedule of this permit shall be submitted no later than 14 days following each schedule date. Any reports of noncompliance shall include the cause of noncompliance, any remedial actions taken, and the probability of meeting the next scheduled requirement. 8. Twenty-Four Hour Reporting The permittee shall orally report any noncompliance which may endanger health or the environment, within 24 hours from the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances. A written submission shall also be provided within 5 days of the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances. The written submission shall contain a description of the noncompliance and its cause, the period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times; and if the noncompliance has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue, and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the noncompliance. The Permit Issuing Authority may verbally waive the written report, on a case-by-case basis, when the oral report is made. The following violations shall be included in the 24 hour report when they might endanger health or the environment: a. An unanticipated bypass which exceeds any effluent limitation in the permit. b. Any upset which exceeds any effluent limitation in the permit. 9. Other Noncompliance The permittee shall report in narrative form, all instances of noncompliance not previously reported under Section D, Paragraphs D&hyph;2, D&hyph;4, D&hyph;7, and D&hyph;8 at the time monitoring reports are submitted. The reports shall contain the information listed in Paragraph D&hyph;8. 10. Changes in Discharges of Toxic Substances The permittee shall notify the Permit Issuing Authority as soon as it knows or has reason to believe: a. That any activity has occurred or will occur which would result in the discharge, on a routine or frequent basis, of any toxic substance(s) (listed at 40 CFR 122, Appendix D, Table II and III) which is not limited in the permit, if that discharge will exceed the highest of the following ``notification levels'': (1) One hundred micrograms per liter (100 ug/l); or (2) Two hundred micrograms per liter (200 ug/l) for acrolein and acrylonitrile; five hundred micrograms per liter (500 ug/l) for 2, 4-dinitrophenol and for 2-methyl-4, 6-dinitrophenol; and one milligram per liter (1 mg/l) for antimony. b. That any activity has occurred or will occur which would result in any discharge, on a non-routine or infrequent basis, of a toxic pollutant (listed at 40 CFR 122, Appendix D. Table II and III) which is not limited in the permit, if that discharge will exceed the highest of the following ``notification levels'': (1) Five hundred micrograms per liter (500 ug/l); or (2) One milligram per liter (1 mg/l) for antimony.
