FR940705-0-00037 FR940705-0-00002 (ii) At the end of this period note any exudation of cable filler. Measure the parameters given in paragraph (III)(1)(c) of this appendix. Record on suggested formats in (V) of this appendix or on other easily readable formats. (e) Overall optical deviation. (i) Calculate the change in all parameters between the final parameters after conditioning with initial parameters in paragraph (III)(1)(c) of this appendix. (ii) The stability of the optical parameters after completion of this test must be within the following prescribed limits: (A) Attenuation. The attenuation of each multimode fiber must not change by more than 0.3 db/km and the attenuation of each single mode fiber must not change by more than 0.1 dB/km. (B) Bandwidth. The bandwidth of each multimode fiber must not change by more than 15 percent from their original values. (2) Water penetration testing. (a) A watertight closure must be placed over the jacket of length B from paragraph (III)(1)(a) of this appendix. The closure must not be placed over the jacket so tightly that the flow of water through pre-existing voids or air spaces is restricted. The other end of the sample must remain open. (b) Test per Option A or Option B. (i) Option A. Weigh the sample and closure prior to testing. Fill the closure with water and place under a continuous pressure of 10 # 0.7 kilopascals for one hour. Collect the water leakage from the end of the test sample during the test and weigh to the nearest 0.1 gram. Immediately after the one hour test, seal the ends of the cable with a thin layer of grease and remove all visible water from the closure, being careful not to remove water that penetrated into the core during the test. Reweigh the sample and determine the weight of water that penetrated into the core. (ii) Option B. Fill the closure with a 0.2 gram sodium fluorscein per liter water solution and apply a continuous pressure of 10 # 0.7 kilopascals for one hour. Catch and weigh any water that leaks from the end of the cable during the one hour period. If no water leaks from the sample, carefully remove the water from the closure. Then carefully remove the outer jacket, armor, if present, inner jacket, if present, and core wrap one at a time, examining with an ultraviolet light source for water penetration. After removal of the core wrap, carefully dissect the core and examine for water penetration within the core. Where water penetration is observed, measure the penetration distance. (3) Jacket slip strength test. (For Flooded Design Only) (a) Sample selection. Test sample C from paragraph (III)(1)(a) of this appendix. (b) Sample preparation. Prepare test sample in accordance with the procedures specified in ASTM D 4565&hyph;90a. (c) Sample conditioning and testing. Remove the sample from the tensile tester prior to testing and condition for one hour at 50 # 2 ○C. Test immediately in accordance with the procedures specified in ASTM D 4565&hyph;90a. A minimum jacket slip strength of 67 newtons is required. Record the load attained on the suggested formats in (V) of this appendix or on other easily readable formats. (4) Temperature and humidity exposure. (a) Repeat paragraphs (III)(1)(a) through (III)(1)(c)(ii) of this appendix for separate set of samples A, B and C which have not been subjected to prior environmental conditioning. (b) Immediately after completing the measurements, expose the test sample to 100 temperature cyclings. Relative humidity within the chamber shall be maintained at 90 # 2 percent. One cycle consists of beginning at a stabilized chamber and test sample temperature of 52 # 2 ○C, increasing the temperature to 57 # 2 ○C, allowing the chamber and test samples to stabilize at this level, then dropping the temperature back to 52 # 2 ○C. (c) Repeat paragraphs (III)(1)(d)(ii) through (III)(3)(c) of this appendix. (5) Temperature cycling. (a) Repeat paragraphs (III)(1)(a) through (III)(1)(c)(ii) of this appendix for separate set of samples A, B, and C which have not been subjected to prior environmental conditioning. (b) Immediately after completing the measurements, subject the test sample to 10 cycles of temperature between ^40 ○C and +60 ○C. The test sample must be held at each temperature extreme for a minimum of 11/2 hours during each cycle of temperature. The air within the temperature cycling chamber must be circulated throughout the duration of the cycling. (c) Repeat paragraphs (III)(1)(d)(ii) through (III)(3)(c) of this appendix.
