FR941007-1-00125 FR941007-1-00009 Business or Farm Location For each loan, identify the location of the business or farm. Location is determined by the following: (1) Small business loans are located in the census tract or block numbering area where the main business facilities or other property to which the loan proceeds will be applied (as indicated by borrower) are located; (2) Small farm loans are located in the census tract or block numbering area where the farm or other property to which the loan proceeds will be applied (as indicated by borrower) is located. 1. MSA_ For each loan in a MSA, indicate the location of the loan by the four digit MSA number. Enter only the MSA number, not the MSA name. Use MSA boundaries that were in effect on January 1 of the calendar year for which you are reporting. A listing of MSAs is available from your regional supervisory agency. (In these instructions, the term MSA refers to metropolitan statistical area or primary metropolitan statistical area.) For loans outside MSAs, enter ``N/A''. 2. STATE & COUNTY _Use the Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) two-digit numerical code for the state and the three-digit numerical code for the county. These codes are available from your regional supervisory agency. Do not use the letter abbreviations used by the United States Postal Service. 3. CENSUS TRACT/BLOCK NUMBERING AREA _Enter the census tract number or block numbering area from the U.S. Census Bureau's Census Tract/Street Index for the most recent census reporting period. For addresses not listed in the index, consult the Census Bureau's census tract outline maps. Borrower Information 1. MINORITY-OWNED CODE_ Use the following codes to indicate small business or small farm loans with more than 50 percent ownership by one or more minority individuals (as indicated by borrower) pursuant to data collected as described in the Supplemental Instructions For Collection of Data In Connection With Small Business and Small Farm Loans. 1_Yes 2_No 3_Publicly traded business or farm (i.e. has securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or has more than 100 shareholders) 4_Information not provided by borrower 2. WOMEN-OWNED CODE_ Use the following codes to indicate small business or small farm loans with more than 50 percent ownership by women (as indicated by borrower) pursuant to data collected as described in the Supplemental Instructions For Collection of Data In Connection With Small Business and Small Farm Loans. 1_Yes 2_No 3_Publicly traded business or farm (i.e. has securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or has more than 100 shareholders) 4_Information not provided by borrower 3. GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES > $1MM CODE_ Use the following codes to indicate whether the gross annual revenues of the small business or farm are less than or equal to $1 million. This information should be determined based upon the revenues upon which your institution relied in making its credit decision. 1_Yes 2_No
