FR940722-0-00106 FR940722-0-00019 66. In the Notice, we proposed to require upfront payments based on a $0.02 per MHz per pop formula. Though some commenters favor a fixed upfront payment set by the Commission prior to the auction, 41 most support the Commission's proposed $0.02 per MHz per pop formula, which would enable prospective bidders to tailor their upfront payment to their bidding strategies. 42 Commenters suggest that there should be some fixed minimum on the amount of upfront payment made prior to auction (suggestions range from $2,500 to $100,000 for different services). 43 Some commenters also favor setting a maximum upfront payment, pointing out that our proposed formula yields very high payments in the broadband PCS context. 44 41 See, e.g. , comments of Edward M. Johnson at 2; and LuxCel Group, Inc. at 8. 42 See, e.g. , comments of PacBell at 28; Telocator (now PCIA) at 13; CTIA at 30; and Rochester Telephone Corporation at 13. 43 See, e.g. , comments of Telocator at 20&hyph;21; Cellular Communications, Inc. at 15; AT&T at 34; and BellSouth at 41. 44 See, e.g. , comments of Southwestern Bell at 38&hyph;40 (arguing generally for a maximum deposit of $50 million for all markets) and AT&T at 34 (supporting a maximum upfront payment of $5 million, with a down payment following the auction). 67. We believe that the standard upfront payment formula of $0.02 per pop per MHz for the largest combination of MHz-pops a bidder anticipates bidding on in any single round of bidding is appropriate for broadband PCS services. 45 Using this formula will provide bidders with the flexibility to change their strategy during an auction and to bid on a larger number of smaller licenses or a smaller number of larger licenses, so long as the total MHz-pops combination does not exceed that amount covered by the upfront payment. For example, when we auction licenses covering the nation simultaneously, a bidder would not be required to file an upfront payment representing national coverage unless it intended to bid on licenses covering the entire nation in a single bidding round. The $0.02 per MHz per pop formula also works well with the Milgrom-Wilson activity rule that we plan to employ in broadband PCS auctions, as described in Section III above. In the initial Public Notice issued prior to each auction, we will announce population information corresponding to each license to enable bidders to calculate their upfront payments. 45 As discussed in Section VII, infra , designated entities will be subject to a lesser upfront payment requirement of $0.015 per MHz per pop. Further, we retain the flexibility to consider using a simpler payment requirement if circumstances warrant. 68. As we indicated in the Second Report and Order , we will not set a maximum on upfront payments. 46 We decline to do so because we wish to ensure that those bidding on large numbers of valuable broadband PCS licenses are bidding in good faith and are financially capable of constructing those systems quickly. We recognize that upfront payments for broadband PCS licenses may amount to millions of dollars, but we do not believe that it is unreasonable to expect prospective bidders to tender such sums given the expected overall value of some of these licenses and the expected financial requirements to construct the systems. Indeed, such a requirement is necessary to ensure the seriousness of bidders for these valuable licenses. 46 See Second Report and Order at ¶179. 69. In the Second Report and Order , we accepted commenters' suggestions and established a general minimum upfront payment of $2,500 to ensure that the use of our preferred formula would result in a substantial enough payment that bidders would be deterred from making frivolous bids. 47 Such a minimum upfront payment is needed in connection with auctions where the $0.02 per MHz per pop formula would yield a comparatively small upfront payment (such as those for narrowband PCS licenses in BTAs). Because of the wider bandwidth of broadband PCS licenses, however, this minimum upfront payment will not be relevant in auctions for this service. 48 47 Id . at ¶180. 48 The smallest bandwidth that a broadband PCS licensee will be authorized to use is 10 MHz, so a $2,500 upfront payment would result for a license area with a population of only 12,500 persons. The least populous BTA in the United States (Williston, North Dakota) has a population of approximately 27,500, and the upfront payment for a 10 MHz license in that BTA would be approximately $5,500. 70. For broadband PCS auctions, we will follow the procedures for submission of upfront payments outlined in the Second Report and Order . Applicants whose short-form applications have been accepted for filing will be required to submit the full amount of their upfront payment to the Commission's lock-box bank by a date certain, which will be announced in a Public Notice and generally will be no later than 14 days before the scheduled auction. 49 After the Commission receives from its lock-box bank the names of all applicants who have submitted timely upfront payments, the Commission will issue a Public Notice announcing the names of all applicants that have been determined to be qualified to bid. An applicant who fails to submit a sufficient upfront payment to qualify it to bid on any license being auctioned will not be identified on this Public Notice as a qualified bidder, and it will be prohibited from bidding in the auction. That is, we will require that applicants for broadband PCS licenses submit a sufficient upfront payment to reflect the MHz-pops of the smallest license being put up for bid in a particular auction. 50 49 Upfront payments must be made by wire transfer or by cashier's check drawn in U.S. dollars from a financial institution whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and must be made payable to the Federal Communications Commission. 50 For example, in our first broadband PCS auction (the 30 MHz MTA licenses on blocks A and B), the smallest upfront payment that may be submitted to qualify an applicant to bid will be calculated by multiplying the population of the least populous MTA (American Samoa: population 47,000) times 30 times two cents, or $28,200. It should be noted, however, that this minimal upfront payment will entitle the bidder to bid only on a license to serve American Samoa. 71. Although it would be simpler to require the submission of upfront payments at the same time short-form applications are filed, we agree with those commenters that argued that they should not be required to commit the large sums that will likely be involved in broadband PCS upfront payment for longer than is necessary. Accordingly, applicants will not be required to tender upfront payments with their short-form applications. Instead, as noted above, upfront payments will be due by a date specified by Public Notice, but generally no later than 14 days before a scheduled auction. This period should be sufficient to allow the Commission adequate time to process upfront payment data and release a Public Notice listing all qualified bidders, but not so long as to impose undue burdens upon bidders. The rules set forth in Section 1.2106 of the Commission's Rules concerning upfront payments will be applicable in broadband PCS auctions. Each qualified bidder will be issued a bidder identification number and further information and instructions regarding the auction procedures. During an auction, bidders will be required to provide their bidder identification numbers when submitting bids. C. Payment and Procedures for Licenses Awarded by Competitive Bidding 1. Down Payment
