FR940505-0-00076 FR940505-0-00020 For the reasons discussed above, the Postal Service hereby adopts the following amendments to the Domestic Mail Manual, which is incorporated by reference in the Code of Federal Regulations (see 39 CFR part 111). PART 111_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for 39 CFR part 111 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552(a); 39 U.S.C. 101, 401, 403, 404, 3001&hyph;3011, 3201&hyph;3219, 3403&hyph;3406, 3621, 3626, 5001. 2. Domestic Mail Manual section E370 is amended by renumbering old 5.6 and 5.7 as 5.7 and 5.8, respectively; renumbering old 5.9 as 5.10; and adding new 5.4(d), 5.6, 5.7c, and 5.9. The text is as follows: E-Eligibility * * * * * E370␣Special (Nonprofit) Bulk Rates * * * * * 5.0␣Eligible and Ineligible Matter * * * * * 5.4␣Prohibitions Except under 5.7, special bulk third-class rates may not be used for the entry of material that advertises, promotes, offers, or, for a fee or consideration, recommends, describes, or announces the availability of: * * * * * [Add new 5.4d as follows:] d. Any product or service (other than those described in 5.4a , 5.4b, or 5.4c), if the sale of the product or the providing of such service is not substantially related to the exercise or performance by the organization of one or more of the purposes used by the organization to qualify for mailing at the special bulk third-class rates. The criteria in 5.6 are used as the bases for determining whether an advertisement, promotion, or offer for a product or service is mailable at the special bulk third-class rates. [Change title of 5.5 as follows:] 5.5␣Definitions, Insurance [Add new 5.6 and renumber existing 5.6 and 5.7 as 5.7 and 5.8, respectively:] 5.6␣Definitions, Substantially Related Advertising, Products For the standards in 5.4d: a. To be ``substantially related,'' the sale of the product or the providing of the service must contribute importantly to the accomplishment of one or more of the qualifying purposes of the organization. This means that the sale of the product or the providing of the service must be directly related to accomplishing one or more of the purposes on which the organization's authorization to mail at the special bulk third-class rates is based. The sale of the product or the providing of the service must have a causal relationship to the achievement of the exempt purposes (other than through the production of income) of the qualified organization. (Whether selling the product or providing the service generates income that is used to accomplish the purposes of the qualified organization is not used as a factor in determining whether such activity is substantially related to the qualifying purpose or purposes of the organization.) b. Standards established by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the courts with respect to 26 U.S.C. 513 (a) and (c) of the Internal Revenue Code are used to determine whether an advertised product or service, whether sold or offered by the organization or by another party, is ``substantially related'' to the qualifying purposes of an organization. (1) If the advertising material is for a product or service that is not substantially related, the material is not mailable at the special bulk third-class rates. (2) If an organization pays unrelated business income tax on the sale of a product or the providing of a service, that activity is by IRS definition not substantially related to the organization's qualifying purposes. The fact that an organization does not pay such tax, however, does not establish that the activity is substantially related, because other criteria may exempt the organization from payment. Thus, the inclusion of an advertisement for a product or service in a mailpiece may disqualify the piece from using special bulk third-class rates, even if the mailer does not pay unrelated business income tax on its sale. (3) Advertisements in the qualified organization's newsletter or other publication for one or more products or services that are not substantially related to the qualified organization's purposes, notwithstanding the presence of advertisements that are so related, are not mailable at the special bulk third-class rates. Third-party paid advertisements may be included in a publication mailed at the special bulk third-class rates if the products or services advertised are substantially related to one or more of the purposes for which the qualified organization is authorized to mail at the special bulk third-class rates. If the publication contains one or more advertisements ineligible for the special rates, the publication is not eligible for the special rates. (4) Advertising for one or more products or services that are not substantially related to the qualified organization's purpose included in a catalog that also offers items that are so related is not mailable at the special bulk third-class rates. If the catalog contains one or more advertisements ineligible for the special rates, the catalog is not eligible for the special rates. c. Public service announcements, e.g., ``Support the Red Cross Blood Drive,'' for which no consideration has been paid are mailable at the special bulk third-class rates.
