FR940620-2-00112 FR940620-2-00062 1. No student in a School-to-Work Opportunities program shall displace any currently employed worker (including a partial displacement, such as a reduction in the hours of non-overtime work, wages, or employment benefits). 2. No School-to-Work Opportunities program shall impair existing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements, and no program under this competition that would be inconsistent with the terms of a collective bargaining agreement shall be undertaken without the written concurrence of the labor organization and employer concerned. 3. No student participating in a School-to-Work Opportunities program shall be employed or fill a job_ a. When any other individual is on temporary layoff, with the clear possibility of recall, from the same or any substantially equivalent job with the participating employer; or b. When the employer has terminated the employment of any regular employee or otherwise reduced its workforce with the intention of filling the vacancy so created with a student. 4. Students shall be provided with adequate and safe equipment and safe and healthful workplaces in conformity with all health and safety requirements of Federal, State, and local law. 5. Nothing in this notice shall be construed so as to modify or affect any Federal or State law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, ethnicity, national origin, gender, age, or disability. 6. Funds awarded under this competition shall not be expended for wages of students or workplace mentors participating in School-to-Work Opportunities programs. 7. The grantee shall implement and maintain such other safeguards as the Departments may deem appropriate in order to ensure that School-to-Work Opportunities participants are afforded adequate supervision by skilled adult workers, or to otherwise further the purposes of this program. An applicant must provide an assurance, in the application, that the foregoing safeguards will be implemented and maintained throughout all program activities. Section E. Selection Criteria Under the fiscal year 1994 School-to-Work Opportunities Urban/Rural Opportunities Grants competition, a careful evaluation of applications will be made by a panel of (a) peer reviewers and/or (b) specialists within the Departments of Labor and Education. Each panelist will evaluate the applications against the criteria listed below, with emphasis on the scope and quality of the proposed plan and with careful consideration to the effectiveness, rather than the presence, of each program component. The panel results are advisory in nature and not binding on the Government. In providing grants under this notice, the Departments shall give priority to Urban/Rural Opportunities local partnerships that have demonstrated effectiveness in the delivery of comprehensive vocational preparation programs with successful rates in job placement through cooperative activities among local educational agencies, local businesses, labor organizations, and other organizations. Final funding decisions will be made based on the results of the panel review process and such other factors as: geographic balance, diversity of programmatic approaches, replicability, sustainability, innovation, and relative degree of poverty. The Government will use the following selection criteria in evaluating applications: 1. Scope and Quality of Local School-to-Work Opportunities Initiative (25 points). Is there an innovative and effective strategy for implementing a School-to-Work Opportunities initiative in the high poverty area that integrates school-based learning and work-based learning, integrates academic and occupational learning, and establishes effective linkages between secondary and postsecondary education? Does the application demonstrate an effective strategy for targeting high-demand, high-wage jobs and relate that strategy to the partnership's goals? What steps will the local partnership take to generate paid high-quality, work-based learning experiences? How effectively are the common features and basic program components described in Part II., a., of the Statement of Work included in the local School-to-Work Opportunities initiative? Have promising existing programs been considered for adaptation? Have new directions and approaches been planned to ensure that these programs include the common features and basic program components? As the proposed School-to-Work Opportunities initiative becomes established within the targeted area, is there an effective long-range plan for integrating other existing school-to-work programs with the initiative? Is the proposed local initiative effectively tied to a plan for educational reform?
