FR940628-0-00036 FR940628-0-00017 Changes: Section 682.406(a)(14) of the regulations has been revised by using the word ``certifies'' rather than ``assures''. Section 682.407 Comments: A few commenters pointed out that the language in §682.407(f) incorrectly references ED Form 1189 for adjusting improperly paid administrative cost allowance payments. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Changes: The regulations have been revised to reflect that the adjustment is to be made on the ED Form 1130. Section 682.409␣Mandatory Assignment by Guaranty Agencies of Defaulted Loans to the Secretary Comments: One commenter asked if it is the intent of the Secretary to only benefit borrowers who move from the FFEL program to the Federal Direct Student Loan (FDSL) Program under this provision. Discussion: Although the Secretary is authorized to require FFEL loans to be assigned to the Secretary to affect an orderly transition from the FFEL to the Federal Direct Loan Program, one of the primary reasons for loan assignment is that the guaranty agency has been unable to collect on a defaulted loan it holds and the Secretary believes that the Department can more effectively collect on the loan. Loans assigned to the Department under the authority specified in section 682.409 are all defaulted FFEL loans held by guaranty agencies. These loans do not include non-defaulted FFEL loans which a borrower has requested to be consolidated under the Federal Direct Loan Consolidation Program. Until a defaulted FFEL borrower resolves his default status with the holder of the loan, either the guaranty agency prior to the assignment or the Department following assignment, the borrower is not eligible for any benefits under the FFEL or Federal Direct Loan Program. As a result, the Secretary does not believe that the mandatory assignment process benefits particular defaulted borrowers over others. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter asked what guidelines the Secretary would choose to have loans assigned. Specifically, the commenter was concerned that loan assignment might cause a guaranty agency to experience financial instability. Discussion: To the extent that the financial stability of a guaranty agency is in the Federal fiscal interest, the Secretary may choose, on a case-by-case basis, not to require the assignment of loans if the assignment will jeopardize the agency's financial stability. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter requested clarification on how mandatory assignment of FFEL loans relates to an orderly transition from the FFEL Program to the FDSL Program. Discussion: As noted by the commenter, section 428(c)(8) of the HEA provides that the Secretary will require an agency to assign loans if the Federal fiscal interest so requires. In addition, the statute deems the orderly transition to the FDSL Program to be in the Federal fiscal interest. The proposed regulations did not clearly reflect the Secretary's discretion in this area. Accordingly, the Secretary has revised the regulations to reflect the Secretary's statutory discretion. The Secretary believes that the assignment of FFEL loans will not impede the orderly transition to the FDSL Program. If it appears to the Secretary that the orderly transition to the FDSL Program is either impeded or facilitated by mandatory assignment, the Secretary will exercise his authority to modify the assignment criteria. It is also the view of the Secretary that it is in the Federal fiscal interest for the Federal government to collect defaulted student loans owed by Federal employees unless the guaranty agency has obtained a judgment against the Federal employee to collect by wage garnishment 15 percent or more of disposable pay as defined in 34 CFR Part 31. Changes: The regulations have been changed to reflect the Secretary's discretion. Comments: One commenter indicated support for the criteria for performance standards established in this section for mandatory assignment of certain loans to the Secretary by a guaranty agency. The commenter said the language in this section represents the efforts of the community and the Secretary's staff in developing an equitable criteria for the assignment of loans and that the criteria outlined in this section best protect the Federal fiscal interest.
