FR940722-0-00072 FR940722-0-00018 For administrative purposes, it is important to note that the purpose of the award determines whether the award is a grant or a procurement action. The administrative procedures for grants are governed by OMB Circulars A&hyph;102 and A&hyph;110 and agency implementing regulations. The administrative procedures for procurement contracts are governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulations (48 CFR Part 31) or State procedures if the recipient is a State. Since FHWA planning and research funds may be pooled for planning, as well as RD&T, studies or activities of national or regional significance, the definitions of national and regional pooled-fund studies have been moved from §420.203 to §420.103. In addition, both definitions have been modified to indicate: that MPOs, as well as States, may contribute to pooled-fund studies; that national studies are usually administered by the FHWA headquarters office; that regional studies are usually administered by an FHWA regional office in cooperation with a lead State or MPO; and that the funds may be pooled with or without matching. While any of the categories of funds included in the definition of ``FHWA planning and research funds'' may be pooled, the matching requirement can only be waived for SPR or PL funds. Such waiver must be approved by FHWA headquarters for both national and regional studies in accordance with the provisions of §420.119(d). As discussed under the general comments and responses, a definition of State transportation agency has been added. ``State transportation agency (STA)'' is defined as the State highway department, transportation department, or other State transportation agency to which Federal-aid highway funds are apportioned. Section 420.105␣Policy This section continues the FHWA's previous policy of allowing States maximum possible flexibility in determining which eligible activities may be undertaken with FHWA planning and research funds, as long as planning activities of national significance, as identified in paragraph (b) of this section, are being adequately addressed. Under the provisions of this section, the FHWA may withhold or withdraw authorization of FHWA planning and research funds if planning activities of national significance are not being performed by a State. As discussed in the preamble to the NPRM, this policy also applies to State subrecipients. Paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) in the NPRM have been rewritten and consolidated for clarity into paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) in the rule without changing the substance of the policy. One commenter expressed concern about the potential involvement in long range data reporting requirements that would make unexpected demands on its manpower in order to provide data that support FHWA responsibilities as specified in §420.105(b). The commenter indicated that clarification was needed on this requirement. Another commenter indicated that States should have the right to question the need for particular data requests from the FHWA if the cost of providing such data becomes high. This provision has been in the regulation since 1986. The major data bases that are referenced in §420.105(b) are the FHWA's Highway Performance Monitoring System (HPMS) and statistical reports provided by the States for inclusion in the annual publication ``Highway Statistics.'' Both of these data collection activities have been approved by the OMB and are resubmitted for approval every three years. Occasionally, information not included in these ongoing data bases is needed due to special circumstances and enactment of legislation, such as, designation of a National Highway System in accordance the provisions of the ISTEA. With each update of the HPMS and highway statistics reporting requirements and with each special request, the FHWA will continue to make every effort possible to limit the burden to the States while still receiving the information essential to guide the national transportation program. Section 420.107␣SPR Minimum Research, Development, and Technology Transfer Expenditure This section reflects the requirement in 23 U.S.C. 307(c) that not less than 25 percent of a State's annual SPR funds be expended for RD&T activities unless the State certifies that it will expend more than 75 percent of such funds for transportation planning under 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135. It includes specific procedures and criteria for FHWA approval of a State's certification that were in the FHWA Executive Director's June 25, 1992, memorandum to the FHWA Regional Administrators. (This memorandum is available for review and copying in the file for FHWA docket number 93&hyph;18 at the address specified above under the caption FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT .) The certification must be submitted annually with the work program or with the request for authorization of funds for the second year of a biennial work program. Except for rephrasing of the considerations in paragraphs (c)(1) to (6) to change them from questions to statements, this section is unchanged from the NPRM. Several commenters expressed concern over the criteria and procedures in §420.107 for waiver of the requirement for use of 25 percent of a State's annual apportionment of SPR funds. One commenter stated that the proposed rules go far beyond what should be necessary to support such a certification and that it appears that the FHWA is unduly striving to discourage this option. This commenter recommended that the requirements be reduced to an assurance that the State's RD&T needs are being adequately addressed. Similarly, other commenters stated that the requirements for submitting an exception to the use of 25 percent of SPR fund for research are onerous and effectively prohibit exceptions as they are currently written or that the proposed rule indicates that the FHWA will be reluctant to grant exceptions. While 23 U.S.C. 307(c)(2) requires that a State certify to the Secretary that its total expenditures for transportation planning under 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135 for the fiscal year will exceed 75 percent, it also requires that the certification be accepted by the Secretary. Based on the extensive provisions and emphasis on transportation RD&T in the ISTEA, the FHWA strongly believes that the Congress intended that the States have effective transportation RD&T programs. Therefore, the criteria for approving an exception are being retained. Section 420.109␣Distribution of PL Funds This section reflects the requirements in 23 U.S.C. 104 that a State must make apportioned PL funds available to MPOs and that the funds must be distributed by the State to MPOs in the State based on a formula, approved by the Secretary (approval authority has been delegated to the FHWA), that considers population, status of planning, attainment of national ambient air quality standards, and other factors necessary to provide for an appropriate distribution of funds to carry out the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 134 and other applicable requirements of Federal law. The FHWA's longstanding interpretation, that the legislative requirement that States make PL funds available to MPOs precludes the use of such funds by the State for administration of PL grants or subgrants, is included in paragraph (a). It is FHWA policy to consult with the appropriate Federal Transit Administration (FTA) regional office prior to approval of a State's PL formula.
