FR940525-2-00161 FR940525-2-00084 [Release No. 34&hyph;34085; File No. SR&hyph;ICC&hyph;94&hyph;04] Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Intermarket Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change Amending its Margin Resolution May 18, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on May 9, 1993, The Intermarket Clearing Corporation (``ICC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;ICC&hyph;94&hyph;03) as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by ICC, a self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change amends the definition of ``premium margin'' in ICC's Margin Resolution. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, ICC has included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. ICC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The rule change amends the definition of the term ``premium margin'' to incorporate terminology that is more consistent with the pricing practices of the commodities markets. With respect to certain unexercised or unassigned positions in option contracts, ICC previously defined premium margin in pertinent part to be ``the current highest per-unit asked premium quotation for options'' at the close of trading on the preceding trading day. For purposes of ICC's Margin Resolution, the term ``option contracts'' includes both commodity and securities options. While the reference to the ``per-unit asked premium quotation'' is appropriate terminology with respect to securities options, it is less appropriate with respect to commodity options. In the commodity markets, a single commodity option price (i.e., a ``settlement price'') for each contract is disseminated at the close of trading rather than two prices (i.e., bid and ask quotes) as in the equity markets. Accordingly, ICC's Margin Resolution is being amended to incorporate the term ``settlement prices'' in the definition of premium margin where it is appropriate. The Margin Resolution now defines premium margin in pertinent part to be ``the current highest per-unit asked premium quotation with respect to an OCC Option, or the settlement price with respect to a commodity option for options.'' ICC believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 17A of the Act 2 in that it conforms the terminology used in ICC's Margin Resolution with the practices used in the commodities markets. 2 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1 (1988). B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition ICC believes that the proposed rule change will not impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others ICC has not solicited or received any comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change has become effective pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A)(i) of the Act 3 and subparagraph (e)(1) of Securities Exchange Act Rule 19b&hyph;4 because it constitutes a stated policy, practice, or interpretation of an SRO with respect to the meaning, administration, or enforcement of an existing rule. 4 At any time within sixty days of the filing of such proposed rule change, the Commission may summarily abrogate such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. 3 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A)(i) (1988). 4 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4(e)(1) (1991). IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-referenced self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;ICC&hyph;94&hyph;04 and should be submitted by June 15, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 5 5 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12745 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
