FR940617-2-00207 FR940617-2-00116 After HUD receives the application, it will review it against the improvements agreed upon in the plan of action. HUD may also conduct a comprehensive management review to ensure that all management issues are addressed as part of the MIO plan requirements. C. Funding Award Process: Compliance with HUD Reform Act. 1. Section 103. In accordance with the requirements of section 103 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (HUD Reform Act) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 4, no selection information will be made available to applicants or other persons not authorized to receive this information during the period of HUD review and evaluation of the applications. However, applicants that are declared ineligible will be notified of their ineligibility at the time such determination is made. Noncompetitive individual funding allocations and announcements will be made, as funding determinations are completed, through the HUD Regional or Field Offices after notification to the Congressional delegation. No information regarding any unfunded application will be made available to the public. All awards will be disclosed publicly at the conclusion of each selection. 2. Section 102. Section 102 contains a number of provisions that are designed to ensure greater accountability and integrity in the provision of certain types of assistance administered by HUD. The following requirements concerning documentation and public access, disclosures, and subsidy layering determinations are applicable to assistance awarded under this NOFA. a. Documentation and public access. HUD will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in a Federal Register notice of recipients of HUD assistance awarded. (See 24 CFR 12.14(a) and 12.16(b), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these requirements.) b. Disclosures. HUD will make available to the public for five years all applicant disclosure reports (Form HUD&hyph;2880) submitted in connection with this NOFA. Update reports (also Form HUD&hyph;2880) will be made available along with the applicant disclosure reports, but in no case for a period generally less than three years. All reports_both applicant disclosures and updates_will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. (See 24 CFR subpart C, and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these disclosure requirements.) c. Subsidy-layering determinations. 24 CFR 12.52 requires HUD to certify that the amount of HUD assistance is not more than is necessary to make the assisted activity feasible after taking into account other government assistance. HUD will make the decision with respect to each certification available to the public free of charge, for a three-year period. (See the notice published on February 25, 1994 at FR 59 9332 for further information on requesting these decisions.) Additional requests for information about applications, HUD certifications, and assistance adjustments, either before assistance is provided or subsequently, are to be made under the Freedom of Information Act (24 CFR part 15). III. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements
