FR940318-2-00124 FR940318-2-00077 (1) The extent to which the project facilitates development of an integrated system of care for the rural areas served by the project by providing referral linkages, facilitating consultations among health care professionals, and reducing the isolation of health care practitioners. (2) The strength of the relationships among members of the telemedicine network as demonstrated by the contractual arrangements. (3) A demonstrated ability to collect data and participate in an evaluation of telemedicine. (4) A demonstrated capability, experience, and knowledge of the applicant and others who will be responsible for the project to carry out the project. (5) The reasonableness of the budget proposed for the project. (6) The level of local commitment and involvement with the project, including the extent of cost participation by the applicant and/or other organizations. (7) The extent to which the applicant has justified and documented the need(s) for the project and developed measurable goals and objectives for meeting the need(s). (8) The feasibility of plans to continue the project after Federal grant support has ended. (9) The extent to which the proposed project would be capable of replication in rural areas with similar needs and characteristics, particularly with regards to its affordability by other communities. Other Information Applicants are advised that the narrative description of their program and the budget justification may not exceed 30 pages in length. Applications that exceed the 30 page limit for the program narrative and budget justification will not receive consideration. All applications must be typewritten and clearly legible, using print no smaller than 12 characters per inch and having no less than one-half inch margin on all sides. Public Health System Impact Statement This program is subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Reporting requirements have been approved by the OMB_0937&hyph;0195. Under these requirements, the community-based nongovernmental applicant must prepare and submit a Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS). The PHSIS is intended to provide information to State and local health officials to keep them apprised of proposed health services grant applications submitted by community-based nongovernmental organizations within their jurisdictions. Community-based non governmental applicants are required to submit the following information to the head of the appropriate State and Local health agencies in the area(s) to be impacted no later than the Federal application receipt due date: a. A copy of the face page of the application (SF 424) b. A summary of the project PHSIS, not to exceed one page, which provides: (1) A description of the population to be served. (2) A summary of the services to be provided. (3) A description of the coordination planned with the appropriate State of local health agencies. Executive Order 12372 The Rural Telemedicine Grant program has been determined to be a program that is subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 concerning intergovernmental review of Federal programs by appropriate health planning agencies as implemented by 45 CFR part 100. Executive Order 12372 allows States the option of setting up a system for reviewing applications from within their States for assistance under certain Federal programs. Applicants (other than Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOCs), a list of which will be included in the application kit, as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more then one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC of each affected State. All SPOC recommendations should be submitted to Opal McCarthy, Office of Grants Management, Bureau of Primary Health Care, East West Building, 11th floor, 4350 East West Highway, Rockville, Maryland 20857, (301) 594&hyph;4260. The due date for State process recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline for new and competing awards. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' for State process recommendations it receives after that date. (See part 148, Intergovernmental Review of PHS Programs under Executive Order 12372 and 45 CFR part 100 for a description of the review process and requirements. OMB Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.211. Dated: January 18, 1994. William A. Robinson, Acting Administrator.
