FR940804-2-00090 FR940804-2-00046 Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 94N&hyph;0196] Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point Systems; Invitation to Participate in a Voluntary HACCP Pilot Program for the Food Manufacturing Industry AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing that it intends to conduct a pilot program in which volunteers from the food manufacturing industry will use the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) system. This pilot program is intended to provide information that FDA can use in deciding whether to propose to adopt and, should it decide to do so, in developing and implementing a regulatory system in which food manufacturers are required to operate based on HACCP principles. FDA expects that the pilot program will involve a small number of firms making products presenting a range of risks. FDA is inviting individual firms that wish to participate in this program to submit letters of interest. DATES: Letters of interest from individual firms must be submitted by October 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit letters of interest to the Office of Policy, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives (HFS&hyph;4), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 200 C St. SW., Washington, DC 20204. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John E. Kvenberg, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS&hyph;4), Food and Drug Administration, 200 C St. SW., Washington, DC 20204, 202&hyph;205&hyph;4010. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) (21 U.S.C. 321 et seq ), FDA acts to help ensure that foods in interstate commerce are safe. To achieve this goal of safe foods, FDA engages in a range of activities, including providing guidance about measures that manufacturers can take to ensure the safety of their products. One such measure is the adoption of HACCP, a systematic approach to the identification and control of biological, chemical, and physical hazards associated with the production of a particular food. HACCP is recognized as being particularly effective in limiting the risks from the hazards presented by food processing because each firm tailors the HACCP approach to fit its specific product, processing, and distribution conditions. For example, the low-acid canned food regulations contained in part 113 (21 CFR part 113) incorporate the principles of HACCP in a manner designed to prevent Clostridium botulinum outgrowth and toxin production in thermally processed, low-acid foods packaged in hermetically sealed containers. In the Federal Register of January 28, 1994 (59 FR 4142), FDA published a proposal to establish regulations to require the implementation of HACCP programs by the seafood industry. The agency is now considering action to extend HACCP beyond seafood to the other food products, domestic and imported, that it regulates. Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , FDA intends to publish an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) that requests comments on the application of HACCP to the food industry. After the comments to the ANPRM are evaluated and as FDA gathers information from the pilot program that is the subject of this notice, the agency may begin rulemaking to expand HACCP to other segments of the food industry. To collect information on how HACCP might be implemented in the food industry, FDA is announcing a pilot program designed to provide insight into the problems, costs, and benefits of developing and implementing HACCP for firms that produce a variety of food products. This program will also provide the agency with information on the implications for the agency of implementing a HACCP system. The agency invites individual firms to submit letters of interest in participating in this voluntary program. FDA will select firms with a goal of ensuring that the participants in the program produce products that present a range of potential hazards, have a range of scientific capabilities, have processing facilities of varying sizes, and have a range of HACCP experience. FDA anticipates that this program will provide the selected firm as well as the agency with extremely useful practical experience. The potential benefits to industry from participation in the pilot program include: (1) An opportunity to work with FDA to determine how best to apply HACCP in the firm's particular plant or segment of the food industry, (2) the chance to engage in a scientific dialogue with FDA, (3) an opportunity to contribute to the development of sound regulatory policy relative to food safety hazards, and (4) an opportunity to learn how firms can reduce the likelihood of recalls or seizures. Participation in this pilot program offers several benefits to FDA and to the consumer: (1) Experience gained during this program may allow the agency to generalize what it has found and to make its insights available to the whole food industry, (2) the agency will gain experience that it can rely on in deciding whether HACCP is practicable for the food industry as a whole, and (3) the agency will be able to determine how it can better focus its monitoring of food safety to concentrate on areas of greatest public health need. Moreover, the agency intends to make a summary of the results of the pilot program publicly available, which should help other firms, both inside and outside the segments of the food industry represented in the program, to develop and implement their own HACCP programs, should they choose to do so, or should the agency require that they do so. This will also serve to increase public understanding of, and involvement in this new food safety regimen. FDA requests that individual firms submitting letters of interest provide information concerning the nature of their products, the size of their processing facility, the processing techniques that they use to manufacture their products, their scientific capability (e.g., research and development programs, quality control laboratories), and the extent to which, and how, they employ HACCP (e.g., Does the firm have valid HACCP plans? Is it operating under those plans? If not, does the firm have the capability to develop and implement HACCP plans?). FDA will consider these factors in reviewing the letters of interest as a basis for identifying a limited number of individual firms that, in the judgment of the agency, are best suited to participate in the program. After a list of potential participants has been compiled, FDA will review the regulatory status and inspectional history of each firm on the list. FDA will meet with the firms that have expressed an interest in participating in the program. At this meeting, FDA will present the details of the voluntary HACCP pilot program. If a firm is still interested in participation in the program, it will be visited by the team of FDA employees that will be responsible for the pilot program (the FDA HACCP Pilot Core Team) and by representatives of the local FDA district office. Representatives of a trade association may also participate in the visit if invited by the firm. The purpose of the visit will be to allow FDA to assess how well the firm fits within the agency's goals for the pilot program and to review the firm's HACCP plan, if one exists. Based on the results of these visits, the FDA HACCP Pilot Core Team will select the firms that will participate in the program. Because FDA's resources are limited, only a few firms can be selected. Each firm selected to participate in the pilot program will be expected to design, develop, and implement its own HACCP program tailored to control the hazards presented in producing its products and by its processing facility. FDA will assist each firm that it selects in developing a HACCP program that, at minimum, includes: An employee training program on HACCP principles; a written general sanitation program that the firm will use to maintain its production facility in a sanitary manner, in accordance with FDA's regulation, ``Current Good Manufacturing Practice in Manufacturing, Packing, or Holding Human Food'' (21 CFR part 110); and a written HACCP plan based upon the HACCP principles outlined by the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Food for each product covered by the program. FDA will expect each firm that participates in the program to agree to: (1) FDA review of its HACCP program before the firm participates in the pilot program, (2) FDA HACCP-based inspections of its processing facility, (3) FDA review of the firm's regularly scheduled internal monitoring to determine the degree of compliance with the HACCP plan, and (4) use of its own resources to accomplish assigned efforts (e.g., developing HACCP plans, training employees on the HACCP principles, conducting audits of HACCP programs) during the course of the program. FDA intends to implement this program on a carefully controlled basis. Within 6 weeks of the date that a firm is accepted and operational in its HACCP program, FDA will conduct an initial verification inspection to determine the firm's compliance with its HACCP program. The firm will be expected to submit monthly verification reports to the FDA HACCP Pilot Core Team for evaluation. FDA will conduct subsequent verification inspections as appropriate. Interested firms are invited to submit a letter of interest to Office of Policy, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives (HFS&hyph;4), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 200 C St. SW., Washington, DC 20204. Letters of interest must be submitted by October 3, 1994. Dated: July 28, 1994. Michael R. Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18969 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
