FR940512-2-00167 FR940512-2-00078 a. A number of respondents suggested that applicants with demonstrated experience in providing quality direct services to runaway and homeless youth be awarded extra points in the evaluation and ranking of their grant applications. The Administration for Children, Youth and Families agrees with this suggestion. Accordingly, applicants documenting such experience may receive up to five (5) extra points beginning with the current (FY 1994) reviews. b. A number of respondents supported the proposal to increase the project periods of the new Training and Technical Assistance (T&TA) awards from three to five years. The five-year project period will be adopted. c. A number of respondents suggested that the proposed focus of T&TA activities on findings resulting from the monitoring of runaway and homeless youth grantees might be too narrow. They suggested that T&TA activities should also address the perceived needs of local grantees, such as services to special populations and adherence to local and State licensing requirements. The Administration on Children, Youth and Families recognizes that T&TA providers may take into account such justified training needs, so long as a major emphasis is placed on assisting grantees in program improvement efforts, especially those efforts related to the findings from program monitoring activities. d. A number of respondents expressed concern that budget limitations on travel for Federal staff might lead to peer reviewers making site visits unaccompanied by Federal staff, and that negative evaluations by the peers might undercut Federal support for the affected grantees. The Administration on Children, Youth and Families recognizes that peer reviewers can assess program operations from a professional point of view, identifying areas of strength and areas for improvement, but that only Federal staff can be responsible for identifying and evaluating compliance issues that may affect funding. e. Several respondents expressed concern about the potential for consolidation of the three current, categorical programs for runaway and homeless youth (BCP, DAPP, and TLP) into a single program. Specific concerns included the negative effects of limited funding, the possible neglect of RHY services in rural areas, and the difficulties of a single grantee being required to address the entire range of youth problems. The Administration on Children, Youth and Families is aware of these and a number of other concerns and issues regarding consolidation, and any effort to consolidate these programs would include consultation with the field regarding implementation. f. A number of respondents requested that they be sent information about applying for runaway and homeless youth grants. All respondents will be entered into the mailing list to receive announcements of grant solicitations. To the extent feasible, ACYF addressed these and all other public comments in preparing the final priorities. The final program priorities below reflect the changes made in the proposed priorities in light of the comments received. 2. Final Program Priorities for Fiscal Year 1994 a. Direct Service Grants for Runaway and Homeless Youth. (1) Basic Center Program Grants. Part A, section 311 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act, as amended, authorizes grants to public and private entities, (State, Territorial, county, and local governments; agencies and subagencies of these governments; private for-profit and private non-profit organizations; American Indian Tribes) and to combinations of such entities, to establish and operate Basic Centers for Runaway and Homeless Youth. Approximately 350 new and continuation Basic Center Program grants will be funded in FY 1994 to support organizations which provide emergency services to runaway and homeless youth that include temporary shelter, food, clothing, counseling, aftercare, and related services which are provided outside the law enforcement, child welfare, mental health and juvenile justice systems. Part III, section A of this publication announces the availability of funds for these grants, and includes the minimum requirements that applicants must address in their applications for Basic Center Program funds.
