FR940314-0-00021 FR940314-0-00003 (h) For pass-through loans and grants awarded under this subpart, the Borrower must diligently monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are being met, projected work by time periods is being accomplished, and other performance objectives are being achieved. The Borrower must submit an original and one copy of each report to REA on an annual basis. The project performance reports shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for that period; (2) Reasons why any established objectives were not met; (3) A description of any problems, delays, or adverse conditions which have occurred, or are anticipated, and which may affect the attainment of overall project objectives, prevent meeting of time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular project work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation; and (4) Objectives and timetable established for the next reporting period. (i) For pass-through loans and grants, a final project performance report will be required with the last SF 269, ``Financial Status Report,'' available from REA in Washington, DC. The final report also must provide an evaluation of the success of the project in meeting the objectives of the program. The final report may serve as the last annual report. (j) Monitoring requirements for Borrowers receiving grants for revolving loan funds are specified in §1703.22. 14. Sections 1703.67 and 1703.68 are added to read as follows: §1703.67 Changes in project objective or scope. For loans and grants awarded under this subpart, the Borrower must obtain prior approval for any material change to the scope or objectives of the approved project, including changes to the scope of work or budget. Failure to obtain prior approval of changes can result in suspension or termination of grant funds. §1703.68 Loan and grant termination provisions. (a) Termination for cause. The Administrator may terminate any loan and/or grant in whole, or in part, at any time before the date of completion of loan and/or grant disbursement, whenever the Borrower has failed to comply with the conditions of the loan and/or grant. The Administrator will promptly notify the Borrower in writing of the determination and the reasons for the termination, together with the effective date. The termination date will be no less than 30 days following receipt of the termination notice. The Borrower will have such time to cure the default, or to state why it feels the loan and/or grant should not be terminated. The Administrator will stay the termination upon the curing of the default, and may delay termination if, sufficient cause has been given by the Borrower. (b) Termination for convenience. The Administrator or the Borrower may terminate a loan and/or grant in whole, or in part, when both parties agree that the continuation of the project would not produce beneficial results commensurate with further expenditure of funds. The two parties will agree upon termination conditions, including the effective date, and in the case of partial terminations, the portion to be terminated. The Borrower will not incur new obligations for the terminated portion after the effective date, and will cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. The Administrator will allow full credit to the Borrower for the Federal share of unfulfilled contractual obligations which were incurred in good faith by the Borrower prior to grant termination. Subpart C_[Amended] §§1703.80&hyph;1703.99 [Reserved] 15. Sections 1703.80 through 1703.99, which are presently reserved in subpart B, are transferred to subpart C. Dated: March 7, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5740 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;P
