FR940930-2-00012 FR940930-2-00010 Procurement List Addition AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Addition to the Procurement List. SUMMARY: This action adds to the Procurement List a service to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, Suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 5, 1994, the committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled published notices (59 FR 40010) of proposed addition to the Procurement List. Comments were received from the current contractor for this service, which noted that most of the Government grounds maintenance contracts in its area have recently been combined into a small number of large contracts which small grounds maintenance companies are unable to perform. Consequently, the contractor claims its business has been reduced substantially, to the point where loss of the opportunity to provide the grounds maintenance service which is the subject of this Committee action may force the contractor out of business. This grounds maintenance service constitutes a very small percentage of the contractor total sales. More importantly, the service is a new requirement, and the contractor was given a short-term interim contract to perform it while the Committee processed the service for addition to the Procurement List. Under these circumstances, the contractor could not have become so dependent on the contract that losing it would threaten its continued viability. Government grounds maintenance services generally, and this one in particular, are not appreciably different from similar services performed for non-Government customers. The contractor has given the Committee no indications why it cannot seek additional opportunities in the commercial grounds maintenance market to replace the ones it believes it will lose because of the consolidation of Government grounds maintenance contracts in its area. As a result, the Committee does not believe the consolidation of Government contracts substantially increases the impact on the contractor of adding this service requirement to the Procurement List. After consideration of the material presented to it concerning capability of qualified nonprofit agencies to provide the service, fair market price, and impact of the addition on the current or most recent contractors, the Committee has determined that the services listed below are suitable for procurement by the Federal Government under 41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c and 41 CFR 51&hyph;2.4. I certify that the following action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The major factors considered for this certification were: 1. The action will not result in any additional reporting, recordkeeping or other compliance requirements for small entities other than the small organizations that will furnish the service to the Government. 2. The action does not appear to have a severe economic impact on current contractors for the service. 3. The action will result in authorizing small entities to furnish the service to the Government. 4. There are no known regulatory alternatives which would accomplish the objectives of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c) in connection with the service proposed for addition to the Procurement List. Accordingly, the following service is hereby added to the Procurement List: Grounds Maintenance Admiral Bakerfield U.S. Army Reserve Center San Diego, California This action does not affect current contracts awarded prior to the effective date of this addition or options exercised under those contracts. E.R. Alley, Jr. Deputy Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24361 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;33&hyph;P
