FR941227-2-00005 FR941227-2-00001 (B) Under Secretary of Agriculture for Small Community and Rural Development. (C) Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Economics. (D) Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Food and Consumer Services. (E) Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Inspection Services. (F) Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment. (G) Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Science and Education. (4) Agencies and Offices Abolished The following agencies and offices within USDA were abolished: (A) Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service. (B) Farmers Home Administration. (C) Rural Electrification Administration. (E) Food and Nutrition Service. (F) Soil Conservation Service. (G) Cooperative State Research Service. (H) Extension Service. (I) National Agricultural Library. (J) Federal Grain Inspection Service. (K) Packers and Stockyards Administration. (L) Office of the Executive Secretariat. (5) Transfer of Assets, Rights, Obligations, and Delegations of Authority All references in any statute or regulation to an agency abolished by the Secretary shall be deemed to refer to its successor agency. All assets, rights, interests, privileges, immunities, duties, powers, and obligations of an agency abolished by the Secretary shall become the assets, rights, interests, privileges, immunities, duties, powers, and obligations of the successor agency. All delegations to and from an agency abolished by the Secretary shall be deemed to be delegations to and from the successor agency. (6) Status of Prior Authority and Directives Prior delegations of authority, administrative regulations, and other directives not inconsistent with the provisions of this Notice shall remain in full force and effect until superseded or otherwise modified. Done this 23rd day of November, 1994. Richard E. Rominger, Acting Secretary of Agriculture. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29603 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;01&hyph;M
