FR940228-2-00098 FR940228-2-00059 4. Although applicant is engaged primarily in the business of making loans to small businesses, it is no longer an SBIC and therefore is unable to rely on an existing SEC order permitting SBICs to issue stock options to their employees 3 or on rule 17d&hyph;1(d)(4). Additionally, both the order and the rule specifically provide that the options granted must be ``qualified stock options'' under former section 422 of the Code and must conform to the requirements of 13 CFR 805(b) adopted by the Small Business Administration. ``Qualified stock options'' were eliminated in 1976. Thus, although the incentive stock options provided for in the Plan have many of the same characteristics as qualified stock options under former section 422, they have some minor differences, which are fully described in the application. Applicant is also unable to rely upon a similar order granted to the Association of Publicly Traded Investment Funds 4 because the order does not extend to registered closed-end investment companies that are engaged primarily in the business of making loans to small businesses. 3 National Association of Small Business Investment Companies, Investment Company Act Release No. 6523 (May 14, 1971). 4 Investment Company Act Release Nos. 14541 (May 28, 1985) (notice) and 14594 (June 21, 1985) (order) (permitting the issuance of incentive stock options by member closed-end investment companies with portfolios of marketable securities). 5. Section 6(c) provides that the SEC may grant an exemption from the provisions of the Act if such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. Rule 17d&hyph;1(b) requires the SEC, in passing upon an application regarding a joint enterprise, joint arrangement or profit-sharing plan, to consider whether the participation of the investment company in the transaction is consistent with the policies and purposes of the Act and the extent to which such participation is on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of other participants. Section 23(c)(3) requires the SEC to insure that repurchases by closed-end funds of their own securities are on a basis which does not unfairly discriminate against any holders of the class of securities to be purchased. 6. Applicant submits that the limitations on the requested order will provide protection to investors against dilution of their pro rata interests that are similar to those the SEC previously has found consistent with the purposes and policies of the Act and even greater than those Congress imposed on stock options to be issued by business development companies. The Plan has been approved by applicant's shareholders, and any options granted under the Plan must be approved by a majority of applicant's directors who are not interested persons of applicant and who cannot participate in the Plan. In addition, the total percentage of shares that could be issued under the Plan, the 1987 Plan, and the 1990 Plan will be limited to 7.5% of the outstanding shares of applicant's common stock. 7. Applicant states that the abuses and adverse effects of investment company stock options would have no applicability to stock options granted under the Plan. The limited stock options that could be granted under the Plan would offer no opportunity for any change in control of applicant or quick sale at a profit. Additionally, the options themselves would not be transferable. Moreover, the existence and nature of the stock options granted by applicant would be fully disclosed in accordance with the standards or guidelines adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board for operating companies and the requirements of the SEC, and will be neither so extensive nor so complex as to make the financial statements of applicant or management remuneration more difficult to understand. 8. Applicant's investments (other than investments in idle funds) are in small businesses, the securities of which will not be publicly traded. In addition, all of applicant's investments in small businesses consist of non-convertible secured loans. Under these circumstances, applicant believes that it is difficult to conceive a scenario in which applicant's portfolio investments could create a short-term artificial increase in the price of applicant's stock.
