FR940712-1-00064 FR940712-1-00012 (viii) Private microwave includes FCC-licensed facilities primarily used by pipeline and power companies, railroads, and land resource management companies. Communication services associated with this category may include private mobile service, private two-way dispatch service, private paging, supervisory remote control/sensing, and microwave voice/video/data services. This use is solely in support of the holder's primary business activity. (ix) Facility manager includes holders who may or may not have FCC licenses, but do not operate telecommunications equipment. The primary purpose of their facilities is to lease or sublease space for a variety of tenants who engage in telecommunication activities. The building owner generally provides space in the building and/or tower, and utilities, access, security, and backup generator services. (x) Other communication uses include FCC-licensed private communication uses such as amateur radio, personal/private receive-only antennas, passive reflectors, and natural resource and environmental monitoring equipment. (2) The rental schedules will be updated annually based on the U.S. Department of Labor Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI&hyph;U, U.S. City Average, published in July of each year). (3) Increases in base rental payments over 1994 levels in excess of $1,000, or 20 percent of the 1994 rent, whichever is greater, will be phased in over a 5-year period. In 1995, the rental payment will be the 1994 rental, plus $1,000 or 20 percent of the 1994 rental, whichever is greater, plus the annual adjustment under paragraph (e)(2). The amount exceeding the above $1,000 or 20 percent threshold will be divided into 4 equal installments, and beginning in 1996 the installment, plus the annual adjustment in the total rent, will be added to the previous year's rent. (4) With the concurrence of the BLM State Director, the authorized officer may use other reasonable measures to determine fair market rent when it is determined by the authorized officer that the estimated rental payment does not reasonably reflect fair market rent for the individual authorized use. (5) Annual rental payments shall be calculated and submitted based on the following schedules:
