FR940803-0-00110 FR940803-0-00040 EPA Response to Comments Although fixed fuel properties were proposed for the determination of fuel economy for methanol-fueled vehicles in the NPRM, EPA requested comments on the appropriateness of using fixed fuel properties in place of measured fuel properties. The comments reflect a common desire among manufacturers to use measured fuel properties for the determination of fuel economy of methanol-fueled vehicles. Although the use of measured fuel properties is more burdensome, it is consistent with current gasoline fuel economy regulations and eliminates problems associated with energy efficiency comparisons between gasoline operation and alternative fuel operation. With minor revision, the fuel economy equation for methanol-fueled vehicles recommended by Ford is an appropriate equation if measured fuel properties are used. However, the use of ASTM D 3343 for the measurement of the carbon weight fraction of the methanol blend is not appropriate. This procedure applies to hydrocarbon fuels and is not appropriate for oxygenated fuels. Rather, the carbon weight fraction of the blend can be calculated by the following: CWF = (CWF g ×mass fraction gasoline)+(CWF m ×mass fraction methanol) where: CWF g =carbon weight fraction of gasoline as measured by ASTM D 3343. CWF m =carbon weight fraction of methanol=0.375 mass fraction gasoline=(G × SG g )/(G×SG g +M×SG m ) mass fraction methanol = (M×SG m )/(G×SG g +M×SG m ) where: G=volume fraction of gasoline M=volume fraction of methanol SG g =specific gravity of gasoline as measured by ASTM D 1298 SG m =specific gravity of methanol fuel as measured by ASTM D 1298 This method requires measurement of the fuel properties of the individual fuels prior to blending. EPA is currently investigating acceptable methods for measuring the carbon weight fraction of the fuels after blending. As these methods are developed and proven satisfactory, EPA plans to revise the regulations to include such methods. EPA will allow the use of other procedures for measuring the carbon weight fraction of the fuel blend if the manufacturer can show that the procedures are superior to or equally as accurate as those specified in the final rule. To provide flexibility and reduce the burden on manufacturers who may blend the fuels at the pump, the specific gravity of the blend can be optionally determined by measuring the specific gravity of the individual fuels before blending and combining those values as follows: SG=SG g ×volume fraction gasoline+SG m ×volume fraction methanol The correct value of the term in the numerator of the fuel economy equation which converts the specific gravity from dimensionless units to grams/gallon should be 3781.8 grams/gallon. This is the product of multiplying the density of pure water at 60 ○F of 0.99904 grams/cubic centimeter (reference ASTM D 4052) by the volume conversion of 3785.412 cubic centimeters/gallon. Therefore, the value suggested by Ford of 3777.623 is replaced by 3781.8 for the final rule. The NPRM is unclear as to how the net heating value and the density of methanol/gasoline mixtures are to be determined. EPA agrees that test procedures should be specified in the regulations to eliminate this ambiguity. Therefore, for the final rule, ASTM D 240 is to be used for the determination of net heating value and ASTM D 1298 for the determination of density. However, the use of other procedures will be allowed if the manufacturer can show these procedures to be equal or superior to the specified procedures. Regarding the determination of the carbon weight fraction of exhaust hydrocarbons (CWF exHC ), again the effect of this value on the determination of fuel economy is expected to be negligible. While the use of different values for different fuel blends would be technically more accurate than using the value of 0.866 for all blends, insufficient data is available to determine appropriate values at this time. In addition, the use of different values would add additional complexity to fuel economy calculations while having a negligible effect on fuel economy values. Therefore, the EPA does not believe that it is appropriate to assign different carbon weight fractions for exhaust hydrocarbons from various methanol/gasoline blends at this time. Until the carbon/hydrogen ratios of the exhaust hydrocarbon constituents can be better assessed, the carbon weight fraction of the exhaust hydrocarbons will be equal to the carbon weight fraction measured for the gasoline portion of the blend or, for neat methanol, equal to 0.866. As experience is gained with measuring the carbon/hydrogen ratios of exhaust hydrocarbons from vehicles fueled with methanol/gasoline blends, this issue can be revisited. E. Fuel Economy Label Format Requirements Statement of Proposal The proposed fuel economy labeling requirements for alternative-fueled automobiles are those currently specified for gasoline-fueled and diesel-fueled automobiles with modification to satisfy AMFA requirements. For dedicated alternative-fueled automobiles, the EPA proposed that the fuel title (e.g. Methanol, Natural Gas) be located above the fuel pump logo and for dual-fueled automobiles, that the title ``Dual Fuel'' be positioned above the logo. For dedicated alternative-fueled automobiles the EPA proposed that the bottom border of the label contain the statement: ``This vehicle operates on [insert appropriate fuel(s)] only''. For dual-fueled automobiles, the statement: ``This dual fuel vehicle operates on ([gasoline or diesel] or [list alcohols or natural gas])'' was proposed to be located on the bottom border of the label. EPA proposed that fuel economy labels for natural gas-fueled automobiles include the statement: ``All fuel economy values on this label pertain to gasoline equivalent fuel economy. To convert these values into units of miles per 100 cubic feet of natural gas, multiply by 0.823.'' For dual-fueled automobiles, EPA proposed that the statement: ``All fuel economy values on this label pertain to [gasoline or diesel] fuel usage. [List alcohols or natural gas] fuel usage will yield different values. See the Gas Mileage Guide for information on [list alcohols or natural gas] fuel usage.'' The 0.9 and 0.78 multiplicative factors currently used for adjusting the petroleum-fueled vehicle city and highway measured fuel economy values to better represent in-use fuel economy were proposed to be applied to alcohol-fueled, natural gas-fueled, and dual-fueled automobiles.
