FR940404-0-00062 FR940404-0-00019 (d) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless a deviation has been approved by OMB. (e) Except for requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(4) of this section, Federal awarding agencies are authorized, at their option, to waive cost-related and administrative prior written approvals required by this part and OMB Circulars A&hyph;21 and A&hyph;122. Such waivers may include authorizing recipients to do any one or more of the following: (1) Incur pre-award costs 90 calendar days prior to award or more than 90 calendar days with the prior approval of the Federal awarding agency. All pre-award costs are incurred at the recipient's risk (i.e., the Federal awarding agency is under no obligation to reimburse such costs if for any reason the recipient does not receive an award or if the award is less than anticipated and inadequate to cover such costs). (2) Initiate a one-time extension of the expiration date of the award of up to 12 months unless one or more of the following conditions apply. For one-time extensions, the recipient must notify the Federal awarding agency in writing with the supporting reasons and revised expiration date at least 10 days before the expiration date specified in the award. This one-time extension may not be exercised merely for the purpose of using unobligated balances. (i) The terms and conditions of award prohibit the extension. (ii) The extension requires additional Federal funds. (iii) The extension involves any change in the approved objectives or scope of the project. (3) Carry forward unobligated balances to subsequent funding periods. (4) For awards that support research, unless the Federal awarding agency provides otherwise in the award or in the agency's regulations, the prior approval requirements described in paragraph (e) of this section are automatically waived (i.e., recipients need not obtain such prior approvals) unless one of the conditions included in paragraph (e)(2) of this section applies. (f) The Federal awarding agency may, at its option, restrict the transfer of funds among direct cost categories or programs, functions and activities for awards in which the Federal share of the project exceeds $100,000 and the cumulative amount of such transfers exceeds or is expected to exceed 10 percent of the total budget as last approved by the Federal awarding agency. No Federal awarding agency shall permit a transfer that would cause any Federal appropriation or part thereof to be used for purposes other than those consistent with the original intent of the appropriation. (g) All other changes to nonconstruction budgets, except for the changes described in paragraph (j) of this section, do not require prior approval. (h) For construction awards, recipients shall request prior written approval promptly from Federal awarding agencies for budget revisions whenever the conditions in paragraphs (h) (1), (2) or (3) of this section apply. (1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the project or program. (2) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project. (3) A revision is desired which involves specific costs for which prior written approval requirements may be imposed consistent with applicable OMB cost principles listed in ยง19.27. (i) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless a deviation has been approved by OMB. (j) When a Federal awarding agency makes an award that provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, the Federal awarding agency may require the recipient to request prior approval from the Federal awarding agency before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported. (k) For both construction and nonconstruction awards, Federal awarding agencies shall require recipients to notify the Federal awarding agency in writing promptly whenever the amount of Federal authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the recipient for the project period by more than $5,000 or five percent of the Federal award, whichever is greater. This notification shall not be required if an application for additional funding is submitted for a continuation award. (l) When requesting approval for budget revisions, recipients shall use the budget forms that were used in the application unless the Federal awarding agency indicates a letter of request suffices. (m) Within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, Federal awarding agencies shall review the request and notify the recipient whether the budget revisions have been approved. If the revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, the Federal awarding agency shall inform the recipient in writing of the date when the recipient may expect the decision. ยง19.26 Non-Federal audits. (a) Recipients and subrecipients that are institutions of higher education or other non-profit organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in OMB Circular A&hyph;133, ``Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Non-Profit Institutions.'' (b) State and local governments shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act (31 U.S.C. 7501&hyph;7) and 49 CFR part 90, ``Audits of State and Local Governments,'' which implements OMB Circular A&hyph;128, ``Audits of State and Local Governments.''
