FR941221-0-00016 FR941221-0-00005 Philadelphia Gas argues that an earlier posting also would be desirable because it would, to some extent, create a better competitive balance between released capacity and pipeline interruptible transportation by requiring that some price information for interruptible capacity will be posted at the same time as prices for capacity release transactions. The Commission does not find that piecemeal tinkering with the marketing affiliate regulations is the proper method for correcting asserted deficiencies with the capacity release mechanism. The Commission is in the process of examining its capacity release program and issues relating to disclosure of prices for interruptible capacity are better considered as part of an overall review of the capacity release program. The Commission rejects the suggestion by NGC that the Commission, at least, modify the requirement to require immediate posting of rejected discount offers to marketing affiliates and posting of lapsed offers when gas would have flowed under the offer. Posting of rejected discount offers would violate the principle against disclosure of competitive information during negotiations. For example, an affiliate may reject one offer as a prelude to continuing negotiations toward obtaining a larger discount. Similarly, determining when an offer has lapsed would be difficult. The Commission fails to discern the relationship between the posting of discount offers to marketing affiliates and NGC's concern that, in most cases, the pipeline will grant whatever discount the marketing affiliate requires to complete a deal. In NGC's scenario, the marketing affiliate's discount will be posted on the pipeline's EBB after gas flows so that the non-affiliate can determine whether its request for a discount was unfairly denied. The Commission concludes that posting of discount transactions after gas flows strikes the proper balance between providing public information to detect a pattern of discriminatory treatment and ensuring that the posting will not produce adverse effects on competition between marketing affiliates and non-affiliates. Accordingly, the Commission will deny the rehearing requests. The Commission Orders The requests for rehearing are denied. By the Commission. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31323 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
