FR941219-2-00096 FR941219-2-00059 2. Facilities Program: a. User Groups *␣Public (nonconsumptive, consumptive, special use, scientific research). _Protect and interpret archaeological sites _Support fishing and nonconsumptive uses *␣Service (administration, management, maintenance). _Enforce refuge regulations _Close selected portions of refuge seasonally to protect migratory waterfowl and bald eagles from human disturbances _Protect refuge facilities and infrastructure from flooding b. Facilities Program *␣Visitor/Interpretive Center is southeast quadrant of I&hyph;10/Turtle Bayou interchange (Unit 3). *␣Environmental Educational Center south of U.S. Highway No. 11 and U.S. Highway No. 90 intersection (Unit 5). *␣Administration/Maintenance Center near southeast quadrant of the I&hyph;10/Michoud Boulevard interchange (Unit 9). *␣Trails and Trail Heads (Units 1, 2a, 3, 4, 5a, 8b, and 9). Three other alternatives evaluated in detail included: (1) No Build Alternative (2) Minimal Diverse Habitat Enhancement (3) Comprehensive Estuarine Habitat Enhancement These alternatives were developed by the Service with input obtained from the public and review agencies during the review and comment process. Issues raised in comments included, but are not limited to: Expansion of the refuge, hunting, trapping, commercial fishing, public access, locations of visitor center, habitat management objectives, mosquito control, and monitoring of management programs to achieve program objectives. All substantive issues raised during the public and agency review process have been addressed to the satisfaction of the Service either through revisions incorporated into the FEIS text or in responses contained in Section 9.0 of the FEIS. These responses are incorporated by reference into the ROD. One comment was received on the FEIS. Findings and Decision: Based upon a thorough analysis and consideration of the impacts identified in the FEIS, results of the research and investigations conducted in conjunction with the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) and FEIS, comments received in connection with the public information hearings and review of the DEIS, public review of management programs already approved for the refuge, and other relevant factors, including the purposes for which the refuge was established by Congress and statutory and regulatory guidance for funding such projects, the Service finds as follows: (1) The preferred alternative is Alternative 2. Alternative 2 consists of the Management and Facilities Programs discussed previously. (2) The Preferred Alternative best fulfills the Public Use Goal for environmental education, wildlife and habitat interpretation, wildlife/wildlands-oriented recreation, and scientific research. (3) Consistent with economic, social, and other essential considerations, to the maximum extent practicable, potential adverse environmental effects identified in the FEIS will be minimized or avoided by incorporating mitigative measures as conditions of Federal funding approval and permit issuance. The potential impacts and mitigative measures are described in Section 4.0 and 5.0 of the FEIS. (4) Only 45 acres of jurisdictional wetlands, out of the presently supervised area of approximately 22,800 acres, are estimated to be impacted by construction of facilities on the refuge. Specific details regarding mitigation plans for site-specific projects will be developed on a case-by-case basis as part of the Section 404 permit process. However, under the Preferred Alternative, habitat management measures implemented on other areas of the refuge for the purpose of increasing the quality and quantity of emergent and submergent aquatic vegetation and scrub/shrub vegetation are expected to be more than adequate to serve as mitigation for wetlands impacted by facility construction. (5) The Preferred Alternative is designed to conserve and/or enhance existing habitat for the presently listed threatened and endangered species using the refuge. No State or federally listed endangered or threatened species or their critical habitats are known to be adversely affected by implementation of the Preferred Alternative. (6) No historic properties listed in or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places are know to be adversely affected by implementation of the Preferred Alternative. Detailed cultural resources investigations will be conducted for site-specific projects on a case-by-case basis as part of the Section 404 permit process. (7) Statutory authority for the Service to fund and implement, and for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to permit, the Preferred Alternative exists. (8) The requirements of NEPA and the implementing regulations (40 CFR Parts 1500&hyph;1508) have been satisfied. For further information, contact: Name: Howard Poitevant Address: 1010 Gause Blvd., Bldg. 936, Slidell, Louisiana 70458 Phone: 504/646&hyph;7555. Dated: December 8, 1994. Jerome M. Butler, Acting Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31044 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
