FR940720-0-00075 FR940720-0-00006 b. Bullitt and Oldham Counties, Kentucky. Section 80.70(j) is being amended to specify the applicable boundaries for the portions of Bullitt and Oldham Counties, Kentucky, that are nonattainment areas. c. Essex County, New York. The listing of Essex County, New York, is also being amended to include a specific description of the nonattainment area. d. Smyth County, Virginia. Section 80.70(j) is also being amended to delete Smyth County, Virginia, as a covered area for the reformulated gasoline program. This area was expressly excluded from coverage in the Governor's opt-in request and should not have been included in the regulatory list of covered areas. e. Richmond, Virginia. An erroneous reference to the City of Richmond is also being corrected. 5. Reporting Requirements (§80.75) a. Sulfur, NO X and T90 Averaging Reports Section 80.41(h)(2) of the final rule requires that refiners and importers subject to the simple model meet their 1990 baseline sulfur, olefins and T90 levels on average for the entire year. However, it does not include a requirement to report the average values of these properties to EPA. It was the Agency's intention to have these values reported and so an additional reporting requirement for sulfur, olefins and T90 is being added at §80.75(b)(2). In addition, the RVP averaging reporting requirements are being renumbered, under §80.75(b)(1), so that the sulfur, olefin and T90 averaging reporting requirements may be included under §80.75(b). b. Oxygen Averaging Reports. Section 80.75(f)(2)(ii)(A) is being revised to conform the categories of reformulated gasoline that must be reported separately for oxygen averaging purposes to the categories that are specified in the oxygen averaging section, at §80.67(h)(1)(v)(A). 6. Registration Requirements (§80.76) The Agency is making several revisions to the registration requirements in §80.76(c) of the final rule. EPA is removing the requirement to indicate where off-site records are kept from the refiners', importers' and oxygenate blenders' registration information, and instead requiring that information be submitted for each refinery, oxygenate blending facility, and in the case of importers, operations within each PADD. The registration requirement to indicate what type of gasoline each refinery or oxygenate blending facility will produce (reformulated, RBOB, conventional or blendstocks) has been removed because the Agency believes that it is not necessary for registration purposes. The Agency intended that importers would identify the independent laboratories used to comply with the independent sampling and testing requirements, but there was no specific regulatory text requiring them to do so. This notice requires each importer to provide that information to EPA for its operations in each PADD. 7. Product Transfer Documentation (§80.77)
