FR940217-2-00061 FR940217-2-00031 _The extent to which the project gives special emphasis to the issues identified in the Special Concerns section of this notice. _The likelihood of success of the applicant's proposed strategies for promoting coordination and collaboration between separate centers providing different resource capacities. Eligible Applicants Applications for funding will be accepted from States and accredited schools of medicine. Applications which involve more than a single State will also be accepted. In developing the proposed project, applicants must seek the participation and support of local or regional trauma centers and other interested entities within the State, such as local government and health and medical organizations in the private sector. If the applicant is a school of medicine, the application must be endorsed by the State. The State's endorsement must acknowledge that the applicant has consulted with the State and that the State has been assured that the applicant will work with the State on the proposed project. Any State (or medical school within that State) may apply for any category or subcategory of grant, subject to the following considerations based on equitable geographic distribution of EMSC funds, differences in purpose among EMSC grant categories, and variation among States in EMSC program progress: •For Category (1) Planning Grants, States (or medical schools within those States) that have received prior EMSC implementation grants may not apply for planning grants. •For Category (2)(A) Implementation Grants, applications from States (and medical schools within those States) that have not previously received EMSC program funds, or that have received only partial support under this program as part of a regional alliance, will receive preference for funding in this subcategory. This means that approved applications from States (and medical schools within those States) with no or very limited prior EMSC program support will be funded ahead of approved applications from outside this group. •For Category (2)(B) System Enhancement Grants, States (and medical schools within States) that have previously received EMSC funds may apply for a system enhancement grant, as long as they will not also be receiving implementation funds during the project period of the systems enhancement grant. States that have not previously received EMSC funds are advised to apply first for implementation category funds. •For Category (3) Targeted Issues Grants, eligibility is not affected by receipt of other EMSC funding. •For Category (4) Resource Capacity Cooperative Agreements, eligibility is not affected by receipt of other EMSC funding. Applications will not be considered for both Category (1) State Planning Grants and Category (2)(A) Implementation Grants simultaneously from the same State. Funding of an application for a planning grant or for either subcategory of State Systems Grant bars a State from future competitions for that category or subcategory. Although funding of a Category (3) Targeted Issue Grant does not preclude a State (or medical school) from applying for other categories of EMSC funding, applicants should taken care to avoid overlap in proposed project activities and associated Federal support for the separate categories. Allowable Costs The MCHB may support reasonable and necessary costs of EMSC Demonstration Grant projects within the scope of approved projects. Allowable costs may include salaries, equipment and supplies, travel, contracts, consultants, and others, as well as indirect costs as negotiated and certified. The MCHB adheres to administrative standards reflected in the Code of Federal Regulations, 45 CFR part 92 and 45 CFR part 74.
