FR940224-1-00057 FR940224-1-00011 (bb) Enter the EEZ around Hawaii with longline gear that is not stowed or secured in accordance with ยง685.25, if operating a U.S. vessel without a valid Hawaii longline limited entry permit registered for use with that vessel. (cc) Enter the EEZ around American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or U.S. possessions in the Pacific Ocean area with longline gear that is not stowed or secured in accordance with ยง685.25, if operating a U.S. vessel without a valid Hawaii longline limited entry permit registered for use with that vessel or a longline general permit registered for use with that vessel. 5. Section 685.9 is revised to read as follows: ยง685.9 Permits. (a) Permit requirements. (1) A longline fishing vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a Hawaii limited entry permit or a longline general permit if that vessel: (i) Is used to fish for Pacific pelagic management unit species in the EEZ around American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or other U.S. island possessions in the Pacific Ocean; or (ii) Is used to land or transship Pacific pelagic management unit species, shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or other U.S. island possessions in the Pacific Ocean. (2) A longline fishing vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a Hawaii limited entry permit if that vessel: (i) Is used to fish for Pacific pelagic management unit species in the EEZ around Hawaii; or (ii) Is used to land or transship Pacific pelagic management unit species shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around Hawaii. (3) A receiving vessel must be registered for use with a receiving vessel permit if that vessel is used to land or transship, shoreward of the Fishery Management Area, Pacific pelagic management unit species that were harvested with longline gear. (b) Eligibility for initial permits. (1) Only a person who is eligible to own a documented vessel under the terms of 46 U.S.C. 12102(a) may be issued a longline general permit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or a receiving vessel permit under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. (2) Any person who is eligible to own a documented vessel under the terms of 46 U.S.C. 12102(a) is eligible for initial issuance of a Hawaii limited entry permit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, provided that person on April 22, 1994: (i) Owns a limited entry permit issued under this part during the moratorium, and owns or owned a vessel that landed longline-caught management unit species in Hawaii at least once during the moratorium; or (ii) Owns a limited entry permit issued under this part during the moratorium for a vessel that is less than 40 feet (12 m) in length; or (iii) Owns a limited entry permit issued to that person under ยง685.15(c)(6) because that person was the holder of a permit for the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands lobster fishery under 50 CFR 681.30. (c) Application. (1) An application for a permit under this section must be submitted on a Southwest Region Federal Fisheries Application form obtained from the Pacific Area Office containing all the necessary information, attachments, certification, signatures, and fees. In no case will oral or telephone applications be accepted. (2) A vessel owner must submit an application for a permit to the Pacific Area Office at least 15 days before the desired effective date of the permit. If an incomplete or improperly completed application is filed, the applicant will be sent a notice of the deficiency. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within 30 days following the date of notification, the application will be considered abandoned. (3) An application is complete when all required information, attachments, certifications, signatures, and fees have been received. (d) Change in application information. Any change in information on the permit application form submitted under paragraph (c) of this section must be reported to the Pacific Area Office at least 10 days before the effective date of the change. Failure to report such changes may result in termination of the permit.
