FR940712-2-00060 FR940712-2-00042 4. Collaborate with the grantee in developing, testing and validating more effective and efficient disease prevention and health promotion models to African-Americans. 5. Collaborate with grantee and other concerned parties in workshops and conferences to exchange current information, opinions and findings in fields of public health and minority health. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: A. Applicant's Understanding of the Problem (15%) The extent to which the applicant has a clear, concise understanding of the requirements, objectives, and purpose of the cooperative agreement. The extent to which the application reflects an understanding of the complexities surrounding health promotion, health disparities and health promotion issues, that have an impact in the African-American community. B. Organizational Experience (30%) The extent to which the applicant has demonstrated skill and experience in working effectively with community based projects, and has the ability to establish meaningful relationships with various community based organizations. The applicant must demonstrate experience in providing leadership for community projects at the national, State and local levels. The applicant must provide proof of experience in sharing financial or technical resources with CBOs, affiliates, and chapters that provide a variety of services directly to racial and ethnic minority populations. C. Approach and Capability (40%) The extent to which the applicant has included a description of their approach and track record on developing a network which includes the various segments of the African-American community at national, State and local levels. The grantee must demonstrate geographical distributions, and their ability to influence policy of the various community groups. D. Program Personnel (15%) The adequacy of the description for present staff and capabilities of the organization to assemble culturally competent and trained staff to conduct all three components proposed in this health promotion and disease prevention initiative. The applicant shall identify all current and potential personnel who will be utilized to work on this cooperative agreement, including qualifications and specific experience as it relates to the requirements set forth in this request. The organization must provide proof that their program and administrative staff and the program and administrative staff of affiliates and participating organizations involved in the project are representative of the communities and population to be served.
