FR940202-0-00116 FR940202-0-00013 Issue 4: The revised proposed rule uses an improper incremental approach to the economic analysis required by the Act. In the revised proposed rule, the Service stated that the economic analysis should only apply to project-related costs of mitigation within critical habitat designation over and above those costs that would be incurred as a result of listing the vireo. The Service thereby eliminated the restraints imposed through the balancing process set forth in section 4 of the Act. Service Response: The effects of critical habitat designation are incremental, and represent only a portion of the total cost of a species' conservation. A high level of protection is already afforded to least Bell's vireo habitat by the Clean Water Act and Federal wetlands policy. An additional layer of protection has been added to this by the listing of the vireo, which prohibits jeopardy and take of the species. Even without designation of critical habitat, modification of occupied vireo habitat can constitute jeopardy or take. Federal agencies cannot adversely modify designated critical habitat. As discussed above under ``Available Conservation Measures,'' that is in addition to the requirement to avoid jeopardizing the continued existence of a federally listed species. Furthermore, if a Federal agency may affect critical habitat, that agency must consult with the Service even if the habitat happens to be unoccupied. These added section 7 requirements were considered in the development of the economic analysis. In the 1982 amendments to section 4 of the Act, Congress added the word ``solely'' to the statutory directive that the Secretary base listing on the best scientific and commercial data available. A House of Representatives report states: The addition of the word ``solely'' is intended to remove from the process of the listing or delisting of species any factor not related to the biological status of the species. The committee strongly believes that economic considerations have no relevance to determinations regarding the status of species *␣*␣*. Applying economic criteria to the analysis of these alternatives and to any phase of the species listing process is applying economics to the determinations made under section 4 of the Act and is specifically rejected by the inclusion of the word ``solely'' in this legislation. [H.R. Rep. No. 97&hyph;304; see 16 U.S.C. 1533(b)(1)(A)] The Joint Regulations on Endangered Species also state that the Secretary may make a determination of listing ``solely on the basis of the best available scientific and commercial information regarding a species' status, without reference to possible economic or other impacts to such determination'' (50 CFR §424.11(b)). In 1978, Congress amended section 4 of the Act to require the Secretary to take into consideration ``the economic impact, and any other relevant impact, of specifying any particular area as critical habitat'' (16 U.S.C. 1532(5)(A)(i)). Federal regulations on implementation of the Act state that ``A final designation of critical habitat shall be made on the basis of the best scientific information available, after taking into consideration the probable economic and other impacts of making such a designation in accordance with §424.19'' (50 CFR §424.12(a)). The Service interprets the history of the Act and Federal regulations to clearly indicate that the economic analysis should only take into account the effects of designating critical habitat, and not those of listing the species. Issue 5: Some individuals wanted to know if critical habitat designation would result in the need for additional mitigation for projects with ongoing management or conservation plans designed to mitigate impacts to vireos. Service Response: For projects that have completed the section 7 consultation process to develop mitigation measures for direct and indirect impacts to the least Bell's vireo and vireo habitat, it is highly unlikely that additional measures will be required as a result of the critical habitat designation.
