FR941019-1-00036 FR941019-1-00004 ␣_there is a great deal of confusion over the nature and scope of any duty to correct or update projections once they are made; 67 and 67 Manns, Duty to Correct: A Suggested Framework, 46 Md. L. Rev. 1250 (1987). ␣_the safe harbor language is silent as to when a company may be liable for statements made by third parties. A. Suggested Underinclusiveness of Current Safe Harbor Some critics argue that the current safe harbor is ineffective largely because it is too narrow, in that it only covers statements made in documents filed with the Commission. 68 They contend that, due to this underinclusiveness, the safe harbor provides no comfort in most situations involving disclosure of forward-looking information. While acknowledging concern that the problem of selective disclosure prompted the Commission to adopt such a limitation in 1979, 69 these critics contend that this very limitation has created the unintended by-product of fostering such selective disclosure. 68 See, e.g., M. Seeley, In I.P.O.'s, the More Data the Better, New York Times Forum, April 26, 1992. The majority of litigated cases appear to arise out of non-filed forward-looking statements further undercutting the utility of the safe harbor. 69 See Advisory Committee Report, supra note 2. Many public companies complain that they face increasing analyst and institutional demands for immediate access to predictive information. Some issuers argue that, solely to gain the benefits of the safe harbor through reaffirmation of oral responses to recurring marketplace inquiries in Commission documents, they would be put to the impossible task of memorializing every analyst discussion. Given the informal and often unpredictable nature of communications between issuers and analysts, the provision in the safe harbor requiring Commission filing of forward-looking information is viewed as both counterproductive and highly impractical. B. Judicial Application Another complaint commonly raised is that the provisions of the existing safe harbor do not influence the standards that courts apply in securities fraud cases. The safe harbor is infrequently raised by defendants, perhaps because it compels judicial examination of reasonableness and good faith, which raise factual issues that often preclude early, prediscovery dismissal. Thus, critics state that the safe harbor is ineffective in ensuring the quick and inexpensive dismissal of frivolous private lawsuits. These critics argue that, unless the courts vigorously apply a higher pleading threshold sufficient to sustain a motion to dismiss based on the allegations of a class-action complaint, the mere threat of litigation will continue both to discourage management from making forward-looking disclosure and cause those companies that nonetheless provide such disclosure to incur significant costs in defense of nonmeritorious litigation. Those urging reform thus maintain that, in order for a safe harbor effectively to encourage forward-looking disclosure, it must add protection over and above those afforded by judicial doctrines developed under what are characterized as the ``housekeeping'' provisions of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure_Rules 9(b) and 12(b)(6). 70 70 In deciding motions under Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, at least one commentator has noted that courts apply different standards of materiality. See Sullivan, Materiality of Predictive Information After Basic: A Proposed Two-Part Test of Materiality, 1990 U. Ill. L. Rev. 207 (1990). For motions decided under Rule 9(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, some courts have imposed a high burden on plaintiffs, requiring them to allege specific facts that give rise to an inference of fraudulent intent. Romani v. Shearson Lehman Hutton, 929 F.2d 875 (1st Cir. 1991); see also DiLeo v. Ernst & Young, 901 F.2d 624 (7th Cir. 1990). Other courts appear to have been more lenient. In re Glenfed, 11 F.3d 849 (9th Cir. 1993) (``plaintiff must allege facts that would give rise to an inference that the defendant did not believe the statements or knew of their falsity''). A related criticism is that courts are inconsistent in applying the safe harbor when it is implicated in the litigation. The courts do not always refer to the safe harbor when it is implicated. 71 One court refused to permit the use of the safe harbor because the earnings forecast in question had been presented ``as a fact certain rather than as a `projection' or `forward-looking statement.''' 72 In this regard, commenters assert that the Commission should provide greater guidance to the judiciary with respect to the appropriate application of the safe harbor. 71 The courts seldom refer to the safe harbor unless it is raised by the defendant. Examples of cases in which the safe harbor was implicated but not referenced include Mayer v. Mylod, 988 F.2d 635 (6th Cir. 1993), Romani v. Shearson Lehman Hutton, 929 F.2d 875 (1st Cir. 1991), and In re Control Data Corp., 933 F.2d 616 (8th Cir. 1991). 72 Allyn Corp. v. Hartford National Corp., 1982 WL 1301 (D.Conn. 1982).
