FR940622-0-00010 FR940622-0-00006 A. Consistency Rules for Consolidated and Controlled Groups The proposed regulations provide consistency rules for corporations that are members of consolidated groups or controlled groups. These consistency rules are based on proposed regulations applying section 382 to consolidated and controlled groups. The consistency rules contained in the proposed regulations have been revised in the final regulations because the proposed consolidated and controlled group regulations have not been finalized yet. The final regulations provide that if a closing-of-the-books election is made with respect to an ownership change occurring during a consolidated return year, all allocations with respect to that ownership change must be consistent with the election. Further consideration will be given to consistency rules for consolidated groups in the development of final regulations applying section 382 to these groups. B. Limitation Increase Rule In Notice 87&hyph;79, 1987&hyph;2 C.B. 387, the IRS announced its intention to issue regulations that would allow taxpayers to make a closing-of-the-books election. The Notice stated that, prior to the issuance of regulations, taxpayers would be required to use the statutory ratable allocation method unless they obtained a private letter ruling allowing them to use a different method. Pursuant to Notice 87&hyph;79, the IRS issued a number of private letter rulings that authorized allocations based on a closing of the taxpayers' books. Some of these rulings allowed taxpayers to increase in their section 382 limitation to the extent that any net pre-change income was offset by net post-change loss in computing taxable income or loss for the change year. The purpose of the increased limitation was to put the taxpayer in a position similar to the position it would have been in had its taxable year ended on the change date. In the interest of simplicity, the proposed regulations do not include a rule providing for increases in the annual section 382 limitation in cases in which net post-change loss offsets net pre-change income. Several commentators questioned the failure to include a limitation increase rule. The final regulations retain the approach of the proposed regulations, in which change year income and losses may be netted together without limitation. This approach may be either favorable or unfavorable to taxpayers, depending on the circumstances. This approach is disadvantageous when it results in the netting of a post-change loss against pre-change income. Conversely, the approach is advantageous to taxpayers that are able to net a pre-change loss against post-change income without limitation. In these cases, if the taxpayers' year had ended on the change date, the loss so used would have been subject to the section 382 limitation. Adoption of a limitation increase rule would add significant complexity to the regulations. If taxpayers were protected from the disadvantages of netting a post-change loss against pre- change income, consistency would require that taxpayers not be allowed the benefit of netting pre-change loss against post- change income without limitation. In other words, detailed rules for applying the section 382 limitation within the change year to limit the use of a loss in the pre-change portion of the year against income in the post-change period would be necessary concomitants of a limitation increase rule. To avoid this complexity, the final regulations allow change year losses to offset change year income without limitation and do not include a limitation increase rule. C. Additional Issues The preamble to the proposed regulations requested comments on the interaction of the ratable allocation rules under the proposed regulations and the built-in gain and loss rules under section 382(h), particularly with respect to extraordinary items ( e.g., an asset sale not made in the ordinary course of business). A commentator recommended that the final regulations include both a rule for extraordinary items and the limitation increase rule (described in paragraph B above). After due consideration, the IRS and the Treasury Department decided that rules relating to extraordinary items would add unnecessary complexity to the final regulations. Thus, the final regulations do not contain special rules with respect to the allocation of extraordinary items. The IRS and the Treasury Department may give further consideration to the desirability of rules addressing extraordinary items. D. Effective Date
