FR941205-2-00029 FR941205-2-00026 A novel method has been developed to quickly evaluate and screen potential anti-cancer and anti-viral drugs in vivo. The desire for effective treatments for tumors and viral infections has created a need in the research and medical communities for a quick, reliable way to test chemotherapeutic agents. Although several teams of investigators have attempted in recent years to develop in vivo methods for screening such drugs, these methods have had limited value because they usually permit only the agent to be tested against one type of tumor cell or cell line per experiment and/or have been labor intensive and expensive. This new method for screening chemotherapeutic agents involves encapsulating the target (i.e., tumor) cells in a biocompatible, semipermeable membrane_which is made of unique hollow fibers or dialysis tubing_and transplanting the encapsulated cells into a laboratory animal. Each laboratory animal can receive an implant at a single site or multiple sites, making it possible to test a chemotherapeutic agent against several types of tumor cells simultaneously. The membrane, which does not generate an autoimmune response or release any toxic chemicals, allows for the target cells to be reharvested after the treatment. Sensitive Method For Locating Chromosomal Breakpoints Magrath, I.T., Shiramizu, B. (NCI) Filed 2 Dec 93 Serial No. 08/160,547 (CON of 07/698,233, CON of 07/441,516) A new technique for localizing chromosomal breakpoints offers a significant advancement in detecting genetic translocations such as those found in Burkitt's lymphoma. Present techniques for detecting chromosomal breakpoints require large amounts of tumor sample, are often insensitive, or are cumbersome and time consuming. This new technique utilizes sequence-specific primers for rapid, efficient PCR amplification of a fragment containing a breakpoint. This technique is so sensitive it can be used to sub-divide Burkitt's lymphomas into subtypes based on the location of chromosomal breakpoints. Method For Estimating mRNA Content By Filter Hybridization To A Polythymidylate Probe Hollander, M.C., Fornace, A.J. (NCI) Filed 21 Feb 94 Serial No. 08/183,911 (CON of 07/908,814, CON of 07/501,774) A method for the quantitation of relative mRNA samples which entails hybridization of a polythymidylate (polyT) probe with RNA bound to an insoluble substrate. This method is especially applicable for normalizing numerous RNA samples which are to be analyzed by dot blot hybridization. The relative hybridization of polyT probe to RNA is proportional to the polyA RNA content of the RNA samples. Since the hybridization of polyT probe to RNA does not appear to be dependent on any cell treatment or growth condition and experimental variation is minimized, this method is a better method for standardizing the amount of mRNA in RNA samples than is relative hybridization to cDNA probes such as actin or b 2 -microglobulin, the transcript levels of which may vary according to cell treatment.
