FR941110-0-00181 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We do not accept this comment. First, the money that is collected from civil money penalties is either transferred into the Medicare Trust Fund or is earmarked for the protection of Medicaid residents' health or property. Second, as soon as substantial compliance is achieved, civil money penalties are discontinued. Therefore, the facility is in control of how much money it ultimately is responsible for paying; that is, the sooner it corrects deficiencies, the less penalties it will pay. Comment: A professional organization commented that the proposed section on civil money penalties does not reflect all of the points discussed by the Institute of Medicine in its study, Improving the Quality of Care in Nursing Homes (1986). The Institute of Medicine envisioned civil money penalties as a valuable enforcement tool which could be applied in amounts appropriate to the seriousness, duration and repeat occurrence of the violation. It recommended prompt, short hearings on the imposition of the remedy, that fines be large enough to be more costly than the violation, and that fines be versatile enough to be used to correct minor violations, as well as to immediately punish life threatening violations. Response: We believe the regulatory provisions for civil money penalties encompass the above referenced points from the Institute of Medicine. The only point of departure is the suggestion with regard to promptness. Section 1128A of the Act requires that a hearing be provided to a provider that properly requests one before HCFA collects a civil money penalty. Section 1919(h)(8) of the Act requires the State to offer a hearing before collecting a civil money penalty. Comment: One commenter suggested that the civil money penalty system be changed to a monetary award program. Facilities in compliance with the regulations would be rewarded. This would lead to improved resident care and provide an incentive for the employees. Response: We do not accept this comment. Provisions for civil money penalties are located in sections 1819(h)(2)(B)(ii), 1919(h)(2)(A)(ii) and 1919(h)(3)(C)(ii) of the Act as part of an enforcement process. They are options that the Secretary and the State may exercise when SNFs and NFs are not in substantial compliance with participation requirements. Removing civil money penalties as an enforcement option and substituting a monetary reward system would not reflect the law as written. For participants in the Medicaid program, the State may separately establish a program to reward, through public recognition or incentive payments, or both, providers that provide the highest quality care. This reward provision is specified at §488.303 of this rule. Comment: Several State civil monetary penalty systems were submitted with the comments on the proposed rule for review. Different commenters recommended that HCFA adopt and/or evaluate these civil money penalty systems. Response: Before developing regulations for civil money penalties, we met with the nursing home industry, consumer groups and government entities to obtain input in the development of the proposed rule. In addition, we reviewed a variety of State civil money penalty systems. We do not believe we have sufficient data at this time to justify abandoning the system we developed in the proposed rule in favor of another or to cause us to consider any State's program to be more effective than the civil money penalty system in the regulation at this time. Comment: One commenter suggested changing ``HCFA or the State may impose *␣*␣*'' to ``HCFA or the State shall impose *␣*␣*'' at proposed §488.230(a)(1). The commenter's rationale is that if facilities are required to pay for every instance of noncompliance, compliance would be maintained and additional funds could be used to support critical areas, such as, Long Term Care Ombudsman Programs. Response: The regulation reflects the corresponding provisions of the Act. The Act permits HCFA's and the States' discretion in the imposition of this enforcement remedy. The Federal government cannot require the States to use this remedy in every instance of noncompliance, nor must it choose this remedy itself in every instance of noncompliance. Comment: Another commenter suggested that HCFA interpret its authority to include the delegation of the imposition of civil money penalties to the States for Medicare purposes when HCFA determines that it is appropriate. The commenter also suggested the State could recommend a civil money penalty, HCFA could monitor the State's performance in this area and funds collected could offset State costs in performing this task.
