FR940503-1-00045 FR940503-1-00010 H. Section 59.8␣Presiding Officer This section describes the role and responsibilities of the Presiding Officer. There are no specific qualification requirements except that the Presiding Officer be neutral to the controversy. In most cases the Presiding Officer will be the Regional Judicial Officer. The Presiding Officer is authorized to take certain actions, but also must abide by the limitations imposed under subsection (c). I. Section 59.9␣Hearing Clerk This section describes the role and responsibilities of the Hearing Clerk, who shall be designated by the Regional Administrator. J. Section 59.10␣Representation by Counsel This section outlines a respondent's right to be represented by counsel. Following notification of such representation, all further notification shall be directed to that counsel. K. Section 59.11␣Preliminary Matters This section describes the process by which a hearing is requested and scheduled. It also details the Presiding Officer's discretion in granting delays, continuances, and permission to amend a response or raise new issues prior to a scheduled hearing. L. Section 59.12␣Revocation of Field Citation This section sets forth the Agency's authority to revoke a field citation, in whole or in part, at any time before the penalty amount becomes final. M. Section 59.13␣Request for Confidential Treatment This section describes the basis for, and procedure by which a respondent may request confidential treatment of a document or portion thereof. N. Section 59.14␣Consent Agreements and Consent Orders This section outlines the basis for a consent agreement, through which the Agency and the respondent formally agree to a civil penalty, with or without conditions. Thereafter, the Presiding Officer shall enter a consent order in accordance with the terms of the consent agreement. The consent order may be filed at any time prior to final Agency action, and constitutes a final order that may not be appealed. O. Section 59.15␣Prehearing Conference This section provides the Presiding Officer with the discretion to conduct a prehearing conference, and sets forth matters appropriate for discussion during such conference. P. Section 59.16␣Information Exchange This section outlines the responsibilities of each party, both in serving information requests and in providing information requested by the other party. The exchange of information shall proceed according to the schedule established by the Presiding Officer. Q. Section 59.17␣Subpoenas This section establishes the Presiding Officer's right to subpoena the testimony of witnesses or the production of documents, or both, and establishes the manner by which subpoenas shall be served. R. Section 59.18␣Hearing Procedures This section outlines the basic requirements for the conduct of the proceeding. It also establishes the rights and responsibilities of the Presiding Officer and of each party in presenting or receiving evidence, testimony, responses and rebuttals. Either party has the right to cross-examine any witness who has provided direct testimony, however, such crossexamination is limited to the issues presented in direct testimony. The overall format for the proceeding is informal, and the Presiding Officer has the discretion to offer opportunities for rebuttal and response to rebuttal. S. Section 59.19␣Penalty Assessment Criteria This section establishes the criteria which shall be considered by the Presiding Officer in reviewing the penalty amount requested by the field citation, and assigns the burden of proof for each criterion either to the Respondent or to the Agency. T. Section 59.20␣Transcript or Recording of Hearing This section provides that all hearings will be tape recorded unless both parties agree and the Presiding Officer directs otherwise. A verbatim transcript will not normally be prepared, however, this section outlines the requirements and procedure to be followed if either party or the Presiding Officer should specially request that such a transcript be prepared.
