FR940524-2-00037 FR940524-2-00025 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order to Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted an agreement to a proposed consent order from Lifestyle Fascination, Inc. (``Lifestyle''), Eli Zabare, an officer of Lifestyle, and Simon Pantierer. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement or make final the agreement's proposed order. This matter concerns five products advertised by the respondents in the Lifestyle Fascination catalog: Fuelon, a gasoline additive; the Vitalizer an automobile retrofit device; the Brain Tuner, a cranio-electric stimulation device, the Rhythm, an electronic acupuncture device; and the Aerobic Eye Exercise Glasses, pinhole eyeglasses. The Commission's proposed complaint alleges that the respondents falsely represented that the addition of Fuelon to gasoline would increase a car's gas mileage by between 15% and 40% and ensure that cars pass government emissions inspections. The proposed complaint further alleges that the respondents falsely represented that they relied upon a reasonable basis for those claims, and for their further representation that Fuelon would provide the benefits of an engine tune-up. The proposed complaint alleges that the respondents falsely represented that the Vitalizer would increase gas mileage by up to 23%; decrease automobile emissions by up to 90%; and that tests, research, and expert evaluations proved these claims. The complaint further alleges that the respondents falsely represented that they relied upon a reasonable basis for these representations, and for their further representation that use of the Vitalizer would increase engine power. The proposed complaint further alleges that, in advertising the Brain Tuner, the respondents falsely represented that they relied upon a reasonable basis for their representations that use of the Brian Tuner would increase one's I.Q., increase energy levels, improve concentration, control pain, reduce depression and anxiety, normalize sleep patterns and reduce sleep requirements, improve memory, and reduce cravings for and withdrawal symptoms from drugs and alcohol. The proposed complaint further alleges that the respondents falsely represented that scientific studies proved that use of the Brain Tuner would produce these results. The proposed complaint further alleges that, in advertising the Rhythm, the respondents falsely represented that they relied upon a reasonable basis for their representations that use of the Rhythm would relieve muscle, digestive, and nervous ailments; tone muscles; help the user lose weight; and relieve backaches, headaches, muscle pain, stiff shoulders, insomnia, and fatigue. With respect toe the respondent's advertising for the Aerobic Eye Exercise Glasses, the proposed complaint alleges that the respondents falsely represented that wearing the glasses results in long-term vision improvement, that they are an adequate substitute for prescription glasses or contact lenses, and that the testimonial contained in the advertisement reflected the typical or ordinary experience of consumers who have used the product. The proposed complaint further alleges that the respondents falsely represented that they relied upon a reasonable basis for these representations. The proposed consent order contains provisions designed to prevent the respondents from engaging in similar acts and practices in the future. Parts I, II, and III of the proposed order prohibit the respondents from making the representations challenged as false in the proposed complaint for Fuelon, Vitalizer, and the Aerobic Eye Exercise Glasses. Part IV of the proposed order prohibit the respondents from misrepresenting the existence, contents validity, results, conclusions, or interpretations of any test or study. Part V of the proposed order prohibits the respondents from representing that use of any automotive fuel economy product will result in fuel economy improvement unless they rely upon competent ad reliable scientific tests which substantiate such representations. This part of the order lists two test procedures as examples of ``competent and reliable scientific tests`` of automotive fuel economy products and further requires the respondents to disclose any limitations upon the applicability of any test results to other vehicles. This part also requires the respondents to include the following disclaimer when making certain fuel economy improvement claims: ``REMINDER: Your actual saving may vary. It depends on the kind of driving you do how you drive, and the condition of your car.'' Part IV of the proposed order prohibits the respondents from representing that the use of any product will have any effect on specific medical conditions or any other effect on health or the structure or function of the human body, or that any product will have any effect on automobile performance, unless they possess competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. Part VII of the proposed order prohibits the respondents from making any representation for any consumer electric or electronic product regarding its performance, safety, attributes, benefits or efficacy unless they possess competent and reliable evidence, which, when appropriate, must be competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. The terms of Part VII do not apply to representations made for a specified list of products; however, these products are not exempted from the other terms of the order. Part VIII of the proposed order prohibits the respondents from misrepresenting that any endorsement for a product represented or intended to have any effect on health or the structure or function of the human body reflects the typical or ordinary experience of members of the public who use the product. Parts IX, X, XI, XII, and XIII relate to the respondents' obligation to maintain records, distribute the order to current and future officers and employees, notify the Commission of changes in business or corporate structure, and file compliance reports with the Commission. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate the public comment on the proposed order, and it is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12622 Filed 5&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
