FR940214-0-00043 FR940214-0-00004 ␣ 1␣ 1Minimum 1Maximum One-story buildings 10 14 Two-story buildings 14 18 Three or more story buildings 18 22 (i) For example: A 24-unit project composed of two-story buildings must have a site of at least 1.3 acres. FmHA will finance the purchase and development of larger sites, but not more than 1.7 acres. Ranges for projects with a mixture of building heights can be interpolated. (ii) An exception may be made to this provision only if the site in question is the only site available in the market area and its size, shape, or condition makes a portion of the site unsuitable for building. An exception to this requirement must be granted by the State Director or a designee. The applicant must provide written documentation that no other sites are available. (7) Sound judgment and common sense must also be used in construction inspections and final acceptance of projects. Field staff involved in these activities must be careful not to impose additional or unreasonable requirements on the builder that will increase construction costs. States should consider hiring enough construction inspectors to provide more than the required inspections and to allow multiple unscheduled and unannounced visits. The State Office may also, with National Office authorization, contract for inspection services to deter deviations from the FmHA-accepted construction documents. Prefinal and final inspections must be conducted by qualified FmHA personnel. (8) Buildings will not include numerous wall and roof breaks, unusual designs requiring excessive corners and foundation off-sets, or that require more exterior entrances than absolutely necessary. Designs will not be considered acceptable that place dining facilities in structures attached to the main building when these amenities can be less expensively included within the main structure. (9) Buildings will not include roof slopes less than 3/12 nor greater than 6/12 unless otherwise required by local authorities or in order to accommodate severe weather conditions. (10) The use of repeat designs will be required from applicants whose architects have designed projects previously approved by FmHA. This does not mean ``cloned'' projects are required throughout the State and/or region. When a repeat design is being used in the same community, the exterior facade (such as color, siding material, etc.) must be noticeably changed except in the case of subsequent phases. The State Office architect will ensure that sufficient differences are included in the proposed plans which will preclude the appearance of ``cloned'' designs. ``Predesigned'' buildings must fit the basic existing contours of the proposed site. (11) The following facilities are considered nonessential and will not be included in the loan unless required by local codes or ordinances: (i) Garages/covered parking; (ii) Bay/box/picture or similar type windows; (iii) Fireplaces; (iv) Community room furniture; (v) Sliding glass/atrium or similar type doors; (vi) Materials atypical for the area; (vii) Atriums/solariums; (viii) Saunas; (ix) Whirlpools; (x) Gyms (facilities to accommodate physical exercises may be included in elderly projects without regard to this restriction); and (xi) Swimming pools. (12) Other design features which will only be accepted if determined customary for the area are:
