FR940727-0-00155 FR940727-0-00028 (b) Application rating system. (1) Applications that meet the threshold requirements established in paragraph (a) of this section will be rated competitively within each field office's jurisdiction. (c) Periodic NOFAs will weigh and define the rating factors contained in this subpart. Each field office will rate applications on the basis of their responsiveness to the factors contained in this subpart and in the periodic NOFAs. (d) Set-aside selection of projects. If funds have been set aside by statute for a specific purpose in any fiscal year, other criteria pertinent to the set-aside may be used to select projects for funding from the set-aside. §953.303 Housing rating category. (a)(1) The ``housing rating'' category consists of three components: (i) Housing rehabilitation; (ii) Land to support new housing; and (iii) New housing construction. (2) Housing rehabilitation and new housing construction consist of three parts: (i) Project need and design; (ii) Planning and implementation; and (iii) Leveraging. (3) Land to support new housing consists of two parts: (i) Project need; and (ii) Planning and implementation. (4) Housing projects will be assigned to the appropriate component for rating and may receive a maximum of 100 points. (b) The applicant shall assure that it will use project funds to rehabilitate units only when the homeowner's payments are current or the homeowner is current in a repayment agreement that is subject to approval by the field office. The field office may grant exceptions on a case-by-case basis to this requirement. (c) New housing construction can only be implemented through a nonprofit organization that is eligible under §953.202 or is otherwise eligible under §570.207(b)(3) of this title. All applicants for new housing construction grants shall adopt, by current tribal resolution, construction standards prior to submitting an application. All applications for new housing construction projects must document that: (1) No other housing is available in the immediate reservation area that is suitable for the household(s) to be assisted; and (2) No other sources can meet the needs of the household(s) to be served; and (3) Rehabilitation of the unit occupied by the household to be housed is not economically feasible; or (4) The household to be housed currently is in an overcrowded unit (sharing unit with other household(s)); or (5) The household to be housed has no current residence. (d) Housing rehabilitation component. (1) All applicants for housing rehabilitation projects shall adopt rehabilitation standards and rehabilitation policies, prior to submitting an application. The following criteria will be used to rate housing rehabilitation applications. (i) Project need and design. (ii) Planning and implementation. (iii) Leveraging. (2) The NOFA will contain the specific housing rehabilitation rating criteria which are designed to measure need, cost of rehabilitating houses to a standard condition, benefit to low and moderate income persons and other factors. (e) Land to support new housing rating component. (1) The following criteria will be used to rate applications for land to support new housing. (i) Project need. (ii) Planning and implementation. (2) The NOFA will contain the specific rating criteria which are designed to measure need, cost, benefit to low and moderate income persons and other factors for applications for land to support new housing. (f) New housing construction rating component. (1) New housing construction can only be implemented through a nonprofit organization that is eligible under §953.202 or is otherwise eligible under §570.207(b)(3) of this title. The following criteria will be used to rate applications for new housing construction. (i) Project need and design. (ii) Planning and implementation. (iii) Leveraging. (2) The NOFA will contain the specific rating criteria which are designed to measure need, cost, benefit to low and moderate income persons and other factors for applications for new housing construction. §953.304 Community facilities rating category. (a)(1) The ``community facilities rating'' category consists of two components: (i) Infrastructure, such as water, sewer or roads; and (ii) Buildings, such as a community center or child care facility. (2) Each component consists of three parts: (i) Project need and design; (ii) Planning and implementation; and (iii) Leveraging. (3) Community facilities projects will be assigned to the appropriate component for rating and may receive a maximum of 100 points.
