FR940627-0-00187 FR940627-0-00019 (1) When such disparate additive products are for the same purpose-in-use and are not ordinarily used in the fuel simultaneously, the fuel manufacturer shall be responsible for testing (or participating in the group testing of) a separate formulation for each such additive product. Testing related to each additive product shall be performed on a mixture of the additive in the applicable base fuel, as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, or by participation in the costs of testing the designated representative of the fuel/additive group to which each separate atypical additive product belongs. (2) When the disparate additive products are not for the same purpose-in-use, the fuel manufacturer shall nevertheless be responsible for testing a separate formulation for each such additive product, as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, if these additives are not ordinarily blended together in the same commercial formulation of the fuel. (3) When the disparate additive products are ordinarily blended together in the same commercial formulation of the fuel, then the fuel manufacturer shall be responsible for the testing of a single test formulation containing all such simultaneously used atypical additive products. Alternatively, this responsibility can be satisfied by enrolling such fuel product in a group which includes other fuel or additive products with the same total combination of atypical elements as that occurring in the fuel product in question. If the basic registration data for the subject fuel includes any alternative additives which contain atypical elements not represented in the test formulation, then the fuel manufacturer is also responsible for testing a separate formulation for each such additional disparate additive product. (k) Emission Control System Testing. If any information submitted in accordance with this subpart or any other information available to EPA shows that a fuel or fuel additive may have a deleterious effect on the performance of any emission control system or device currently in use or which has been developed to a point where in a reasonable time it would be in general use were such effect avoided, EPA may, in its judgment, require testing to determine whether such effects in fact exist. Such testing will be required in accordance with such protocols and schedules as the Administrator shall reasonably require and shall be paid for by the fuel or fuel additive manufacturer. §79.52 Tier 1. (a) General Specifications. Tier 1 requires manufacturers of designated fuels or fuel additives (or groups of manufacturers pursuant to §79.56) to supply to the Administrator: the identity and concentration of certain emission products of such fuels or additives; an analysis of potential emissions exposures; and any available information regarding the health and welfare effects of the whole and speciated emissions. In addition to any information required under §79.59 and in conformance with the reporting requirements thereof, manufacturers shall provide, pursuant to the timing provisions of §79.51(c), the following information. (b) Emissions Characterization. Manufacturers must provide a characterization of the emission products which are generated by evaporation (if required pursuant to §79.58(b)) and by combustion of the fuel or additive/base fuel mixture in a motor vehicle. For this purpose, manufacturers may perform the characterization procedures described in this section or may rely on existing emission characterization data. To be considered adequate in lieu of performing new emission characterization procedures, the data must be the result of tests using the product in question or using a fuel or additive/base fuel mixture meeting the same grouping criteria as the product in question. In addition, the emissions must be generated in a manner reasonably similar to those described in §79.57, and the characterization procedures must be adequately performed and documented and must give results reasonably comparable to those which would be obtained by performing the procedures described herein. Reports of previous tests must be sufficiently detailed to allow EPA to judge the adequacy of protocols, techniques, and conclusions. After the manufacturer's submittal of such data, if EPA finds that the manufacturer has relied upon inadequate test data, then the manufacturer will not be considered to be in compliance until the corresponding tests have been conducted and the results submitted to EPA. (1) General Provisions. (i) The emissions to be characterized shall be generated, collected, and stored according to the processes described in §79.57. Characterization of combustion and evaporative emissions shall be performed separately on each emission sample collected during the applicable emission generation procedure. (ii) As provided in §79.57(d), if the emission generation vehicle/engine is ordinarily equipped with an emission aftertreatment device, then all requirements in this section for the characterization of combustion emissions must be completed both with and without the aftertreatment device in a functional state. The emissions shall be generated three times (on three different days) without a functional aftertreatment device and, if applicable, three times (on three different days) with a functional aftertreatment device, and each such time shall be analyzed according to the remaining provisions in this paragraph (b) of this section. (iii) Measurement of background emissions. It is required that ambient/dilution air be analyzed for levels of background chemical species present at the time of emission sampling (for both combustion and evaporative emissions) and that background chemical species profiles be reported with emissions speciation data. Background chemical species measurement/analysis during the FTP is specified in §§86.109&hyph;94(c)(5) and 86.135&hyph;94 of this chapter.
