FR940202-0-00012 FR940202-0-00003 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Office of Thrift Supervision 12 CFR Part 567 [No. 93&hyph;145] RIN 1550&hyph;AA49 Regulatory Capital: Intangible Assets AGENCY: Office of Thrift Supervision, Treasury. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) is amending its risk-based capital treatment of intangible assets held by savings associations. These amendments implement section 475 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), which requires the OTS and each of the other federal banking regulators to determine the amount of purchased mortgage servicing rights (PMSRs) that insured depository institutions may include in capital. Section 475 also requires PMSRs to be included in capital at 90 percent of market value, calculated at least quarterly. This rule defines ``qualifying intangible assets'' as PMSRs and purchased credit card relationships (PCCRs). Such assets may be included in the aggregate in core capital calculations up to 50 percent of core capital, provided that PCCRs may not exceed a sublimit of 25 percent of core capital. Savings associations may include the same dollar amount of PMSRs in tangible capital that they include in core capital. These assets must be valued at the lower of 90 percent of fair market value (in accordance with section 475 of FDICIA) or 100 percent of remaining unamortized book value computed in accordance with instructions to the Thrift Financial Report. PMSRs and PCCRs in excess of applicable limits, as well as core deposit intangibles (CDIs) and other types of nonqualifying intangibles, must be deducted from both assets and capital in calculating core and tangible capital. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John F. Connolly, Program Manager, Capital Policy, (202) 906&hyph;6465, Supervision Policy; Evelyne Bonhomme, Counsel (Banking and Finance), (202) 906&hyph;7052, Deborah Dakin, Assistant Chief Counsel, (202) 906&hyph;6445, Regulations and Legislation Division, Chief Counsel's Office, Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20552. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background and Description of Proposal In April 1992, the OTS proposed to amend its capital treatment of intangible assets. 57 FR 12761 (April 13, 1992). The public comment period closed on May 13, 1992. The proposal was based on a tentative agreement on the treatment of intangible assets reached by the OTS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) (collectively with the OTS referred to as the ``federal banking agencies'' or ``agencies''). Previously, all of the agencies allowed PMSRs to count towards core (Tier 1) capital calculations, with qualitative and quantitative limits that varied among the agencies. Each agency had determined that PMSRs generally met criteria comparable to those set forth in section 567.5(a)(2)(ii) of the OTS capital regulation, which provides that: (1) The intangible asset must be able to be separated and sold apart from the savings association or from the bulk of the association's assets; (2) the market value of the intangible asset must be established on an annual basis through an identifiable stream of cash flows, and there must be a high degree of certainty that the asset will hold this market value notwithstanding the future prospects of the savings association; and (3) the savings association must demonstrate and document that a market exists that will provide liquidity for the intangible asset. The agencies differed on the extent to which other intangibles met this three-part test and treated such assets differently in calculating capital. The OTS policy, which is being modified with the adoption of this rule, was that other identifiable intangible assets, specifically CDIs, could satisfy the three-part test. The OTS did not require the deduction of such other qualifying intangible assets from capital, but limited them to 25 percent of core capital. All the agencies limited the amount of qualifying intangibles that institutions could include in capital. 1 The FDIC and the OTS also imposed certain PMSR valuation requirements and reduced the amount of PMSRs reported on the balance sheet to the lesser of: (1) 90 percent of fair market value; (2) 90 percent of original purchase price; or (3) 100 percent of remaining unamortized book value. 1 Before the enactment of section 475 of FDICIA, savings associations' PMSR holdings were subject to quantitative limits set by the FDIC, as well as by the qualitative standards of the FDIC and OCC. Under the FDIC's PMSR rule, thrifts could include PMSRs up to 50 percent of core capital and 100 percent of tangible capital.
