FR940902-2-00131 FR940902-2-00053 II. Ratings of Certificates After consideration of the representations of the Applicants and information provided by S&P's, Moody's, D&P and Fitch, the Department has decided to condition exemptive relief upon the certificates having attained a rating in one of the three highest generic rating categories from S&P's, Moody's, D&P or Fitch. The Department believes that the rating condition will permit the Applicants flexibility in structuring trusts containing a variety of mortgages and other receivables while ensuring that the interests of plans investing in certificates are protected. The Department also believes that the ratings are indicative of the relative safety of investments in trusts containing secured receivables. The Department is conditioning the proposed exemptive relief upon each particular type of asset-backed security having been rated in one of the three highest rating categories for at least one year and having been sold to investors other than plans for at least one year. 13 13 In referring to different ``types'' of asset-backed securities, the Department means certificates representing interests in trusts containing different ``types'' of receivables, such as single family residential mortgages, multi-family residential mortgages, commercial mortgages, home equity loans, auto loan receivables, installment obligations for consumer durables secured by purchase money security interests, etc. The Department intends this condition to require that certificates in which a plan invests are of the type that have been rated (in one of the three highest generic rating categories by S&P's, D&P, Fitch or Moody's) and purchased by investors other than plans for at least one year prior to the plan's investment pursuant to the proposed exemption. In this regard, the Department does not intend to require that the particular assets contained in a trust must have been ``seasoned'' (e.g., originated at least one year prior to the plan's investment in the trust). III. Limited Section 406(b) and Section 407(a) Relief for Sales The Applicants represent that in some cases a trust sponsor, trustee, servicer, insurer, and obligor with respect to receivables contained in a trust, or an underwriter of certificates may be a pre-existing party in interest with respect to an investing plan. 14 In these cases, a direct or indirect sale of certificates by that party in interest to the plan would be a prohibited sale or exchange of property under section 406(a)(1)(A) of the Act. 15 Likewise, issues are raised under section 406(a)(1)(D) of the Act where a plan fiduciary causes a plan to purchase certificates where trust funds will be used to benefit a party in interest. 14 In this regard, we note that the exemptive relief proposed herein is limited to certificates with respect to which the Applicants or any of their affiliates are either (a) the sole underwriter or manager or co-manager of the underwriting syndicate, (b) a selling or placement agent, or (c) the sponsor, in which case an entity which has received from the Department an individual prohibited transaction exemption relating to certificates which is similar to this exemption is the sole underwriter or the manager or co-manager of the underwriting syndicate, or a selling or placement agent. 15 The Applicants represent that where a trust sponsor is one of the Applicants or its affiliate, sales to plans by the sponsor may be exempt under PTE 75&hyph;1, Part II (relating to purchases and sales of securities by broker-dealers and their affiliates), if none of the Applicants is a fiduciary with respect to plan assets to be invested in certificates. Additionally, the Applicants represent that a trust sponsor, servicer, trustee, insurer, and obligor with respect to receivables contained in a trust, or an underwriter of certificates representing an interest in a trust may be a fiduciary with respect to an investing plan. The Applicants represent that the exercise of fiduciary authority by any of these parties to cause the plan to invest in certificates representing an interest in the trust would violate section 406(b)(1), and in some cases section 406(b)(2), of the Act. Moreover, the Applicants represent that to the extent there is a plan asset ``look through'' to the underlying assets of a trust, the investment in certificates by a plan covering employees of an obligor under receivables contained in a trust may be prohibited by sections 406(a) and 407(a) of the Act. After consideration of the issues involved, the Department has determined to provide the limited sections 406(b) and 407(a) relief as specified in the proposed exemption. NOTICE TO INTERESTED PERSONS: The Applicants represent that because those potentially interested participants and beneficiaries cannot all be identified, the only practical means of notifying such participants and beneficiaries of this proposed exemption is by the publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Comments and requests for a hearing must be received by the Department not later than 30 days from the date of publication of this notice of proposed exemption in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary Lefkowitz of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8881. (This is not a toll-free number.)
