FR941005-1-00006 FR941005-1-00002 The petitioner's primary concern is that it and other NRC licensees are not always notified of proposed and completed changes in Agreement State regulations that can directly affect themselves and their customers in Agreement States. The petitioner is also concerned that because it is often not aware of Agreement State regulatory actions, it does not have the opportunity to fully participate in the rulemaking process as is intended by NRC regulations. As part of its petition for rulemaking, the petitioner has included copies of various correspondence with Agreement State radiation control boards and the NRC, and cites specific cases in the Agreement States of Oregon and Texas that it believes will illustrate that the current rules are unduly burdensome, deficient, and in need of strengthening. For example, in Oregon, regulatory changes are proposed that would eliminate the general license authorizing the petitioner to install, transfer, demonstrate, or provide service and would require the petitioner to obtain a specific license from Oregon in order to conduct business. If these proposed regulations are adopted, the petitioner states that it will be able to ship sensors to a customer in Oregon only after confirming that the customer has an appropriate specific license. The petitioner is concerned not only that the proposed regulations would impose additional burdens and costs on it and its customers in conducting business in Oregon, but also that it was not provided ample opportunity to comment on the proposed rules or to participate in the rulemaking process. Although the petitioner attempted to learn about any proposed or adopted regulatory changes by writing to the Oregon Radiation Control Section on several occasions between June 1991 and January 1994, it did not receive a response. The lack of response led the petitioner to believe that Oregon had not modified its 1987 radiological control regulations even though the current version of the Oregon Administrative Rules for the Control of Radiation was adopted in 1991. The petitioner stated that it only became aware of the changes in Oregon's notification requirements in February 1994 when informally contacted by an out-of-state health physics colleague. The petitioner also described a case in which it did not learn of regulatory modifications adopted by the Agreement State of Texas in 1993 until after the rules became effective. These regulations govern distribution and service involving generally licensed devices. The petitioner claims that the new requirements are costly and administratively burdensome and again expressed the concern that it was not able to participate in discussions of proposed rules that affect it and its customers before the rules became effective. The petitioner acknowledges that although some State's radiation control agencies are conscientious in notifying out-of-state distributors or service groups about proposed and completed regulatory changes, many do not make such an effort. For these reasons, the petitioner indicates that it and other firms have no way of knowing when copies of a State's regulations are no longer valid and, consequently, have no opportunity to participate in the rulemaking process. The petitioner stated that its efforts to gain information regarding Agreement State regulatory changes are costly, time-consuming, and often ineffective. To alleviate this situation, the petitioner proposes that 10 CFR 150.31 be amended to require Agreement States to notify the NRC of any proposed regulatory actions and that 10 CFR Part 2 be amended to require the NRC to publish the Agreement State notices of proposed regulatory actions in the Federal Register .
