FR940208-2-00077 FR940208-2-00063 Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste; Meeting The Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste (ACNW) will hold its 61st meeting on Wednesday and Thursday, February 23 and 24, 1994, in Room P&hyph;110, 7920 Norfolk Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance. The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Wednesday, February 23, 1994_8:30 a.m. until 6 p.m. Thursday, February 24, 1994_8:30 a.m. until 6 p.m. During this meeting the Committee plans to consider the following: A. HLW Topical Report Position Paper _Hear a briefing by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff on its approach to reviewing the DOE's topical reports on issue resolution in high-level waste management, including the staff's protocol and methodology in the Topical Report Position Paper. B. Agreement States Compatibility _Discuss with the staff the issues of Agreement States' adequacy and compatibility with NRC regulatory programs necessary to protect public health and safety. ACNW focus will be on low-level waste disposal facilities. C. Yucca Mountain Exploratory Studies Facility (ESF) _Discuss with the staff DOE's response to recent staff concerns regarding design control issues related to ESF. D. Pneumatic Pathways _Hear NRC staff's views on pneumatic pathway concerns raised by the State of Nevada. E. Volcanism Related to a High-Level Waste Repository _Review the current status of NMSS and RES staff work (including efforts at the Center) on volcanism related to an HLW repository. F. Natural Analog Studies _Review results from natural analog studies and examine their use as input to performance assessment evaluations of an HLW repository. G. Design Basis Event for the Geologic Repository Operations Area _Discuss with the staff issues related to the definition of ``important to safety'' that arise from the design basis event for the geologic repository operations area. This will be an initial discussion for orientation. H. Future Activities _Discuss topics proposed for consideration by the full Committee during future meetings. I. Miscellaneous _Discuss miscellaneous matters related to the conduct of Committee activities and organizational activities and complete discussion of matters and specific issues that were not completed during previous meetings, as time and availability of information permit. Procedures for the conduct of and participation in ACNW meetings were published in the Federal Register on June 6, 1988 (53 FR 20699). In accordance with these procedures, oral or written statements may be presented by members of the public, electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Committee, its consultants, and staff. The ACRS Office is providing staff support for the ACNW. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the Executive Director of the ACRS Office as far in advance as practical so that appropriate arrangements can be made to allow the necessary time during the meeting for such statements. Use of still, motion picture, and television cameras during this meeting may be limited to selected portions of the meeting as determined by the ACNW Chairman. Information regarding the time to be set aside for this purpose may be obtained by contacting the Executive Director of the office of the ACRS, Dr. John T. Larkins (telephone 301/492&hyph;4516), prior to the meeting. In view of the possibility that the schedule for ACNW meetings may be adjusted by the Chairman as necessary to facilitate the conduct of the meeting, persons planning to attend should check with the ACNW Executive Director or call the recording (301/492&hyph;4600) for the current schedule if such rescheduling would result in major inconvenience. Dated: February 2, 1994. John C. Hoyle, Advisory Committee Management Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2793 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
