FR940207-1-00006 FR940207-1-00001 (C) Employment of a similar nature for dependents of members of the force and members of the civilian component of the United States assigned to official duty in the NATO member state employing the principal alien is not prohibited by that NATO member state's government; (D) The proposed employment is not in an occupation listed in the Department of Labor's Schedule B (20 CFR part 656), or otherwise determined by the Department of Labor to be one for which there is an oversupply of qualified United States workers in the area of proposed employment. This Schedule B restriction does not apply to a dependent son or daughter who is a full-time student if the employment is part-time, consisting of not more than 20 hours per week, and/or if it is temporary employment of not more than 12 weeks during school holiday periods; and (E) The proposed employment is not contrary to the interest of the United States. Employment contrary to the interest of the United States includes, but is not limited to, the employment of NATO-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 dependents: who have criminal records; who have violated United States immigration laws or regulations, or visa laws or regulations; who have worked illegally in the United States; and/or who cannot establish that they have paid taxes and social security on income from current or previous United States employment. (iii) The Department of State shall inform the Service (U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service; Headquarters, Adjudications; Attention: Chief, Nonimmigrant Branch; 425 I Street NW., Washington, DC 20536) of any additions or changes to the formal bilateral employment agreements and informal de facto reciprocal arrangements. (4) Applicability of a formal bilateral agreement or an informal de facto arrangement for NATO-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 dependents. The applicability of a formal bilateral agreement shall be based on the NATO member state which employs the principal alien and not on the nationality of the principal alien or dependent. The applicability of an informal de facto arrangement shall be based on the NATO member state which employs the principal alien, and the principal alien also must be a national of the NATO member state which employs him or her in the United States. A dependent of a SACLANT employee who is a national of a NATO member state, which has a bilateral dependent employment agreement with the United States which includes NATO members, shall be eligible to apply for employment authorization under terms of that agreement. A dependent of a SACLANT employee who is a national of a NATO member state, which has a de facto dependent employment arrangement with the United States which includes NATO members, shall be eligible to apply for employment authorization under terms of that de facto arrangement. (5) Application procedures. The following procedures are required for dependent employment applications under bilateral agreements and de facto arrangements: (i) The dependent shall submit to the Service a completed Form I&hyph;765 with the fee as required in ยง103.7(b)(1) of this chapter and a letter from SACLANT or the Department of Defense, certified pursuant to paragraph (s)(5)(i)(H) of this section. The letter shall include the following information: (A) The name of the applicant and his or her date of birth and nationality; (B) The applicant's immigration status;
