FR940429-0-00180 FR940429-0-00015 Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the procedure for prorating the awards for students attending programs that are less than an academic year needs to be clarified. However, the Secretary does not believe that 15 weeks of instructional time is an adequate minimum standard for two-thirds of an academic year. If the minimum standard for a full academic year is 30 weeks, the minimum standard for two-thirds of an academic year should be two-thirds of 30 weeks (20 weeks). Changes: A change has been made. In §668.2, the Secretary defines two-thirds of an academic year as a period that is at least two-thirds of an academic year as determined by an institution. At a minimum, two-thirds of an academic year must be a period that begins on the first day of classes and ends on the last day of classes or examinations and is a minimum of 20 weeks of instructional time during which, for an undergraduate course of study, a full-time student is expected to complete at least 16 semester or trimester hours or 24 quarter hours in an educational program whose length is measured in credit hours or 600 clock hours in an educational program whose length is measured in clock hours. For an institution whose academic year has been reduced under §668.3, one-third of an academic year is the pro-rated equivalent, as measured in weeks and credit or clock hours, of at least two-thirds of the institution's academic year. In §668.2, the Secretary also defines one-third of an academic year as a period that is at least one-third of an academic year as determined by an institution. At a minimum, one-third of an academic year must be a period that begins on the first day of classes and ends on the last day of classes or examinations and is a minimum of 10 weeks of instructional time during which, for an undergraduate course of study, a full-time student is expected to complete at least 8 semester or trimester hours or 12 quarter hours in an educational program whose length is measured in credit hours or 300 clock hours in an educational program whose length is measured in clock hours. For an institution whose academic year has been reduced under §668.3, one-third of an academic year is the pro-rated equivalent, as measured in weeks and credit or clock hours, of at least one- third of the institution's academic year. Comments: Several commenters suggested that the definition of an academic year in §668.2 should be amended to reflect the provision in the Technical Amendments of 1993 specifying that the definition of academic year in section 481 of the HEA applies only to an undergraduate course of study. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that a limitation in the definition of academic year needs to be included in §668.2. However, the Secretary notes that the requirement that an academic year require a minimum of 30 weeks of instructional time applies to both undergraduate and graduate courses of study. Changes: A change has been made to clarify that the amount of instruction that a full-time student is required to complete during an academic year applies only to an undergraduate course of study. Full-time student. Comments: Several commenters believed that the Secretary should address the potential for abuse under the definition of academic year for educational programs that are measured in credit hours. One commenter suggested that the Secretary establish a weekly minimum full-time workload for full-time students in these programs by tying quarter hours to actual quarters to prevent an institution from claiming to offer a full academic year's worth of work over a thirty-week period by giving a full-time student a small amount of instruction, which the institution claims to be equivalent to 24 semester or 36 quarter hours. The commenter also suggested that the Secretary eliminate the use of quarter or semester hours for institutions that do not have quarters or semesters and instead require those institutions to measure their programs in clock hours. Two commenters urged the Secretary to reject any mechanism where the institution would be responsible for self-measuring the quantity of work required because it would be too easy for unscrupulous institutions to evade. Instead, the commenters recommended that only bona fide courses, related work, research, or special studies would count toward whether a student would be full-time, and that each institution's quantification would have to be approved during the certification process set forth in §668.13. One commenter also suggested that the Secretary change the procedures and not permit institutions to measure workloads for term or semester based schools in clock hours, because the clock hour schedules permitted institutions to compress the course offerings into too short a time period. A few commenters advised that the clock hour/credit hour regulation would provide the protection necessary for the weekly schedules of students enrolled at institutions offering credit hours without terms, and recommended that no further action be taken in changing the proposed definition of full-time student. Several other commenters stated that they believed the proposed definition was sufficient to prevent abuse without further additions to establish a minimum full-time course workload. One commenter suggested that no stricter definition be adopted for full-time students enrolled at institutions offering credit hours without terms because this area is currently addressed by accrediting agencies, which are in a better position to evaluate the variety of delivery systems used by postsecondary institutions. One commenter also questioned whether it was fair to adopt a more stringent criterion for credit hour programs without academic terms rather than adopting uniform criteria and standards for full-time students for all sectors of postsecondary education. One commenter suggested that the proposed definition was unfair because it requires the same number of credit hours for a student regardless of whether the courses are measured in semester hours or quarter hours, resulting in students having to perform a greater quantity of work during a quarter calendar if they were taking semester hours. Several other commenters suggested that the proposed definition was unfair because it would prohibit students from taking cooperative employment for periods that were less than eighteen weeks. These commenters suggested that shorter periods of cooperative education should be accepted in conjunction with a smaller number of credits so long as the workload was pro-rated to match the academic workload of a full-time student. For example, a student taking cooperative education for one-fourth of the credits necessary to be a full-time student would have to complete the cooperative training in one-fourth of the time allotted to a full-time student in an eighteen week program. Two other commenters stated that the proposed definition would establish workloads that could not readily be satisfied by part-time students or students that were taking evening or weekend classes. These commenters believed that students in these circumstances were often making many more sacrifices to pursue their education than full-time day students, and that it was unfair to reduce or eliminate aid that these students currently receive because they do not carry enough credits to qualify for comparable aid under the proposed regulations. One commenter suggested that the in-class attendance should be the only component of the student workload considered for this provision, and that under that standard the definition for full-time student would require at least 12 hours of attendance per week to correspond to the 12 credit hour workload. A few other commenters suggested that the proposed definition be clarified to show that only students taking classes ``entirely'' by correspondence would not be required to meet the workload requirements set out in the proposed definition. Others suggested that the language for credit hour workloads be amended to show that trimester hours would require the equivalent workload for semester hours for academic terms and academic years. Discussion: As stated in the February 28, 1994 NPRM, this definition of full-time student is based primarily on the longstanding definition found in the Federal Pell Grant and the campus-based program regulations. The Secretary believes this definition of full-time student has proved to be appropriate and effective and does not believe any substantive changes are necessary. The Secretary notes that this definition is now applicable for purposes of all Title IV, HEA programs. The individual Title IV, HEA program regulations will be amended at a later date to remove the definition of full-time student.
