FR940505-1-00016 FR940505-1-00008 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Parts 1, 73 and 76 [MM Docket No. 94&hyph;34, FCC 94&hyph;103] Notice of Inquiry Regarding Broadcast and Cable Television EEO Rules and Policies AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule; notice of inquiry. SUMMARY: This Notice of Inquiry in MM Docket No. 94&hyph;34 seeks comment on the Commission's current equal employment opportunity (EEO) rules and policies, and proposals for changes in promoting equality of employment opportunity and promotion opportunity in the cable, broadcast, and other telecommunications industries. This proceeding is initiated in order to assist the Commission in complying with section 22(g) of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, which requires the Commission to file a report to Congress on the effectiveness of its EEO policies. DATES: Initial comments due May 23, 1994; reply comments due June 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Hope G. Cooper, Mass Media Bureau, Enforcement Division. (202) 632&hyph;7069. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a synopsis of the Notice of Inquiry in MM Docket No. 94&hyph;34, FCC 94&hyph;103, adopted April 20, 1994, and released April 21, 1994. The complete text of this Notice of Inquiry is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference Center (room 239), 19919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC, and may also be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, at (202) 857&hyph;3800, 2100 M Street, NW., suite 140, Washington, DC 20037. Synopsis of Notice of Inquiry 1. To assist the Commission in implementing section 22(g) of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, which requires the Commission to file a report to Congress on the effectiveness of its EEO policies, the Commission adopted a notice of inquiry. This notice of inquiry outlines the Commission's broadcast and cable EEO rules, policies and procedures; suggests proposals for changes to these rules; and invites comments on ways that the Commission can more efficiently enforce these rules. To focus the comments the Commission has set forth a number of areas where changes might be considered. 2. The Commission asks how its EEO policies can reflect the concerns of broadcasters who indicate difficulties in meeting EEO requirements due to their location in small markets. The Commission seeks information concerning how ``small market broadcasters'' should be defined and what process should be implemented to identify such broadcasters. 3. The Commission asks if there is a way to decrease any administrative burdens placed on broadcasters by the Commission without decreasing the effectiveness of the Commission's broadcast EEO enforcement. The Commission's primary focus is on full-time hires and employment. The Commission seeks comment as to whether the requirement for efforts documentation of part-time hires should be eliminated for all broadcasters. The Commission seeks comment as to whether its inquiry letters should be revised to request information for the entire license term or for some other period to time instead of the three years of information that is presently asked for. It also seeks comment as to whether to supplement its renewal inquiry procedures by conducting on-site audits. The Commission seeks comment on possible revisions to the Broadcast Renewal Application which presently asks for examples of recruitment sources contacted, the number of female and minority referrals received from recruitment sources and the number of overall as well as upper-level hires occurring during the 12-month period prior to filing the application. These revisions include requesting information for only full-time hires, requesting that the information required by the form be divided by full and part-time hires and requesting more detailed recruitment and hiring information. The Commission also requests comment on revising the Broadcast Station Annual Employment Report to request information be collected for the same 15 job categories as is now required for cable operators and multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs). 4. The Commission requests comment as to whether broadcasters should be required to encourage minority and female entrepreneurs to conduct business with all parts of their operation given that the Commission already requires cable operators and MVPDs to do so. Given that the Commission now gives credit to broadcasters and cable operators for using minority/female sources and/or obtaining minority/female referrals with other licensees and cable operators, respectively, the Commission seeks comment as to what it can do to encourage joint recruitment efforts by licensees and joint recruitment efforts by licensees and joint recruitment efforts by cable operators. 5. The Commission asks if its broadcast and cable EEO enforcement is adequate regarding the promotion and retention of minority and female employees and, if not, to what extent should changes be made. 6. The Commission asks if there is a way to decrease any administrative burdens placed on a cable operators by the Commission without decreasing the effectiveness of the Commission's cable EEO enforcement. It asks for comment on the job title information and information regarding 15 job categories required in the Cable Television Annual Employment Reports. It also seeks comment on whether it should require cable operators to maintain certain types of records about their recruitment efforts for a specified period of time. It seeks comment on its present method for selection cable audit locations. This method is to select a region of the country based on such factors as the concentration of minorities in the available labor force and the number of employment units in the area and then review Cable Television Annual Employment Reports of units in that area that fall below the processing guidelines and/or have employment discrepancies. The Commission also seeks comment on whether the remedies and sanctions available to redress violations of the cable EEO rules, which include admonishment, reporting conditions, forfeitures and suspension of the cable antenna real service license, are adequate. If not, the Commission asks what other remedies and sanctions Congress might provide in order to enforce the cable EEO rules, particularly with respect to furthering the congressional goal of increased opportunities for minorities and women in managerial positions. 7. The Commission seeks comment as to how it can better enable cable operators and MVPDs to meet their EEO goals and as to how it can better inform cable operators, MVPDs and the public about their EEO obligations. 8. The Commission seeks comment on all of the foregoing as well as the appropriate application and enforcement of its EEO policies in connection with new and Emerging communication technologies. Administrative Matters Ex Parte: This is a non-restricted proceeding subject to 47 CFR ยง1.1206(b)(2). Comments. Interested parties may file comments on or before May 23, 1994, and reply comments on or before June 7, 1994. List of Subjects 47 CFR Part 1 Non-restricted proceedings, Radio. 47 CFR Part 73 Television and radio broadcasting, Equal employment opportunity, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 47 CFR Part 76 Equal employment opportunity, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10792 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
