FR940930-1-00074 FR940930-1-00020 (d) Timing of discretionary allotments. Discretionary allotment payments shall be made in accordance with the schedule established by the Government Originator, provided such allotment credits are not effected until the related earnings have accrued. (e) Payment of discretionary allotments. Discretionary allotments shall be made following the policy and procedures outlined in Subpart A for non-benefit payments, and in conformance with other requirements published by the Service. Subpart D_Savings Allotments §210.14 General. (a) Scope. This subpart applies only to savings allotments. Provisions for certain other types of allotments, for example, dues to labor organizations, can be found in 5 CFR part 550, subpart C. The regulations in this part do not supersede, and shall not be used to circumvent, the requirements of particular statutes, Executive Orders or other executive branch regulations. (b) Required use of the Automated Clearing House method. Savings allotments shall be made by ACH entry, when cost effective, practicable, and consistent with current statutory authority. (c) Policy for savings allotments for Government employees. Any employee whose place of employment is within the boundaries of the United States or its territories may authorize an allotment of pay for a savings account under the regulations in this part. ``Savings account'' as used herein means an account (single or joint) for the purchase of shares (other than shares of stock) or for the deposit of savings in any RDFI. The title of the account shall include the name of the authorizing employee. The head of the employing Government participant shall honor requests for allotment of pay for savings accounts if: (1) The Government employee provides the Government participant with an authorization; and, (2) The authorization has not been canceled by the employee, in writing, or otherwise terminated or revoked; and, (3) Not more than two such allotments for any employee are in effect at any time; and, (4) The amount of salary or wages becoming due an employee for any pay period thereafter is sufficient to cover the allotment(s). In making any determination under this paragraph, all payroll deductions otherwise required shall have precedence over those authorized by this section; and, (5) The purpose of the allotment is not to circumvent statutes, Executive Orders, and other executive branch regulations, regardless of the manner in which the allotment for savings will be disposed of by the employee (which is at the employee's discretion). Subpart E_Definitions §210.15 Definitions. As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires: Allotment means a recurring specified deduction from pay of a Government employee for a legal purpose authorized by the employee. Allotter means the employee from whose pay an allotment is made. Automated Clearing House or ACH means a funds transfer system which provides for the interbank clearing of electronic entries for participants. Beneficiary means a natural person who is entitled to receive a benefit payment, or portion thereof, from the Government. Benefit Payment is a credit of funds for any Federal entitlement program or annuity, originated by a Government participant. Benefit payments may be either one-time disbursements or recurring payments. A list of benefit payments is published by the Service in operating guidelines. Only benefit payments are subject to the reclamation provisions of this part. Erroneous Payment means a benefit payment made after the death or legal incapacity of a Receiver or the death of a beneficiary. Erroneous payment is an operational term used by Government participants to refer to the payments described in the preceding sentence. Erroneous payments are subject to the 45-day liability rule of §210.10 and the reclamation provisions of §§210.8 through 210.12. Government means any department, independent establishment, board, office, commission, or other establishment in the executive, legislative (except the Senate and House of Representatives), or judicial branch of the Federal Government, including any wholly-owned or controlled Federal Government corporation, responsible for authorizing and initiating an ACH entry.
