FR941107-2-00162 FR941107-2-00090 11. The Fund will comply with all provisions of the 1940 Act requiring voting by shareholders. More specifically, the Fund will either: (a) Provide for annual meetings (except insofar as the Commission may interpret Section 16 of the 1940 Act not to require such meetings); or (b) comply with Sections 16(a) and 16(c) of the 1940 Act and, if and when applicable, Section 16(b) of the 1940 Act. Further, the Fund will act in accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the requirements of Section 16(a) with respect to periodic election of directors, and with whatever rules the Commission may promulgate with respect thereto. 12. The Fund shall disclose in its prospectus that: (a) It is intended as a funding vehicle for all types of variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts offered by various insurance companies; (b) material irreconcilable conflicts between the interests of contract owners of all Separate Accounts investing in the Fund may arise; and (c) the directors of the Fund will monitor events in order to identify the existence of any material irreconcilable conflicts and to determine what action, if any, should be taken in response to any such conflict. The Fund will notify all Participating Insurance Companies that Separate Account prospectus disclosure regarding potential risks of ``mixed'' and ``shared'' funding may be appropriate. 13. If and to the extent that Rules 6e&hyph;2 and Rule 6e&hyph;3(T) under the 1940 Act are amended, or Rule 6e&hyph;3 under the 1940 Act is adopted, to provide exemptive relief from any provision of the 1940 Act or the rules promulgated thereunder with respect to ``mixed'' or ``shared'' funding on terms and conditions materially different from any exemptions granted in the order requested in this application, the Fund and/or Participating Insurance Companies, as appropriate, shall take such steps as may be necessary to comply with Rules 6e&hyph;2, 6e&hyph;3(T), or Rule 6e&hyph;3, as such rules are applicable. 14. At least annually, the Participating Insurance Companies and/or DFA shall submit to the directors of the Fund such reports, materials, or data as the directors reasonably may request so that the directors may fully carry out the obligations imposed upon the board of directors by the conditions contained in this application; said reports, materials, and data shall be submitted more frequently if deemed appropriate by the directors. The obligations of the Participating Insurance Companies to provide these reports, materials, and data to the directors of the Fund upon reasonable request shall be a contractual obligation of all Participating Insurance Companies under their agreements governing participation in the Fund. 15. All reports of potential or existing conflicts received by the directors of the Fund, and all actions by the directors with regard to determining the existence of a conflict, notifying Participating Insurance Companies of a conflict, and determining whether any proposed action adequately remedies a conflict, will be properly recorded in the minutes of the directors or other appropriate records. Such minutes and other records shall be made available to the Commission upon request. Conclusion For the reasons stated above, Applicants submit that the requested exemptions from Sections 9(a), 13(a), 15(a) and 15(b) of the 1940 Act, and Rules 6e&hyph;2 and 6e&hyph;3(T) thereunder are appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. Accordingly, Applicants submit that the requested exemptions meet the applicable statutory standards of Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27446 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
