FR941117-0-00163 FR941117-0-00011 ยง22.944 Transfers of interests in applications. This section governs transfers of interest in applicants having a pending application for a new cellular system. For the purposes of this section, ``interest in an application'' means interest in the applicant. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the transfer of any interest in any application for initial authorization to operate a cellular system is prohibited. For the purposes of this section, transfer of interest means the sale, assignment, placement of equity or convertible debt, grant of an option or future share or participation in the applicant or any interest thereof. (b) The following types of transfers of interest in cellular applications are permitted: (1) Transfers that are necessary to raise capital, including the placement of debt or equity, to finance a bona fide business need of the applicant or an affiliated company, not related to the cellular application or financing of the cellular system proposed therein; (2) Transfers that are part of a bona fide sale of an ongoing business to which the cellular applications are merely adjunct or incidental; (3) Transfers required by a court-ordered decree granting a divorce or enforcing a spousal separation agreement; (4) Transfers necessitated by the death of the applicant; (5) Transfers involving the routine trading of shares in a publicly traded corporation that do not constitute a transfer of control of the applicant; (6) Transfers resulting from pro forma transfers of control of the applicant, not involving changes in ownership; (7) Transfers involving only the transfer of interest by one existing partner in a partnership applicant to another existing partner in that same partnership, or between existing shareholders in a closely-held corporation, which does not effect a transfer of control of the applicant; (8) Transfers resulting from the alienation or exercise of stock warrants or stock options that existed prior to the filing of the application. ยง22.945 Interests in multiple applications. This section governs interests in applicants with mutually exclusive applications for a new cellular system. For the purposes of this section, ``interest in an application'' means interest in the applicant. (a) General. Except as otherwise provided in this section, parties must not have any interest, direct or indirect, in more than one application for authority to operate a new cellular system in the same cellular market.
