FR941021-0-00038 FR941021-0-00002 (5) The borrower is current or not more than one installment behind on any and all FP loans at the time the scheduled installment(s) will be set-aside as reflected on the Finance Office 540 or 582 status reports. (6) The borrower's projected income for the disaster year was reduced as a result of the disaster, causing insufficient income available to pay all family living and operating expenses, debts to other creditors, and FmHA. This determination will be based on the borrower's actual production and income and expense records for the disaster year. (7) The term remaining on the loan(s) receiving DSA equals or exceeds 2 years from the due date of the installment being set-aside. (8) All FP and NP farm type loans will be current after the scheduled installments are set-aside. (9) The borrower's FP loan(s) was not restructured under subpart S of this part after the 1993 disaster. §§1951.954&hyph;1951.956 [Reserved] §1951.957 Eligibility determination and processing. (a) Eligibility determination. Upon receipt of a DSA request, the County Supervisor will determine whether the borrower meets the eligibility requirements set forth in §1951.953(c) of this subpart and notify the borrower of the results within 30 days from the date of the DSA request. The file shall contain documentation to reflect the date of request and the date the borrower was notified and the addendum signed. (1) The borrower shall be provided up to 30 days to sign Exhibit A of this subpart, (available in any FmHA Office). If Exhibit A is not signed within 30 days and prior to the borrower becoming more than one installment behind, the DSA request will be withdrawn and the borrower notified of their rights to an appeal review in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. Note: If borrower becomes more than one installment behind, he/she is no longer eligible. (2) Pending requests for primary loan servicing will continue to be considered as set forth in subpart S of this part. However, borrowers cannot accept servicing under both programs. (i) Borrowers determined eligible for the DSA program and primary loan servicing in accordance with subpart S of this part will be required to choose between the two program requests. The choice will be noted in the borrower case file and initialed by the borrower. (ii) Borrowers may choose to proceed with the DSA program prior to a decision being made for primary loan servicing such as in cases where a decision will not be available on the primary loan servicing application prior to the borrower becoming more than one installment behind. (iii) The application for the program not chosen will automatically be withdrawn at the time the installment(s) is set-aside or the loan(s) restructured, whichever is applicable. This voluntary withdrawal is not appealable. (iv) By signing Exhibit A of this subpart, (available in any FmHA Office), the borrower agrees to the withdrawal of any pending request for primary loan servicing. The borrower may resubmit a request at any time according to subpart S of this part. (b) Processing. Installments will be set-aside as set forth in this paragraph. (1) All borrowers liable for the debt will sign Exhibit A of this subpart, (available in any FmHA Office), for each loan installment set-aside. Exhibit A may be modified with the assistance of the Office of the General Counsel to comply with individual State laws. (2) Only one unpaid installment for each FP loan may be set-aside. (i) The installment set-aside will be the first scheduled annual installment due immediately after the disaster occurred, or if that installment is paid current, the next scheduled annual installment. Set-aside will not be granted on the loan if both of these installments are paid current.
