FR941027-2-00148 FR941027-2-00083 Appendix B Potential applicants frequently direct questions to officials of the Department regarding application notices and programmatic and administrative regulations governing various direct grant programs. To assist potential applicants the Department has assembled the following most commonly asked questions. Q. Can we get an extension of the deadline? A. No. A closing date may be changed only under extraordinary circumstances. Any change must be announced in the Federal Register and apply to all applications. Waivers for individual applications cannot be granted regardless of the circumstances. Q. How many copies of the application should I submit and must they be bound? A. Our new policy calls for an original and six copies to be submitted. The binding of applications is optional. Q. May we use this same application to compete for funds under a different grant program? A. Yes, however, the likelihood of success is not good. A properly prepared application must meet the specifications of the grant program to which it is submitted. Q. I'm not sure which grant program is most appropriate for my project. What should I do? A. We are happy to provide general program information. Clearly, it would not be appropriate for staff to participate in the actual writing of an application, but we can respond to specific questions about application requirements, evaluation criteria, and the priorities. Applicants should understand that this previous contact is not required, nor will it in any way influence the success of an application. Q. When will I find out if I'm going to be funded? A. You can expect to receive notification within 3 to 4 months of the application closing date, depending on the number of applications received and the number of grant programs with closing dates at about the same time. Q. Once my application has been reviewed by the review panel, can you tell me the outcome? A. No. Every year we are called by a number of applicants who have legitimate reasons for needing to know the outcome of the review prior to official notification. Some applicants need to make job decisions, some need to notify a local school district, etc. Regardless of the reason, because final funding decisions have not been made at that point, we cannot share information about the review with anyone. Q. Will my application be returned if I am not funded? A. We no longer return unsuccessful applications. Thus applicants should retain at least one copy of the application. Q. Can I obtain copies of reviewers' comments?
