FR940304-2-00047 FR940304-2-00034 8. Proposed respondents have read the proposed complaint and order contemplated hereby. They understand that once the order has been issued, they may be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that they have fully complied with the order. Proposed respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final. Order I It is ordered that, as used in this Order, the following definitions shall apply: A. ``Columbia'' means Columbia Healthcare Corporation, a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of Delaware, with its principal place of business at 201 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202, as well as its directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives, parents, divisions subsidiaries, affiliates, and their respective successors and assigns, and the directors, officers, employees, agents, or representatives of Columbia's divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, and their respective successors and assigns. B. ``HCA'' means HCA-Hospital Corporation of America, a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of Delaware, with its principal place of business at One Park Plaza, Nashville, Tennessee 37203, as well as its directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives, parents, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, and their respective successors and assigns, and the directors, officers, employees, agents, or representatives of HCA's divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, and their respective successors and assigns. C. ``Respondents'' means Columbia and HCA, collectively and individually. D. ``Acute care hospital'' means a health facility, other than a federally owned facility, having a duly organized governing body with overall administrative and professional responsibility, and an organized medical staff, that provides 24-hour inpatient care, as well as outpatient services, and having as a primary function the provision of inpatient services for medical diagnosis, treatment, and care of physically injured or sick persons with short-term or episodic health problems or infirmities. E. To ``acquire an acute care hospital'' means to directly or indirectly acquire the whole or any part of the assets of an acute care hospital; to acquire the whole or any part of the stock or share capital of, the right to designate directly or indirectly directors or trustees of, or any equity or other interest in, any person which operates an acute care hospital; or to enter into any other arrangement to obtain direct or indirect ownership, management or control of an acute care hospital or any part thereof, including but not limited to a lease of or management contract for an acute care hospital. F. To ``operate an acute care hospital'' means to own, lease, manage, or otherwise control or direct the operations of an acute care hospital, directly or indirectly. G. ``Affiliate'' means any entity whose management and policies are controlled in any way, directly or indirectly, by the person with which it is affiliated. H. ``Person'' means any natural person, partnership, corporation, company, association, trust, joint venture or other business or legal entity, including any governmental agency. I. ``Augusta-Aiken'' means the three-county area consisting of the counties of Richmond and Columbia in Georgia and Aiken County in South Carolina. J. ``HCA Aiken Regional Medical Center'' means the general acute care hospital currently owned and operated by HCA at 202 University Parkway, Aiken, South Carolina 29801, all of its title, properties, stock, rights, privileges, and other assets and interests, and all other related HCA assets and interests in Augusta-Aiken, of whatever nature, tangible and intangible, including without limitation all medical office buildings, other buildings, machinery, equipment, and other property of whatever description, except for accounts receivable and cash. K. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission.
