FR941005-1-00025 FR941005-1-00004 Commenters are requested to provide an evaluation of this option for defining the assessment base, in terms of the following criteria discussed in section III of this Notice: 41. Fairness 42. Measurability 43. Relation to Risk 44. Non-Avoidability 45. Recordkeeping Burden 46. Any other criteria suggested by the commenter. Commenters are also requested to respond to the following specific questions regarding this option: 47. In order to alleviate any additional reporting burden associated with reporting precise amounts of insured deposits under this option, would it be desirable to develop a ``proxy'' for insured deposits for assessment purposes? If so, what would be an acceptable method of approximation? 48. Identify other advantages or disadvantages of this option for defining the assessment base. G. Assessment Base of Total Assets Under this option, the assessment base would equal an institution's total assets. Conceptually, an argument can be made for charging premiums against those items which pose a risk of loss to the deposit insurance funds, such as an institution's assets. An assessment base defined in terms of assets might be more easily understood and less prone to manipulation for assessment-avoidance purposes than liability-based measures. Based on Report of Condition data, it could be easily measured and perhaps more predictable than a deposit-based definition. It also would insulate the assessment base from liability-structure decisions of the institution, creating an assessment base that is neutral with respect to an institution's liabilities. Because all assets would be included in the base, this definition also could reduce the risk of assessment avoidance. While conceptually appealing, this approach would be a substantial departure from tradition, and there would be no direct relationship between those items assessed and those items insured. Commenters are requested to provide an evaluation of this option for defining the assessment base, in terms of the following criteria discussed earlier in section III of this Notice: 49. Fairness 50. Measurability 51. Relation to Risk 52. Non-Avoidability 53. Recordkeeping Burden 54. Any other criteria suggested by the commenter. Commenters are also requested to respond to the following specific questions regarding this option: 55. As discussed in this section, there can be advantages to an assessment base founded on assets. However, given that numerically, total liabilities is equivalent to total assets, net of equity, what would be the advantages and disadvantages of using total assets, net of equity, instead of total liabilities, to define the assessment base? 56. Would an assessment base defined in terms of assets be more reflective of risk to the deposit insurance funds, and, if so, how?
