FR940516-1-00109 FR940516-1-00006 Finally, EPA has not verified that the operating modes in the proposed test procedures are the optimal representation of what happens in actual use. Any test cycle is at best an approximation of the operating conditions experienced by engines in actual use. Indeed, any one engine will be installed in a range of equipment types and will experience a different operating environment in each application. To determine if the test procedures are doing the best possible job at estimating real world operation, EPA intends to collect data on a full range of operating conditions that are not represented in the current test cycle. Manufacturers have presented histograms of a range of equipment operations such that, for purposes of this notice, the test cycle is directionally acceptable. Further investigation may result in a determination that the current cycle adequately covers the range of operation. However, time is not available to make that determination in this proposal. Any of the above mentioned changes to the current proposed test cycle or procedures would require extensive testing and development. All emission data to date is based on the proposed test procedures. Before introducing any change in the test procedures EPA would have to develop emission standards based on the revised procedures and would have to assess emission impact on the procedures. The current timeline constraints provide neither adequate time to properly assess whether any of these changes would benefit the program, nor adequate time to develop appropriate emission standards using the revised procedures. Faced with these constraints, EPA believes that the proposed test procedures are the best available to ensure early emission reduction from the engines covered in this notice. L. Alternative, Oxygenated, and Reformulated Fuels EPA is not proposing the requirement of any specific type of fuel to be used in engines produced to meet the proposed emission standards. EPA's proposal would require that all SI engines under 19 kW meet the proposed standards. This includes SI engines which run on ``alternative'' fuels, such as liquid petroleum gas (LPG) and natural gas. A few research papers have been published which indicate well calibrated spark-ignition engines running on LPG fuel may be able to meet the proposed emission standards with less difficulty than an equivalent engine running on gasoline. EPA proposes to let the engine manufacturer decide what type of fuel a given engine application will use and not require any specific engine to use a ``cleaner'' fuel. EPA's proposal would not allow engines which are designed to run on gasoline to perform certification emission testing using an alternative fuel. EPA understands that oxygenated and reformulated gasoline fuel is currently available in different areas around the United States. However, availability of oxygenated and reformulated fuels varies widely across the country. EPA does not have information that would provide adequate assurance that the alternative fuel, and not gasoline, would be used in these engines in actual use. Faced with the difficulty of tracking small SI engine owners, EPA does not have adequate resources, nor an adequate tracking mechanism to enforce a requirement that small SI engine owners use only the specified alternative fuel. At the same time, preliminary tests performed on small engines using reformulated and oxygenated fuels show approximately a three to five percent improvement in exhaust emission levels of CO and total HC. See the draft RSD in the docket for further discussion of this issue. Reformulated fuel was designed to lower HC levels from on-highway vehicles, primarily engines with fuel injection and catalytic convertors. EPA is not convinced it can reasonably expect the same type of benefit from carbureted single and two-cylinder engines. EPA solicits comment on the feasibility of requiring small SI engines to run only on oxygenated or reformulated fuels. M. HC + NO X Standard for Class I and II Engines EPA is considering two options for setting Class I and II HC and NOx standards. Option 1 would consist of setting a combined standard for emissions of HC and NO X for Class I and II engines. Under option 2, EPA would set separate HC and NO X emission levels for Class I and II engines. Regardless of which option EPA chooses, it anticipates that NO X emission rates from engines meeting this proposed rule's standards will be generally higher than those extremely low NO X levels emitted by current engines. The Agency views this as an inevitable consequence of the level of HC reduction being achieved in this rule. Furthermore, EPA estimates that the resulting increase in NO X emission inventories would be slight enough in this particular case to be warranted given the much greater decrease in HC emission inventories. See ``VI. Environmental Benefit Assessment'' in this preamble. Nonroad small SI engines currently operate on an extremely rich fuel and air mixture_in other words, one that contains a very high proportion of fuel relative to that used by, for example, automotive engines. Because this results both in less complete combustion and much lower peak combustion temperatures, exhaust concentrations of unburned HC are extremely high, while concentrations of NO X are extremely low. As a result, small SI engines contribute appreciably to HC emission inventories, but very little to NO X emission inventories.
