FR940202-1-00015 FR940202-1-00006 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Internal Revenue Service 26 CFR Part 1 [IL&hyph;21&hyph;91] RIN 1545&hyph;AS24 Imposition of Accuracy-Related Penalty AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking by cross reference to temporary regulations. SUMMARY: In the Rules and Regulations section of this issue of the Federal Register , the IRS is issuing temporary regulations that provide guidance on the imposition of the accuracy-related penalty under Internal Revenue Code sections 6662(e) and (h) and section 6664(c) for transactions between persons described in Internal Revenue Code section 482 and net section 482 transfer price adjustments. The text of those temporary regulations also serves as the comment document for this notice of proposed rulemaking. DATES: Comments and requests for a public hearing must be received within June 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send submissions to: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R (IL&hyph;21&hyph;91), room 5228, Internal Revenue Service, POB 7604, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, DC 20044. In the alternative, submissions may be hand delivered to: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R (IL&hyph;21&hyph;91), Internal Revenue Service, room 5228, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20224. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas L. Ralph at (202) 622&hyph;3880 (not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction Act The collection of information contained in this notice of proposed rulemaking has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)). Comments on the collection of information should be sent to the Office of Management and Budget, Attn: Desk Officer for the Department of the Treasury, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503, with copies to the Internal Revenue Service, Attn: IRS Reports Clearance Officer PC:FP, Washington, DC 20224. The collection of information in this notice of proposed rulemaking is in §§1.6662&hyph;6T(d)(2)(iii) and (d)(3)(iii). This information is required by the IRS to implement section 6662(e)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code. This information will be used to determine whether the taxpayer reasonably concluded that the transfer prices charged in related party transactions were consistent with the arm's length standard. The likely recordkeepers are business or other for-profit institutions and small businesses or organizations. These estimates are an approximation of the average time expected to be necessary for a collection of information. They are based on such information as is available to the IRS. Individual recordkeepers may require greater or less time, depending on their particular circumstances. Estimated total annual recordkeeping burden: 20,000 hours. The estimated annual burden per recordkeeper varies from 5 hours to 15 hours, depending on individual circumstances, with an estimated average of 10 hours. Estimated number of recordkeepers: 2000. Background The temporary regulations published in the Rules and Regulations section of this issue of the Federal Register contain amendments to the Income Tax Regulations under sections 6662(e) and (h) and section 6664(c) relating to the imposition of accuracy-related penalties. The final regulations that will result from the regulations proposed in this notice would be based on the text of the temporary regulations and would provide rules relating to the imposition of accuracy-related penalties under those sections for transactions between persons described in section 482 and net section 482 transfer price adjustments. The text of those temporary regulations also serves as the text of these proposed regulations. The preamble to the temporary regulations explains these proposed regulations. Special Analysis It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, this notice of proposed rulemaking will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Comments Before these proposed regulations are adopted as final regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments that are timely submitted (preferably a signed original and eight copies) to the Internal Revenue Service. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying. A public hearing may be scheduled and held upon written request by any person who timely submits written comments on the proposed rules. Notice of the date, time, and place for the hearing will be published in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal author of these proposed regulations is Thomas L. Ralph of the Office of the Associate Chief Counsel (International), Internal Revenue Service. However, other personnel from the IRS and the Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
