FR941110-1-00087 FR941110-1-00011 6. Provision of an Account Reconciliation Period EPA recognizes that as the phaseout enters the final year (1995) for production and consumption of class I controlled substances (except methyl bromide), the administrative task increases for a company to ensure that it has a balance of allowances at the end of the year. This is particularly difficult given the need to meet requirements for each controlled substance and to reconcile transformations, destructions, exports, imports and production. Several companies that produce, import, export, transform or destroy controlled substances have requested a period in which to reconcile all previous transactions in a year. EPA is proposing an administrative change to ease the end-of-year burden of reconciling the balance of allowances without changing the level of environmental protection provided by the regulation. To ease this burden, EPA is proposing a 45-day period of reconciliation beyond the end of the control period in which persons may make inter-pollutant transfers of class I controlled substances as defined in the current regulation. Inter-pollutant transfers of controlled substances can only be made between controlled substances in the same Group as listed in Appendix A and F of Subpart A. In addition, the inter-pollutant transfer must be authorized by EPA and will include a one percent offset. The Agency is proposing that inter-company trades not be allowed past the end of the control period (December 31st of 1995), and every subsequent control period for methyl bromide. The proposal allows for a potential net environmental benefit and greater flexibility for end-of-control-period compliance. The proposed reconciliation period is being limited only to inter-pollutant transfers, in part, to provide a margin of latitude for companies in the final year of the phaseout when balancing production and consumption allowances at the end of year is important before closing the books. For many companies, the final year will be particularly difficult because there is less margin of error afforded in the amount of allowances provided for imports and production. Inter-pollutant transfers at the end of the control period are intra-company adjustments to the balance of allowances through paper accounting rather than an extension of the control period for trades, exports or transfers between companies. EPA seeks comments on the proposed period for the reconciliation of these specific allowances at the end of the control period. 7. Additional Clarifications a. Unintended by-products of research and development. EPA proposes adding the production of unintended by-products of research and development applications to the list of inadvertent or coincidental creation of insignificant quantities of listed substances in Appendix A or Appendix B in the definition of ``controlled substance.'' The Agency is proposing that these inadvertent or coincidental creations of insignificant quantities of unintended by-products during research and development applications not be considered controlled substances. The Agency believes that an unintended by-product a substance generated during research and development can be considered an inadvertent creation of a controlled substance. In addition, EPA received information from various companies that the amounts generated during research and development applications are generally insignificant quantities. The Agency reserves the right to require a person to destroy the unintended by-products of research and development applications if they are determined to be no longer insignificant. b. Export of increased production that is received through a trade from a party. EPA proposes removing the requirements under ยง82.9(b)(vi) and ยง82.10(c)(3) that compel increased production to return to the Party from whom a U.S. producer receives additional production or consumption allowances through an international trade. As a result of this proposal, U.S. companies could receive allowances through an international trade to produce for either the demand within the country from whom the allowances were traded or for the demand in the U.S. domestic market. The proposal would permit greater international market flexibility without increasing global production of ozone-depleting substances. EPA believes that U.S. producers will need greater flexibility to meet domestic demand as they enter the final year before the production of class I controlled substances is phased out (January 1, 1996). Sections 82.9 and 82.10 of the current regulation permit international trades in accordance with the Protocol's definition of ``international rationalization'' as discussed in the Federal Register proposed rule published on December 14, 1987. Today's proposal would further support international rationalization by increasing opportunities for achieving ``economic efficiencies'' globally. Achieving these economic efficiencies is particularly important as all Parties continue to reduce production prior to the phaseout in 1996. EPA seeks comments on the proposed amendment that would allow international trades from Parties to meet market demand for class I controlled substances within the United States. 8. Clarification of Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements EPA is proposing amendments to the current recordkeeping and reporting requirements to more effectively address issues that have arisen and are likely to arise as the phaseout date is near and for the period following the end of production of class I controlled substances in the United States. In addition, EPA proposes to amend reporting and recordkeeping requirements to reflect the proposed changes discussed earlier. a. Reporting and recordkeeping for transformation and destruction. As with the earlier section describing transformation and destruction (Section A.1.), this section distinguishes between the different categories of recordkeeping and reporting requirements for producers, importers, transformers and destroyers.
