FR940711-1-00028 FR940711-1-00003 [ Note: The following appendix will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.] Appendix For the ease of those submitting comments, the following is a compendium of the questions contained in the proposed rule: Index of Questions 1. What categories of costs, in addition to investment costs, should be eligible for stranded cost recovery? How should stranded costs be allocated to specific customers? 2. The Commission invites comments on the direct assignment and alternative methods of stranded cost recovery. Would alternative methods, e.g. , an access charge, give customers reasonable certainty on the scope of their stranded cost obligation more quickly than a direct assignment approach would, and thus expedite the transition to a more competitive wholesale market? 3. To what extent is there or should there be a regulatory obligation to continue to serve requirements customers beyond the end of the contract term and the source of any such obligation? Should section 35.15 of the Commission's regulations, which concerns notice of termination, be deleted in its entirety, or only in certain circumstances ( e.g. , when the seller provides transmission access on a comparable basis to the seller's own uses of its system)? 4. What types of contractual provisions (in addition to notice provisions), if any, might demonstrate a sufficient ``meeting of the minds'' between parties so that renegotiation of existing contracts should be barred? Should the proposed rules regarding existing contracts apply only to contracts between unaffiliated entities? 5. Should the rebuttable presumption which would apply to contracts containing notice provisions also be applied to any contract entered into after the date of enactment of the Energy Policy Act, even though such contract does not contain an exit fee or other explicit stranded cost provision, or a notice provision? 6. Should there be a transition period during which utilities may renegotiate their existing contracts? Should utilities or customers with Mobile-Sierra contracts be able to make unilateral filings or file complaints? Should the Commission make a Mobile-Sierra public interest finding based on company-specific findings instead of generic industry-wide findings? 7. What is the appropriate length for a transition period.
