FR940505-0-00045 FR940505-0-00012 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;53&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8906; AD 94&hyph;09&hyph;17] Airworthiness Directives; McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;10 Series Airplanes and KC&hyph;10A (Military) Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to all McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;10 series airplanes and KC&hyph;10A (military) airplanes. This action requires inspections to determine the serial numbers and to detect defects in the upper and lower lock links on the nose landing gear (NLG), and rework or replacement of any defective link found. This amendment is prompted by reports of cracking and subsequent failure of certain lock links on these airplanes, which have been attributed to forging defects in the lock links. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent collapse of the NLG. DATES: Effective May 20, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of May 20, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before July 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;53&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from McDonnell Douglas Corporation, P.O. Box 1771, Long Beach, California 90801&hyph;1771, Attention: Business Unit Manager, Technical Administrative Support, Dept. L51, M.C. 2&hyph;98. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Maureen Moreland, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ANM&hyph;121L, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California 90806&hyph;2425; telephone (310) 988&hyph;5238; fax (310) 988&hyph;5210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FAA has received a report of cracking and subsequent failure of an upper lock link on the center landing gear (CLG) of a McDonnell Douglas Model MD&hyph;11 series airplane. Results of a subsequent analysis attributed the failure to forging defects in the lock link. An investigation conducted by the manufacturer revealed two additional upper links on the CLG with similar forging defects. The lower lock link on the CLG and the upper and lower lock links on the nose landing gear (NLG) are similar in design and are manufactured by the same supplier as the upper lock link on the CLG; therefore, defective lock links could be installed at any of these locations. Failure of the lock links on the CLG would result in collapse of the CLG; collapse of the CLG would not present an unsafe condition. However, cracking and subsequent failure of the lock links on the NLG, if not corrected, could result in collapse of the NLG. This situation could result in reduced controllability of the airplane during takeoff or landing. The FAA has issued a separate AD to address this unsafe condition on Model MD&hyph;11 series airplanes [reference AD 94&hyph;09&hyph;01, amendment 39&hyph;8889 (59 FR 18722, April 20, 1994)]. However, since the NLG lock links used on Model MD&hyph;11 series airplanes can also be used on Model DC&hyph;10 series airplanes and KC&hyph;10A (military) airplanes, the FAA finds that the latter airplane models also are subject to the identified unsafe condition. The FAA has reviewed and approved McDonnell Douglas DC&hyph;10 Alert Service Bulletin A32&hyph;237, dated April 11, 1994, that describes procedures for a visual inspection to determine the serial numbers of the upper and lower NLG lock links; an eddy current inspection to detect defects in suspect lock links; and rework of any defective lock link found, or replacement of any defective lock link with a servicable link. Reworking or replacing the lock links will minimize the possibility of failure of the lock links on NLG and subsequent collapse of a landing gear. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other Model DC&hyph;10 series airplanes and KC&hyph;10A (military) airplanes of the same type design, this AD is being issued to prevent collapse of the NLG. This AD requires inspections to determine the serial numbers and to detect defects in the upper and lower lock links on the NLG, and rework or replacement of any defective link found. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. This AD also requires that operators submit a report of inspection findings to the FAA. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. The required compliance time of 120 days is usually sufficient to allow for a brief comment period before adoption of a final rule. In this AD, however, that compliance time was selected because of a short-term problem with availability of sufficient replacement parts if defects are found; a shorter compliance time might have resulted in the unnecessary removal of airplanes from service pending delivery of replacement parts. Nevertheless, the FAA has determined that immediate adoption is necessary in this case because of the importance of initiating the required inspections as soon as possible. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;53&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The FAA has determined that this regulation is an emergency regulation that must be issued immediately to correct an unsafe condition in aircraft, and is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866. It has been determined further that this action involves an emergency regulation under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979). If it is determined that this emergency regulation otherwise would be significant under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures, a final regulatory evaluation will be prepared and placed in the Rules Docket. A copy of it, if filed, may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends 14 CFR part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. ยง39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive:
