FR940602-2-00121 FR940602-2-00079 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20320; 812&hyph;8980] The First Trust Special Situations Trust, Oppenheimer Global and Treasury Securities Trust, Series 1 and Subsequent Series, et al.; Notice of Application May 26, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: The First Trust Special Situations Trust, Oppenheimer Global and Treasury Securities Trust, Series 1 and Subsequent Series (the ``Trust''); Oppenheimer Global Fund, Oppenheimer Fund, Oppenheimer Gold & Special Minerals Fund, Oppenheimer Global Growth & Income Fund, Oppenheimer Equity Income Fund, Oppenheimer Main Street Income & Growth Fund; Oppenheimer Asset Allocation Fund; Oppenheimer Global Bio-Tech Fund; Oppenheimer Total Return Fund, Inc., Oppenheimer Discovery Fund, Oppenheimer Time Fund, Oppenheimer Special Fund, and Oppenheimer Target Fund, on behalf of themselves and any open-end management investment companies, other than money market or no-load funds ( i.e., companies that do not impose a sales load, deferred sales load, or bear distribution expenses pursuant to a rule 12b&hyph;1 plan), that may in the future be advised by Oppenheimer Management Corporation or an adviser owned directly or indirectly by it or its parent corporation, Oppenheimer Acquisition Corp. (the ``Funds''); Oppenheimer Management Corporation (the ``Adviser''); Oppenheimer Funds Distributor, Inc. (the ``Distributor''); and Nike Securities L.P. (``Nike,'' together with any sponsor controlled by or under common control with Nike, the ``Sponsor''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) for an exemption from sections 12(d)(1), 14(a), 19(b), and 22(d) and rule 19b&hyph;1; under sections 11 (a) and (c) to permit certain offers of exchange; and under section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1 to permit certain affiliated transactions. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order: (a) Permitting series of the Trust to invest in shares of one of the Funds and zero coupon obligations; (b) exempting the Sponsor from having to take for its own account or place with others $100,000 worth of units in the Trust; (c) permitting the Trust to distribute capital gains resulting from redemptions of Fund shares along with the Trust's regular distributions; (d) permitting waiver of any contingent deferred sales charge otherwise applicable on Fund shares that the Trust has purchased; (e) permitting certain offers of exchange involving the Trust; and (f) permitting certain affiliated transactions involving the Trust. FILING DATES: The application was filed on May 6, 1994. Counsel, on behalf of applicants, has agreed to file a further amendment during the notice period to make certain technical changes. This notice reflects the changes to be made to the application by such further amendment. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on June 20, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: Nike, 1001 Warrenville Road, Lisle, Illinois 60532; Oppenheimer Main Street Income & Growth Fund, Oppenheimer Total Return Fund, Inc., and Oppenheimer Equity Income Fund, 3410 South Galena Street, Denver, Colorado 80231; Other applicants, Two World Trade Center, New York, New York 10048&hyph;0203. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James E. Anderson, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0573, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch.
