FR941216-2-00081 FR941216-2-00043 c. A change has occurred in the availability of the demonstrated technology of practices for the control or abatement of pollutants applicable to the point sources; d. Effluent limitation guidelines are promulgated for point sources covered by this permit; e. A Water Quality Management Plan containing requirements applicable to such point source is approved; or f. The point source(s) covered by this permit no longer: (1) Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations; (2) Discharge the same types of wastes; (3) Require the same effluent limitations or operating conditions; (4) Require the same or similar monitoring; and (5) In the opinion of the RA, are more appropriately controlled under an individual permit than under a general permit. The Regional Administrator (RA) may require any operator authorized by this permit to apply for an individual NPDES permit only if the operator has been notified in writing that a permit application is required. 2. Any operator authorized to discharge by this permit may request to be excluded from the coverage of this general permit by applying for an individual permit. The operator shall submit an application together with the reasons supporting the request to the RA. 3. When an individual NPDES permit is issued to an operator otherwise subject to this general permit, the applicability of this permit to the owner or operator is automatically terminated on the effective date of the individual permit. 4. A source excluded from coverage under this general permit solely because it already has an individual permit may request that its individual permit be revoked, and that it be covered by this general permit. Upon revocation of the individual permit, this general permit shall apply to the source. 5. A petroleum contamination recovery operation may be excluded from this general permit if it proposes discharges to receiving waters that are classified as ``Special Protection, Outstanding Florida Waters, Outstanding National Resource Waters'' as set forth by FAC 62&hyph;302.700, dated April 25, 1993. 6. The permittee shall notify the Permit Issuing Authority within 30 days after the permanent termination of discharge from their facility. This letter shall include the necessary Site Rehabilitation Completion Order (SRCO) from Florida Bureau of Waste Cleanup which constitutes final action on the State level for completion of cleanup activities at the affected site. After review of the SRCO, EPA will inactivate coverage of the general NPDES permit for the facility. Dischargers covered under this general permit without RAP approval shall submit a No Discharge Certification Form to EPA, within 30 days after ceasing discharge. Part III Other Requirements A. Reporting of Monitoring Results Monitoring results obtained for each calendar month shall be summarized and reported on a DMR Form (EPA No. 3320&hyph;1), one DMR for each month. Unless otherwise required in Part V, these forms shall be submitted after each calendar quarter and postmarked no later than the 28th day of the month following the completed calendar quarter. (For example, data for January-March shall be submitted by April 28.) Calendar quarters are January-March, April-June, July-September and October-December. Signed copies of these and all other reports required by Section D of Part II, Reporting Requirements, and Part V shall be submitted to the Permit Issuing Authority at the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region IV, Enforcement Section, Water Permits and Enforcement Branch, 345 Courtland Street, N.E., Atlanta, GA 30365. If no discharge occurs during the reporting period, sampling requirements of this permit do not apply. The statement ``No Discharge'' shall be written on the DMR form. If, during the term of this permit, the facility ceases discharge to surface waters, the Permit Issuing Authority shall be notified immediately upon cessation of discharge.
