FR941110-0-00193 FR941110-0-00016 In cases of repeated or uncorrected deficiencies, imposing a flat, one time civil money penalty for these deficiencies would ignore the statutory requirement to provide for the imposition of incrementally more severe fines for repeated or uncorrected deficiencies as specified in sections 1819(h)(2)(B), 1919(h)(2)(A), and 1919(h)(3)(C) of the Act. While we are providing in redesignated §488.438 that penalties are increased for repeated deficiencies in the same regulatory grouping of requirements, we do not accept the recommendation to double the fines because mandating the magnitude of the increase would detract from the kind of flexibility the Congress gave to the Secretary and the States. With regard to uncorrected deficiencies, we may propose to increase a civil money penalty for those cases in which a lower level penalty amount was imposed should those uncorrected deficiencies become sufficiently serious to pose immediate jeopardy. To assign a flat, one time fine to a single deficiency regardless of its seriousness does not take into consideration the factors included in section 1128A of the Act and specified in §488.438 of this final rule, and ignores the fact that the Act mandates that a civil money penalty, when imposed, be computed for each day of noncompliance. The Act contemplates the imposition of civil money penalties for whatever period HCFA or the State determines the noncompliance exists. Comment: A commenter asked if the hearing officer makes the assessment decision on the amount of the civil money penalty. Response: As previously stated, when a facility requests a hearing on the noncompliance which led to the imposition of the civil money penalty, HCFA or the State will not initiate collection of the penalty until a final administrative decision is rendered which upholds the determination of noncompliance. Upon further analysis, we are adding a paragraph to redesignated §488.438 to explain the reviewability of the civil money penalty that is imposed on a SNF or NF for noncompliance with participation requirements. We now specify that in any case in which an administrative law judge or State hearing officer (or higher administrative review authority) finds that the basis for imposing a civil money penalty exists, as described in §488.430, the administrative law judge or State hearing officer (or higher administrative review authority) may not: set a penalty of zero or reduce a penalty to zero; review the exercise of discretion by the Secretary or the State to impose a civil money penalty; or consider any factors in reviewing the amount of the penalty other than those specified at §488.438(f). In other words, when the administrative law judge or State hearing officer (or higher administrative review authority) finds noncompliance supporting the imposition of the civil money penalty, he or she must remedy it with some amount of penalty consistent with the ranges of penalty amounts established in §488.438. This provision is consistent with other provisions specified in this rule to motivate a SNF's and NF's compliance with participation requirements in which we state that these providers have the opportunity to appeal certifications of noncompliance leading to an enforcement remedy. This provision is also consistent with section 1128A(d) of the Act, which requires that specific factors be considered in determining the amount of any penalty. Section 488.440␣Effective Date and Duration of Penalty Comment: We received many comments on the effective date of the civil money penalty. Some commenters recommended that the effective date: •Be stayed if a hearing is requested; •Begin on the date an appeals decision is issued; or •Begin on the date the facility receives notice of the proposed penalty. A commenter recommended that no civil money penalty be imposed if the facility is in compliance by the effective date of the notice. Many commenters advocated that this regulatory section be changed to require that the effective date of the civil money penalty be the date when the deficiency began as can be documented by the surveyors. They said that the effective date provision of the proposed rule: •Implies a ``grace period'' for providers to correct deficiencies; •Is inconsistent with OBRA '87; •Contradicts §488.230(a)(2) of the proposed rule; •Undermines the States' ability to use civil money penalties; and •Defeats the deterrent effect of this remedy and the goal of encouraging prompt compliance.
