FR940505-1-00505 FR940505-1-00012 (C) A daily emission limitation shall be contained in the Authority to Construct when offsets are not being provided pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, or when required to be consistent with ambient air quality standards. (iii) Design, operational, or equipment standards. If the EPA determines that technological or economic limitations on the application of measurement methodology to a particular class of sources would make the imposition of a numerical emission standard infeasible, the EPA may instead prescribe a design, operational, or equipment standard. In such cases, the EPA shall make a best estimate as to the emission rate that will be achieved. Any permits issued without an enforceable numerical emission standard must contain enforceable conditions that assure that the design characteristics or equipment will be properly maintained, or that the operational conditions will be properly performed, so as to continuously achieve the assumed degree of control. (iv) Offsets. (A) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the operation of any emissions unit or stationary source which provides offsets shall be subject to enforceable permit conditions, containing specific emissions and operational limitations, to ensure that the emission reductions shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this section and shall continue for the reasonably expected life of the proposed emissions unit or stationary source. (B) Where the source of offsets is not required to obtain an Authority to Construct pursuant to ยง52.3000, General Permit Requirements, and ยง52.3002(c)(2), a legally binding contract shall be required between the applicant and the owner or operator of such source. Such contract, by its terms, shall be enforceable by the EPA. For such non-permitted sources, a source-specific SIP revision is required. (C) An internal emission offset will be considered federally enforceable if it is made a SIP requirement by inclusion as a condition of the authority to construct. (D) External offsets must be made enforceable either by revision of an offsetting source's Authority to Construct or by a SIP revision prior to the operation of the emissions unit. (E) A violation of the emission limitation provisions of any contract pursuant to the above stipulations shall be a violation of this section by the applicant. (F) The operation of any emissions unit or stationary source which uses offsets provided by another emissions unit or stationary source shall be subject to enforceable permit conditions, containing specific emissions and operational limits, to ensure that the emission reductions are used in accordance with the provisions of all applicable rules and shall continue for the reasonably expected life of the proposed emissions unit or stationary source. (G) The permanence of emissions reductions may be demonstrated by federally enforceable changes in source permits to reflect a reduced level of allowable emissions. (8) Issuance, replacement unit. Where a new or modified stationary source is, in whole or in part, a replacement for an existing stationary source on the same property, the EPA may allow a maximum of 90 days as a startup period for simultaneous operation of the existing stationary source and the new source or replacement. (9) Regulations in force. An Authority to Construct shall be granted or denied based on Best Available Control Technology requirements and offset requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section in force on the date the application is deemed complete as defined in ยง52.3000(b). In addition, the EPA shall deny an Authority to Construct for any new stationary source or modification, or any portion thereof, unless: (i) The new source or modification, or applicable portion thereof, complies with the provisions of this section and all other applicable district rules and regulations; and (ii) The owner or operator of the proposed new or modified source has certified that all existing major stationary sources owned or operated by such person (or by any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such person) in California which are subject to emission limitations are in compliance, or on an expeditious schedule for compliance, with all applicable emission limitations and standards. (10) Calculation of emissions_BACT. The emissions change for a new or modified emissions unit shall be calculated by subtracting historic actual emissions from proposed emissions. Calculations shall be performed separately for each emissions unit for each calendar quarter.
