FR941227-2-00129 FR941227-2-00087 3. Issuers With Existing Dual Class Structures A number of companies currently have multiple class structures. In addition, after the approval of the Policy, additional companies may adopt multiple class structures consistent with the Policy. For example, a company could have a dual class structure that it implemented prior to adoption of the Policy, or could have a permissible dual class structure resulting from an initial public offering or the issuance of lower voting stock. Under former Rule 19c&hyph;4, such a company generally was prohibited from issuing additional amounts of the higher voting stock unless such issuance did not further disenfranchise existing shareholders. In effect, a company's existing dual class capital structure was permitted only as to securities previously issued that were then outstanding in the market. Under the Policy, there will be no restrictions on the ability of a dual class company to issue additional shares of an existing class of higher voting stock in a capital-raising transaction, via a stock dividend, through the issuance of stock options, or in a stock split. Such a company would not be permitted, however, to adopt a different capital structure that reduces or restricts voting rights, such as a time-phased voting plan, or the issuance of a third class of stock with greater voting rights than shares of any existing class. 4. Grandfather Provision Under the Policy, the SROs will ``grandfather'' all companies listed on the NYSE or Amex or included in the Nasdaq System that have taken action inconsistent with the Policy prior to its approval by the Commission. 20 This will cover NYSE, Amex, or Nasdaq companies that either have (1) issued securities that would have violated the new Policy, or (2) taken all corporate action necessary to authorize such an issuance. Such corporate action includes the required shareholder approval as mandated by the state of incorporation, the corporation's by-laws or articles of incorporation, or the home market. In addition, as noted above, contrary to former Rule 19c&hyph;4, which grandfathered only existing securities, the Policy will in effect grandfather a company's dual class capital structure in its entirety. 21 Finally, the NYSE proposal also specifically states that it will grandfather all NYSE companies that have taken action inconsistent with former Rule 19c&hyph;4 since that rule was vacated. 22 20 Because Nasdaq NMS securities have been subject to a Rule 19c&hyph;4 standard which was adopted and has been enforced by the NASD after the adoption of former Rule 19c&hyph;4, the NASD will grandfather only companies included in the Small Cap Nasdaq segment of the Nasdaq System. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28517 (Oct. 5, 1990), 55 FR 41626 (Oct. 12, 1990). 21 The grandfather provision of the Policy is not limited to dual class structures, but rather extends to the full capital structure of the company including for example securities with time-phased or capped voting rights. 22 The provisions of Rule 19c&hyph;4 were adopted by the NYSE as part of its rules, and have continued to be its standard even after Rule 19c&hyph;4 was vacated. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27554 (December 20, 1989), 54 FR 53227. D. Implementation of the Policy 1. Interaction With Other Markets SRO interpretations under the Policy will be flexible, recognizing that both the capital markets and the circumstances and needs of listed and Nasdaq issuers change over time. At the same time, the Policy will give the SROs broad discretion in reviewing past voting rights actions by companies seeking to list on the Exchanges, or qualify for inclusion in the Nasdaq System. Subject to the foregoing, the SROs will apply the following procedures in providing interpretations under the Policy: •An issuer seeking to list its securities on an Exchange, or qualify for inclusion in the Nasdaq System, may seek advice from the respective SRO with respect to a proposed transaction. In such a case, the SRO would not provide advice under the Policy if the issuer already had sought and received advice from its home market on the transaction. In that instance, the SRO would honor the home market's interpretation. •If an SRO delists or deregisters an issuer's securities for violation of the Policy, the other SROs would not subsequently list or include in Nasdaq the issuer's securities. •The SROs will publish their interpretations under the Policy. These procedures essentially ensure that each SRO will have primary jurisdiction to provide advice to issuers in its own market. 2. SRO Review of Past Issuances The SROs will have flexibility in reviewing the circumstances of the original issuance of any class of stock, including non-voting stock, in determining whether to list such stock or permit its inclusion in the Nasdaq System. For example, if a company issues stock shortly before seeking to list or qualify for inclusion, and such an issuance would have been a violation of the Policy had the issuer been listed on the Exchange or included in the Nasdaq System, the Exchanges generally would not list the stock and the NASD would not include the stock in the Nasdaq System. Similarly, if the issuer voluntarily delisted from an Exchange or withdrew from the Nasdaq System in order to effect such an issuance, the SROs also generally would not list the stock or include it in the Nasdaq System. There are other situations, however, in which such a prior issuance would not necessarily be a bar to listing on the Exchanges or inclusion in the Nasdaq System. For example, a company whose stock is traded over-the-counter but not included in the Nasdaq System, such as on the NASD's Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, might effect such an issuance well before the issuer contemplated listing on an Exchange or seeking to be qualified for inclusion in the Nasdaq System. Under certain circumstances, it may be appropriate for the SRO to permit the listing or inclusion of such stock. To maintain necessary flexibility, this area will be left open to the SROs for application to the particular facts and circumstances of each case. 23 23 Thus, the NYSE's Amendment No. 1 deletes the absolute prohibition against listing non-voting common stock previously issued in a manner not in conformity with the Policy. See note 4, supra.
