FR940505-1-00112 FR940505-1-00012 During the 1993 legislative session, the California legislature considered but did not pass legislation which would have authorized the upgrade of the Smog Check network. Citing concerns over jobs and consumer convenience, state legislators advanced a bill designed to improve the State's failing Smog Check system without fundamentally changing its test-and-repair structure. Although the bill contained some important measures, EPA had to inform the legislature that the bill fell short of meeting the Clean Air Act's standards for an enhanced I/M program. EPA officials are continuing to work with the California legislative leadership in the hopes of achieving consensus on a program design which would meet both the Clean Air Act requirements and California's unique needs. EPA is proposing an enhanced I/M program design which incorporates the most sophisticated testing techniques with features to maximize consumer convenience and to mimimize the cost of inspection. If the State should develop and adopt an alternative program design which meets the Act's performance standard for enhanced I/M programs prior to finalization of the FIP, then the alternative program will be proposed for approval as a State plan revision and its reductions will be substituted for those which would be expected from a federally imposed I/M program. EPA would propose additional measures if necessary to provide equivalent emission reductions as part of the FIP attainment demonstration. Once the FIP I/M program is finalized, however, the State will need to meet not only the requirements of the I/M rule, but will have to produce a plan that fills any shortfall between the State I/M program and the FIP I/M program, so as not to jeopardize the FIP's required attainment demonstration. This could be done through the State I/M program or other emission reductions. (4) Summary of Proposed Federal Enhanced I/M Program. The proposed program would cover all model year 1966 and newer onroad, gasoline-fueled vehicles_including heavy-duty trucks but excluding motorcycles_and would be conducted on a biennial basis to optimize the measure's emission reduction potential and cost effectiveness, as well as to minimize the disruption created by any transition from the current, state-run Smog Check program. The proposed program would be conducted in a network of test-only stations (i.e., stations in which both owners and operators are legally barred from profiting either directly or indirectly from the sale and servicing of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts). The tests performed would include a transient, mass-emissions tailpipe test known as the IM240 which would measure hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and oxides of nitrogen; purge and pressure tests to assure that the evaporative control system is working properly; and a visual antitampering inspection for the presence and proper connection of the positive crankcase ventilation (PCV) and air systems. EPA intends to enter into a legal agreement with one or more entities for the performance of all possible program activities, other than enforcement of the motorist registration requirement, and oversight requirements which would constitute a conflict of interest. This entity shall hereafter be referred to as the ``test provider.'' The biennnial test is estimated to cost between $20 and $25, and the average wait time at the high volume inspection stations should average less than ten minutes. A more detailed discussion of the FIP's proposed I/M program and its various program elements follows: (a) Applicability. The enhanced I/M requirement will apply to all vehicles registered, or required to be registered, in the counties listed in Table IM&hyph;1 and to vehicles in commercial fleets which are primarily operated within these same counties. Vehicles which are operated on Federal installations located within the I/M program area must also comply with the I/M requirements regardless of their registration status. Table XX&hyph;X._Counties Included in the Enhanced I/M Program 1Sacramento area 1Ventura 1South coast Sacramento Ventura Los Angeles. Yolo Orange. Placer (part) Riverside (part). Solano San Bernardino (part). lSutter. lEl Dorado (part). Note: The portions of Riverside, San Bernardino, Placer, and El Dorado counties to be covered by the FIP I/M program would be the same as are currently covered by the State's Smog Check program. The current Smog Check program covers more than the required areas, and therefore carrying this coverage over into the FIP I/M program is sufficient to satisfy the Act's enhanced I/M requirements. EPA is requesting comment, however, on whether the geographic coverage is sufficient to include all significant contributors to FIP area emissions and whether there is any reason that it should be expanded beyond the scope of the existing I/M areas. (b) Enforcement. Under this proposal, the Secretary of State of California, the California Department of Motor Vehicles, its employees, any any other persons representing the State of California are prohibited from registering any subject vehicle which does not present a valid certificate of compliance with or a valid waiver from the FIP's I/M program requirements. At Federal installations, where vehicles may not have California registration, the vehicles may not be issued a base sticker or other operating permit without evidence of compliance with enhanced I/M program requirements. EPA or the test provider(s) will issue these certificates.
