FR940912-0-00040 FR940912-0-00006 (4) Responsibilities. At a minimum, the System Audit Committee shall: (i) Make recommendations to the board of the Funding Corporation regarding the selection of an independent auditor of the Systemwide combined financial statements; (ii) Oversee the Funding Corporation management's preparation of the report to investors; (iii) Review the impact of any significant accounting and auditing developments, and review accounting policy changes relating to preparation of the Systemwide combined financial statements; (iv) Review the System's annual and quarterly reports to investors prior to their release; and (v) Oversee the Funding Corporation's system of internal controls relating to preparation of the report, including controls relating to the System's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. (b) Farm Credit System bank audit committees. (1) Each System bank shall establish and maintain a bank audit committee that shall report to the board of the bank. (2) The bank audit committee shall consist of no fewer than three members. Members shall be independent of management and free from any relationship that, in the opinion of the board of directors of the bank, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment as a committee member. Members shall be knowledgeable in public and corporate finance, and financial reporting and disclosure. (3) Responsibilities. At a minimum, the bank audit committee shall: (i) Review the bank's financial statements and significant accounting policies; (ii) Oversee the bank's financial reporting regarding its disclosure to shareholders and to the Funding Corporation for disclosure to investors; (iii) Oversee the audit activities of the external auditor; and (iv) Monitor internal controls, including those relating to compliance with laws and regulations. Subpart B_Annual Report to Investors ยง630.20 Contents of the annual report to investors. The annual report shall contain the following: (a) Description of business. (1) The description shall include a brief discussion of the following: (i) The System's overall organizational structure, its lending institutions by type and their respective authorities, the relationships between different types of institutions, and the overall geographic area and eligible borrowers served by those institutions; (ii) The types of lending activities engaged in and financial services offered by System institutions; (iii) Any significant developments within the last 5 years that have had or could have a material impact on the System's organizational structure and the manner in which System institutions conduct business, including, but not limited to, statutory or regulatory changes, mergers or liquidations of System institutions, terminations of System institution status, and financial assistance provided by or to System institutions through loss-sharing or capital preservation agreements or from any other source; (iv) Any acquisition or disposition of material assets during the last fiscal year that took place outside the ordinary course of business; (v) Any concentrations of more than 10 percent of total assets in particular types of agricultural activities or businesses, and any dependence of an institution or a group of institutions of the System upon a specific activity or business, a single customer, or a few customers, including other financing institutions (OFIs), as defined in ยง614.4540(e) of this chapter, the loss of any one of which would have a material effect on the System; and (vi) The authority of System institutions to purchase and sell interests in loans in secondary markets and the risk involved in such activities.
