FR941012-2-00137 FR941012-2-00092 Office of Defense Trade Controls [Public Notice 2090] Munitions Exports Involving Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Company, Suleiman A. Nassar and Allen R. Love AGENCY: Department of State. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that it shall be the policy of the Department of State to deny all export license applications and other requests for approval pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, that request authorization for the export or transfer by, for or to, or involve directly or indirectly, LOCKHEED AERONAUTICAL SYSTEMS COMPANY, SULEIMAN A. NASSAR AND ALLEN R. LOVE and any of their subsidiaries, or successor entities in connection with the transfer of defense articles of defense services. (This denial policy does not affect any other divisions of Lockheed Corporation.) This policy also precludes the use in connection with such entities of any exemptions from license or other approval included in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR Parts 120&hyph;130) except as those exemptions directly pertain to licenses or other written approvals granted prior to June 22, 1994. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 22, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary F. Sweeney, Acting Chief, Compliance and Enforcement Branch, Office of Defense Trade Controls, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Department of State (703&hyph;875&hyph;6650). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A nine (9) count indictment was returned on June 22, 1994, in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia, charging Lockheed Corporation (Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Company, a division of Lockheed Corporation), Suleiman A. Nassar (employee of Lockheed Corporation International S.A.) and Allen R. Love (employee of Lockheed Aeronautical Systems) with conspiracy (18 U.S.C. §371) to violate and violation of section 104 of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (15 U.S.C. §78dd&hyph;1 and 78ff(c)(2). The indictment charges that the defendants conspired to retain a consultant, who was a member of the Egyptian Parliament, to use influence with Egyptian government officials in an effort to assist Lockheed in procuring a contract for the sale of three C&hyph;130 Hercules Aircraft to Government of Egypt. ( United States v. Lockheed Corporation, et al., U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia, Criminal Docket No. 1:94-CR&hyph;226). On June 22, 1994, the Department of State instituted a policy of denial of all requests for licenses and other written approvals (including all activities under manufacturing license and technical assistance agreements) concerning exports of defense articles and provision of defense services, by, for or to, or involving directly or indirectly, the above-named defendants and any of their subsidiaries or successor entities. Furthermore, the Department precluded the use in connection with those defendants of any exemptions from license or other approval included in the ITAR except as those exemptions directly pertain to licenses or other written approvals granted prior to June 22, 1994. This action has been taken pursuant to sections 38 and 42 of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) (22 U.S.C. §§2778 & 2791) and 22 CFR 126.7(a)(2) and 126.7(a)(3) of the ITAR. It will remain in force until rescinded. Exceptions may be made to this denial policy on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of the Office of Defense Trade Controls. However, such an exception would be granted only after a full review of all circumstances, paying particular attention to the following factors: whether an exception is warranted by overriding U.S. foreign policy or national security interests; whether an exception would further law enforcement concerns; and whether other compelling circumstances exist which are consistent with the foreign policy or national security interests of the United States, and which do not conflict with law enforcement concerns. As a result of a recent review of the policy involving indicted persons, a person (as defined at 22 CFR 120.14) named in an indictment for an AECA-related violation may submit a written request for reconsideration of the denial decision to the Office of Defense Trade Controls. Such request for reconsideration should be supported by evidence of remedial measures taken to prevent future violations of the AECA and/or the ITAR and other pertinent documented information showing that the person would not be a risk for future violations of the AECA and/or the ITAR. The Office of Defense Trade Controls will evaluate the submission in consultation with the Departments of Treasury, Justice, and other necessary agencies. After a decision on the request for reconsideration has been rendered by the Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs, the requester will be notified whether the exception has been granted. Dated: August 17, 1994. Thomas E. McNamara, Acting Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Department of State. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25092 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;25&hyph;M
