FR941110-0-00072 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Two commenters suggested that ยง488.307(b) be changed to provide that HCFA shall identify successful scheduling methods, distribute them, then monitor State agency performance, taking corrective action when necessary. One commenter thought that the way the provision was written, an agency gets constructive suggestions about scheduling surveys only after the surveys have been done and at the time of a review of its procedures. Two other commenters suggested it would be helpful if HCFA could put in the Regional Office Manual the successful methods it has identified that assure that surveys are unannounced. Response: We disagree with these comments suggesting that HCFA specify in regulations that it will provide successful scheduling methods because we believe the States are better able than we are to identify successful scheduling methods which may differ from one locality or region to another. Each State uses the methods that work best for it to schedule surveys within the required timeframes. We believe that the controls in place at ยง488.307, which provide that all standard surveys must be unannounced, and that we will review each State's scheduling procedures on an annual basis, are sufficient. Comment: One commenter asked what the term ``any individual'' means in reference to penalizing someone who notifies a facility that a survey is scheduled. Another commenter suggested that individuals other than an employee of the Federal and State government should be held harmless from fine if he or she notifies a facility that it is scheduled to be surveyed. This commenter further suggests that any individual who is fined for notifying a facility, should have the right to contest the fine in a formal hearing. Response: The Act, in sections 1819(g)(2)(A)(i) and 1919(g)(2)(A)(i), is clear that ``any individual'' who notifies a nursing home of the time and date of a standard survey is subject to a civil money penalty. We, therefore, disagree that only employees of the Federal and State governments should be held responsible for notifying a facility that it is scheduled to be surveyed; any individual who knowingly advises a facility that a standard survey is scheduled will be held accountable, according to the Act. Any individual who is fined for notifying a facility is entitled to the appeals mechanisms specified at section 1128A of the Act. The administrative appeals policy for civil money penalties imposed against an individual announcing a standard survey is not established by HCFA but rather by the Office of Inspector General (OIG) and is already in place.
