FR941205-1-00053 FR941205-1-00014 Part IX Part IX is required to be completed only where the agreement authorizes capacity management or capacity regulation as defined by 46 CFR 572.104(e). The filing party is required to state the total TEU capacity provided by each party in the geographic service area covered by the capacity management or capacity regulation program during the same 12-month period used in responding to Parts V, VI, VII and VIII, the number of those TEUs that were utilized, and each party's initial capacity commitment or allocation under the program. Where the capacity management or capacity regulation program covers both U.S. inbound and outbound liner movements, inbound and outbound data should be stated separately. Copies of specified kinds of reports must also be provided. Part X(A) Part X(A) requires the filing party to provide the name, title, address, telephone number and cable address of a person the Commission may contact regarding the Information Form and any information provided therein. Part X(B) Part X(B) requires the filing party to provide the name, title, address, telephone number and cable address of a person the Commission may contact regarding a request for additional information or documents. Part X(C) Part X(C) requires that the filing party sign the Information Form and certify that the information in the Form and all attachments and appendices are, to the best of the filing party's knowledge, true, correct and complete. The filing party is also required to indicate his or her relationship with the parties to the agreement. Federal Maritime Commission Information Form For Certain Agreements By Or Among Ocean Common Carriers Agreement Number (Assigned by FMC) Part I Agreement Name: Part II Other Agreements List all effective agreements covering all or part of the geographic scope of this agreement, whose parties include one or more of the parties to this agreement. Part III Agreement Type (A) Rate Agreements Does the agreement authorize the parties to collectively fix rates on a binding basis under a common tariff, or to agree upon rates on a non-binding basis, or to discuss rates? Yes }␣␣No } (B) Joint Service Agreements Does the agreement authorize the parties to establish a joint service? Yes }␣␣No } (C) Pooling Agreements Does the agreement authorize the parties to pool cargoes or revenues? Yes }␣␣No } (D) Capacity Management or Capacity Regulation Does the agreement authorize the parties to establish capacity management or capacity regulation programs? Yes }␣␣No } (E) Vessel-Operating Costs Does the agreement authorize the parties to discuss or exchange data on vessel-operating costs? Yes }␣␣No } (F) Service Contracts Does the agreement authorize the parties to discuss or agree on service contract terms and conditions, on either a binding or non-binding basis? Yes }␣␣No } Parts IV, V, VI, VII, VIII and X must be completed for all agreements. If Part III(D) is answered ``Yes,'' complete Part IX as well.
