FR941222-0-00029 FR941222-0-00003 The regulation 10 CFR Part 72, Subpart K, already authorizes dry cask storage and approves dry casks for use by utilities to store spent fuel at reactor sites. See 10 CFR 72.214 for a listing of information on Cask Certificate Nos. 1000 through 1003, 1005, and 1007. The purpose of this final rule is to add one more cask to the list of casks already approved by NRC. The cask added to the list in §72.214 by this final rule complies with all applicable NRC safety requirements. Finally, this final rulemaking applies to the use of this cask by any power reactor within the United States. H.2. Comment. One commenter stated that the January 30, 1994, reply from NRC's Robert Bernero to Mr. Adamkus, EPA, is completely inadequate, as is the March 1994 ``Draft Environment Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact'' because no consideration is given to the site's unsuitability even for LLRW per NRC's own admission, and ``new information which could alter the original site evaluation findings'' is ignored. Response. This final rule does not provide any site-specific NRC approval or address site-specific parameters that are peculiar to a particular reactor site. The rule only adds one cask design, the Standardized NUHOMS, to the list of approved casks available for use by a power plant licensee in accordance with the conditions of the general license in Part 72. Pursuant to those conditions, each licensee must determine whether or not the reactor site parameters (including earthquake intensity and tornado missiles) are encompassed by the cask design bases considered in the cask SAR and SER. The EA and FONSI for this rule are limited in scope to the Standardized NUHOMS in a generic setting. Unlike interim storage prescribed in 10 CFR Part 72, the in-ground disposal of radioactive material, whether high-level or low-level waste (HLW or LLW), must take into account the geologic, hydrologic, and geochemical characteristics of the site or region to isolate the radioactive waste from the accessible environment. Site criteria for in-ground disposal of radioactive wastes enable an applicant to choose an appropriate site, one with a combination of favorable conditions that will be a natural barrier to retard or attenuate the migration of any leaked radioactive material over a long period to control releases within acceptable limits. The disposal period for LLW is on the order of 500 years, and for HLW it is greater than 10,000 years. Therefore, site characteristics are investigated and assessed for interim spent fuel storage under Part 72, not to determine their suitability as a barrier to release of radioactive material, but rather to determine the frequency and the severity of external natural and artificial events that could affect the safety of an ISFSI. Unlikely, but credible, severe events are considered to determine the safety of the storage cask design. H.3. Comment. One commenter stated that the NRC has not approved technologies for the use of spent fuel at the sites of *␣*␣* without the need for additional site reviews. If that were so, no additional site review would have been necessary at Palisades, nor would an SAR revision or a Certificate of Compliance amendment be called for right after the VSC&hyph;24 was certified. Response. The approval and use of dry storage technologies under the provisions of the general license are relatively new. Questions were raised by members of the public about the possible effects of earthquakes and erosion at the Palisades site on the safe storage of spent fuel in the VSC&hyph;24 dry casks. As the agency which is responsible for questions about compliance with regulatory requirements, which oversees such matters as the ``cop on the beat,'' the NRC began an independent assessment to more closely examine the behavior of the pad at Palisades under normal conditions, under the long-term effects of erosion, and under conditions of a postulated earthquake that might cause the sand below or around the pad to move. The results of NRC's assessment were documented in the NRC Final Safety Assessment of Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation (ISFSI) Support Pad (TAC No. M88875). As is the case at all sites, NRC requires the cask user to determine if the design basis for the storage technology being considered encompasses the site parameters at the location where the fuel is to be stored. The review at Palisades confirmed this to be the case. As experience with use of this new design is gained, modifications to the design described in the SAR are expected and allowed under the provisions of 10 CFR 72.48. H.4. Comment. One commenter wanted the environmental impacts of alternatives, such as: renewable energy sources, conservation of energy, shutting down the nuclear power plants, and wind and solar power evaluated. Response. Energy production is not the subject of this rulemaking and alternative sources of energy are, therefore, not reasonable alternatives requiring evaluation. This rulemaking is limited to the addition of the Standardized NUHOMS to the list of approved casks in 10 CFR 72.214. H.5. Comment. One commenter stated that the NRC is ignoring the regulatory requirements of a site-specific license as to the feasibility of using the cask or of modifying its design.
