FR940419-2-00154 FR940419-2-00086 (2) Assessment of HA's Management Capability As part of its technical review of the CIAP Application, the Field Office shall evaluate the HA's management capability. Particular attention shall be given to the adequacy of the HA's maintenance in determining the HA's management capability. This assessment shall be based on the compliance aspects of on-site monitoring, such as audits, reviews or surveys which are currently available within the Field Office, and on the performance review under the Public Housing Management Assessment Program (PHMAP) for PHAs or the Administrative Capability Assessment for IHAs, and other information sources, as follows: (i) Public housing . A PHA has management capability if it is (A) not designated as Troubled under Part 901, PHMAP, or (B) designated as Troubled, but has a reasonable prospect of acquiring management capability which may include through CIAP-funded management improvements. A Troubled PHA may be considered for funding of non-emergency physical improvements where it is making reasonable progress toward meeting the performance targets established in its memorandum of agreement under ยง901.140. (ii) Indian housing . An IHA has management capability if it is (A) not designated as High Risk under ยง905.135 or (B) designated as High Risk, but has a reasonable prospect of acquiring management capability which may include through CIAP funded management improvements. A High Risk IHA may be considered for funding of non-emergency physical improvements where it is making reasonable progress toward meeting the goals established in its management improvement plan under ยง905.135. (3) Assessment of HA's Modernization Capability As part of its technical review of the CIAP Application, the Field Office shall evaluate the HA's modernization capability, including the progress of previously approved modernization and the status of any outstanding findings from CIAP monitoring visits, as follows: (i) Public housing . A PHA has modernization capability if it is (A) not designated as Modernization Troubled under Part 901, PHMAP, or (B) designated as Modernization Troubled, but has a reasonable prospect of acquiring modernization capability which may include through CIAP-funded management improvements and administrative support, such as hiring staff or contracting for assistance. A Modernization Troubled PHA may be considered for funding of non-emergency physical improvements where it is making reasonable progress toward meeting the performance targets established in its memorandum of agreement under ยง901.140. Where a PHA does not have a funded modernization program in progress, the Field Office shall determine whether the PHA has a reasonable prospect of acquiring modernization capability through hiring staff or contracting for assistance. (ii) Indian housing . An IHA has modernization capability if it is capable of effectively carrying out the proposed modernization improvements. Where an IHA does not have a funded modernization program in progress, the ONAP shall determine whether the IHA has a reasonable prospect of acquiring modernization capability through hiring staff or contracting for assistance. (4) Technical processing After the Field Office has categorized the eligible HAs and their developments into Group 1 and Group 2, the Field Office shall rate all Group 2 HAs on each of the technical review factors in subparagraph (5) of this paragraph. With the exception of the technical review factor of ``extent and urgency of need'', a Group 2 HA is rated on its overall HA application and not on each development. For the technical review factor of ``extent and urgency of need,'' each development for which funding is requested by a Group 2 HA is scored; the development with the highest priority needs is scored the highest number of points, which is then used for the overall HA score on that factor. High priority needs are non-emergency needs, but related to: Health or safety; vacant, substandard units; structural or system integrity; or compliance with statutory, regulatory or court-ordered deadlines. (5) Technical Review Factors The technical review factors for assistance are:
