FR941220-0-00105 FR941220-0-00014 ( 3 ) In all situations where the employer obtains the prevailing wage determination from the SESA, the Department will accept that prevailing wage determination as correct and will not question its validity where the employer has maintained a copy of the SESA prevailing wage determination. A complaint alleging inaccuracy of a SESA prevailing wage determination, in such cases, will not be investigated. (B) An independent authoritative source. The employer may use an independent authoritative wage source in lieu of a SESA prevailing wage determination. The independent authoritative source survey must meet all the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) of this section. (C) Another legitimate source of wage information. The employer may rely on other legitimate sources of wage data to obtain the prevailing wage. The other legitimate source survey must meet all the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section. The employer will be required to demonstrate the legitimacy of the wage in the event of an investigation. (iv) For purposes of this section, ``similarly employed'' means ``having substantially comparable jobs in the occupational classification in the area of intended employment,'' except that if no such workers are employed by employers other than the employer applicant in the area of intended employment, ``similarly employed'' means: (A) Having jobs requiring a substantially similar level of skills within the area of intended employment; or (B) If there are no substantially comparable jobs in the area of intended employment, having substantially comparable jobs with employers outside of the area of intended employment. (v) A prevailing wage determination for labor condition application purposes made pursuant to this section shall not permit an employer to pay a wage lower than that required under any other applicable Federal, State or local law. (vi) Where a range of wages is paid by the employer to individuals in an occupational classification or among individuals with similar experience and qualifications for the specific employment in question, a range is considered to meet the prevailing wage requirement so long as the bottom of the wage range is at least the prevailing wage rate. (3) Once the prevailing wage rate is established, the H&hyph;1B employer than shall compare this wage with the actual wage rate for the specific employment in question at the place of employment and must pay the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant at least the higher of the two wages. (b) Documentation of the wage statement. (1) The employer shall develop and maintain documentation sufficient to meet its burden of proving the validity of the wage statement required in paragraph (a) of this section and attested to on Form ETA 9035. The documentation shall be made available to DOL upon request. Documentation shall also be made available for public examination to the extent required by ยง XXXX .760(a) of this part. The employer shall also document that the wage rate(s) paid to H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant(s) is(are) no less than the required wage rate(s). The documentation shall include information about the employer's wage rate for all other employees for the specific employment in question at the place of employment, beginning with the date the labor condition application was submitted and continuing throughout the period of employment. The records shall be retained for the period of time specified in ยง XXXX .760 of this part. The payroll records for each such employee shall include: (i) Employee's full name; (ii) Employee's home address; (iii) Employee's occupation; (iv) Employee's rate of pay; (v) Hours worked each day and each week by the employee if paid on other than a salary basis, or the prevailing or actual wage is expressed as an hourly wage; (vi) Total additions to or deductions from pay each pay period by employee; and (vii) Total wages paid each pay period, date of pay and pay period covered by the payment by employee.
