FR940303-0-00033 FR940303-0-00011 The proposed regulations provide that a taxpayer does not have carryover-allocation basis in a project unless, by the close of the calendar year of allocation, the taxpayer is the owner, for federal income tax purposes, of land or depreciable real property expected to be part of the project. The final regulations do not explicitly contain this requirement. After further consideration, the IRS believes that satisfaction of the requirements of ยง1.42&hyph;6 is sufficient to ensure that a taxpayer intends to complete a qualified low-income housing project. For example, if a taxpayer has basis in land or depreciable property that is reasonably expected to be part of a project and the requirements of ยง1.42&hyph;6 are otherwise satisfied, the taxpayer has carryover-allocation basis with respect to the land or depreciable property. This basis includes all items that are properly capitalizable with respect to the land or depreciable property. Thus, notwithstanding the rule in Notice 89&hyph;1 to the contrary, a nonrefundable downpayment for, or an amount paid to acquire an option to purchase, land or depreciable property may be included in carryover-allocation basis if properly capitalizable into the basis of land or depreciable property that is reasonably expected to be part of a project. Commentators objected to the exclusion of credit application fees from carryover-allocation basis and requested that the final regulations permit these fees to be included in carryover-allocation basis. On further consideration, it appears that an absolute prohibition against the inclusion of application fees (and compliance monitoring fees, which were also not included) in carryover-allocation basis is not warranted. Accordingly, the final regulations subject credit application and compliance monitoring fees to the same standards imposed upon other fees under the regulations. For example, if a fee is properly capitalizable as part of the taxpayer's basis in land or depreciable property that is reasonably expected to be part of a project, the fee is included in carryover-allocation basis. Verification of Basis The proposed regulations provide verification requirements and procedures that an Agency must follow to ensure that the minimum basis requirement that is required to be met by the close of the year of allocation is, in fact, met. A commentator suggested that the basis verification requirements are too burdensome to Agencies and that Agencies lack the expertise to verify the costs includible in basis. The IRS does not expect Agencies to audit projects or make legal determinations. Rather, the proposed regulations provide that an Agency may verify the basis requirement by requiring the taxpayer to obtain a certification from an attorney or certified public accountant that the taxpayer has incurred the minimum required basis by the close of the calendar year of allocation. Accordingly, the final regulations adopt the basis verification requirement of the proposed regulations.
