FR941110-0-00061 FR941110-0-00016 •Physical harm should be defined; include a definition of assault suggested by a particular State's definition; •The phrase ``otherwise disregard of an individual'' should be deleted as this statement more accurately describes neglect; •Incorporate the definition of abuse as found in the Older Americans Act. Response: We have considered the above comments and are revising the definition of abuse in §488.301 to address some of the aforementioned concerns. However, we do not believe it appropriate to adopt any one State's definition as there is no evidence to suggest that one definition is superior to another. We are adopting the major concepts of the definition in the Older Americans Act. Therefore, the modified definition of abuse now reads: Abuse means the willful infliction of injury, unreasonable confinement, intimidation, or punishment with resulting physical harm, pain or mental anguish. Comment: Some commenters suggested that we require that the resident perceive the conduct as abusive. Response: We do not accept this comment. Our obligation is to protect the health and safety of every resident, including those that are incapable of perception or are unable to express themselves. This presumes that instances of abuse of any resident, whether cognizant or not, cause physical harm, pain, or mental anguish. Comment: Some commenters believed that the definitions of abuse and neglect should also apply to nurse aides in hospitals as well as in nursing facilities. Response: This comment falls outside the purview of this regulation. This rule specifically pertains to the survey, certification and enforcement of requirements of participation for SNFs and NFs. Comment: Some commenters thought that the proposed definition of abuse was inconsistent with that in §483.13. Response: Section 483.13(b) does not provide a definition of abuse. What it does provide is a list of the types of abuse from which residents have a right to be free. The definition, a statement as to the meaning of the term ``abuse,'' is offered at §488.301. Comment: Several commenters thought the proposed definition of ``neglect'' was too broad and ambiguous. They contend it is necessary to narrow the definition in order not to inundate the system with complaints. Some commenters requested that the terms ``willful'' and ``intent'' be inserted into the definition to limit the scope of actions that could be considered neglect.
