FR941220-1-00038 FR941220-1-00009 As detailed below in the section on costs, EPA finds that this Alternative Water approach would result in an annual national cost of $86 million annually, as compared to an annual cost for central treatment by all affected systems of $147 million. The $86 million estimate would be substantially lower except that EPA assumed conservatively that about 25% of affected systems would choose central treatment or regionalization even with Option 1 available to them. Of the $86 million, $7 million would be the cost to the 1,500 systems choosing the public notification/Alternative Water method of compliance, and $71 million would be the cost to the 500 systems choosing central treatment. To understand how the logistics of the option would work, the Agency chose two system sizes: A PWS serving a town of 500 people, and another serving a town of 3,300 people. As very few systems (approximately 40) serving 3,300 people or more are expected to exceed the sulfate MCL, this system size was chosen to illustrate that it would be more cost- effective for a system of that size to centrally treat. Costs were calculated by using national averages. In a population of 500, the Agency assumed (based on analysis of U.S. Census Bureau and Current Population Reports data) that there would be eight households (500 times 1.68%) with infants and 30 households with new residents (500 times 16.4% divided by 2.6 persons per household) at any given time. (EPA assumed that an average household contains 2.6 people. New residents and infants would require Alternative Water for 6 weeks and 20 weeks, respectively. A system serving this population of 500 would be required to deliver a maximum of approximately 8,800 liters of bottled water annually, or 24 liters per day, as illustrated by the calculations below. 30 households×2.6 persons×2 liters×42 days=6,552 liters 8 infants×2 liters×140 days=2,240 liters Total Annual Bottled Water Needs=8,792 liters Average Daily Bottled Water Needs 8,792/365 days=24 liters The above calculation is given as an example only, and the 24- liter figure is a high estimate. The required mixing of tap water with bottled water over time for infants and new residents would reduce their consumption of bottled water. The cost analysis in the RIA for this rulemaking assumes that bottled water will represent, on average, half the water consumption for infants and new residents, and that customers will exercise their option to have less than 2 liters per day delivered over the entire period. Although it is up to the water system to decide how to deliver the water, the Agency finds that the system could contract the delivery service out to a bottled water supplier or could procure and distribute bottled water itself. For the sake of simplifying the model, EPA assumed that a town with a population of 500 would not have to install any POUs or POEs, and would rely entirely on bottled water for the target population. The Agency recognizes that, in actuality, some percentage of such towns may have a restaurant and/or gas station, and could use a POU/POE device. However, these towns would be few in number, and the simplified model is retained for costing purposes only. If such a town had very few travelers passing through, for example, a restaurant or gas station might find it more cost-effective to use permanent signs and have bottled water available for those few travelers. EPA assumes that systems which rarely serve the target population would comply by posting signs and having bottled water available for visitors, rather than install POE/POU devices. The Agency solicits comment on the types of Alternative Water that PWSs would choose. For a town with a population of 3300, the logistics become more complicated. The estimated number of households with infants increases from 8 to 55. The number of households with new residents becomes 210, and the number of liters of bottled water to be delivered per day is approximately 170. It is also estimated that there will be 3 POU units per town. The Agency thinks that few PWSs serving populations this large will choose Option 1, and will choose instead to centrally treat. There are several disadvantages to Option 1. First, it requires persons to learn about sulfate and take action to protect themselves. Second, because high-sulfate water is still available at the tap, Option 1 does not guarantee that all target audiences will be protected. The Agency requests comment on the feasibility, equity, enforceability, and attractiveness of the option. Although EPA believes that allowing compliance with the MCL through the use of POUs, POEs, and bottled water is acceptable in the case of sulfate, the Agency continues to believe that it should not be allowed in the case of other drinking water contaminants, for which the general prohibitions in 40 CFR 141.100 and 141.101 still would apply. Option 1 proposes to override the prohibition in these sections against using bottled water and POU devices as a means of compliance with the sulfate MCL because of its unique characteristics. The susceptible population is limited, and the health effects are short-lived, so the logistics of Option 1 are feasible for smaller systems. The effects are immediate, so the cause/effect relationship of drinking water containing high levels of sulfate can be easily demonstrated, and the affected population can be readily convinced of the need for precautions. EPA is unaware of any other drinking water contaminant having these unique features. Therefore, EPA considers Alternative Water and public notification/education to be acceptable means for compliance with the MCL for sulfate, but not for other contaminants, given current information on health risk and treatment costs. Because of the burden of administering Alternative Water in larger systems, noncompliance and the difficulties of enforcement become larger concerns. Therefore, EPA considered, but decided against, limiting the availability of Option 1 to smaller systems (e.g., systems serving fewer than 3,300 persons). Such a limitation would be unlikely to have any practical effect since, for cost efficiency reasons, systems above this size would probably choose central treatment. Also, EPA's occurrence projections indicate that few if any systems above 3,300 are likely to exceed a sulfate MCL of 500 mg/L.
