FR940513-1-00037 FR940513-1-00009 (e) Excluded renewable energy sources. The source of the electric energy for which incentive payments is sought may not be_ (1) Municipal solid waste which is burned to create heat; or (2) A dry steam geothermal reservoir which has_ (i) No mobile liquid in its natural state; (ii) Steam quality of 95 percent water, or higher; and (iii) An enthalpy for the total produced fluid greater than or equal to 1200 British thermal units per pound. (f) Time of first use. The date of the first use of a qualified renewable energy facility must occur during the period beginning with October 1, 1993, and ending on September 30, 2003. (g) Location. The qualified renewable energy facility must be located in a State. §451.5 Where and when to apply. (a) The owner or operator of a qualified renewable energy facility may file an annual application for incentive payment under this part only in response to an annual notice in the Federal Register inviting applications. (b) An applicant may file the initial application for incentive payments under this part in the first fiscal year following that in which electricity generated from the qualified renewable energy facility is first eligible for such payments. Subsequent applications may be filed in the fiscal years following those in which the electricity eligible for incentive payments is generated. §451.6 What is the duration of incentive payments. DOE may make incentive payments under this part with respect to a qualified renewable energy facility only for a 10-fiscal year period. §451.7 Metering requirements. The number of kilowatt-hours generated and sold from a qualified renewable energy facility must be measured by a standard metering device that_ (a) Meets generally accepted industry standards; (b) Is maintained in proper working order according to the instructions of its manufacturer; and (c) Is calibrated according to generally accepted industry standards. §451.8 Application content requirements. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each application for incentive payments under this part must be signed by an authorized executive official and shall provide information showing to the satisfaction of DOE_ (a) That the applicant is the owner or operator (with the written consent of an authorized executive official of the owner); (b) The name of the facility or other official designation by the owner; (c) The location of the qualified renewable energy facility and type of renewable energy source; (d) The name and telephone number of a point of contact to respond to questions or requests for additional information; (e) That the renewable energy facility satisfies the eligibility criteria under section 451.4 of this part and other requirements prerequisite to receipt of incentive payments under this part; (f) That components and equipment, representing at least 50 percent of the capital cost of the qualified renewable energy facility, were substantially manufactured in a State; (g) An independently audited, certified statement of the annual and monthly metered number of kilowatt-hours generated and sold to another entity during the fiscal year and the entity or class of customer to whom the electric energy was sold; (h) In the case of a renewable energy facility which generates electric energy using a fossil fuel, nuclear energy, or other non-qualified energy source, in addition to a renewable energy source, an independently audited, certified statement of the number of kilowatt hours attributable to the renewable energy source, calculated by multiplying the monthly and annual total number of metered kilowatt-hours generated and sold to another entity during the fiscal year by a fraction consisting of the heat input, as measured in British thermal units, received by the working fluid from the renewable energy source divided by the heat input, as measured in British thermal units, received by the working fluid from all energy sources; (i) The amounts of accrued electric energy by year, if any, for which the applicant previously applied and DOE did not make incentive payments as a result of insufficient appropriations; (j) Wire transfer payment instructions, if available; and (k) A statement agreeing to retain records of the independent audit for a period of three years and to provide prompt (no later than 10 calendar days) access to, or copies of, such records in response to a written request by DOE. §451.9 Procedures for Processing Applications. (a) Upon receipt, each application shall be date and time stamped and DOE shall acknowledge receipt thereof. (b) DOE may request supplementary information. (c) DOE may conduct an audit to verify the number of kilowatts claimed to have been generated from renewable energy sources. (d) Upon evaluating the application and any other available information, DOE shall determine whether the application meets the requirements of this part and, if appropriate, the number of kilowatt-hours to be used in calculating the incentive payment.
