FR940920-2-00024 FR940920-2-00007 In light of these questions, the Department, at this stage, finds the information on the record inconclusive as to whether the third country and U.S. markets are negatively correlated. We intend to further evaluate the Botero Report for purposes of making our final determination. Further details relating to this issue are set forth in the September 12, 1994, memorandum to Barbara Stafford. Peak to Non-Peak Factor Third country sales in Flowers were not made over the entire year. They were made only in peak months. The record established that Colombian growers had little access to the European auction system and were only able to export flowers to Europe during those months when domestic supply was low. On the other hand, the Colombian growers targeted 80 percent of their production to the U.S. market and made sales to the United States in every month. As a result, the Department determined that it was unable to make contemporaneous sales comparisons in all months and would be required to compare low-value U.S. sales in off-peak months with high-value third country sales in peak months. The circumstances on the record in this case are somewhat different. One of the three companies reporting third country sales has year-round sales to a single third country market, while the other two companies have third country sales in every month in the markets selected by the Department pursuant to §353.49(c). Therefore, it appears that the Department may have sufficient contemporaneous sales in the aggregate for all twelve months of the POI. Further, the Department has based FMV on two six-month averages; the use of such averages also should reduce any potential for distortion. Perishability Factor The third factor considered in Flowers was related to the role of perishability on production and sale. This factor included: 1) the extreme perishability of the subject merchandise; 2) the inability of producers to control short-term production; and 3) the inability to store or make alternative use of the product. The Department found that the respondents planned 80 percent of their production around the U.S. market and sold excess production in markets in which they did not necessarily plan to sell. These factors combined to create a ``chance element'' to third country sales which raised the concern that any observed price differences would be unrelated to dumping. We note that there are substantial similarities between flowers and roses. First, roses, like flowers, are extremely perishable. Second, rose growers have relatively greater, though still minor, control over short-term production than flower growers because of their ability to pinch back buds. Third, as with flowers, roses cannot be stored and we note that there are only very minor alternative uses ( e.g. , drying). While some respondents are able to sell a small percentage of their production to markets other than the United States as a regular part of their business plan, which reduces to some extent the ``chance'' element to selling excess production, we note that this was also true with some companies in Flowers . See Methodological Issues Concerning Colombian Cut Flowers, Sparks Commodities, Inc. 1989. In view of the questions raised above, we conclude that, for the purpose of the preliminary determination, the evidence at this stage is not sufficient to justify departure from our normal practice of reliance on third country prices. However, we intend to revisit this issue in our final determination in light of further information and analysis with regard to the three factors set out in Flowers as well as any other facts that might be relevant on this issue. Currency Conversion Because certified exchange rates for Ecuador were unavailable from the Federal Reserve, we made currency conversions for expenses denominated in Ecuadorian sucres based on the official monthly exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as published by the International Monetary Fund. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information used in making our final determination. Critical Circumstances In the petition, petitioner alleged that ``critical circumstances'' exist with respect to importation of roses. However, we did not initiate a critical circumstances investigation because, since roses are extremely perishable, it is not possible to accumulate an inventory of roses in order to evade a potential antidumping duty order. Therefore, we determined that an allegation that critical circumstances exist is without merit ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum). Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of fresh cut roses from Ecuador, as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or the posting of a bond equal to the estimated preliminary dumping margins, as shown below. The suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows: ␣ 1Manufacturer/Producer/Exporter 1Margin percent Arbusta-Agritab (and its related farms Agrisabe, Agritab, and Flaris) 39.85 Florin S.A. (and its related farms Cuentas En Participacion Florinsa-Ertego (Florinsa Cotopaxi) and Exflodec) 84.72 Guanguilqui Agro Industrial S.A. (and its related farm Indipasisa) 20.60 Inversiones Floricola S.A. (and its related farm Flores Mitad Del Mundo S.A.) 10.34 All others 49.76
