FR940404-2-00186 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Fourth FY 1993 Senior Officials Meeting (SOM) of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), Honolulu, Hawaii, September 19&hyph;24, 1993 Representative The Honorable Winston Lord, Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Department of State Alternate Representative Sandra J. Kristoff, Director of Asian Affairs, National Security Council, Executive Office of the President Special Advisers Charlene Barshefsky, Ambassador, Deputy United States Trade Representative, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Robert Fauver, Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Economic Policy, National Security Council, Executive Office of the President The Honorable Joan E. Spero, Under Secretary for Economic and Agricultural Affairs, Department of State Advisers Nancy Adams, Assistant Trade Representative for Asia and the Pacific, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Richard C. Beaird, Acting United States Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Peter A. Cashman, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for East Asia and the Pacific, Department of Commerce Robert B. Cassidy, Assistant Trade Representative for Asia and the Pacific, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Raphael D.Q. Cung, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce Terry J. Daru, Office of Economic Policy, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Department of State Anne Derse, Special Assistant to the Under Secretary for Economic and Agricultural Affairs, Department of State Lawrence J. Ervin, Agency for International Development, United States Embassy, Bangkok Joseph E. Hayes, Acting Director, Office of Economic Policy, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Department of State Sarah E. Kemp, International Trade Specialist, Foreign Commercial Service, Department of Commerce Philip T. Lincoln, Jr., Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Department of State Diana L. Manifold, International Economist, United States International Trade Commission Kathryn A. Martin, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Richard A. Morford, Senior Adviser for Asia, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State David Clark Norton, Senior Counselor, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Sandra O'Leary, Director, Office of Planning and Economic Analysis, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Rebecca Mei Reese, Office of the General Counsel, Department of Commerce Douglas Ryan, Office of Economic Policy, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Department of State Mary E. Ryckman, Director, Regional Services and Investment, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Kevin B. Sample, Senior Policy Analyst, Department of Transportation Paul I. Schlamm, Deputy Director, Office of Aviation Programs and Policy, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Debbie Leilani Shon, Assistant United States Trade Representative, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Pamela N. Smith, Office of Economic Policy, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Department of State Priscilla B. Stowe, Office of Economic Policy, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Department of State Jerrold O. Worley, Director, Office of International Policy, United States Customs Service, Department of the Treasury Randolph Yamada, Bureau for Asia, Agency for International Development Dennis Zvinakis, Representative-designate to ASEAN, Agency for International Development Private Sector Adviser Brenda Lei Foster, Director of International Relations, Office of the Governor, Honolulu, Hawaii
