FR941006-0-00013 FR941006-0-00004 Income Eligibles. Each State agency's estimate of WIC income eligible persons is based on data from the 1990 Decennial Census, which reflects population characteristics as of 1989. Although the Census data provides the most current State-by-State information, the Department recognizes that data which describe a population at a fixed point in the past may not accurately reflect recent and future socioeconomic and demographic trends. Accordingly, the Department is currently exploring other potential data sources for the state-level income eligibles estimates. The proposed rule did not establish or define the exact source of the eligibles database in order to allow for the use of the most timely and reliable data as it becomes available. This was supported by the majority of commenters who commented on the eligibles data. Under the proposed rule, fair share funding allocations would be based on estimates of the State agency's eligible population at or below 185 percent of poverty rather than estimates of the fully- eligible population (persons income eligible and at nutritional risk). Unlike the national estimate of eligibles, State agency allocations are not adjusted for an estimate of fully eligible persons as nutritional risk standards vary by State agency and application of a ``national'' estimate would serve no useful purpose for funding allocation purposes. The State level income-eligible estimates were used to determine each State's proportion of the national total of WIC income-eligibles. Funding allocations are based on this proportion _not on the absolute number of estimated income eligibles in each State. Each State agency's fair share allocation thus depends on both its proportion of income eligibles and the total amount of funds available nationally. Most commenters stated that they concur with the proposed ``fair share'' concept, but that more timely updates of eligibles data are critical. Commenters consistently stated that the current data seriously under counts the number of WIC eligibles and they strongly encourage FNS to continue working on obtaining new and better estimates. However, two commenters stated that FNS should withdraw the current proposal until better data is obtained. One commenter maintained that Medicaid participants should be included in the estimates. One commenter proposed an alternative approach similar to fair share using a ``full funding'' concept. However, after much consideration of this particular alternative, the Department believes that it would impede under fair share State agencies progress in moving towards full funding. The Department will retain the fair share principle as proposed, using the best available indicators to determine each State agency's population of income eligibles. At the same time, the Department continues its commitment to develop more timely and accurate estimates of eligibles to be used in the WIC food funding formula. Health Indicators. In the current formula, the calculation of each State's eligible WIC population, used to compute its fair share allocation, includes an adjustment for certain health indicators (infant mortality and low birth weight rates) in the food funding formula. As explained in the preamble to the proposed rule, the population targeted by the health indicators is now largely served. Moreover, as service to the highest risk participants has increased, the overall impact of the health indicators on the amount of food funds received by States has become negligible. Furthermore, the inclusion of the health indicators unduly complicates and reduces understanding of the food funding formula. Therefore, the Department proposed to eliminate the use of the health indicator adjustments. All commenters who commented on this provision were supportive of removing the health indicators from the formula. Therefore, this final rule retains the provision as proposed. Adjustments for Higher Cost Areas. The current growth component also makes an adjustment for the higher food costs of four specific State agencies located outside of the continental United States (or Indian State agencies located within their borders). These State agencies currently are Alaska, Hawaii, Guam, and the Virgin Islands. The Department proposed to retain this adjustment, but to allow more flexibility than the current regulation. The majority of commenters supported the proposed provision. However, some commenters misinterpreted this provision to mean that State agencies or portions of State agencies (urban areas, rural areas, Indian Tribal organizations) within the continental United States (i.e., within the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia) that can document higher food costs should receive an adjustment. Other commenters specifically stated that Puerto Rico should be considered as an outlying State agency.
