FR940719-2-00086 FR940719-2-00052 DHHS reserves the right to extend the deadline for, all proposals due to acts of God, such as floods, hurricanes, or earthquakes; or if there is a widespread disruption of the mail; or if DHHS determines a deadline extension to be in the best interest of the government. However, DHHS will not waive or extend the deadline for any applicant unless the deadline is waived or extended for all applicants. B. Initial Screening Applications will be initially screened for compliance with the timeliness and completeness requirements. If judged in compliance, the application then will be reviewed by government personnel, augmented by outside experts where appropriate. Three (3) copies of each application are required. Applicants are encouraged to send an additional three (3) copies of their application to ease processing, but applicants will not be penalized if these extra copies are not included. There is a limit of 30 single-spaced typed pages, exclusive of forms, resumes, and budget and extraneous materials such as videotapes and brochures should not be included and will not be reviewed. C. Review Process and Evaluation Criteria Applications will be evaluated by a panel of reviewers according to the criteria set forth below. Consequently, applicants should take care to ensure that all criteria are fully addressed in the application. The relative weights are shown in parentheses. 1. Goals, Objectives, and Potential Usefulness of the Project (40 points) The potential usefulness of the objectives and how the anticipated results of the proposed project will advance scientific knowledge and policy development in the area of children's disability. 2. Methodology and Design (35 points) The appropriateness, soundness, and cost-effectiveness of the methodology, including research design, statistical techniques, analytical strategies, innovative and creative selection of existing data sets, and other procedures. 3. Experience and Qualifications of Personnel (25 points) The qualifications and experience of the project personnel for conducting the proposed research and indications of innovative approaches and creative potential. Part V. Other Notices and Requirements A. Legislative Authority The authority for this grant is contained in section 1110 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1310). B. Applications Regulations 1. ``Grant Programs Administered by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation'' (45 CFR part 63). 2. ``Administration of Grants'' (45 CFR part 74). C. Eligible Applicants Any university, agency of state or local government, or other agency whether organized as a for-profit or as a not-for-profit corporation. However, for-profit organizations are advised that no grant funds may be paid as profit to any recipient of a grant or subgrant. Profit is any amount in excess of allowable direct or indirect costs of the grantee. D. Effective Date and Duration 1. The grants awarded pursuant to this announcement are expected to be made on or about September 1, 1994. 2. Projects will be from 12 to 17 months in duration. E. Statement of Funds Availability/Award 1. A total of $600,000 in FY 1994 funds has been set aside for grants to be awarded as a result of this announcement. Organizations submitting applications may propose a project at the dollar level they consider appropriate. 2. The Government may make awards in the $50,000 to $100,000 range. Organizations may address either one or more questions in the Issue Area(s) they have selected for research within a single application. 3. Nothing in this application should be construed as committing the Assistant Secretary to dividing available funds among all qualified applicants or to make any award. The selection of the final awards will be determined by the Assistant Secretary on the basis of the availability of funds and on the combination of grant applications which best address the Issue Areas. 4. The Assistant Secretary also reserves the right to make additional awards over the $600,000 indicated in 1. above starting October 1, 1994 using Fiscal Year 1995 funds. These awards will also be in the $50,000 to $100,000 range and are estimated to total $400,000. F. Reports The grantee must submit annual progress reports and a final report. The specific format and content for these reports will be provided by the project officer. G. Application Instructions and Forms Copies of applications should be requested from and submitted to: Grants Officer, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, room 405&hyph;F, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20201, phone (202) 401&hyph;3951. No faxes will be accepted. Questions concerning the preceding information should be submitted to the Grants Officer at the same address.
