FR941222-0-00081 FR941222-0-00013 One comment noted that §6.2(d) exempts the NPS from its own rules at this part. Two comments asked how the NPS will ensure compliance with conditions of §6.4 for NPS-operated solid waste disposal sites, if the procedural, administrative, financial assurance and penalty provisions of the proposed regulations do not apply to NPS operated solid waste disposal sites. The NPS will adhere to the conditions of §6.4 (for a new, or expanded existing solid waste disposal site) and to the conditions of §6.5 (for existing NPS operated solid waste disposal sites) as a matter of policy and special directive. In addition, the NPS will comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321, et seq. ) and, at a minimum, prepare an environmental assessment for any new, or expansion of any existing, solid waste disposal site that the NPS proposes. The final rule changes the word ``procedural'' at §6.2(d) to ``permit'' for clarity. The reason why the permit, bond and penalty provisions do not apply to the NPS is that there is no means by which the NPS may be both the permitting agency and the permittee, the bond-poster and the bond-holder, the enforcer and the violator, simultaneously. Section 6.3␣Definitions In response to one comment, note that the proposed, as well as the final, definition of the term ``agricultural waste'' includes waste resulting from the ``harvesting of .␣.␣. trees.'' One comment specifically sought clarification about whether concession operations in parks, whether under contracts or commercial use licenses are ``exempt'' from the regulations. This question is best answered by discussing the definition of the term ``National Park Service activities.'' There must be a necessary connection between the NPS and the establishment of a solid waste disposal site after the passage of the Act. ``National Park Service activities'' includes activities conducted by NPS contractors, concessionaires and commercial use licensees because such persons, under agreement with the NPS, provide eating, lodging, transportation and other services to park visitors or to park management itself. Since the NPS may operate a new solid waste disposal site within a unit for NPS activities, the NPS may approve new sites for the disposal of solid waste generated by NPS contractors, concessionaires and commercial use licensees. Such persons may also dispose of solid waste in existing NPS operated or approved sites. While NPS contractors, concessionaires and commercial use licensees may dispose of solid waste on lands within a unit, any proposal by such a person to establish their own new site for solid waste disposal, or continue to operate and use their own existing solid waste disposal site, is fully governed by 36 CFR 6.4 or 6.5 respectively. The disposal of solid waste by such persons, while permissible on lands within a National Park System unit, must be subject to full NPS scrutiny. The NPS has a fundamental obligation to ensure that contractors, concessionaires and commercial use licensees dispose of solid waste on lands within a unit, even the remote lands in Alaska, in an environmentally sensitive manner. ``Residential waste,'' as defined in §6.3, means waste generated by the normal activities of a household. One comment suggested that the residential waste exception at §6.2(c) not include paper, plastic and metal. Since the §6.2(c) exception is intended to minimize the solid waste stream by providing an alternative disposal means for agricultural or residential solid wastes that are compostible, we have partially adopted the suggestion. The final rule defines ``residential waste'' to exclude plastic and metal waste, since these are not compostible. One comment appeared to confuse the ``residential waste'' exception of this part with the ``household waste exclusion'' that exists under Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) regulations at 40 CFR 261.4(b)(1). The definition of ``residential solid waste'' used in this part comes from 40 CFR part 243. That definition means waste generated by the normal activities of households. This definition applies only to residences, not to commercial activities, such as lodges, motels or eating establishments. On the other hand, the EPA definition at 40 CFR 261.4(b)(1) broadly excludes ``household waste'' from the legal meaning of hazardous waste. The 40 CFR part 261 meaning of ``household waste'' includes waste generated by residences AND commercial lodging and eating establishments. It does not follow that because 36 CFR part 6 largely excludes residential waste from its control, that the NPS is also somehow excluding waste disposal from commercial lodging or eating establishments. The fact that wastes generated by such establishments are specifically excluded from the definition of ``hazardous waste'' under RCRA regulations does not make such wastes ``residential wastes'' for the purposes of this regulation. These two issues are unrelated and are addressed in separate sections of this regulation.
