FR940616-2-00117 FR940616-2-00089 Announcement Number: E/AEE&hyph;95&hyph;01. Applications submitted under this RFP must indicate the appropriate program name, category, and the above-referenced number. This announcement number must also appear in any correspondence concerning this application. ADDRESSES: The original and nine (9) complete copies of the application, including required forms, should be addressed as follows: U.S. Information Agency, Reference: (Program Title) Category (A, B or C) Announcement number: E/AEE&hyph;95&hyph;01, Office of Grants Management, E/XE Room 336, 301 4th Street SW., Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Effie Wingate or Mr. Ted Kniker, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street SW., European Branch, Academic Exchanges Division, E/AEE Room 246, Washington, DC 20547; telephone (202) 205&hyph;0525. To request detailed application packages, which include award criteria additional to this announcement, all necessary forms, formats, guidelines for preparing proposals, and for other technical information please call (202) 619&hyph;5341. The application package will be mailed to you via regular mail. USIA will not fax the application packet or send it via express mail, nor will USIA staff accept requests to send application packets via express carriers using non-USIA account numbers. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Overall authority for these exchanges is contained in the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended, Public Law 87&hyph;256 (Fulbright-Hays Act). The purpose of the Act is ``to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and people of other countries by means of educational and cultural exchanges; to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations * * * and thus to assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic, and peaceful relations between the United States and other countries of the world.'' Programs shall also ``maintain their scholarly integrity and shall meet the highest standards of academic excellence or artistic achievement.'' Pursuant to the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. It should be noted that a greater emphasis is being placed on promoting diversity in Bureau programs. Diversity should be interpreted in the broadest sense and encompass differences including but not limited to ethnicity, gender, religion, geographic location, socio-economic status, and physical challenges. Applicants are strongly encouraged to adhere to the advancement of this principle throughout the proposed program and within their own operations. Application Notice (All Categories) Please be advised: Proposals submitted by the same institution under Categories A, B, and C for this or previous years' competitions may not be duplicative or identical. If an organization submits more than one proposal, each proposal must sponsor different students and employ separate budgets. If organizations have been funded under previous competitions, the new proposal(s) may not be identically written to previous submissions, but should include the most recent program information. Proposals not adhering to these restrictions will be deemed technically ineligible and will not be reviewed for funding. Organizations applying for exchanges with the New Independent States are encouraged to submit only under one category, A or B. General Requirements (All Categories) (1) Institutional Commitment Proposals must include documentation of institutional support for the proposed program in the form of signed letters of endorsement from the U.S. and foreign institutions' directors, or in the form of a signed agreement by the same persons. Letters of endorsement must describe each institution's or organization's commitment and make specific reference to the proposed program and each institution's activities in support of that program. Documentation of support from governmental ministries or academies will be acceptable when appropriate, replacing individual documentation from each foreign educational institution involved. Applicants must submit this documentation as part of the completed application. Applying institutions are expected to make their own arrangements with the appropriate foreign institutions. (2) Orientation Programs Participating students should be provided with a substantive and comprehensive orientation to the country where they will be studying, and proposals should describe these programs, including cost, in detail. (3) Visas All foreign participants must be sponsored under an Exchange Visitor Program on a J visa. Programs must comply with J visa regulations and should reference this adherence in the proposal narrative. Applicants should demonstrate tax regulation adherence in the proposal narrative and budget notes. (4) Taxes Administration of the grant awards must be in compliance with reporting and withholding regulations for federal, state, or local taxes as applicable. Recipient organizations should demonstrate tax regulation adherence in the proposal narrative and budget. (5) Participant Tracking Proposals should provide a plan showing how organizations will track participants after their return to their home countries upon completion of the program. Organizations should chart the progress of the program's alumni in their academic and professional careers and establish a system for distributing periodic updates of such information among both current participants and alumni of the program. (6) Budget All organizations must submit a comprehensive line item budget, the details and format of which are contained in the application package. The Agency reserves the right to increase, decrease or revise proposal budgets in accordance with the needs of the program. Grant-funded items of expenditure may include, but are not limited to, the following categories: Program Costs _Round trip travel to and from their home city to international point of departure (if applicable); _International Travel (via American flag carrier); _Domestic travel to and from host institution; _Excursionary travel and lodging for cultural enrichment (not to exceed $200.00 per participant); _Maintenance and per diem;
