FR940128-1-00114 FR940128-1-00006 Example 4. One page from the ``Process-related Hazards and Controls List.'' For purposes of this Guide, process-related hazards are those that can occur because of the nature of the processing procedures and the finished product form. This list includes 20 types of finished products (e.g., cooked shrimp) and directs the reader to one or more of the 22 process-related hazard and control descriptions, which are located in the next part of the Guide. The process-related hazard and control descriptions are numbered. Some of them are further subdivided into lettered portions. Where the reader need only refer to a portion of a process-related hazard and control description, the list directs the reader to that portion by referring to a lettered part of the description. See below. Example 5. A sample of a process-related hazard and control description (``Process-related Hazard and Control # 11'' (pathogen survival during pasteurization)). As with the species-related descriptions discussed above, each process-related description explains a hazard and the measures available to control it, with an emphasis on HACCP controls. Some of these descriptions are subdivided. For example, ``Process-related Hazard and Control No. 8,'' which is about temperature abuse, is subdivided into ``8a: Histamine,'' ``8b: Pathogens,'' and ``8c: Decomposition.'' Where the list in 4. above directs a reader to a number-letter combination, e.g., ``8b,'' it is to one of the subdivided portions of a description, in this case to the ``Pathogens'' material in Process-related Hazards and Controls # 8. Example 6. A consolidated section for smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products. Example 7. A model HACCP plan. This is essentially a fill-in-the-blank model. Processors can use the materials in the hazards and controls descriptions and this model plan, to develop much if not all of their HACCP plans, depending on their circumstances. It must be remembered that these materials reflect a work in progress and are published to provide the public with a preview of the document. When the entire document is made available to the public in the near future, the selected portions published here may have been revised. To help processors and other interested persons to understand the guidance presented in the consolidated section on smoked fishery products, FDA will explain that guidance in the section that follows. II. Smoked Fishery Products Research conducted since FDA proposed the 1970 final rule shows that less stringent processing temperatures and lower water-phase salt content, with or without use of other inhibiting factors such as sodium nitrite, can provide an adequate margin of safety for hot-process products held in refrigerated storage (40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or lower). FDA has considered this research, and based on it, the agency is proposing a guidance setting forth what it tentatively finds are the minimum time, temperature, and salinity requirements to make a safe and marketable smoked fish product. Proposed TTS parameters are found in example 6 of this appendix. A. Raw Materials/Handling of Unprocessed Fish. The presence of microorganisms, including C. botulinum and L. monocytogenes, cannot be avoided in fresh-water fish and marine fish because they are present in the aquatic environment. Under certain conditions, the potential exists for the outgrowth of C. botulinum spores and toxin production (Refs. 148 through 152), as well as for an increase in the L. monocytogenes population (Ref. 143).
