FR940505-1-00347 FR940505-1-00012 Ink means a fluid or viscous substance used in the printing industry to produce letters, symbols or illustrations, but not to coat an entire surface. Lacquer means a thermoplastic film-forming material dissolved in organic solvent, which dries primarily by solvent evaporation, and hence is resoluble in its original solvent. Layout fluid (or toolmaker's ink) means a coating labeled exclusively as such, which is sprayed on metal, glass or plastic, to provide a glare-free surface on which to scribe designs, patterns or engineering guide lines prior to shaping the piece. Lubricant means a substance such as oil, petroleum distillates, grease, graphite, silicone, lithium, etc. that is used to reduce friction, heat, or wear when applied between surfaces. Manufacturer means any person who imports, manufactures, assembles, produces, packages, repackages, or relabels a consumer product. Marine spar varnish means a coating labeled exclusively as such which provides a protective sealant for marine wood products. Maskant means a coating applied directly to a component to protect surface areas when chemical milling, anodizing, aging, bonding, plating etching, or performing other chemical operations on the surface of the component. Metallic coating means a topcoat which contains at least 1 percent elemental metallic pigment and is labeled as ``metallic''. Mold release means a coating applied to molds to prevent products from sticking to the surfaces of the mold. Multi-component kits means aerosol spray paint systems which require the application of more than one component (e.g. foundation coat and top coat), where both components are sold together in one package. Non-flat paint product means a coating which, when fully dry, registers a gloss greater than 15 on an 85 gloss meter or greater then five on a 60 gloss meter. Percent VOC by weight means the ratio of the weight of VOC to the total weight of the product contents expressed as follows: Percent VOC By Weight=(W voc /W total )×100, where: for products not containing water and exempt compounds, W voc =the weight of VOC; for products containing water or exempt compounds W voc =the weight of VOC, less water and exempt compounds as defined in paragraph (b) of this section; and W total =the total weight of the product contents. Photograph coating means a coating formulated and labeled exclusively as such, applied to finished photographs to allow corrective retouching, protection of the image, changes in gloss level, or to cover fingerprints. Pleasure craft means privately owned vessels used for noncommercial purposes. Pleasure craft finish primer/surfacer/undercoat means any coating labeled exclusively as such which is formulated to be applied prior to the application of a pleasure craft topcoat for the purpose of corrosion resistance, adhesion of the topcoat and which promotes a uniform surface by filling in surface imperfections. Pleasure craft topcoat means any coating labeled exclusively as such which is formulated to be applied to a pleasure craft as a final coat above the waterline and below the waterline when stored out of water. Primer means a coating formulated and labeled as such to be applied to a surface to provide a bond between that surface and subsequent coats. Propellant means a liquefied or compressed gas that is used in whole or in part, such as a cosolvent, to expel a liquid or any other material from the same self-pressurized container or from a separate container. Retailer means any person who sells, supplies, or offers aerosol coating products for sale directly to consumers. Rust converter means a product designed and labeled exclusively to convert rust to an inert material and which contains a minimum acid content of 0.5 percent by weight, a maximum resin content of 0.5 percent by weight, and contains no pigments. Shellac sealer means a clear or pigmented coating formulated solely with the resinous secretion of the lac beetle (Laccifer lacca), thinned with alcohol, and formulated to dry by evaporation without a chemical reaction.
