FR940128-2-00230 FR940128-2-00147 Proposed Modification of the Houston, TX, Class B Airspace Area; Public Meeting AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of meeting. SUMMARY: This notice is announcing a fact-finding informal airspace meeting to solicit information from airspace users and others concerning a proposal to modify the Class B airspace area at Houston, TX. The proposed Class B airspace area modification is in response to user suggestions for changes that would make the Class B airspace area design more efficient and user friendly. This airspace meeting is being held to provide interested parties an opportunity to present input on the proposed modification. All comments received during the meeting will be considered prior to any modification. TIME AND DATE: The informal airspace meeting will be held on Tuesday, April 19, 1994, starting at 7 p.m. Comments must be received on or before June 17, 1994. PLACE: San Jacinto Community College, Student Union Ballroom, 8060 Spencer Highway, Pasadena, TX 77505. COMMENTS: Send or deliver comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Manager, Air Traffic Division, ASW&hyph;500, Federal Aviation Administration, 4400 Blue Mound Road, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0500 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Craig Wooldridge, Assistant Manager, Airspace and Procedures, Houston Approach Control, telephone (713) 230&hyph;8400. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Meeting Procedures (a) The meeting will be informal in nature and will be conducted by a representative of the FAA Southwest Region. Representatives from the FAA will present a formal briefing on the proposed Class B airspace area modification. Each participant will be given an opportunity to deliver comments or make a presentation. (b) The meeting will be open to all persons on a space-available basis. There will be no admission fee or other charge to attend and participate. (c) Any person wishing to make a presentation to the FAA panel will be asked to sign in and estimate the amount of time needed for such presentation. This will permit the panel to allocate an appropriate amount of time for each presenter. The panel may allocate the time available for each presentation in order to accommodate all speakers. The meeting will not be adjourned until everyone on the list has had an opportunity to address the panel. The meeting may be adjourned at any time if all persons present have had the opportunity to speak. (d) Position papers or other handout material relating to the substance of the meeting will be accepted. Participants wishing to submit handout material should present three copies to the presiding officer.There should be additional copies of each handout available for other attendees. (e) The meeting will not be formally recorded. However, a summary of the comments made at the meeting will be filed in the docket. Agenda for the Meeting Opening Remarks and Discussion of Meeting Procedures Briefing on Background for Proposal Public Presentations Closing comments Issued in Washington, DC, on January 13, 1994. Willis C. Nelson, Acting Manager, Airspace-Rules and Aeronautical Information Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1920 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
