FR940606-0-00063 FR940606-0-00019 (ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period; (iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex following completion of the rehabilitation, and (iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (c) Relocation assistance for displaced persons. A ``displaced person'' (defined in paragraph (f) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601&hyph;4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. A ``displaced person'' shall be advised of his or her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601&hyph;19), and, if the representative comparable dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority person is located in an area of minority concentration, such person shall be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas. (d) Real property acquisition requirements. The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements described in 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. (e) Appeals. A person who disagrees with the PHA's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a ``displaced person,'' or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the PHA. A person who is dissatisfied with the PHA's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Field Office. (f) Responsibility of Owner/PHA. (1) The private-owner (in the case of a Private-Owner project or a Private-Owner/PHA project) or the PHA (in the case of a PHA-Owner Project) shall certify (i.e., provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24) that it will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section and shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the Owner or the PHA to comply with these provisions. (2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. Such costs may also be paid for with funds available from other sources. (3) The Owner shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with these provisions. The Owner and the PHA shall maintain data on the race, ethnic, gender, and disability status of displaced persons. (g) Definition of displaced person. (1) For purposes of this section, the term displaced person means a person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project assisted under this part. The term ``displaced person'' includes, but may not be limited to: (i) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of: (A) The tenant's monthly rent before execution of the agreement and estimated average monthly utility costs; or (B) 30 percent of gross household income; or (ii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or (B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or (iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex permanently after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or (B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable; or (2) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if: (i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and HUD determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance; (ii) The person moved into the property after the submission of the proposal to HUD and, before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project and its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that he or she would not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (or for any assistance provided under this section) as a result of the project; (iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or (iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project; (3) The PHA or private owner may request, at any time, a HUD determination of whether a displacement is or would be covered by this section.
