FR940406-2-00043 FR940406-2-00022 If you anticipate that you will be submitting comments, but find it difficult to do so within the period of time allowed by this notice, you should advise the contact listed below of your intention to do so as soon as possible. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Mr. Paul Chapman, Energy Information Administration, Dallas Field Office, 1114 Commerce Street, room 804, Dallas, Texas 75242&hyph;2899, Telephone (214) 767&hyph;2200. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Requests for additional information or copies of the form and instructions should be directed to Mr. Paul Chapman at the address above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background II. Current Actions III. Request for Comments I. Background In order to fulfill its responsibilities under the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 (Pub. L. No. 93&hyph;275) and the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. No. 95&hyph;91), the Energy Information Administration is obliged to carry out a central, comprehensive, and unified energy data and information program. As part of this program, EIA collects, evaluates, assembles, analyzes, and disseminates data and information related to energy resource reserves, production, demand, and technology, and related economic and statistical information relevant to the adequacy of energy resources to meet demands in the near and longer term future for the Nation's economic and social needs. Operators of crude oil and natural gas wells are the target respondents of the Form EIA&hyph;23 and operators of natural gas plants are the target respondents of the Form EIA&hyph;64A. The amount of crude oil, associated-dissolved and nonassociated natural gas, and lease condensate production and reserves by field are requested of major oil and gas well operators. In addition a selected sample of small operators provides production and reserves of crude oil, natural gas and lease condensate at a State level on the Form EIA&hyph;23. The amount of natural gas processed, natural gas liquids produced, the resultant shrinkage of the natural gas, and the amount of natural gas used in processing are requested of natural gas plant operators. In response to Public Law 95&hyph;91 Section 657, estimates of U.S. oil and gas reserves are to be reported annually. These estimates are essential to the development, implementation, and evaluation of energy policy and legislation. Data will be used directly in the annual publication U.S. Crude Oil, Natural Gas, and Natural Gas Liquids Reserves, and incorporated in a number of other publications and analyses. Secondary publications which use the data include the Annual Energy Review, Annual Energy Outlook, Petroleum Supply Annual, and Natural Gas Annual. II. Current Actions This notice is for a proposed three-year extension of the Forms EIA&hyph;23, ``Annual Survey of Domestic Oil and Gas Reserves,'' EIA&hyph;23P, ``Oil and Gas Well Operator List Update Report,'' and EIA&hyph;64A, ``Annual Report of the Origin of Natural Gas Liquids Production,'' until December 31, 1997. Forms EIA&hyph;23P and EIA&hyph;64A will be extended without modification. For large operators reporting on Form EIA&hyph;23, the form will be modified to also collect estimates of reserves and production associated with enhanced oil recovery methods and nonconventional gas. Implementation of this proposed modification is contingent upon the availability of resources required to make the EIA&hyph;23 data system capable of handling the new data. To offset the incremental respondent burden associated with reporting enhanced oil recovery and nonconventional gas reserves and production, and to focus the survey more effectively on proved reserves, the requirement for large operators to report indicated additional reserves (a reserves category that is not proved) will be discontinued. For small operators reporting on Form EIA&hyph;23, the form will be extended without modification.
