FR940907-0-00012 FR940907-0-00004 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AEA&hyph;09] Modification of Class D Airspace and Establishment of Class E Airspace; Various Locations, State of Pennsylvania AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This action modifies the Class D airspace areas at Erie, PA, Harrisburg, Capital City Airport, PA, Harrisburg International Airport, PA, North Philadelphia, PA, and Williamsport, PA, by amending the areas' effective hours to coincide with the associated control tower's hours of operation. This action also establishes Class E airspace at these areas when the associated control tower is closed. Additionally, this action establishes Class E airspace areas at Lancaster, PA, and Reading, PA. Presently, these areas are designated as Class D airspace when the associated control tower is in operation. However, controlled airspace to the surface is needed when the control tower located at this location is closed. The intended effect of this action is to clarify when two-way radio communication with these air traffic control towers is required and to provide adequate Class E airspace for instrument approaches when these control towers are closed. Furthermore, minor technical amendments are being made to the Bradford, PA, and Du Bois, PA Class E airspace areas to reflect the operational hours of the associated Flight Service Station. DATES: EFFECTIVE DATE: 0901 U.T.C. December 8, 1994. Comment Date: Comments must be received on or before October 10, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the rule in triplicate to: Manager, Air Traffic Division, AEA&hyph;500, Airspace Docket Number 94&hyph;AEA&hyph;09, F.A.A. Eastern Region, Fitzgerald Federal Building # 111, John F. Kennedy International Airport, Jamaica, New York 11430. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the address listed above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Frank Jordan, Airspace Specialist, System Management Branch, AEA&hyph;530, F.A.A. Eastern Region, Fitzgerald Federal Building # 111, John F. Kennedy International Airport, Jamaica, New York 11430; telephone: (718) 553&hyph;0857. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments on the Rule Although this action is a final rule, and was not preceded by notice and public procedure, comments are invited on the rule. This rule will become effective on the date specified in the DATES section. However, after the review of any comments, and if the FAA finds that further changes are appropriate, it will initiate rulemaking proceedings to extend the effective date of the rule or to amend the regulation.
