FR940816-1-00037 FR940816-1-00007 Once the list of available measures for an area source has been identified, the State must evaluate the technological and economic feasibility of implementing the controls. The State may refer to the technical information documents for procedures to determine feasibility. When evaluating economic feasibility, States should not restrict their analysis to simple acceptance/rejection decisions based on whether full application of a measure to all sources in a particular category is feasible. Rather, a State should consider implementing a control measure on a more limited basis, e.g., for a percentage of the sources in a category if it is determined that 100 percent implementation of the measure is infeasible. This would mean, for example, that an area should consider the feasibility of paving 75 percent of the unpaved roadways even though paving all of the roads may be infeasible. Alternatively, the State should consider whether measures which cannot feasibly be implemented in their entirety prior to the statutory deadline for BACM implementation could be completed over an extended period. In that event, BACM might itself be defined to change over time from a more limited set of measures at the initial implementation date to a progressively tighter or more ambitious program at later dates. The following example is presented to illustrate how a moderate area program of RACM for fugitive dust control may be complemented with additional BACM after the area is reclassified as serious. Assume that the following control measures were adopted as RACM: 1. Reduce the speed limit on unpaved county roads to 25 miles per hour. 2. Treat all unpaved county roads, monthly, with chemical dust suppressants within 500 feet of their intersections with paved roads. 3. Treat 10 miles of the most heavily-traveled, unpaved county roads with chemical dust suppressants once per month. 4. Pave 4 miles of unpaved city streets. 5. Treat unpaved parking lots in the city with chemical dust suppressants once per month. 6. Clean anti-skid materials from 50 miles of city streets within 48 hours after snow melt begins. The same area, after being reclassified as serious, may adopt the following BACM examples to complement the RACM program: 40 40 Adoption of these types of measures may require coordination with other local governmental entities such as the Departments of Agriculture, Transportation, and/or the Interior. 1. Pave 10 miles of the most heavily-traveled, unpaved county roads. 2. Treat 10 miles of unpaved county roads with chemical dust suppressants once per month.
