FR940516-1-00079 FR940516-1-00005 1. To determine the fraction of hazardous air pollutant emissions that are being controlled by the flare; and 2. To determine the net heating value of the vent stream. v. Wastewater. Because air emissions from wastewater treatment systems cannot be collected and measured, certain parameters must be identified that indicate the emission rate from wastewater for monitoring purposes. The proposed methods for estimating wastewater emissions for initial compliance with the proposed standards for the emission source of process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater, as well as for identifying enhanced monitoring parameter values for wastewater, are those specified in 40 CFR 63.150(f)(5). The requirements of 40 CFR 63.150(f)(5) consist of monitoring specific wastewater treatment parameters and emission calculation methods. Monitoring of the following wastewater parameters is required: inlet flow rate, HAP concentration, pH, and biological oxygen demand. These parameters were chosen for monitoring because they can be used to determine wastewater treatment system performance. vi. Storage Tanks. Storage tank emissions vary greatly over time, which prohibits testing over reasonable periods of time. Therefore, no initial compliance test is proposed for this emission point, unless emissions are manifolded with process vents, in which case the compliance tests specified for process vents apply. Instead, the methods specified in 40 CFR 63.150(f)(3) are proposed to calculate emissions. Emissions would be calculated based on the facility's solvent usage records for the most recent 1-year period and divided by the amount of product produced during the same period. A 1-year period is necessary to reduce the effect of variation in solvent usage on the emission calculation. Because emissions are calculated from factors, and because storage tank emissions are not dependent on parameters that can be controlled, no continuous monitoring requirements are proposed for this emission point, except that facilities that control storage tank emissions must certify that such controls are in proper working order. vii. Equipment Leaks. Like wastewater emissions, equipment leak emissions occur in open areas and in most cases cannot feasibly be captured. Therefore, no performance test is required for the equipment leaks source. Instead, facilities must demonstrate that they have an LDAR program in place that meets the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart H. No monitoring requirements are proposed for equipment leaks, as the proposed standard for equipment leaks is a work practice/equipment standard. 5. Averaging Times i. Initial compliance. The standards for the process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater source at existing BLR and WSR production facilities are in the form of mass emission limits. Initial compliance is determined by adding the emissions per unit mass of product calculated for each process vent, storage tank, and wastewater emission point within the facility. For BLR production, a continuous process, a 1-hour averaging time is specified for process vent compliance tests; the emission rate would be the average of the results of three 1-hour tests. For WSR production, typically a batch operation, the emission rates used to determine compliance would be the average of 3 tests taken over for 3 different batch runs. Longer averaging times are required for batch operations to minimize the effect of emissions that vary significantly with time. Storage tank emissions would be averaged over a period of 1 year, based on HAP usage records from the previous year, to minimize the effect of variation in solvent usage on the calculated emission rate. A monthly averaging time is required for wastewater, as specified in 40 CFR 63.150(f)(5). Different averaging times are possible for different emission types because emissions are divided by the production rate for an equal time period. The resulting production-based emissions are then added together according to Equation 1 and compared with the mass emission limit to determine compliance.
