FR940616-0-00066 FR940616-0-00009 (b) No pro-rata refund of an annual fee will be issued. (c) No refunds will be issued based on unexpired partial years. (d) No refunds will be processed without a written request from the applicant, permittee, licensee or agent. 19. Section 1.1160 is added to read as follows: ยง1.1160 Conditional license grants and delegated authorizations. (a) Grant of any application or an instrument of authorization or other filing, for which a regulatory fee is required to accompany the application or filing, will be conditioned upon final payment of the regulatory fee. Final payment shall mean receipt by the U.S. Treasury of funds cleared by the financial institution on which the check, bank draft, money order, credit card, wire or electronic payment is drawn. (1) If, prior to a grant of an instrument of authorization, the Commission is notified that final payment of the regulatory fee has not been made, the application or filing: (i) Will be dismissed and returned; (ii) Shall lose its place in the processing line; and (iii) Will not be treated as timely filed if resubmitted after the relevant filing deadline. (2) If, subsequent to a grant of an instrument of authorization or other filing, the Commission is notified that final payment has not been made, the Commission will: (i) Automatically rescind that instrument of authorization; (ii) Notify the grantee of this action; and (iii) Treat as late filed any application resubmitted after the original deadline for filing the application. (3) Upon receipt of a notification of rescission of the authorization, the grantee will immediately cease operations initiated pursuant to the authorization. (b) In those instances where the Commission has granted a request for deferred payment of a regulatory fee, further processing of the application or filing or the grant of authority shall be conditioned upon final payment of the regulatory fee and any required penalties for late payment prescribed by the deferral decision. Failure to comply with the terms of the deferral decision shall result in the automatic dismissal of the submission or rescission of the Commission authorization. Further, the Commission shall: (1) Notify the grantee that the authorization has been rescinded. Upon such notification, the grantee will immediately cease operations initiated pursuant to the authorization; and (2) Treat as late filed any application resubmitted after the original deadline for filing the application. (c) Where the procedures described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section would not provide a meaningful incentive to pay a regulatory fee that is due or would not be a meaningful sanction for failure to pay such a fee, the Commission may, in its discretion, whether the regulatory fee is required to be paid with an application for an instrument of authorization or otherwise, withhold processing and/or grant of any application or filing made by a person or organization who has failed to make full payment of any regulatory fee due. (1) Before taking such action, the staff will make a written request for the fee, together with any penalties that may be rendered under this subpart. Such request shall inform the regulatee that failure to pay may result in the Commission withholding action on any application or request filed by the applicant. The staff shall also inform the regulatee of the procedures for seeking Commission review of the staff's fee determination. (2) If, after final determination that the fee is due, payment is not made in a timely manner, the staff may terminate processing and/or withhold any grant or petition requested by the person or organization subject to the fee payment requirement, until the matter is resolved.
