FR941003-1-00036 FR941003-1-00003 10. Section 1.607 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (a)(4) and adding a new paragraph (a)(6) to read as follows: §1.607 Request by applicant for interference with patent. (a)␣*␣*␣* (4) Presenting at least one claim corresponding to the proposed count or identifying at least one claim already pending in his or her > its < application that corresponds to the proposed count, and, if any claim of the patent or application identified as corresponding to the proposed count does not correspond exactly to the proposed count, explaining why each such claim corresponds to the proposed count, and (5)␣*␣*␣* > (6) Explaining how the requirements of 35 U.S.C. 135(b) are met, if the claim presented or identified under paragraph (a)(4) of this section was not present in the application until more than one year after the issue date of the patent. < * * * * * 11. Section 1.608 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) thereof to read as follows: §1.608 Interference between an application and a patent; prima facie showing by applicant. (a) When the earlier of the filing date or effective filing date of an application is three months or less after the earlier of the filing date or effective filing date of a patent, the applicant, before an interference will be declared, > either the applicant or the applicant's attorney or agent of record < shall file an affidavit > a statement < alleging that there is a basis upon which > the < applicant is entitled to a judgment relative to the patentee. (b) When the earlier of the filing date or the effective filing date of an application is more than three months after the earlier of the filing date or the effective filing date under 35 U.S.C. 120 of a patent, the applicant, before an interference will be declared, shall file (1) evidence which may consist of patents or printed publications, other documents, and one or more affidavits which demonstrate that applicant is prima facie entitled to a judgment relative to the patentee and (2) an explanation stating with particularity the basis upon which the applicant is prima facie entitled to the judgment. Where the basis upon which an applicant is entitled to judgment relative to a patentee is priority of invention, the evidence shall include affidavits by the applicant, if possible, and one or more corroborating witnesses, supported by documentary evidence, if available, each setting out a factual description of acts and circumstances performed or observed by the affiant, which collectively would prima facie entitle the applicant to judgment on priority with respect to the earlier of the filing date or effective filing date of the patent. To facilitate preparation of a record (§1.653 (g) and (h)) for final hearing, an applicant should file affidavits on paper which is > 21.8 by 27.9 cm. (81/2 x 11 inches) < 81/2 x 11 inches (21.8 by 27.9 cm.) . The significance of any printed publication or other document which is self-authenticating within the meaning of Rule 902 of the Federal Rules of Evidence or §1.671(d) and any patent shall be discussed in an affidavit or the explanation. Any printed publication or other document which is not self-authenticating shall be authenticated and discussed with particularity in an affidavit. Upon a showing of > good < sufficient cause, an affidavit may be based on information and belief. If an examiner finds an application to be in condition for declaration of an interference, the examiner will consider the evidence and explanation only to the extent of determining whether a basis upon which the application would be entitled to a judgment relative to the patentee is alleged and, if a basis is alleged, an interference may be declared. 12. Section 1.609 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (b)(2) and (b)(3) to read as follows: §1.609 Preparation of interference papers by examiner. * * * * * (b)␣*␣*␣* (2) The claims of any application or patent which correspond to each count, stating whether the claims correspond exactly or substantially to each count > and an explanation why each claim designated as corresponding to a count is directed to the same patentable invention as the count < ; (3) The claims in any application > or patent < which are deemed by the examiner to be patentable over any > do not correspond to each < count > and an explanation why each claim designated as not corresponding to a count is not directed to the same patentable invention as the count < ; and * * * * * 13. Section 1.610 is proposed to be amended by revising the section heading and paragraphs (a) through (e) to read as follows: §1.610 Assignment of interference to > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief , time period for completing interference. (a) Each interference will be declared by an > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief who may enter all interlocutory orders in the interference, except that only a panel consisting of at least three members of the Board shall (1) hear oral argument at final hearing, (2) enter a decision under §§1.617, > 1.640(e) < 1.640(c) or (e) , 1.652, 1.656(i) or 1.658 or (3) enter any other order which terminates the interference. (b) As necessary, another > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief may act in place of the one who declared the interference. Unless otherwise provided in this section, at > At < the discretion of the examiner-in-chief assigned to the interference, a panel consisting of two or more members of the Board may enter interlocutory orders. (c) Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, times for taking action by a party in the interference will be set on a case-by-case basis by the > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief assigned to the interference. Times for taking action shall be set and the > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief shall exercise control over the interference such that the pendency of the interference before the Board does not normally exceed two years. (d) An > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief may hold a conference with the parties to consider: (1) Simplification of any issues, (2) the necessity or desirability of amendments to counts, (3) the possibility of obtaining admissions of fact and genuineness of documents which will avoid unnecessary proof, (4) any limitations on the number of expert witnesses, (5) the time and place for conducting a deposition (§1.673(g)), and (6) any other matter as may aid in the disposition of the interference. After a conference, the > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief may enter any order which may be appropriate.
