FR941227-2-00061 FR941227-2-00046 The FR Y&hyph;9C consolidated financial statements are currently filed by top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $150 million or more and by lower-tier bank holding companies that have total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more. In addition, all multibank bank holding companies with debt outstanding to the general public or engaged in certain nonbank activities, regardless of size, must file the FR Y&hyph;9C. The following bank holding companies are exempt from filing the FR Y&hyph;9C, unless the Board specifically requires an exempt company to file the report: bank holding companies that are subsidiaries of another bank holding company and have total consolidated assets of less than $1 billion; bank holding companies that have been granted a hardship exemption by the Board under section 4(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act; and foreign banking organizations as defined by section 211.23(b) of Regulation K. The report includes a balance sheet, income statement, and statement of changes in equity capital with supporting schedules providing information on securities, loans, risk-based capital, deposits, interest sensitivity, average balances, off-balance sheet activities, past due loans, and loan charge-offs and recoveries. The Federal Reserve proposes the following revisions to the FR Y&hyph;9C. Most of the proposed new items are needed to maintain consistency with comparable items recently proposed or previously added to the commercial bank Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report). A. Revisions related to consistent reporting with the Call Report: Schedule HC&hyph;A, Securities (1) Report separately as memoranda items the amortized cost and fair value of any high-risk mortgage securities and any structured notes. (2) Modify the reporting instructions for the category labeled ``mortgage-backed securities'' to capture more securities of this nature. In addition, the caption for the existing item of collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) and real estate mortgage investment conduits (REMICs) issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) would be modified to explicitly refer to the REMICs that the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) has recently begun to issue. Schedule HC&hyph;F, Off-Balance Sheet Items Revise Part 2 to collect more comprehensive information on derivative instruments, including further breakdowns of notional contract amounts by instrument type, by risk exposure underlying the contract, and by whether the contract is traded on the exchange or over the counter and total notional amount and gross positive and gross negative fair values of contracts held for trading purposes and for purposes other than trading. Schedule HI, Income Statement Add memoranda items to collect trading revenue that reflects the combined revenues from cash and derivative instruments, with a breakdown by underlying risk exposure, and information on the effect on earnings of derivatives held for purposes other than trading. Schedules HC&hyph;I and HC&hyph;J, Risk-Based Capital (1) Add an item to collect the net credit exposure of all derivative contracts taking into consideration netting arrangements permissible under the risk-based capital standards. (2) Expand the risk-based capital ``notional principal value, maturity and replacement cost matrix'' for derivatives to include an additional remaining maturity time band and four additional categories of derivative contracts (gold, other precious metals, other commodity and equity contracts). Schedule HI&hyph;B, Charge-offs and Recoveries and Changes in Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Delete Memoranda, Part 2, Column B, the reconciliation of the allocated transfer risk reserve. Schedule of Trading Account Assets and Liabilities Add a schedule for the reporting of trading account assets and liabilities in a manner consistent with the schedule currently included in the Call Report. This schedule would be completed only by bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more, or with $2 billion or more in par/notional amounts of interest rate, foreign exchange rate and other commodity and equity contracts. Mutual Funds and Annuities Information
