FR941031-2-00123 FR941031-2-00084 •Establish eligibility of nominees. Individuals must be past or current employees of organization at which research and development was accomplished. •Establish that improved technology is for motor vehicles offered for sale in the United States. Limitation on Length of Nomination The nomination is limited to 10 numbered pages of 8.5 inch × 11.0 inch paper with one inch margins and font size not less than 12 point. Send an original and three copies of the complete nomination to George L. Parker, Associate Administrator for Research and Development, NRD&hyph;01, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh St. SW, Washington, DC 20590. Nomination will be returned to the nominator if it includes a written request. Evaluation Process and Criteria NHTSA and other Federal agency staff will make an initial screening of all nominations received on or before December 16, 1994 to ensure that they contain the required information and meet the statutory requirements for eligibility and field of work. Subsequently, a special panel will evaluate the nominations. NHTSA intends that the evaluation panel will include experts in the fields of energy savings and environmental impact in addition to motor vehicle safety. The panel will make its evaluations according to the following criteria: 1. Quality of cited work. 2. Contribution of cited work to improved safety, energy savings or environmental quality. 3. Involvement of nominees with cited work. The Secretary of Transportation will then select the awardee from among the nominees receiving high evaluations from the evaluation panel. The Secretary may also decide not to make an award. His decision is final. Definitions For the purposes of determining eligibility for the National Award for the Advancement of Motor Vehicle Research and Development, the following definitions will apply: Domestic motor vehicle manufacturer_a company engaged in the production and sale of motor vehicles in the United States and that has majority ownership or control by individuals who are citizens of the United States. [Definition based on that of ``United States-owned company'' in Section 15 U.S.C. 278n(j)(2) as added by Public Law 102&hyph;245.] Domestic supplier_a company that supplies research and development, design services, materials, parts and/or items of equipment or machinery to a motor vehicle manufacturer or subcontractor to a motor vehicle manufacturer or whose products are used in new motor vehicles and that has majority ownership or control by individuals who are citizens of the United States. Personnel of Federal laboratory_Individuals employed by the Federal Government at a facility engaging in research and development activities or employed by a contractor at such a facility that is owned by the Federal Government and operated by that contractor. Ricardo Martinez, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26820 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
