FR940902-0-00120 FR940902-0-00010 (A) Overall program management, program coordination, and general administrative functions, including the salaries and related costs of the executive director, JTPA director, project director, personnel officer, fiscal officer/bookkeeper, purchasing officer, secretary, payroll/insurance/property clerk and other costs associated with carrying out administrative functions; (B) Preparing program plans, budgets, schedules, and amendments thereto; (C) Monitoring of programs, projects, subrecipients, and related systems and processes; (D) Procurement activities, including the award of specific subgrants, contracts, and purchase orders; (E) Providing State or local officials and the general public with information about the program (public relations); (F) Developing systems and procedures, including management information systems, for assuring compliance with program requirements; (G) Preparing reports and other documents related to the program requirements; (H) Coordinating the resolution of audit findings; (I) Evaluating program results against stated objectives; and (J) Performing such administrative services as general legal services, accounting services, audit services; and managing purchasing, property, payroll, and personnel; (ii) Costs for goods and services required for administration of the program, including such goods and services as rental or purchase of equipment, utilities, office supplies, postage, and rental and maintenance of office space; (iii) The costs of organization-wide management functions; and (iv) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out program management or administrative activities, including travel costs incurred by PIC members. (e) Other cost classification guidance. (1) Personnel and related non-personnel costs of the recipient's or subrecipient's staff, including project directors, who perform services or activities that benefit two or more of the cost objectives/categories identified in this section may be allocated to the benefitting cost objectives/categories based on documented distributions of actual time worked or other equitable cost allocation methods. (2) Indirect or overhead costs normally shall be charged to administration, except that specific costs charged to an overhead or indirect cost pool that can be identified directly with a JTPA cost objective/category other than administration may be charged to the JTPA cost objective/category directly benefitted. Documentation of such charges shall be maintained. (3) Where an award to a subrecipient is for a ``commercially available off-the-shelf training package,'' as defined at ยง626.5 of this chapter, the subrecipient may charge all costs of such package to the direct training services cost category. (4) Profits, fees, and other revenues earned by a subrecipient that are in excess of actual costs incurred, to the extent allowable and consistent with the guidelines on allowable costs prescribed by the Governor in accordance with ยง627.435(i). Cost principles and allowable costs, may be allocated to all three cost categories based on the proportionate share of actual costs incurred attributable to each category. ยง627.445 Limitations on certain costs. (a) State-administered programs. _(1) Services for older individuals. Of the funds allocated for any program year for section 202(c)(1)(D) of the Act to carry out activities pursuant to section 204(d) of the Act_ (i) Not less than 50 percent shall be expended for the cost of direct training services; and (ii) Not more than 20 percent shall be expended for the cost of administration.
