FR940317-1-00135 FR940317-1-00013 Claims Against NAF Activities §536.201 General. This subpart sets forth the procedures to be followed in the settlement and payment of claims by employees of nonappropriated fund activities for the loss of or damage to personal property incident to their employment, and for claims generated by the acts or omissions of the employees of such funds. §536.202 Claims by employees for losses incident to employment. Claims by employees for the loss of or damage to personal property incident to employment will be processed in the manner prescribed by subpart K and will be paid from nonappropriated funds in accordance with §536.207. §536.203 Claims generated by the acts or omissions of employees. (a) Processing. Claims arising out of acts or omissions of employees of nonappropriated fund activities will be processed and settled in the manner specified for similar claims against the United States except that payment will be made from nonappropriated funds in accordance with AR 215&hyph;1, and section §536.207. Relevant procedural requirements of pertinent subparts of this part, as stated below, will be followed except as provided in §§536.206 and 536.207. However, when the NAFI is protected by a commercial insurer, for example, flying and parachute clubs, the claim will be referred to the insurer as outlined in paragraph (e) of this section. (1) Claims arising within the United States, its territories, commonwealths, or possessions. Such claims will be processed in the manner prescribed by subparts C, D or E as appropriate. (2) Claims arising outside the United States, its territories, commonwealths, or possessions. Such claims will be processed in accordance with the provisions of applicable SOFA or in the manner prescribed by subparts C, D or E as appropriate. (b) Reporting and investigation. Such claims will be investigated in accordance with subpart B of this part and AR 215&hyph;1. (1) Reporting. All incidents involving personal injury, death, or property damage resulting from falls, falling objects, or accidents of like nature, occurring in post exchanges, bowling lanes, officers and noncommissioned officers open messes, or other facilities located on land or situated in a building used by an activity of the DA that employs personnel compensated from nonappropriated funds, should be reported immediately to the officer in charge of the nonappropriated fund activity concerned. The report should be made by the employee who initially received notice of the incident, regardless of the fact that the individual involved denies sustaining personal injury or property damage. Upon receipt of the report of the incident, the officer in charge of the nonappropriated fund activity concerned will transmit the report to the installation or other appropriate claims officer for investigation. (2) Investigation. (i) As soon as practicable in the investigation of a claim generated by a nonappropriated fund activity, a determination will be made as to whether the claim is cognizable under this section. (ii) Claim files that relate to claims determined to be cognizable under this section will be marked with the symbol ``NAF'' immediately following the claimant's name to preclude erroneous payment from appropriated funds. This symbol will also be included in the subject line of all correspondence. (iii) Claims exceeding $15,000. When a claims approval or settlement authority receives a claim against a nonappropriated fund activity, other than the Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES), that exceeds $15,000, he or she will forward a copy to both USARCS and the Army Central Insurance Fund, HQDA, ATTN: CFSC-RM-I, room 1240, 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22331&hyph;0508. A copy of all tort claims against AAFES will be forwarded to Headquarters, AAFES, ATTN: General Counsel, P.O. Box 660202, Dallas, TX 75266&hyph;0202. (iv) Customer complaints. Customer complaints other than at AAFES activities will be settled under the provisions of AR 215&hyph;1 rather than under the provisions of this section. AAFES generated complaints will be handled in accordance with Exchange Service Manual 57&hyph;2. (v) Commercial insurance. (A) Normally a claims investigation under subpart B will not be conducted but the claims officer will refer the claim to the insurer and furnish copies as indicated in paragraph (c) of this section. Assistance will be furnished to the insurer as needed. Copies of any other required investigations may be furnished to the insurer.
