FR940728-2-00032 FR940728-2-00026 Arbitration Panel Decision Under the Randolph-Sheppard Act AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of Arbitration Panel Decision Under the Randolph-Sheppard Act. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that on March 22, 1991, an arbitration panel rendered a decision in the matter of David Everett, Vendor, v. State of Tennessee, Department of Human Services (Docket No. R&hyph;S/89&hyph;6). This panel was convened by the Secretary of the Department of Education pursuant to 20 U.S.C. 107d&hyph;2, upon receipt of a complaint filed by petitioner David Everett. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: George F. Arsnow, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Room 3230, Switzer Building, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2738. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;9317. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at 202&hyph;205&hyph;8298. A copy of the full text of the arbitration panel decision may be obtained from this contact. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107d&hyph;2(c)), (the Act), the Secretary publishes a synopsis of arbitration panel decisions affecting the administration of vending facilities on Federal property. Background David Everett, complainant, is a blind vendor licensed by the respondent, the Tennessee Department of Human Services (TDHS). Mr. Everett signed an agreement with TDHS to operate vending machines located in the County Building in Knoxville, Tennessee, on September 20, 1983. The State licensing agency (SLA), through its Department of Rehabilitation, operates the Tennessee Vending Facility Program for blind vendors. The purpose of the program is to establish and support blind vendors operating vending facilities on State, local, and Federal property. As the agency designated in Tennessee to carry out and manage the vending facility program established by the Act, the SLA duly promulgated rules and regulations to govern the State vending facility program. These rules and regulations are comprehensive in scope. Based on the State's Randolph-Sheppard rules and regulations governing its program, Mr. Everett was required to make monthly income reports, paying a set-aside fee based upon those monthly reports. On January 11, 1988, Mr. Everett's Business Enterprise Program (BEP) counselor wrote him regarding his report and fees, advising him that he had not filed reports for July through December, nor had he paid his fees. Mr. Everett was given until January 25, 1988, to file the reports or be recommended for probation. Mr. Everett did not respond and, on February 1, 1988, was placed on probation. Mr. Everett was given 30 days to comply with the requirements to file the reports and pay the fees. Failure to do so would result in the termination of his license. Mr. Everett again failed to respond to the probation letter. On March 8, 1988, Mr. Everett received his letter of license termination. This notification allowed Mr. Everett 30 additional days to comply with the stated requirements. Mr. Everett attempted to comply by mailing a certified check in the amount of $1,033 to the SLA and agreed to mail the reports once corrections were made, even though the reports would be a day late. After discussion with his BEP counselor, Mr. Everett assumed this arrangement was satisfactory. However, his BEP counselor stated that she had not agreed to this arrangement. On April 13, 1988, Mr. Everett was informed that his license was terminated and that a final inventory would be made of his vending machine facility. At this time he was notified that fees were delinquent in the amount of $1,466.85. On May 10, 1988, Mr. Everett filed for an administrative review and an evidentiary fair hearing of his termination. The SLA neither granted nor denied the request for the administrative hearing but did proceed with the evidentiary fair hearing. Mr. Everett sought financial relief for what he would have earned had he not been terminated, reinstatement into the program, and attorney's fees. The TDHS Commissioner denied relief on all grounds. Mr. Everett filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education requesting arbitration regarding his termination. A hearing was conducted September 21, 1990. Arbitration Panel Decision In the substantive issues in this case, the panel found that the SLA was in error in terminating Mr. Everett's license because he had made a good faith effort to pay his fees and file the report after March 8, 1988. The panel concluded that Mr. Everett should be reinstated with back pay to the program in a facility reasonably equivalent to the one he left. Mr. Everett's testimony that he netted $1,500 a month was not contradicted. However, because of his long-standing delinquency in failing to file reports and pay his fees and his failure to make a more timely response to the probation and termination letters, the panel found that Mr. Everett is due less than a full award. The panel found Mr. Everett was due back pay in the amount of $27,500, less fees he owes the SLA in full and less his interim earnings in full. The panel also concluded that attorney's fees may not be allowed. The panel member selected by the SLA filed a dissenting opinion in which he maintained that the State was entitled to the sovereign immunity embodied in the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution_an immunity the State did not waive by participating in the Randolph-Sheppard program. This panelist concluded that the State was, therefore, not liable for monetary damages. The views and opinions expressed by the panel do not necessarily represent the views and opinions of the U.S. Department of Education. Dated: July 22, 1994. Howard R. Moses, Acting Assistant Secretary for the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18341 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
