FR940317-1-00203 FR940317-1-00017 CMOs are collateralized by pools of residential mortgage loans. Like other asset-backed securities, the rate of prepayment on the underlying collateral of CMOs is correlated inversely with interest rate changes in the general economy. The actual maturities of CMOs are dependent on these prepayment speeds. CMOs are priced on the basis of the estimated ``weighted average life'' (``WAL'') of individual CMO tranches. As interest rates decline, prepayments increase, with a corresponding shortening of WALs. Conversely, an increase in interest rates results in a lengthening of maturity. Estimated yields cannot be established without some prepayment assumption underlying the WAL; for this reason, disclosure of accurate prepayment assumptions, and an appreciation of their implications, is essential to making a sound investment decision. CMOs are offered in several tranches of varying maturity and yield that are intended to appeal to a broad spectrum of investors. One or more tranches typically are structured as a planned amortization class (``PAC''). PAC bonds, whose maturities are shielded from both WAL extension and contraction risk, have the maximum protection available in CMOs. Unlike PAC bonds, target amortization class (``TAC'') bonds only provide protection against rapid prepayments, i.e. , against a shortening of maturity. In CMO offerings there also are ``support classes,'' or ``companion classes,'' of the PAC or TAC bond classes, which bear a disproportionate share of prepayment risk. 43 43 The PAC bond's cash flow stability is achieved by giving its principal payments a higher priority than those of the CMO ``companion'' tranches. While PAC bonds generally yield about 50 to 75 basis points above comparable Treasury bonds, companion tranches can yield as much as 150 to 175 basis points above comparable Treasury bonds, an attractive yield for investors seeking alternatives to money market funds and certificates of deposit. As a by-product of PAC or TAC bonds, however, ``companion'' bonds are more volatile than PAC or TAC bonds. According to Fitch Investors Service, Inc., ``companion'' bonds generally demonstrate ``moderate-to-high volatility, with a very small percentage having low volatility.'' ``CMO Tranche Risk Revealed,'' Fitch Investors Service, Inc. 3 (April 6, 1992). In view of the changes in the structured financing market described above, the Commission proposes to revise the yield disclosure requirements for asset backed securities. On the one hand, the Commission proposes to expand the range of debt securities where yield need not be disclosed to include any asset backed security subject to continuous prepayment. 44 Broker-dealers must disclose yield information with respect to debt instruments that are insulated from prepayment risk, or where sufficient certainty exists to permit an accurate forecast of the yield that investors will receive. 45 44 This amendment would codify a no-action response issued by the staff in 1988 with respect to mortgage-backed securities, and apply it to asset-backed securities generally. Letter regarding Merrill Lynch Capital Markets (Oct. 19, 1988) [available on LEXIS]. 45 For example, the Commission notes that mortgage loans on multi-family housing may contain substantial prepayment penalties, so that a security collateralized by or representing an interest in such notes would be expected to provide a predictable payment stream to investors. Similarly, automobile receivables may provide a predictable payment stream because automobile owners are less likely to prepay their automobile loans. By their nature, certain securities, such as most mortgage-backed bonds, also provide certainty of cash flow. On the other hand, the Commission proposes to treat CMOs differently from other debt instruments under the proposed amendments. A broker-dealer effecting transactions in CMOs would be required to disclose, with respect to the security, (1) estimated yield, (2) the weighted average life, and (3) the prepayment assumptions underlying the yield. The Commission emphasizes that the proposed amendments only would apply to yield disclosure on a confirmation and would not affect the broker-dealer's obligation under the general antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws to disclose material information, apart from that required by Rule 10b&hyph;10, regarding the composition of mortgage pools or other factors that will affect yield. In this connection, the Commission requests comments concerning the manner in which yields are represented to investors in mortgage-backed securities; the assumptions made by broker-dealers concerning prepayment speed for mortgage pools; and how interest rate risk and foreclosure risk are disclosed to investors in mortgage-backed securities. The Commission requests comment on the effect of the amendments on customer understanding of the return on their investments. In addition, the Commission requests comment on the advisability of requiring separate disclosure relating to the prepayment assumptions underlying a yield quotation in a CMO and on the written confirmation for a transaction in a CMO.
