FR941202-1-00005 FR941202-1-00002 32(b) Definitions 32(b)(1) High-Rate, High-Fee Mortgage Section 103(aa) of the TILA defines the mortgages covered by new section 129 based on the rates charged and fees paid. For ease of compliance, the proposed amendments refer to those mortgages as high-rate, high-fee mortgages. 32(b)(1)(i) The statute covers mortgages that charge rates above a specified standard. The rate-based test is tied to Treasury securities having comparable terms of the loan's maturity. Rate information for Treasury securities is widely available. For example, the Board's Selected Interest Rates (statistical release H&hyph;15) identifies Treasury securities with maturities of 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 20 and 30 years. The Board anticipates that for loan maturities that do not match those of Treasury securities, creditors will use rounding to determine a comparable maturity. For example, the APR for an eight-year loan would be compared to securities with a seven-year maturity; a nine-year loan would be compared to a ten-year maturity. The Board is required by section 157 of the Equity Protection Act to conduct a study and make recommendations to the Congress about whether a high-rate mortgage could be defined with a more appropriate interest rate index than Treasury securities of comparable maturities. The study will begin when the proposed regulation is adopted in final form and will end 18 months later. As an adjunct to the study, the Board solicits comments on other interest rate indices that might be more appropriate. 32(b)(1)(ii) The statute also covers mortgages if the total points and fees payable by the consumer at or before loan closing exceed the greater of $400 or 8 percent of the total loan amount. The $400 dollar amount will be adjusted annually on January 1 by the annual percentage change in the Consumer Price Index, as reported on June 1 of the previous year. The Board contemplates that any adjustment will be published at the same time as proposed periodic updates of Regulation Z's official staff commentary, which are regularly published for public comment in the autumn of each year. The Board believes the statute requires creditors to use the principal balance_and not additional costs that may be incurred at closing_when determining whether the ratio of fees to the total loan amount exceeds 8 percentage points. The TILA's timing rules for providing disclosures_including those disclosures proposed below_are generally triggered by the consummation of a closed-end credit transaction. State law determines when consummation occurs, and it often, but not always, coincides with the loan closing. The statute defines a high-fee mortgage by measuring the amount of fees paid at or before closing; the proposed amendment reflects that timing rule. 32(b)(2) Points and Fees Section 103(aa) of the TILA defines points and fees as all finance charges (except interest or the time-price differential), all compensation paid to mortgage brokers, and all items identified in section 106(e) (other than amounts held for future payment of taxes) unless the charge is reasonable, the creditor receives no direct or indirect compensation from the charge, and the charge is not paid to an affiliate of the creditor. The proposed amendments replicate the statute, except that the proposed definition refers to the regulatory provisions implementing section 106(a) (finance charges) and section 106(e) (closing costs for real estate-related transactions) of the TILA. The Board believes the Congress intended a very broad application of the term ``compensation,'' including, for example, amounts paid to brokers by creditors (in addition to amounts paid by consumers). Section 103(aa) also authorizes the Board to identify other charges that would be appropriate to include in the total fee calculation. The proposed regulation does not identify any such additional charges. The legislative history includes credit insurance premiums as an example of fees that could be included, if evidence showed that the premiums were being used to circumvent the statute. The Board solicits comment on charges not captured by the statute that would be appropriate to include in the test to determine whether a transaction is a high-fee mortgage, and if so, why. 32(b)(3) Affiliate Section 129(k) of the TILA defines ``affiliate'' for purposes of the high-rate, high-fee mortgage rules by a statutory reference to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. (12 U.S.C. 1841(k)) That act defines affiliate as any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under the common control with another company. It also defines ``company'' and when one company is considered to ``control'' another. See 12 U.S.C. 1841(a) and (b). The proposed amendment simply defines the term by statutory reference.
