FR940304-1-00087 FR940304-1-00014 Rebuttable Presumption For consideration of rebuttable presumptions, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that incremental payback, not cumulative payback, are the appropriate payback for standards. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 64). Since the legislation requires that payback be considered from a standard level compared to the base case, DOE believes that only cumulative payback may be used for the rebuttable presumption determination. Additionally, the other impacts of appliance conservation standards on energy use, consumers, manufacturers, and other factors were determined by comparing projections under the base case 12 with the projections under the proposed standards. 12 The base case assumes implementation of the conservation standards that were set by the Act for central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps and furnaces and by Department of Energy rulemaking in the case of refrigerators-freezers and freezers and small gas furnaces. Standards Decision Making Natural Resources Defense Council and the Rocky Mountain Institute addressed the Department's standards selection criteria. Both Natural Resources Defense Council and the Rocky Mountain Institute stated that in deciding the economic justification of standards, the Department should not be attempting to maximize the economic benefits to consumers, but should instead be maximizing energy savings. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 16; Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 2). In response, the Department recognizes that the basic statutory direction to set standards is to achieve the ``maximum improvement in energy efficiency that the Secretary determines is technologically feasible and economically justified'' (section 325(l)(2)(A). DOE notes that the economic impact of standards on consumers is only one of the factors the Department considers in reaching its decision to set conservation standards. Other factors include impacts on manufacturers and on national benefits and costs. However, regarding consumer benefits, while the minimum consumer life-cycle cost point is selected as a trial standard level, and in many cases, the most stringent standard level that the Secretary determined was economically justified coincided with that level, several of the proposed standard levels have life-cycle costs that exceed the minimum life-cycle cost. Thus, maximizing consumer benefits does not take precedence over maximizing energy savings. Natural Resources Defense Council further stated that in deciding on standard levels, the Department must first consider the most stringent level of efficiency, i.e., the ``max tech'' level, and if it is economically justified, DOE must set the standard at that level. If it is not economically justified, DOE must then consider the next most stringent level, and if economically justified, set the standard at that level. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 17). The Department does consider candidate standard levels in this manner. However, in making its determination as to whether a standard is economically justified, the Department considers both: The benefits and costs of the standard level under consideration relative to the base case; and how these benefits and costs compare to the benefits and costs of other standards analyzed by the Department in the technical support document for this rule. Currently the costs and benefits of all candidate standard levels are analyzed in comparison to the base case. However, it is possible that more direct comparisons of the impacts of different standard levels may be useful. In light of the above, the Department specifically solicits comment on whether any incremental perspectives would be useful and valid in the determination as to whether a particular standard level is ``economically justified.'' The Florida Energy Office stated that after considering all relevant costs and benefits over the life of the appliance, the Department should set standards at the highest levels that are cost-effective to the nation. (Florida Energy Office, No. 42 at 1).
