FR940602-1-00061 FR940602-1-00013 (c) First aid kit. First aid kits shall be weatherproof and shall contain individual sealed packages for each item that must be kept sterile. The contents of each kit shall be determined by a physician, based on the hazards anticipated at the worksite. The contents of the first aid kit shall be checked at least weekly. Expended items shall be promptly replaced. (d) Stretchers. (1) There shall be available for each vessel being worked, one Stokes basket stretcher, or its equivalent, permanently equipped with bridles for attaching to the hoisting gear. (2) Stretchers shall be kept close to vessels and shall be positioned to avoid damage. (3) A blanket or other suitable covering shall be available. (4) Stretchers shall have at least four sets of effective patient restraints in operable condition. (5) Lifting bridles shall be of adequate strength, capable of lifting 1,000 pounds (454 kg) with a safety factor of five, and shall be maintained in operable condition. Lifting bridles shall be provided for making vertical patient lifts at container berths. Stretchers for vertical lifts shall have foot plates. (6) Stretchers shall be maintained in operable condition. Struts and braces shall be inspected for damage. Wire mesh shall be secured with no burrs. Damaged stretchers shall not be used until repaired. (e) Life-rings. (1) The employer shall ensure that there is in the vicinity of each vessel being worked, at least one U.S. Coast Guard approved 30 inch (76.2 cm) life-ring with no less than 90 feet (27.4 m) of line attached and at least one portable or permanent ladder which will reach from the top of the apron to the surface of the water. (2) In addition to the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section, when working a barge, scow, raft, lighter, log boom, or carfloat alongside a ship, a U.S. Coast Guard approved 30 inch (76.2 cm) life-ring, with no less than 90 feet (27.4 m) of line shall be provided either on the floating unit itself or aboard the ship in the immediate vicinity of each floating unit being worked. (f) Communication. Telephone or equivalent means of communication shall be readily available. §1918.98 Personnel. (a) Qualification of machinery operators. (1) Only those employees determined by the employer to be competent by reason of training or experience, and who understand the signs, notices and operating instructions, and are familiar with the signal code in use, shall be permitted to operate a crane, winch, or other power operated cargo handling apparatus, or any power operated vehicle, or give signals to the operator of any hoisting apparatus. However, employees being trained and supervised by a designated person may operate such machinery and give signals to operators during training. (2) No employee known to have defective uncorrected eyesight or hearing, or to be suffering from heart disease, epilepsy, or similar ailments which may suddenly incapacitate the employee, shall be permitted to operate a crane, winch or other power operated cargo handling apparatus or a power-operated vehicle. (b) Supervisory accident prevention proficiency. (1) After [insert date two years after promulgation of final standard], immediate supervisors of cargo handling operations of more than five persons shall satisfactorily complete a course in accident prevention. Employees newly assigned to supervisory duties after that date shall be required to meet the provisions of this paragraph within 90 days of such assignment. (2) The accident prevention course shall consist of instruction suited to the particular operations involved. 6 6 The following are recommended topics: Safety responsibility and authority; elements of accident prevention; attitudes, leadership and motivation; hazards of longshoring, including peculiar local circumstances; hazard identification and elimination; applicable regulations; and accident investigations. Subpart J_Personal Protective Equipment §1918.101 Eye protection. (a)(1) When employees perform work hazardous to the eyes, the employer shall provide eye protection equipment marked or labeled as meeting the manufacturing specifications of American National Standards Practice for Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection, ANSI Z87.1&hyph;1989, and shall require that it be used. (2) For employees wearing corrective spectacles, eye protection equipment required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be of the type which can be worn over spectacles. Prescription ground safety lenses may be substituted if they provide equivalent protection. (b) Eye protection shall be maintained in good condition. (c) Used eye protection shall be cleaned and disinfected before issuance to another employee. §1918.102 Respiratory protection. (See §1918.1(b)(12)). §1918.103 Head protection. (a) The employer shall require that employees exposed to impact, falling or flying objects, or electric shocks or burns wear protective hats. (b) Protective hats shall bear identifying marks or labels indicating compliance with the manufacturing provisions of American National Standard Requirements for Protective Headwear for Industrial Workers, ANSI Z89.1&hyph;1986. (c) Protective hats previously worn shall be cleaned and disinfected before issuance by the employer to another employee. §1918.104 Foot protection.
