FR941103-0-00051 FR941103-0-00007 Most Muni/Coops, some IOUs, and some NUGs/IPPs support postage stamp rates and criticize distance-sensitive pricing due to its dependence upon power flow studies involving a base and a change case. Many commenters note that power flows on a transmission system are in constant change, thereby creating a very large number of possible system parameters that could be included in load flow analyses and therefore requiring many simplifying assumptions. Consequently, any attempt to derive a normal base case power flow on which to model an incremental power flow would be flawed and unreliable, particularly for individual utilities located in heavily interconnected networks. Therefore, these commenters prefer the administrative convenience of postage stamp rates over the complexity and questionable accuracy of distance-sensitive rates based on power flow studies. 3. Contract Path Versus Measured Power Flows The mismatch between the contract path for a transaction and the actual flows creates pricing and equity concerns. Utilities are split regionally on whether to adopt loop flow, or parallel path, pricing reform or retain contract path pricing. Most Western utilities favor retaining contract path pricing. Western utilities maintain that the topology of the WSCC makes it well suited to the use of phase shifters to control the loop flow problem. In addition, the development of Flexible AC Transmission technology may provide additional devices to augment existing control strategies. Many utilities in the Midwest and the East favor adopting loop flow pricing because over time contract path pricing has left many systems uncompensated for parallel flows. These utilities argue that contract path pricing is outmoded because (1) transmission services have become long-term single direction transactions, (2) many new market entities do not own transmission so that reciprocity is not possible, and (3) negotiated solutions are less possible as competition expands. Many utilities in favor of loop flow pricing are concerned that the associated transition costs are formidable. Parallel flows constantly change with changes in the dispatch of generation. In addition, some utilities urge the development of RTGs first before implementing loop flow pricing. In fact, there is general agreement that RTGs are an appropriate institution for addressing many of the industry's problems including pricing issues and the siting and construction of transmission facilities. While there is widespread dissatisfaction with contract path pricing outside of the West, there is considerable uncertainty about how to address the parallel flow problem effectively. Many parties believe that contract path pricing and loop flow pricing can be combined to address the problem, while other parties believe that these two methods are incompatible. Still other parties offer an array of variations on the contract path pricing and loop flow pricing methods. For example, Hogan's ``contract network'' approach and PacifiCorp's proposal are variations on the contract path pricing method. The GAPP experiment, which the Interregional Transmission Coordination Forum stresses as the way to identify the pricing method to compensate for parallel flows, is a preliminary type of loop flow pricing. The Texas Planned Capacity Wheeling Service and Southern Company's Transmission Cost Actual Path Pricing are also examples of loop flow pricing. Finally, many parties argue that alternatives to contract path pricing should be pursued on a voluntary basis. 4. Spot Pricing for Non-firm Transmission Few commenters express outright opposition to spot pricing, but most advocate a cautious approach to implementation. Those in the latter category comprise a diverse group of IOUs (including EEI), coops, state commissions and industrial groups. Many suggest that spot pricing schemes should continue to be studied, but not considered for implementation at this time. Some encourage the Commission to conduct experiments similar to the Southwest Bulk Power Experiment and the WSPP. Those opposed to spot pricing generally believe that the benefits are not worth the costs. Some argue that the successful implementation of spot pricing for transmission requires a competitive market in generation that does not now exist. However, some commenters that see promise in spot pricing argue that the necessary market institutions and technology exist today. They cite the operation of tight power pools, electronic bulletin boards, and the WSCC experiment as evidence of this fact. Some commenters argue that the ``up to'' transmission rates that many utilities now use for non-firm transmission service effectively approximate spot transmission pricing. However, others believe that rate design for spot transmission pricing raises a number of difficult issues, such as the use of one-part versus two-part rates, and the appropriate definition of the cost of transmission service.
