FR941205-2-00119 FR941205-2-00065 Comment : The proposed change in the method of classification of the subject merchandise should apply to all relevant protested and unliquidated entries, as well as to future entries. Response : Because Customs believes that our previous interpretation was incorrect and this change in position results in a slight reduction in duties, we believe that the benefit should be available to importers immediately for all entries not finally liquidated. Conclusion It is now our position that EN 85.05 has been misinterpreted. The exclusion in EN 85.05 is designed to cover only those articles in which the magnet is merely an insignificant part of a larger article (i.e., kitchen cabinets with a magnet to keep the doors closed). In such cases, the magnet portion is ignored for classification purposes, and the article (i.e., kitchen cabinet) is classified as if the magnet were not present. In regards to articles consisting of a metal or barium ferrite magnet and a plastic, textile or ceramic shell or housing (i.e., a hook, fruit caricature or an advertisement slogan), Customs believes that they are composite goods. Customs will continue to apply an essential character analysis pursuant to GRI 3(b) to find the essential character of the merchandise. If the shell or housing portion of the article merely embellishes the product and acts as a decorative selling feature, and the essential character is imparted by the magnet, then the article is properly classifiable in heading 8505, HTSUS, as a permanent magnet. This change in position only relates to how Customs interprets the exclusion stated in EN 85.05. The change in tariff classification resulting from this decision will be effective immediately for all entries not finally liquidated as well as to merchandise entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse on or after this date. By this action, those rulings which are inconsistent with our current position are revoked. Approved: November 22, 1994. Michael H. Lane, Acting Commissioner of Customs. John P. Simpson, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29831 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4820&hyph;02&hyph;P
