FR940811-2-00016 FR940811-2-00010 Under the fourth Alternative, No Action, no new research, development, testing, production or basing would be conducted; and, therefore, no integrated, comprehensive TMD system would be developed. Normal improvement and maintenance of existing systems (aircraft, missiles, and radar) would continue, to assure their effectiveness against traditional combatant forces. New systems leading to an integrated TMD would not be developed. Impacts and Mitigation The FEIS found no unavoidable, significant environmental impacts for the Proposed Action or any of the four Alternatives. In other words, any unavoidable effect, such as construction noise, will be temporary and not significant. Any conceivable significant impact, such as destruction of archaeological artifacts during construction, may be readily avoided by taking normal precautions and following standard procedures. Alternative 3, Passive Defense, might be termed the environmentally preferred alternative, since its impacts were analyzed to be minimal or none. This is because Passive Defense does not entail basing and decommissioning. Since no unavoidable, significant environmental impacts were identified for any Alternative, no unavoidable significant cumulative impacts were identified for the Proposed Action. Furthermore, because decisions on specific components and sites will be made later, specific and cumulative impacts will be addressed in the environmental documents that form those decisions, if appropriate. The No-Action Alternative involves no new development, but does continue routine improvement and maintenance of existing systems. The analysis of impacts associated with those activities is outside the scope of the TMD FEIS. They would be the subject of site-specific or program-specific documents prepared at a later date, if appropriate. Decision The Proposed Action arises from compelling national security needs. Recent political and military changes throughout the world have required adjustments in U.S. defense strategy. Both Congress and the Executive Branch have placed a high priority on Theater Missile Defense, now the number one priority initiative within BMDO. The Missile Defense Act of 1991 stated ``*␣*␣* (it) is a goal of the United States to provide highly effective theater missile defenses to forward deployed and expeditionary elements of the armed forces of the United States and to friends and allies of the United States.'' This threat to U.S. interests is growing with improvements in missile performance and warhead design, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and increasing numbers of missile-armed nations. In May 1993, the Secretary of Defense announced changes in the ballistic missile defense program, and assigned a high priority to early deployment of improved theater missile defenses. He reiterated this priority in his September 1993 report on DoD's ``bottom-up'' review of ballistic missile defense. The requirement for a TMD capability relying on more than one technology or component was articulated in the Joint Requirements Oversight Mission Needs Statement (MNS) for TMD, ``*␣*␣* the theater missile threat cannot yet be countered by a single technical solution.'' The FEIS found that neither the Proposed Action, nor any of four alternative approaches to satisfying this national security requirement, would create significant environmental impacts. In other words, there is no compelling environmental argument against the Proposed Action or in favor of any one Alternative. After careful review of the FEIS and consideration of national defense policy requirements, I [Director, BMDO] have decided to carry out the research and development program, within the responsibilities of BMDO, as described in the Proposed Action. Monitoring and Enforcement In regard to TMD research and development activities and the contracts to support them, I [Director, BMDO] direct BMDO Deputies and Program Executive Officers to monitor these activities and ensure that environmental standards and controls described in this FEIS are followed. As subsequent decisions are made regarding system components and basing locations, and as their accompanying environmental documents elaborate specific requirements for monitoring and enforcement, I [Director, BMDO] will implement appropriate safeguards. Date and Signature Record of Decision was signed July 30, 1994 by Malcolm R. O'Neill, Lieutenant General, United States Army, Director, Ballistic Missile Defense Organization. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Major Tracy Bailey, BMDO Environmental Coordinator, BMDO/AQT, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;7100, (703) 693&hyph;1744. Dated: August 5, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19549 Filed 8&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
