FR940527-1-00064 FR940527-1-00014 The ``refined'' reclassification methodology would add a second basis for adjusting a reclassified hospital's wage index. This was developed to assist hospitals whose situation warrants a different nearest neighbor approach. For example, it is possible that a hospital's data could represent more than 25 percent, or even 50 percent, of the total hours when combined with its 10 nearest neighbors. However, the same hospital's data very likely might represent a much lower percentage of the total hours in the MSA or statewide rural area in which it is located. This refined method would allow a hospital to use not only the average hourly wage of its 10 nearest neighbors, but also its hours weight when combined with its 10 nearest neighbors. So, in addition to the test of the representativeness of the other hospitals' average hourly wage described above, there would be a test of the appropriateness of substituting its hours weight from the hospital's immediate labor market for the weight that would otherwise be used (.25, .50, or its MSA/statewide rural hours weight). A reclassified hospital's hour weight reflected in the wage index would be adjusted under this method if two criteria are met. First, a hospital's share of the total hours in its nearest 10 neighbors ``labor market'' would have to exceed its hour weight in its MSA/statewide rural labor market. Second, the use of the nearest neighbors' hours weight would have to increase the average hourly wage that comprises the numerator of its wage index value. If both criteria were met, then the nearest neighbors' weight would be substituted for the hours weight that would have been used were the hospital not reclassified. This refined reclassification methodology would allow for three different types of reclassification groups under which a hospital's wage index would be calculated by using one of the following: (1) The nearest neighbors' average hourly wage and the MSA hour weight; (2) the nearest neighbors' hours weight and the MSA-based average hourly wage; or (3) both the nearest neighbors' weight and average hourly wage. The following tables summarize our findings under each of the options we examined in comparison with the current labor market system. Table E displays the number of hospitals for which the difference between the area wage index value for a given alternative and the hospital's own relative wage index value (determined by dividing the hospital's average hourly wage by the national average hourly wage) is greater than .08, either positive or negative. For each wage index option, the Lose and Gain columns show the number of hospitals for whom the difference represents a given decrease or increase in wage index value. Table F presents the assessment of wage conformity across labor markets. We determined that a ``boundary problem'' existed for a target hospital (that is, the hospital whose wage index value is being calculated) if_ •Among nearby hospitals, one or more other hospitals' wage index value is at least .04 greater than that of the target hospital, and •The hospital with the lower wage index value pays higher wages than the hospital with the higher wage index value. ``Nearby hospitals'' were defined as the 20 nearest hospitals or if a hospital does not have 20 other hospitals within a 35 mile radius, all hospitals within a 35 mile radius. Table F shows the number of hospitals with one or more boundary problems and the average size of the wage index difference for those boundary problems. An average wage index difference of .12 corresponds to a payment difference of about $300 per case.
