FR941003-2-00195 FR941003-2-00072 Federal Aviation Administration [Docket No. 27649] Supplemental Draft Environmental Impact Statement; Effects of Changes in Aircraft Flight Patterns Over the State of New Jersey AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Issuance of A Supplemental Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) For Public Review and Comment. SUMMARY: The FAA has decided to prepare a supplement to the draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) on the effects of changes in aircraft flight patterns over the State of New Jersey caused by implementation of the Expanded East Coast Plan (EECP). As a result of the analysis phase of the comment period associated with the DEIS, new information was developed by the FAA. Additionally, new information was received from the public during the comment period. Since this information is pertinent to the decision process leading to issuance of a final EIS (FEIS), the public should have an opportunity to examine the new material and comment on it prior to completion of the FEIS. The supplemental DEIS (SDEIS) was prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Copies have been mailed to individuals that participated in the EIS process as well as to libraries in select locations throughout New Jersey. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of key portions of the SDEIS and major areas of concern identified by the public. It is not intended to duplicate or cover every aspect of the SDEIS. Substantive comments submitted to the FAA should address the SDEIS, not this summary. I. Summary of Key Portions of the SDEIS A. Alternatives and Mitigation Under Consideration The following alternatives were evaluated and are being considered by the FAA: (1) Alternative A. Maintain the current (as defined in 1991) EECP structure. (Proposed action and no action) (2) Alternative B. Return to 1986 air traffic routes and procedures using 1991 traffic. (Rollback) (3) Alternative C2. Route Newark south flow departure traffic from over Raritan Bay to over the ocean (at night only) via a specific path defined by the Solberg and Colts Neck navigational aids. (Nighttime only oceanic/military routing) Alternative D3. Spread aircraft departing Newark runways 22L and 22R to three different headings. (Spreading of fanning) These alternatives are described in detail in Chapter 3 of the SDEIS. Two mitigation measures were evaluated and are also being considered: (1) Routing some westbound departures from Newark to a new departure gate in the vicinity of the Solberg navigational aid. (2) Moving LaGuardia arrival traffic further south from its current routing. These mitigation measures are described in detail in Chapter 6 of the SDEIS. These measures, if selected by the decision-maker for implementation, would reduce noise by Day-Night Level (DNL) 5 dB or greater for approximately 18,500 residents of the Scotch Plains and Fanwood areas of Union County, New Jersey. These were two of the areas that experienced some of the greatest increases in noise as a result of implementation of the EECP. B. Environmental Consequences None of the alternatives would cause significant noise, air quality or water quality impacts. (The one exception identified in the area of noise results from the assumptions used in reconstructing and modeling the return to 1986 routes and procedures.) Noise analysis indicates that 1.45 million individuals would be impacted by noise increases of DNL 5 dB or greater if the FAA returned to use of 1986 routes and procedures, while approximately 45,000 individuals would experience noise benefits of DNL 5 dB or greater. Fanning and nighttime use of ocean routing would have marginal noise benefits. In response to the volume of comments concerning noise impacts in particular communities, Appendix F of the SDEIS provides the increases in noise level predicted for each census block in New Jersey. C. Public Participation In preparing the SDEIS the FAA has carefully summarized and addressed the comments received on the DEIS and made revisions to the text as appropriate. There have been extensive opportunities for public participation since the DEIS was made available on November 12, 1992. In January, 1993, the FAA held public hearings in New Jersey to obtain comments on the DEIS. In addition, two public meetings were held in Staten Island, New York to address the DEIS and the New York Metropolitan Area Aircraft Noise Mitigation Review, a study mandated by Congress, which specifically addressed noise issues in the New York metropolitan area, including parts of Connecticut and New Jersey, separate from the EIS action. The comment period on the DEIS extended from November 12, 1992 to November 23, 1993. This 369 day comment period was well in excess on NEPA requirements. II. Areas of Controversy In addition to noise, air, and water quality impacts, the major areas of controversy concerning this EIS were alternate use of ocean routing, effects or aircraft noise on property values, and the scope of the EIS. A. Ocean Routing Many commenters believed the alternative of using ocean routes 24 hours a day should be studied in detail as a reasonable alternative. Several different proposals were considered in the DEIS, but eliminated due to concerns about operational feasibility and potential environmental impacts. In June 1993, the New Jersey Citizens for Environmental Research (NJCER), on behalf of the New Jersey Coalition Against Aircraft Noise, submitted a proposal to route all Newark Airport departures south, down the Arthur Kill and over Raritan Bay to the ocean. This study was analyzed operationally and modeled to determine its noise impacts within the scope of this EIS. Operational examination indicates this proposal would cause about 5 points of conflicting traffic within New Jersey, require tunneling of traffic from Newark under traffic from other airports, and cause substantial delays at Newark. Noise analysis indicates this proposal would have net benefits of DNL 5 dB or greater for approximately 228,000 New Jersey residents (690,000 residents would benefit while 462,000 residents would experience increased noise of DNL 5 dB or greater). In addition there appear to be potentially significant adverse noise impacts in areas south of Newark that would be overflown by aircraft at altitudes below 3,000 above ground level (AGL) feet as well as in New York and Connecticut. Additional environmental review would be required to examine these impacts, which are beyond the scope of this EIS. This proposal is described in detail in Chapter 1 of the SDEIS. B. Effect of Noise on Property Values Another area of concern was the effect of noise increases on real property values. There is insufficient scientific data to support a reasonable conclusion about whether the noise levels associated with implementation of the EECP have, or its alternatives would have, depressed property values in New Jersey. The economic studies of the effects of airport noise on house values to date, which have found a slight devaluation, have involved properties in or near urban areas surrounding major airports at noise exposure levels exceeding those in this EIS. This is discussed in detail in Section 5.2.1 of the SDEIS. C. Scope of the EIS Another controversial issue was the scope of the EIS. The legal and policy reasons supporting the decision to limit the scope of the EIS to New Jersey and to air traffic changes above 3,000 AGL feet are fully explained in Chapter 2 of the SDEIS and Appendix A. Briefly, the FAA adhered strictly to the congressional mandate to study New Jersey because of the complexity of an expanded study, the difficulty of identifying objective criteria for excluding portions of the other 18 States and the District of Columbia that were also potentially affected by the EECP, and the time constraints on the EIS process. The EIS examines changes above 3,000 AGL feet because that was the scope of the EECP. To assure compliance with NEPA, no alternative will be selected for implementation until all applicable environmental review requirements have been satisfied.
