FR940516-2-00075 FR940516-2-00050 [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3768] Submission of Proposed Information Collection to OMB AGENCY: Office of Administration, HUD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The proposed information collection requirement described below has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act for expedited review. The Department is soliciting public comments on the subject proposal. DATES: Comments due date: May 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding this proposal. Comments must be received within ten (10) days from the date of this Notice. Comments should refer to the proposal by name and should be sent to: Joseph F. Lackey, Jr., OMB Desk Officer, Office of Management and Budget, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kay F. Weaver, Reports Management Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, Southwest, Washington, DC 20410. Copies of the proposed forms and other available documents submitted to OMB may be obtained from Ms. Weaver. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This Notice informs the public that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has submitted to OMB, for expedited processing, a form to be used to report annual accomplishments regarding employment, training, and contracting opportunities under Section 3, and a (complaint) form for filing with the Department allegations of non-compliance with section 3. HUD is requesting a 10-day OMB review of the documents. The Department has submitted the proposal for the collection of information as described below, to OMB for review, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. chapter 35): (1) The title of the information collection proposal; (2) The Office of the agency to collect the information; (3) The description of the need for the information and its proposed use; (4) The agency form number, if applicable; (5) What members of the public will be affected by the proposal; (6) How often information submission will be required; (7) An estimate of the total number of hours needed to prepare the information submission including number of respondents, frequency of response, and hours for preparing the response; (8) Whether the proposal is new or an extension, reinstatement, or revision of an information collection requirement; and (9) The name and telephone numbers of an agency official familiar with the proposal and of the OMB Desk Officer for the Department. Authority: Section 3507 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of, 44 U.S.C. 3507; Section 7(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Dated: May 2, 1994. Roberta Achtenberg, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.
