FR940216-0-00168 FR940216-0-00010 Areas Classified as Moderate Ozone Nonattainment Areas 1. Charles City County 2. Chesterfield County 3. Colonial Heights 4. Hanover County 5. Henrico County 6. Hopewell 7. Richmond County Areas Classified as Marginal Ozone Nonattainment Areas 1. Chesapeake 2. Hampton 3. James City County 4. Newport News 5. Norfolk 6. Poquoson 7. Portsmouth 8. Smyth County (part) 94 94 This is a rural transport area. 9. Suffolk 10. Virginia Beach 11. Williamsburg 12. York County Vermont and portions of other areas in Pennsylvania and New Hampshire have formally requested to opt-in to the reformulated gasoline program, although the designated areas in these states are categorized as unclassified/attainment. Because of statutory limitations, attainment areas will not be allowed to opt-in to the program, with a limited exception given to some areas in established ozone transport regions as authorized by section 184 of the Act. The reader is referred to the RIA for further discussion of the statutory limitations. Other ozone nonattainment areas that are not listed herein may also opt-in to the reformulated gasoline program as permitted by section 211(k)(6), under constraints such as sufficient lead-time domestic fuel availability. Several key issues were brought to EPA's attention in the form of comments, and EPA's response is summarized below. More detailed discussion of these opt-in issues can be found in Section IX of the Final Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA). Several commenter inquiries pertained to opting out of the reformulated gasoline program. Once an area has opted into the reformulated gasoline program, the issue arises whether it may, at a later date, decide to opt out of the program. While EPA is currently considering opt-out provisions, section 211(k) does not give EPA the authority to develop an opt-out procedure. Thus, EPA is not including any opt-out provisions in this rulemaking, but may pursue a separate action in the future that would allow states to opt-out of the RFG program, provided sufficient notice is given. In its April 1993 NPRM, EPA requested comment on whether to permit areas to opt-in to only Phase I (1995&hyph;99) of the RFG program, and not require them to receive Phase II RFG starting in 2000. Several commenters supported allowing states to opt-in to Phase I only, but cited a number of concerns regarding the logistics of producing and distributing Phase I and Phase II reformulated gasolines concurrently. Because of these potential fuel proliferation problems (i.e., many types of fuels available or required in the marketplace at one time), as well as enforcement problems and weak statutory authority (which is discussed further in the RIA), EPA will not allow nonattainment areas to opt-in to only Phase I. Opt-in areas must be willing to commit to the change to Phase II RFG in the year 2000. As discussed above, EPA may undertake a separate action which would give opted-in areas the opportunity to opt-out of the RFG program. In this case if a state desired to maintain the Phase I RFG standards beyond the year 1999, the state could promulgate its own regulations requiring this. Such a program would have to be enforced by the state, however, and would also have to be approved by EPA as part of the State Implementation Plan review process. As discussed briefly above, some of the comments received by EPA included a request that attainment areas be permitted to opt-in to the RFG program. The Act does not allow participation by attainment areas into the reformulated gasoline program. EPA also received suggestions that it modify the opt-in application procedure to allow more lead time for refiners. EPA feels that its existing application procedure for opt-in and its lead time provisions are adequate, and do not require revision. Finally, one commenter suggested that opt-in should be allowed only after a nonattainment area has adopted Stage II controls and enhanced inspection and maintenance. EPA favors giving eligible areas freedom to opt-in to the RFG provisions, and will not require that areas first implement Stage II controls and enhanced inspection and maintenance. The NO X standard for Phase II reformulated gasoline (see Section VI above) will be required in all current and future opt-in areas. As discussed in the Section VI of the RIA, NO X control is believed to be necessary to ensure that all opt-in areas realize a reduction in ozone levels. Since future opt-in areas are likely to be similar to some current reformulated gasoline areas (including current opt-in) in terms of geographical location, meteorological conditions, and other factors affecting ozone formation, it is reasonable to assume that future opt-in areas will similarly benefit from NO X control. Furthermore, as discussed in Section VI of the RIA, applying the NO X standard to the same areas as the reformulated gasoline standard is considered to be the most appropriate and cost effective manner in which to achieve ozone benefits through fuel reformulation. Since refiners will already be producing reformulated gasoline controlling both VOC and NO X , the addition of new areas to the reformulated gasoline program will only require an increase in the volume of RFG produced and will not pose any leadtime problems.
