FR940725-0-00050 FR940725-0-00008 (qq) Qualified. With respect to instructional personnel, a person who holds at a minimum a current and applicable teaching certificate from any of the 50 States, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia, or has met other pertinent requirements in the areas in which he or she is providing special education or related services not of a medical nature to children with disabilities. Providers of early intervention services and medically related services must meet standards established by the ASD(HA). (rr) Related services. This includes transportation, and such developmental, corrective, and other supportive services (including speech pathology and audiology; psychological services; physical and occupational therapy; recreation, including therapeutic recreation and social work services; and medical and counseling services), including rehabilitation counseling (except that such medical services shall be for diagnostic and evaluative purposes only) as may be required to assist a child with a disability to benefit from special education, and includes the early identification and assessment of disabling conditions in preschool children or children. The following list of related services is not exhaustive and may include other developmental, corrective, or supportive services (such as clean intermittent catheterization), if they are required to assist a child with a disability to benefit from special education, as determined by a CSC. (1) Audiology. This term includes: (i) Audiological, diagnostic, and prescriptive services provided by audiologists who have a Certificate of Clinical Competence_Audiology (CCC&hyph;A) and pediatric experience. Audiology shall not include speech therapy. (ii) Identification of children with hearing loss. (iii) Determination of the range, nature, and degree of hearing loss, including referral for medical or other professional attention designed to ameliorate or correct that loss. (iv) Provision of ameliorative and corrective activities, including language and auditory training, speech-reading (lip-reading), hearing evaluation, speech conservation, the recommendation of amplification devices, and other aural rehabilitation services.
