FR941221-1-00044 FR941221-1-00013 Extraction and concentration are preparation steps that are required prior to the determination of many organic analytes that are found in wastewater. The disk extraction procedure is proposed as an alternate to the presently approved liquid-liquid extraction procedure. A. Scope of the Procedure Method 3M 0222 is designed as an alternate test procedure for currently approved EPA Method 608. The Empore TM disk is used in place of liquid-liquid extraction. This method is proposed as an alternate procedure for the determination of nineteen organochlorine pesticides and seven PCBs listed below: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Aldrin Heptachlor epoxide alpha-BHC Methoxychlor beta-BHC Toxaphene Chlordane 4,4'-DDD delta-BHC 4,4'-DDE Dieldrin 4,4'-DDT Endosulfan I PCB&hyph;1016 Endosulfan II PCB&hyph;1221 Endosulfan sulfate PCB&hyph;1232 Endrin PCB&hyph;1242 Endrin aldehyde PCB&hyph;1248 gamma-BHC PCB&hyph;1254 Heptachlor PCB&hyph;1260 The parameters listed in the table can be determined by this method. EPA Method 608 is a gas chromatographic (GC) method applicable to the analysis of municipal and industrial discharges as provided under 40 CFR 136.1 for determination of the compounds listed. When the method is used to analyze unfamiliar samples for any or all of the compounds listed, compound identifications should be supported by at least one additional qualitative technique. The method describes analytical conditions for a second gas chromatographic column that can be used to confirm measurements made with the primary column. B. Summary of the Methods A measured volume of sample, approximately 1&hyph;L, is extracted using a 90 mm Empore TM disk. The disk is eluted with acetone followed by methylene chloride. The eluant is dried by pouring through anhydrous sodium sulfate and exchanged to hexane during concentration to a volume of 10-mL or less. The eluant is separated by gas chromatography and the analytes are then measured with an electron capture detector. The method provides a Florisil column cleanup procedure and an elemental sulfur removal procedure using activated copper powder to aid in the elimination of interferences that may be encountered. C. Technical Justification for Proposed Procedure The recommendation for approval of these procedures is based on the data packages submitted by the applicant, 3M Corporation. EPA is approving the method based on the method description in EPA's Environmental Monitoring Management Council format, comparative analyses using the proposed and approved procedures, and EPA's technical and statistical reviews of each data package.
