FR940406-0-00028 FR940406-0-00002 (7) If, prior to the issuance of the notice required by ยง268.207(f) of this part, the complainant refuses within 30 days of receipt of an offer of settlement to accept the Board's offer of full relief containing a certification from the Board's Staff Director for Management, the General Counsel or a designee reporting directly to the Staff Director for Management or General Counsel (after consulting with the EEO Programs Director) that the offer constitutes full relief, provided that the offer gave notice that failure to accept would result in dismissal of the complaint. An offer of full relief under this paragraph (a)(7) is the appropriate relief in ยง268.501 of this part. (b) The Board shall inform the complainant of the right to file a request for review with the Commission with regard to the dismissal of the individual complaint pursuant to ยง268.401 of this part, or to file a civil action. A copy of EEOC Form 573, notice of Appeal/Petition, shall be attached to the Board's decision to dismiss an individual complaint under this section. ยง268.207 Investigation of complaints. (a) The investigation of individual complaints shall be conducted by an investigator appointed by the EEO Programs Director. (b) Consistent with guidance proffered by the Commission, the Board, through the EEO Programs Director, shall develop a complete and impartial factual record upon which to make findings on the matters raised by the written complaint. The investigator may use an exchange of letters or memoranda, interrogatories, investigations, fact-finding conferences or any other fact-finding methods that efficiently and thoroughly address the matters at issue. The EEO Programs Director may incorporate alterative dispute resolution techniques into the investigation in order to promote early resolution of complaints. (c) The procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section apply to the investigation of complaints: (1) The complainant, the Board and any employee of the Board shall produce such documentary and testimonial evidence as the investigator deems necessary, consistent with applicable laws, regulations and policies of the Board. (2) The investigator may administer oaths. Statements of witnesses shall be made under oath or affirmation or, alteratively, by written statement under penalty of perjury. (3) When the complainant, or the Board or its employees, fail without good cause shown to respond fully and in timely fashion to requests for documents, records, comparative data, statistics, affidavits or the attendance of witness(es), the investigator may note in the investigative record that the Board when rendering a final decision should, or the Commission on review may, in appropriate circumstances:
