FR940819-1-00031 FR940819-1-00010 Administration for Children and Families 45 CFR Part 212 RIN 0970&hyph;AB45 Assistance for United States Citizens Returned From Foreign Countries AGENCY: Administration for Children and Families, HHS, Office of Refugee Resettlement. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice of proposed rulemaking would amend the regulations concerning the U.S. Repatriate Program. The proposed rule would require agencies which provide assistance to groups of United States citizens who are returned from foreign countries to the United States by the Department of State due to war, threat of war, civil disorder, or natural disaster to request and obtain advance approval from the Administration for Children and Families to incur expenses for developing and preparing to implement repatriation plans for groups of eligible persons. This action is necessary in order for the Department to appropriately oversee the limited funding available for such activities. DATES: Comments must be received on or before October 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Division of State Legalization and Repatriation, Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th floor, Washington, DC 20447. Agencies and organizations are requested to submit comments in duplicate. Comments will be available for public inspection, beginning approximately one month after publication, at the above address on Monday through Friday of each week from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., except Federal holidays. Although we will not be able to acknowledge or respond to comments individually in preparing the final rule, we will respond to comments in the preamble. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David B. Smith (Director, Division of State Legalization and Repatriation), 202&hyph;401&hyph;9255. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Background The U.S. Repatriate Program is authorized by Section 1113 of the Social Security Act and is responsive to Executive Order 12656 regarding services provided to repatriated U.S. citizens. The program provides temporary assistance to needy U.S. citizens and their dependents who are returned to the United States by the Department of State for reasons of destitution, illness, war, threat of war, invasion, civil unrest, or natural disaster. Under current law and regulations, assistance provided through the program to repatriates must be repaid to the United States Government unless the Assistant Secretary for Children and Families specifically waives this requirement. Group Repatriation When groups of U.S. citizens and their dependents must be evacuated from foreign countries and returned to the United States due to war, threat of war, invasion, civil unrest, or natural disaster, States administer the necessary reception and assistance. These repatriation events are generally referred to as Group Repatriations. In the event that the President declares a national security emergency, Executive Order 12656, ``Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities,'' requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to coordinate such a repatriation. This type of group repatriation is referred to as Emergency Repatriation. In response to E.O. 12656, the U.S. Repatriate Program has developed a National Emergency Repatriation Plan which calls for States to develop their own Emergency Repatriation Plans. Under these plans, the States provide for the logistical arrangements for receiving U.S. citizens repatriated as part of a declared national security emergency and providing assistance for their travel to their final destinations and other necessities to ensure the immediate welfare of the repatriates. These plans are activated upon the request of the Department if, and only if, the President declares a national security emergency. Since the States' Emergency Repatriation Plans are suitable for use in the event that groups of American citizens are evacuated due to war or threat of war, invasion or other civil violence, or natural disaster_but a national security emergency is not declared under Executive Order 12656_the U.S. Repatriate Program recognizes that States could use these plans as both Emergency Repatriation Plans and Group Repatriation Plans, and encourages them to do so. Administrative Costs The statutory authority, as well as the current regulations, provide for States or other agencies providing repatriation assistance to be reimbursed for their administrative expenses. Since group/emergency repatriations are a relatively rare event, the Department wishes to ensure that the amount of administrative expenses incurred by States in planning or preparing for receiving group repatriations is reasonable and appropriate. To this end, we are proposing that if States wish to be reimbursed for their administrative expenses, they must seek and receive prior approval from the Department before incurring expenses associated with developing group/emergency repatriation plans. States must also receive prior approval to be reimbursed for the costs of preparing to implement the plans, such as conducting training exercises or making physical preparations to a reception site, unless notified by the Department that such preparations are necessary. In order to keep administrative requirements to a minimum, we are not proposing to mandate any particular format for States to request approval. In submitting a written request for administrative expenses in advance of incurring costs, a State may use any format the State desires. States should include an estimate of the expenses they will incur, along with a description of the activities to be undertaken and a rationale for the expenditure.
