FR940719-0-00068 FR940719-0-00024 Thursday May 19, 1994 Part VI Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administration 21 CFR Part 1020 Federal Performance Standard for Diagnostic X-Ray Systems and Their Major Components; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 96␣/␣Thursday, May 19, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration 21 CFR Part 1020 [Docket No. 92N&hyph;0108] Federal Performance Standard for Diagnostic X-Ray Systems and Their Major Components AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is issuing a final rule to amend the Federal performance standard for diagnostic x-ray systems and their major components (the performance standard). The amendments revise the limits established for maximum patient entrance exposure rates for fluoroscopic x-ray systems during high-level control and other modes of operation. The revisions are being made due to concerns regarding excessively large radiation exposure rates on some fluoroscopic x-ray systems. In addition, an inadvertent error is being corrected to improve the accuracy of the regulations. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 19, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia M. Dubill, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;84), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;594&hyph;4765. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321 et seq .) as amended, FDA is amending the performance standard for diagnostic x-ray systems and their major components in §1020.32 (21 CFR 1020.32) by revising the limits established for maximum patient entrance exposure rates for fluoroscopic x-ray systems during high-level control and other modes of operation. In the Federal Register of August 15, 1972 (37 FR 16461), the performance standard was published as a final rule which became effective on August 1, 1974. Since that time, there have been several amendments to the performance standard. These amendments take into account new technology, clarify misinterpreted provisions, or incorporate additional requirements determined to be necessary to provide for adequate radiation safety of diagnostic x-ray systems. FDA determined that further changes to the standard were necessary, in view of concerns regarding the potential for unnecessary radiation exposures to patients from some current fluoroscopic x-ray system designs. Therefore, FDA developed proposed draft amendments to the performance standard, which were discussed during a public meeting of the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC) on November 14, 1990. The proposed amendments that were discussed included the following: (1) Replacement of the current two-tier system of entrance exposure rate limits applicable during normal fluoroscopy on systems with automatic exposure rate control (AERC) with a single upper limit of 2.58x10 -3 coulomb per kilogram (C/kg) per minute (10 roentgens per minute (R/min)), regardless of mode of operation; (2) Establishment of an upper limit of 5.16x10 -3 C/kg per minute (20 R/min) on entrance exposure rate during high-level control mode of fluoroscopy; (3) Establishment of a requirement for an AERC mode of operation for any fluoroscopic x-ray system capable of operating at an entrance exposure rate greater than 1.29x10 -3 C/kg per minute (5 R/min); and (4) Application of the entrance exposure rate limits discussed in paragraphs (1) and (2) above during continuous recording of dynamic fluoroscopic images with a videotape recorder or similar device. The application of the entrance exposure rate limit during continuous recording requires a distinction between the continuous mode of operation and various modes of operation in which the x-ray exposure is pulsed. Therefore, a definition of pulsed mode of operation is being added. This is necessary because a consensus as to appropriate limits for the various pulsed recording modes does not exist and further study is needed before such a limit is imposed. TEPRSSC approved the content of the proposed amendments and concurred with publication of them for public comment. FDA proposed the amendments to the performance standard in the Federal Register of May 3, 1993 (58 FR 26407). Interested persons were given until August 2, 1993, to comment on the proposal. FDA received and considered one comment each from a radiological physicist and a professional organization representing radiologists and physicists. Both comments supported the proposed changes and suggested several additional amendments to the standard. These comments also addressed fluoroscopy-related issues on which FDA specifically solicited comments in the preamble to the proposed rule. FDA appreciates having received these comments and will consider them in the context of possible future rulemaking activities related to fluoroscopic x-ray systems. A summary of the comments pertaining to the proposal of May 3, 1993, and FDA's responses are discussed below. In addition, in the final rule that published in the Federal Register of May 3, 1993 (58 FR 26386 at 26398), in §1020.30(b) (21 CFR 1020.30(b), the acronym ``SID'' for source-image receptor distance was inadvertently omitted. This document is also correcting that error. II. Summary and Analysis of Comments 1. Both of the comments received concurred with all of the proposed amendments to the performance standard, except that one of the comments suggested changing the proposed upper limit on entrance exposure rate during the high-level control mode of operation. That comment advocated a limit of 3.87x10 -3 C/kg per minute (15 R/min), rather than the proposed limit of 5.16x10 -3 C/kg per minute (20 R/min), but noted a lack of objective data to support the recommendation. The other comment concurred with the proposed limit of 5.16x10 -3 C/kg per minute (20 R/min) and noted that a number of manufacturers provide equipment which does not exceed 2.58x10 -3 C/kg per minute (10 R/min) during fluoroscopy. The comment advocating a lower limit did not submit specific data supporting that position. The second comment on the appropriate upper limit to be imposed on entrance exposure rate during high-level control mode of operation noted that a lower limit was consistent with certain existing equipment, but nonetheless supported the limit proposed by FDA. After reviewing these comments, FDA concludes that its choice of an upper limit is a reasonable one. The objective in establishing such a limit is to provide a mode of operation that will reasonably accommodate unusual imaging requirements, but also will prevent unnecessarily high exposure rates. The limit proposed was based on the observation that the majority of fluoroscopic x-ray systems equipped with high-level control, which were evaluated in conjunction with FDA testing for compliance with the performance standard, are limited to maximum entrance exposure rates of less than 5.16x10 -3 C/kg per minute (20 R/min). The proposed limit was also based on discussions with medical physicists regarding their experience in limiting entrance exposure rates, which indicated that a limit of 5.16x10 -3 C/kg per minute (20 R/min) eliminates unnecessarily high exposure rates without compromising the use of the equipment. FDA interprets the lack of significant adverse comment on this proposal as an indication of general agreement with the proposed limit. Therefore, FDA rejects the suggestion that a limit of 3.87x10 -3 C/kg per minute (15 R/min) be established for the maximum entrance exposure rate, and is establishing the upper limit of 5.16x10 -3 C/kg per minute (20 R/min) as proposed. FDA notes that recommendations related to limits on entrance exposure rate resulted from a workshop on fluoroscopy cosponsored by FDA and the American College of Radiology (ACR) in October of 1992 (Ref. 2). These recommendations generally favored limiting exposure rates from fluoroscopic x-ray systems in some manner and included suggestions for limiting the maximum exposure rate to the input surface of the image intensifier tube. FDA has chosen not to include these suggestions in this final rule because they were beyond the scope of the proposal. FDA will carefully consider the recommendations from the workshop related to limiting exposure rates in conjunction with future amendments. 2. One of the comments suggested that the requirement for a continuous audible signal during the high-level control mode of operation be modified to specify that the signal be emitted at the fluoroscopic imaging assembly (at an FDA-specified volume level), to ensure that the signal is audible to the fluoroscopist. The current requirement for a continuous audible signal is that the signal must be audible to the fluoroscopist, which would seem to meet the intent of the comment. As with any medical device alarm or signal, the volume level of the signal should be designed to be sufficiently loud to alert the operator to the status of the device, taking into account any background noise likely to be present during use. In addition, the effect of an overly loud signal on the patient should be considered in the signal design. FDA disagrees that the agency should specify an emission location or a particular volume level for the signal, but encourages manufacturers, in the design of their systems, to consult available human factors guidelines for audio (and visual) characteristics of medical device alarms and signals (e.g., Ref. 1), and to test and evaluate their systems under representative operational conditions. 3. One of the comments referred to the workshop on fluoroscopy discussed in comment 1 above, and noted a number of additional suggestions for changes to fluoroscopic x-ray system performance that were advocated by attendees at that workshop (Ref. 2). Those additional suggestions for changes are beyond the scope of the current proposal and would require a separate proposal and opportunity for comment. FDA agrees that the recommendations from the workshop should be considered as the basis for possible future amendments to the standard. III. Environmental Impact The agency has determined under 21 CFR 25.24(e)(3) that this action is of a type that does not individually or cumulatively have a significant effect on the human environment. Therefore, neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement is required. IV. Analysis of Impacts An analysis of the costs and benefits of this regulation, conducted under Executive Order 12291, was discussed in the proposed rule and the substance of that analysis has not changed. Executive Order 12291 has been superseded by Executive Order 12866. FDA has examined the impacts of this final rule under Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96-354). Executive Order 12866 directs agencies to assess all costs and benefits of available regulatory alternatives and, when regulation is necessary, to select regulatory approaches that maximize net benefits (including potential economic, environmental, public health and safety, and other advantages; distributive impacts; and equity). The agency believes that this rule is consistent with the regulatory philosophy and principles identified in the Executive Order. In addition, the rule is not a significant regulatory action as defined by the Executive Order and so is not subject to review under the Executive Order. The Regulatory Flexibility Act requires agencies to analyze regulatory options that would minimize any significant impact of a rule on small entities. This amendment to the performance standard will affect the small fraction of fluoroscopic systems which are currently provided with high-level controls or which do not provide AERC, and have radiation outputs exceeding 1.29x10 -3 C/kg per minute (5 R/min). Further, the additional testing performed by x-ray manufacturers and government regulatory progams to ensure compliance with the performance standard, and the quality assurance testing performed by facilities can easily be included in current testing programs with minimal additional costs. The agency certifies that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Therefore, under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, no further analysis is required. A copy of the threshold assessment supporting this determination is on file with the Dockets Management Branch (address above) and may be seen in that office between 9 a.m.and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. V. References The following references have been placed on display in the Dockets Management Branch (address above) and may be seen by interested persons from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 1. ``Human Factors Engineering Guidelines and Preferred Practices for the Design of Medical Devices,'' AAMI HE48&hyph;R&hyph;93, 2d ed., Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation, 3330 Washington Blvd., suite 400, Arlington, VA 22201&hyph;4598, 1993. 2. ``Proceedings of the ACR/FDA Workshop on Fluoroscopy,'' ACR, October 1992. List of Subjects in 21 CFR Part 1020 Electronic products, Medical devices, Radiation protection, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Television, X-rays. Therefore, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and under authority delegated to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, 21 CFR part 1020 is amended as follows: PART 1020_PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR IONIZING RADIATION EMITTING PRODUCTS 1. The authority citation for 21 CFR part 1020 continues to read as follows: Authority: Secs. 501, 502, 515&hyph;520, 530&hyph;542, 701, 801 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 351, 352, 360e&hyph;360j, 360gg&hyph;360ss, 371, 381). 2. Section 1020.30 is amended in paragraph (b) by alphabetically adding a new definition for ``Pulsed mode'' and by revising the definition for ``Source-image receptor distance'' to read as follows: §1020.30 Diagnostic x-ray systems and their major components. * * * * * (b) Definitions . * * * * * * * * Pulsed mode means operation of the x-ray system such that the x-ray tube current is pulsed by the x-ray control to produce one or more exposure intervals of duration less than one-half second. * * * * * Source-image receptor distance (SID) means the distance from the source to the center of the input surface of the image receptor. * * * * * 3. Section 1020.32 is amended by revising paragraph (d), by redesignating paragraphs (e) through (h) as paragraphs (f) through (i), respectively, and by adding new paragraph (e) to read as follows: §1020.32 Fluoroscopic equipment. * * * * * (d) Entrance exposure rates . For fluoroscopic equipment manufactured before May 19, 1995, the following requirements apply: (1) Equipment with automatic exposure rate control (AERC) . Fluoroscopic equipment that is provided with AERC shall not be operable at any combination of tube potential and current that will result in an exposure rate in excess of 2.58x10 -3 coulomb per kilogram (C/kg) per minute (10 roentgens per minute (10 R/min)) at the point where the center of the useful beam enters the patient, except: (i) During recording of fluoroscopic images, or (ii) When an optional high-level control is provided. When so provided, the equipment shall not be operable at any combination of tube potential and current that will result in an exposure rate in excess of 1.29x10 -3 C/kg per minute (5 R/min) at the point where the center of the useful beam enters the patient, unless the high-level control is activated. Special means of activation of high-level controls shall be required. The high-level control shall be operable only when continuous manual activation is provided by the operator. A continuous signal audible to the fluoroscopist shall indicate that the high-level control is being employed. (2) Equipment without AERC (manual mode) . Fluoroscopic equipment that is not provided with AERC shall not be operable at any combination of tube potential and current that will result in an exposure rate in excess of 1.29x10 -3 C/kg per minute (5 R/min) at the point where the center of the useful beam enters the patient, except: (i) During recording of fluoroscopic images, or (ii) When an optional high-level control is activated. Special means of activation of high-level controls shall be required. The high-level control shall be operable only when continuous manual activation is provided by the operator. A continuous signal audible to the fluoroscopist shall indicate that the high-level control is being employed. (3) Equipment with both an AERC mode and a manual mode . Fluoroscopic equipment that is provided with both an AERC mode and a manual mode shall not be operable at any combination of tube potential and current that will result in an exposure rate in excess of 2.58x10 -3 C/kg per minute (10 R/min) in either mode at the point where the center of the useful beam enters the patient except: (i) During recording of fluoroscopic images, or (ii) When the mode or modes have an optional high-level control, in which case that mode or modes shall not be operable at any combination of tube potential and current that will result in an exposure rate in excess of 1.29x10 -3 C/kg per minute (5 R/min) at the point where the center of the useful beam enters the patient, unless the high-level control is activated. Special means of activation of high-level controls shall be required. The high-level control shall be operable only when continuous manual activation is provided by the operator. A continuous signal audible to the fluoroscopist shall indicate that the high-level is being employed. (4) Measuring compliance . Compliance with paragraph (d) of this section shall be determined as follows: (i) If the source is below the x-ray table, the exposure rate shall be measured at 1 centimeter above the tabletop or cradle. (ii) If the source is above the x-ray table, the exposure rate shall be measured at 30 centimeters above the tabletop with the end of the beam-limiting device or spacer positioned as closely as possible to the point of measurement. (iii) In a C-arm type of fluoroscope, the exposure rate shall be measured at 30 centimeters from the input surface of the fluoroscopic imaging assembly, with the source positioned at any available SID, provided that the end of the beam-limiting device or spacer is no closer than 30 centimeters from the input surface of the imaging assembly. (iv) In a lateral type of fluoroscope, the exposure rate shall be measured at a point 15 centimeters from the centerline of the x-ray table and in the direction of the x-ray source with the end of the beam-limiting device or spacer positioned as closely as possible to the point of measurement. If the tabletop is movable, it shall be positioned as closely as possible to the lateral x-ray source, with the end of the beam-limiting device or spacer no closer than 15 centimeters to the centerline of the x-ray table. (5) Exemptions . Fluoroscopic radiation therapy simulation systems are exempt from the requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. (e) Entrance exposure rate limits . For fluoroscopic equipment manufactured on and after May 19, 1995, the following requirements apply: (1) Fluoroscopic equipment operable at any combination of tube potential and current that results in an exposure rate greater than 1.29x10 -3 C/kg per minute (5 R/min) at the point where the center of the useful beam enters the patient shall be equipped with AERC. Provision for manual selection of technique factors may be provided. (2) Fluoroscopic equipment shall not be operable at any combination of tube potential and current that will result in an exposure rate in excess of 2.58x10 -3 C/kg per minute (10 R/min) at the point where the center of the useful beam enters the patient except: (i) During the recording of images from an x-ray image-intensifier tube using photographic film or a video camera when the x-ray source is operated in a pulsed mode. (ii) When an optional high-level control is activated. When the high-level control is activated, the equipment shall not be operable at any combination of tube potential and current that will result in an exposure rate in excess of 5.16x10 -3 C/kg per minute (20 R/min) at the point where the center of the useful beam enters the patient. Special means of activation of high-level controls shall be required. The high-level control shall only be operable when continuous manual activation is provided by the operator. A continuous signal audible to the fluoroscopist shall indicate that the high-level control is being employed. (3) Measuring compliance . Compliance with paragraph (e) of this section shall be determined as follows: (i) If the source is below the x-ray table, the exposure rate shall be measured at 1 centimeter above the tabletop or cradle. (ii) If the source is above the x-ray table, the exposure rate shall be measured at 30 centimeters above the tabletop with the end of the beam-limiting device or spacer positioned as closely as possible to the point of measurement. (iii) In a C-arm type of fluoroscope, the exposure rate shall be measured at 30 centimeters from the input surface of the fluoroscopic imaging assembly, with the source positioned at any available SID, provided that the end of the beam-limiting device or spacer is no closer than 30 centimeters from the input surface of the fluoroscopic imaging assembly. (iv) In a lateral type of fluoroscope, the exposure rate shall be measured at a point 15 centimeters from the centerline of the x-ray table and in the direction of the x-ray source with the end of the beam-limiting device or spacer positioned as closely as possible to the point of measurement. If the tabletop is movable, it shall be positioned as closely as possible to the lateral x-ray source, with the end of the beam-limiting device or spacer no closer than 15 centimeters to the centerline of the x-ray table. (4) Exemptions . Fluoroscopic radiation therapy simulation systems are exempt from the requirements set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. * * * * * Dated: May 12, 1994. Michael R. Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12155 Filed 5&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
