FR940816-2-00049 FR940816-2-00042 (d) Any claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 5. This agreement shall not become a part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 6. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in the compliant issued by the Commission, or that the facts as alleged in said compliant, other than jurisdictional facts, are true. 7. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.25(f) of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may without further notice to respondent, (1) issue its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.s. Postal Service of the decision containing the agreed-to order to respondent's address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Respondent waives any right it might have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or in the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 8. Respondent has read the compliant and the order contemplated hereby. It understands that once the order has been issued, it will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that it has fully complied with the order. Respondent further understands that it may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final. Order I It is ordered that respondent Schering Corporation, a corporation, its successors and assigns, and its officers, agents, representatives, and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division or other device, in connection with the advertising, labeling packaging, offering for sale, sale or distribution of Fiber Trim or any other food, food supplement or drug in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from making any misrepresentation, directly or by implication, a. about the amount of fiber or any other nutrient or dietary constituent contained in the product, whether described in quantitative or qualitative terms; or b. that the product is a high, rich, excellent or superior source of fiber or any other nutrient or dietary constituent using those words or words of similar meaning. Provided that nothing in this Part shall prohibit any representation as to the amount of fiber or any other nutrient or dietary constituent in any product if such representation is specifically permitted in labeling, for the serving size advertised or promoted for such product, by regulations promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) pursuant to the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990. II It is further ordered that respondent, its successors and assigns, and its officers, agents, representatives, and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division or other device, in connection with the advertising, labeling, packaging, offering for sale, sale or distribution of any food, food supplement or drug in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from making any representation, directly or by implication, a. regarding the actual or comparative amount of fiber or the type(s) of fiber, or the actual or comparative amount of any other nutrient or dietary constituent in the product; b. that the product provides any appetite suppressant, weight loss, weight control, or weight maintenance benefit; or
