FR940720-1-00041 FR940720-1-00013 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 552 Air Brake Systems; Denial of Petition for Rulemaking AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Transportation. ACTION: Denial of petition for rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice denies a petition for rulemaking, submitted by the California Highway Patrol, that requests the agency to amend the air pressure warning signal requirements in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 121, Air Brake Systems. After conducting its review, the agency has determined that the petition should not be granted because the situation described by the petition does not raise a significant safety problem. The agency further notes that establishing an upper limit to the operating range of the low pressure warning signal would not correct the problem of the signal's failure to warn a driver of low pressure in the trailer brake system. Since there is no reasonable possibility that the requested amendment would be issued at the conclusion of a rulemaking proceeding, the agency is denying the petition. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Chris Tinto, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590, (202) 366&hyph;5229. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 121, Air Brake Systems, establishes performance requirements for braking systems on vehicles equipped with air brakes. The purpose of the standard is to ensure safe braking performance under normal and emergency braking conditions. The standard requires vehicles equipped with air brakes to have certain equipment. Section S5.1.5 requires that each vehicle equipped with an air brake system be equipped with a ``signal, other than a pressure gage, that gives a continuous warning to a person in the normal driving position when the ignition is in the ``on'' or ``run'' position and the air pressure in the service reservoir system is below 60 p.s.i.'' The purpose of this requirement is to inform the driver of situations in which there may be low, potentially unsafe levels of air pressure in the service brake system. On June 7, 1993, the California Highway Patrol (CHP), submitted a petition for rulemaking that requested the agency to amend the low air pressure warning signal requirements in S5.1.5 of Standard No. 121. The petitioner contended that: this subsection permits a warning signal that is activated at any pressure above 60 psi as long as it also produces the signal at pressures below 60 psi. This would permit a device that activates a warning in the normal operating range of the system, approximately 85&hyph;115 psi. This could result in a false signal where the driver would not be warned of a true low air pressure situation. Though unlikely, a warning device that was activated whenever the ignition key was in the ``on'' or ``run'' position would comply with the existing regulation, while fulfilling neither the intent of the regulation nor any useful purpose. Based on its concern, CHP requested that the agency initiate rulemaking to specify an upper limit to the warning signal operating range, so that it would give a ``true warning'' of a low air pressure condition. CHP recommended that the upper cutoff be 75 p.s.i. After reviewing the petition, NHTSA has decided not to establish an upper limit to the low pressure warning signal requirement. The agency disagrees with CHP's claims that establishing such an upper limit would improve safety. The agency notes that under the current requirement, some valves may activate at slightly higher air pressures than 60 p.s.i. since the valves are typically designed with a tolerance of about # 6 p.s.i. Nevertheless, activation at 65 p.s.i. rather than 60 p.s.i. also indicates a relatively low pressure level about which the driver should be concerned. The agency believes that the modification requested by the petition is not warranted, since the agency is aware of no safety problems related to this requirement which has been in effect since 1971. The agency further notes that setting an upper limit might unreasonably restrict the potential for designing new air brake systems, since the valve manufacturers would be faced with the unnecessary task of redesigning the valves, even though such a modification would not provide any safety benefits. Based on the above considerations, NHTSA has determined that CHP's petition should not be granted. In accordance with 49 CFR Part 552, the agency has completed its technical review of the petition and determined that there is no reasonable possibility that the requested amendment would be issued at the conclusion of a rulemaking proceeding. Accordingly, the agency is denying the petition. Notwithstanding NHTSA's decision to deny the petition, the agency is reviewing the pressure setting requirements for the low pressure warning switch in light of possible problems with a recent amendment to Standard No. 121. On October 8, 1991, NHTSA issued a final rule that eliminated the requirements for a separate protected reservoir capable of releasing the parking brakes. (56 FR 50666) Among other things, that amendment added a requirement for 70 p.s.i. supply line pressure retention and established the air pressure at which automatic application of the parking brakes would commence during loss of air pressure. In comments on a separate rulemaking on the parking brake requirements applicable to air-applied, mechanically held systems (58 FR 13437, March 11, 1993), the American Trucking Associations (ATA) and Allied Signal contended that the 70 p.s.i. requirement prevents tractor low air pressure warning systems from warning drivers of the loss of service air pressure and thus loss of service brakes on trailers. Allied requested that the agency raise the governor cut-in pressure to 100 p.s.i., which it believed would enable manufacturers to provide low pressure warnings. It stated that the pressure switch is currently limited by the 85 p.s.i. minimum governor cut-in pressure requirement. In addition, ATA has informed the agency that it is conducting tests to determine whether it should petition the agency to raise the cut-in requirements from the present 85 p.s.i. minimum and the low pressure warning limits from 60 p.s.i. to 75 p.s.i. or 80 p.s.i. Based on these test results, NHTSA may consider initiating rulemaking to raise the lower limit for the low pressure warning signal. Authority: 49 U.S.C. 30103 and 30162; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 501.8. Issued on: July 14, 1994. Stanley R. Scheiner, Acting Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17589 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
