FR940414-0-00026 FR940414-0-00006 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;34&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8880; AD 94&hyph;08&hyph;08] Airworthiness Directives; Jetstream Aircraft Limited Model 4101 Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Jetstream Model 4101 airplanes. This action requires installation of fusible trunnion pins in the shock struts and drag braces of the main landing gear (MLG). This amendment is prompted by a report of incorrectly manufactured trunnion pins that may cause the MLG to compromise the structural integrity of the wing fuel tanks. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent damage to the wing fuel tanks and the resultant fuel spillage and fire hazard when the maximum intended design load limits are exceeded during landing. DATES: Effective April 29, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of April 29, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;34&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Jetstream Aircraft, Incorporated, P.O. Box 16029, Dulles International Airport, Washington, DC 20041&hyph;6029. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William Schroeder, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2148; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), which is the airworthiness authority for the United Kingdom, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Jetstream Model 4101 airplanes. The CAA advises that certain trunnion pins in the shock struts and drag braces of the main landing gear (MLG) were manufactured incorrectly. The trunnion pins in these airplanes were designed to be fusible so that the MLG would break away from the airplane when landing loads exceed the intended design limits, such as those that may be encountered during emergency landing. However, the defective trunnion pins were not manufactured with this fusible characteristic. Therefore, these defective trunnion pins may cause the MLG to fail to break away from the airplane and, consequently, may compromise the structural integrity of the wing fuel tank. This condition, if not corrected, could result in damage to the wing fuel tanks and the resultant fuel spillage and fire hazard when the maximum intended design load limits are exceeded during landing. Jetstream has issued Service Bulletin J41&hyph;32&hyph;017, dated February 7, 1994, that describes procedures for installation of new fusible trunnion pins in the shock struts and drag braces of the MLG. The CAA classified this service bulletin as mandatory in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in the United Kingdom. This airplane model is manufactured in the United Kingdom and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of Section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, the CAA has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of the CAA, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, this AD is being issued to prevent damage to the wing fuel tanks and the resultant fuel spillage and fire hazard. This AD requires installation of new trunnion pins in the shock struts and drag braces of the MLG. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES . All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;34&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The FAA has determined that this regulation is an emergency regulation that must be issued immediately to correct an unsafe condition in aircraft, and is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866. It has been determined further that this action involves an emergency regulation under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979). If it is determined that this emergency regulation otherwise would be significant under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures, a final regulatory evaluation will be prepared and placed in the Rules Docket. A copy of it, if filed, may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment
