FR940725-0-00057 FR940725-0-00008 (b) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs in consultation with the USD(P&R), the GC, DoD, and the Secretaries of the Military Departments, shall: (1) Establish staffing and personnel standards for personnel who provide early intervention services and medically related services. (2) Develop and implement a comprehensive system of personnel development in accordance with 20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(3), including the training of professionals, paraprofessionals and primary referral sources, regarding the basic components of early intervention services and medically related services. Such a system may include: (i) Implementing innovative strategies and activities for the recruitment and retention of early intervention service providers. (ii) Ensuring that early intervention service providers and medically related service providers are fully and appropriately qualified to provide early intervention services and medically related services, respectively. (iii) Training personnel to work in the military environment. (iv) Training personnel to coordinate transition services for infants and toddlers with disabilities from an early intervention program to a preschool program. (3) Develop and implement a system for compiling data on the numbers of infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families in need of appropriate early intervention services, the numbers of such infants and toddlers and their families served, the types of services, and other information required to evaluate the implementation of early intervention programs. (4) Resolve disputes among the DoD Components arising under appendix A of this part. (c) Secretaries of the Military Departments shall: (1) Provide quality assurance for medically related services in accordance with personnel standards and staffing standards under DoD Directive 6025.13 5 developed by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)). 5 See footnote 1 to ยง80.1(c). (2) Plan, develop, and implement a comprehensive, coordinated, intercomponent, community-based system of early intervention services for infants and toddlers with disabilities (birth through 2 inclusive) and their families who are living on an installation with a Section 6 School Arrangement, or who but for their age, would be entitled to enroll in a Section 6 School Arrangement, using the procedures established by this part and guidelines from the ASD(HA) on staffing and personnel standards. (3) Undertake activities to ensure compliance with this part through technical assistance, program evaluation, and monitoring. (d) The Director, Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) shall ensure the provision of impartial due process hearings under appendix C of this part. ยง80.6 Procedures. (a) Procedures for the provision of early intervention services for infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families are in appendix A to this part. Provision of early intervention services includes establishing a system of coordinated, comprehensive, multidisciplinary, intercomponent services providing appropriate early intervention services to all eligible infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families.
