FR941005-1-00011 FR941005-1-00003 The ``Clear and Conspicuous'' Requirement The proposal would provide guidance on the meaning of the term ``clear and conspicuous'' as that phrase is used in current 11 CFR 110.11(a)(1) and proposed paragraph 110.11(c). The Commission recently completed a rulemaking revising its regulations on the FECA's requirement that treasurers of political committees exercise best efforts to obtain, maintain, and report the complete identification of each contributor whose contributions aggregate more than $200 per calendar year. 2 U.S.C. 432(i), 11 CFR 104.7. See 58 FR 57725 (Oct. 27. 1993). For purposes of that rulemaking, a required notice to contributors is stated not to be ``clear and conspicuous'' if it is in small type in comparison to the remainder of the material, or if the printing is difficult to read or if the placement is easily overlooked. 11 CFR 104.7(b)(1), 58 FR 57729. This NPRM proposes the same language with regard to the disclaimers covered by this section. Oral Disclaimers The draft rules would clarify that oral communications and solicitations must meet the same disclaimer requirements as their written counterparts. The Act does not distinguish between written and oral communications. The Commission held in Advisory Opinion 1988&hyph;1 that oral disclaimers were not required as part of phone bank campaign communications with express advocacy content. The draft rules would supersede this opinion. This approach is consistent with the Commission's recently-adopted ``best efforts'' rules, which require at 11 CFR 104.7(b)(2) that both written and oral follow-up requests for contributor identification information include a required statement. Packaged Materials The proposal would clarify that a separate disclaimer is required on all communications included in a package of materials if the communications are intended for separate public distribution. In the past, questions have arisen as to whether a single disclaimer per package would satisfy the purposes of this requirement. All items intended for separate distribution (e.g., a poster included in a package of campaign handouts) would be covered by this requirement. Exceptions The current rules at paragraph 110.11(a)(2) exempt from the disclaimer requirement small items, such as pins, buttons, or pens; and ``impractical'' items, such as watertowers and skywriting. The Commission is proposing in paragraph (b)(1)(i) to add to these exempted items checks, receipts and similar items of minimal value that do not contain a political message and that are used for purely administrative purposes. Also, the question has at times arisen as to whether the ``impractical'' exception applies to wearing apparel, such as T-shirts or baseball caps, that contain a political message. This Notice proposes no language requiring a disclaimer on such material. However, if commenters believe the Commission should consider a disclaimer requirement for such materials, the Commission would encourage suggestions for practical application of such a requirement. Disbursements by Candidates or Party Committees for Exempt Activity The Commission is proposing language that would require a disclaimer on a communication by a candidate or party committee that qualifies as an exempt activity though on behalf of a clearly identified federal candidate. This would ensure that a disclaimer is included on all communications, including those which qualify as exempt activities by state and local party committees or candidates under the Act. See 2 U.S.C. 431(8)(B)(v), (x), (xi), and (xii). This proposed amendment is consistent with the Act's interest in full disclosure of who authorized and paid for campaign communications. The Commission welcomes comments on this approach. Comments are invited on any of the specific amendments discussed above, as well as any related issues that might relate to this topic. Certification of No Effect Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b) [Regulatory Flexibility Act] The attached proposed regulations, if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The basis for this certification is that any affected entities are already required to comply with the Act's requirements in this area. List of Subjects in 11 CFR Part 110 Campaign funds, Political candidates, Political committees and parties.
