FR940328-2-00130 FR940328-2-00068 _Have adequate capacity, creativity, and flexibility to channel the momentum developed at the regional conferences toward longer-term efforts and objectives, and to identify and respond actively to needs for on-going follow-up. (H) Training and Technical Assistance to State Commissions Summary The Corporation will fund provision of information, training, and support to all State Commissions involved in AmeriCorps, as provided by the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993. This can be provided by independent organizations or by the States themselves, acting as peer trainers. Amount and Duration of Funding Up to three grants or cooperative agreements totaling approximately $400,000. Funding would be for one year, with possibility of renewal subject to performance, continuing need, and availability of funds. Description of Program Desired T/TA activities may address one or more of the following issues, or may address other issues as proposed by the applicant: _Help states develop a technical assistance strategy and network of possible T/TA providers within their states; _Assist states in setting objectives and designing and implementing an evaluation plan; _Help states develop specific state-wide recruitment strategies that are consistent with the Corporation's national recruitment plan; _Help states design peer review panels; _Help states design participant advisory groups and other vehicles through which they can engage participants in decision-making processes and feedback mechanisms; _Provide orientation or training to State Commission members and staffs about national service and the role of State Commissioners; and _Provide other training or assistance to State Commissions as needed. (III) Invitation for Original Concept Papers Proposing Additional or Alternative T/TA Activities The Corporation has created a National Program Innovation Fund, through which it will support innovative training and technical assistance that helps make programs more effective. The Corporation requests concept papers which suggest ways in which it might best support its goals through T/TA activities. Concept papers may expand on the activities specified in this Notice, improve on them, or suggest original approaches. In proposing an original activity, the applicant must demonstrate a need for it that relates to the goals of AmeriCorps, present a sound plan for accomplishing the activity, and otherwise satisfy the quality criteria listed in this Notice. An applicant may propose an original concept under this section and apply at the same time to undertake one or more of the activities listed in another section. Dated: March 22, 1994. Terry Russell, Acting General Counsel. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7146 Filed 3&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;BA&hyph;P
