FR940222-1-00039 FR940222-1-00008 B. Provisions Applicable to HCPPs That do not Furnish Inpatient Hospital Services 1. Criteria for Reasonableness The costs incurred by the HCPP for physicians' services and other part B supplier services would be considered reasonable if they did not exceed, in the aggregate, the amount that HCFA would pay, in the aggregate, for those services if they were furnished to beneficiaries not enrolled in the HCPP or any other prepaid health care plan. HCPP costs would be compared to costs under the usual fee-for-service payment methods, based on fee schedules, reasonable charge limits, or reasonable cost limits, whichever is appropriate for the particular services. The aggregate amount would include an amount equivalent to the costs of claims processing. 2. Documentation of Services •Participating HCPPs would be required to include in their cost reports documentation of each service furnished to their Medicare enrollees, using the Medicare billing codes. •Organizations seeking an agreement for participation as an HCPP would be required to demonstrate that they have in place a system that enables them to comply with the documentation requirement. •Failure to comply with the documentation requirement would be a basis for termination or nonrenewal of the agreement. We would amend §417.800(b), to include the documentation requirement. 3. Removal of ``Effective Incentives'' Provision We would remove the effective incentives provisions that appear in §417.802(2)(ii)(B) and (b)(3)(ii) of the current HCFA rules. We believe that all HCPPs should be subject to the requirement that payment for services furnished to their Medicare enrollees not exceed the estimate of what HCFA would have paid for those services under the fee-for-service system. We believe that a more effective way to ensure that outcome is to use the presumptive limit for HCPPs that furnish inpatient hospital services, and to use reasonable charges to define reasonable costs for other HCPPs. IV. Methodology for Calculating Payments in Excess of the Presumptive Limit (Additional Payments) Note: We believe that HMOs, CMPs, and HCPPs will be particularly interested in this methodology, and we are receptive to suggestions for alternative methodologies. Any proposed alternatives must specifically address how that methodology would ensure that HCFA pays no more for care to beneficiaries enrolled in these organizations than it would pay for their care if the beneficiaries were not so enrolled. The methodology discussed below applies only to HMOs and CMPs, and to HCPPs that furnish inpatient hospital services. It pertains only to determining whether we can make additional payments based on special needs of Medicare enrollees. We use the term ``sicker than average enrollment'' to mean enrollees who require a volume and intensity of services that exceeds the average for Medicare beneficiaries of the same age and sex, living in the same geographic area. A. Background 1. The Act Section 1861(v)(1)(A) of the Act authorizes us to establish limits on costs for entities paid on a reasonable cost basis so that the Medicare payment does not exceed the ``estimates of the costs necessary in the efficient delivery of needed health services''. Section 1861(v)(1)(A) also gives us flexibility for setting those limits. 2. The Courts The courts have indicated that absolute limits on costs are not acceptable, but, to date, appear to approve of presumptive limits. A presumptive limit means that the organization may obtain additional payments, that is, payments above that limit, if it can document that such payments are justified, using reasonable criteria to estimate payable amounts in excess of the limits. 3. Proposal We are proposing to establish 100 percent of the weighted average of the AAPCC as the presumptive limit for HMOs and CMPs, and for HCPPs that furnish inpatient hospital services. We consider the presumptive limit to be a proxy for whether or not the HMO, CMP, or HCPP is delivering needed health services efficiently. In other words, we consider an organization with total costs below the presumptive limit to be operating more efficiently than Medicare operates under the fee-for-service system. Conversely, we consider organization with costs above the presumptive limit to be operating less efficiently. B. Methodology The methodology discussed below is based on the fact that, generally in health care financing, a small number of high-cost cases, called ``outliers,'' account for a large percentage of outlays. For example, in 1989, in the Medicare program, about 90 percent of persons served accounted for only 37 percent of the outlays, while the remaining 10 percent of persons served required 63 percent of the outlays.
