FR940922-2-00119 FR940922-2-00079 Given the regional nature of the program, American universities interested in submitting proposals are strongly encouraged to collaborate with American national and regional professional associations and organizations. Geographic Focus The following regions are the priority areas for the Federalism in Russia Partnership Program: Ural Mountain region; in particular the Chelyabinsk, Perm, and Sverdlovsk oblasts. The Volga Valley region; in particular the Samara, Saratov, and Volgograd oblasts. Southern Siberia; in particular the Kemerovo, Krasnoyarsk, and Tomsk oblasts. Interested organizations are encouraged to include two or more oblasts in the programmatic design of their proposal to increase its multiplier effect, but to simplify logistics and administration, prospective grantees are strongly encouraged to coordinate planning with a single oblast administration. One assistance award will be granted per region. Programmatic Considerations USIA will give careful consideration to proposals which demonstrate: •In-depth, substantive knowledge of the issues related to federalism in Russia. •Established relations with Russian regional institutions/organizations and a demonstrated commitment to continue such relationships following the conclusion of the grant period. •The capacity to organize, manage, and administer a program of this magnitude on a regional level; including conducting orientations for both American and Russian participants, arranging all logistical aspects of the program, providing in-county support for participants prior to and following the program. •Development of practical, written information in Russian relevant to the interests of Russian regional and local officials. •A clear and detailed method for participant selection. The proposal should clearly describe the type of person who will participate and how that person will be selected. Grantee institutions are expected to develop slates of candidates from which to choose the final participants. USIS Moscow retains the right to accept or deny any candidate recommended for participation by the grantee institution. Also, USIS Moscow retains the right to suggest deserving individuals for participation. •Consultations with USIS Moscow staff in the development of a training program is strongly encouraged. •Projects must comply with J&hyph;1 visa regulations. Materials Development USIA encourages the development and use of written materials in Russian to increase the impact of the program. US government funds, not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total grant award, may be used to purchase and/or translate documents and materials and to purchase the required software and hardware to achieve the goals of the project. In developing written materials, consideration should be given to their wider use, beyond the Federalism in Russian Partnership Program. USIA is interested in the multiple use of training materials through their dissemination to universities, libraries, and other organizations for use by a larger audience. Budget The decision to submit a proposal should not be taken lightly. Competition for USIA funding is always keen and this program is highly competitive. A USIA grant award should constitute only a portion of the total project funding. Proposals should list and provide evidence of other anticipated sources of financial and in-kind support. USIA requires that at least 50% of all outbound travel costs be provided by the American partner organization(s) with non-federal funds. Russian partner organizations will be expected to provide for lodging, transportation, and interpreting for visiting American officials. Additional cost-sharing is strongly recommended; it indicates a commitment on the part of the prospective grantee institution to the project. Proposals for less than $175,000 will receive preference. Organizations with less than four yeas of not-for-profit status are limited to grants of $60,000. All participants are covered under the terms of a USIA-sponsored health insurance policy. The premium is paid directly to the insurance company by USIA. Please refer to the Application Package for complete budget guidelines. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein and in the Application Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the budget and contracts offices, as well as the USIA Office of East European and NIS Affairs and the USIA post overseas, where appropriate. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or by other Agency elements. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the USIA Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with the USIA grants officer. Tchnically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria: 1. Quality of the Program Idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, precision, and relevance to Agency mission. 2. Program Planning: Detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive undertakings and logistical capacity. Agenda and plan should adhere to the program overview and guidelines described above. 3. Ability to Achieve Program Objectives: Objectives should be reasonable, feasible, and flexible. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's objectives and plan.
