FR941116-2-00039 FR941116-2-00026 [OPP&hyph;180952; FRL 4919&hyph;2] Receipt of Application for Emergency Exemption to use Imidacloprid; Solicitation of Public Comment AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: EPA has received a specific exemption request from the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (hereafter referred to as the ``Applicant'') to use the pesticide imidacloprid (CAS 105827&hyph;78&hyph;9) to treat up to 50,000 acres of tomatoes to control the sweet potato whitefly (also referred to as the silverleaf whitefly.) The Applicant proposes the first food use of an active ingredient; therefore, in accordance with 40 CFR 166.24, EPA is soliciting public comment before making the decision whether or not to grant the exemption. DATES: Comments must be received on or before December 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Three copies of written comments, bearing the identification notation ``OPP&hyph;180952,'' should be submitted by mail to: Public Response and Program Resource Section, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person, bring comments to: Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA. Information submitted in any comment concerning this notice may be claimed confidential by marking any part or all of that information as ``Confidential Business Information.'' Information so marked will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. A copy of the comment that does not contain Confidential Business Information must be provided by the submitter for inclusion in the public record. Information not marked confidential may be disclosed publicly by EPA without prior notice. All written comments filed pursuant to this notice will be available for public inspection in Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall No. 2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Andrea Beard, Registration Division (7505W), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW, Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Floor 6, Crystal Station #1, 2800 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA, (703&hyph;308&hyph;8791). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to Section 18 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136p), the Administrator may, at her discretion, exempt a state agency from any registration provision of FIFRA if she determines that emergency conditions exist which require such exemption. The Applicant has requested the Administrator to issue a specific exemption for the use of imidacloprid on tomatoes to control the sweet potato, or silverleaf whitefly. Information in accordance with 40 CFR part 166 was submitted as part of this request. Whiteflies have been a problem in the ``desert-cropping systems'' in California and Arizona for some time, but in the late 1980s, a new strain was discovered, which appears to be much more prolific than the standard strain, and resistant to many insecticides. Whiteflies are common on many wild and cultivated crops such as tomatoes, cotton, cucurbits and solanaceae. The Applicant states that this pest first caused economic impacts in Florida in 1987, and since then, its impacts have rapidly expanded over the total production area. This whitefly causes direct damage to the tomato plant through its feeding activity and the production of honeydew which enhances sooty mold development. This pest also causes a physiological disorder resulting in irregular ripening of fruit, believed to be caused by transmission of a geminivirus. The Applicant claims that significant economic losses will occur without adequate control, which is not being achieved with the currently registered compounds. Along with this request, the Applicant has also requested a specific exemption for use of a different chemical (fenpropathrin) on tomatoes, also for control of whiteflies. The Applicant justifies requests for two chemicals, by stating that the imidacloprid would be applied at or near transplanting, as a soil-incorporated treatment; since imidacloprid is a systemic, it would be taken up by the small tomato transplants, and protect them from whitefly feeding during this early stage of development. The Applicant states that fenpropathrin, being nonsystemic, is only of use as a foliar spray, which is of little value during the early phase of development, as there is limited leaf area at that time. Thus the Applicant proposes that use of fenpropathrin be allowed later in the crop season, as a foliar treatment, to maintain season-long control. The Applicant indicates that imidacloprid would not be of use as both a soil treatment and a foliar spray, because its mode of action is such that resistance development is a concern. The Registrant of imidacloprid will not support the use of this chemical further into the growing season for this reason. The Applicant claims that without control of this pest, individual fields could experience 100 percent yield loss. Irregular ripening can reduce yields by 36 to 100 percent; and direct feeding losses can be as much as 10 to 15 percent. The Applicant proposes to apply imidacloprid at a maximum rate of 0.25 lb. (dry) active ingredient (16 fluid oz. of product) per acre with a maximum of one application per crop season on up to 50,000 acres of tomatoes. Therefore, use under this exemption could potentially amount to a maximum total of 12,500 lbs. of active ingredient, or 6,250 gal. of product. This is the second time that the Applicant has applied for the use of imidacloprid on tomatoes, and an exemption was issued for this use last year. Additionally, the Applicant requested, and was granted, specific exemptions for the use of fenpropathrin for whitefly control in tomatoes for the past 4 years (this is the fifth consecutive year for this request for fenpropathrin). This notice does not constitute a decision by EPA on the application itself. The regulations governing section 18 require publication of a notice of receipt in the Federal Register and solicit public comment on an application for a specific exemption proposing the first food use of an active ingredient. Accordingly, interested persons may submit written views on this subject to the Field Operations Division at the address above. The Agency, accordingly, will review and consider all comments received during the comment period in determining whether to issue the emergency exemption requested by the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. List of Subjects Environmental protection, Pesticide and pests, Crisis exemptions. Dated: October 31, 1994. Stephen L. Johnson, Director, Registration Division, Office of Pesticide Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28297 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
