FR941222-0-00096 FR941222-0-00014 POSTAL SERVICE 39 CFR Part 20 Implementation of International Package Consignment Service AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Interim rule with request for comments. SUMMARY: International Package Consignment Service (IPCS) is an international mail service designed for mail order companies sending merchandise packages to other countries. The service will be available initially to Japan; Canada will be added as a destination country in the near future. If feasible, other destination countries will be added as customer needs dictate. To use IPCS, a customer will be required to mail at least 25,000 packages in 1 year to each country to which it wants to use the service, and to agree to link its information systems with the Postal Service's so that the Postal Service can extract certain information about the contents of the customer's packages for customs clearance and other purposes. The implementation of IPCS will benefit U.S. mail order companies and other customers that export goods by making it easier and less costly to do so; and all other users of the Postal Service by increasing the total contribution to fixed costs realized by the Postal Service from its international operations. Interim implementing regulations have been developed and are set forth below for comment and suggested revision prior to adoption in final form. DATES: The interim regulations take effect as of December 1, 1994. Comments must be received on or before January 31, 1995. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be mailed or delivered to International Product Management, U.S. Postal Service, 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW, room 5300, Washington, DC 20260&hyph;2410. Copies of all written comments will be available for public inspection and photocopying between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael Sundel, (202) 268&hyph;2985. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction With the exception of its International Surface Air Lift (ISAL) and International Priority Airmail (IPA) services for small packets, which have 4-pound weight limits, and VALUEPOST/CANADA service for small packets, which has a 2-pound weight limit, the Postal Service currently does not offer any bulk international service for customers sending packages containing merchandise to other countries. As a result, if those customers want to accomplish delivery through the mail, their only option is to use one of the Postal Service's single-piece international services: Air Parcel Post, Surface Parcel Post, or Express Mail International Service (EMS). These services are available to customers mailing as little as one package from anywhere in the United States and are designed and priced accordingly. They provide the features generally desired by household and small business mailers but do not necessarily provide the features needed by medium- or large-size business mailers that actively solicit customers in other countries and require a reliable and cost-effective means of sending large volumes of merchandise from the United States to their international customers. During the past few years, many customers that traditionally have used international mail to send merchandise packages to other countries have sought more convenient and/or less costly delivery methods. This has been especially true for customers sending packages to Canada, where the combination of relatively cumbersome customs treatment for U.S.-origin international mail and Canada Post Corporation's practice of encouraging U.S. businesses to freight their merchandise packages to Canada and enter them as domestic mail has caused the Postal Service's existing services to appear increasingly unattractive as delivery methods. Two factors in particular make customs clearance of U.S.-origin mail in Canada cumbersome for companies sending merchandise packages. First, the value threshold at which Revenue Canada rates inbound merchandise packages for duties and taxes is lower than the corresponding threshold used by most other industrialized nations' customs agencies. Thus, a relatively high proportion of merchandise packages mailed from the United States to Canada are assessed for duties and taxes. Second, as happens generally with international mail, any duties and taxes that have been assessed are collected from the addressee at the time of delivery. However, in the case of Canada, Canada Post Corporation charges the addressee a customs collection fee of $5 Canadian. In contrast, merchandise packages that clear Canadian customs as freight can be delivered to the addressee completely prepaid, without the need to collect duties, taxes, and fees at the time of delivery. In addition, customers exporting merchandise to Japan have seen their businesses there detrimentally affected by the costs they must incur to send merchandise from the United States to Japan. Mail order companies that pass their delivery costs directly on to their Japanese customers generally are less likely to receive orders as those costs increase. As a result, even those customers that have continued to use the Postal Service to send merchandise packages to Japan are continually searching for better and cheaper delivery methods.
