FR940817-0-00066 FR940817-0-00017 (2) Airline transportation. The escorting officer(s) must abide by all Federal Aviation Administration and airline carrier rules and regulations pertaining to weapons and the transportation of prisoners. (e) Vehicular pursuit. (1) A vehicular pursuit is an active attempt by a designated immigration officer, as listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, in a designated pursuit vehicle to apprehend fleeing suspects who are attempting to avoid apprehension. A designated pursuit vehicle is defined as a vehicle equipped with emergency lights and siren, placed in or on the vehicle, that emit audible and visual signals in order to warn others that emergency law enforcement activities are in progress. (2) The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to initiate a vehicular pursuit: (i) Border patrol agents, including aircraft pilots; (ii) Supervisory personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed above; and (iii) Immigration officers who need the authority to initiate a vehicular pursuit in order to effectively accomplish their individual mission and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner. (f) Site inspections. (1) Site inspections are Service enforcement activities undertaken to locate and identify aliens illegally in the United States, or aliens engaged in unauthorized employment, at locations where there is a reasonable suspicion, based on articulable facts, that such aliens are present. (2) An immigration officer may not enter into the non-public areas of a business, a residence including the curtilage of such residence, or a farm or other outdoor agricultural operation, except as provided in section 287(a)(3) of the Act, for the purpose of questioning the occupants or employees concerning their right to be or remain in the United States unless the officer has either a warrant or the consent of the owner or other person in control of the site to be inspected. When consent to enter is given, the immigration officer must note on the officer's report that consent was given and, if possible, by whom consent was given. If the immigration officer is denied access to conduct a site inspection, a warrant may be obtained. (3) Adequate records must be maintained noting the results of every site inspection, including those where no illegal aliens are located. (4) Nothing in this section prohibits an immigration officer from entering into any area of a business or other activity to which the general public has access or onto open fields that are not farms or other outdoor agricultural operations without a warrant, consent, or any particularized suspicion in order to question any person whom the officer believes to be an alien concerning his or her right to be or remain in the United States. ยง287.9 Criminal search warrant and firearms policies. (a) A search warrant should be obtained prior to conducting a search in a criminal investigation unless a specific exception to the warrant requirement is authorized by statute or recognized by the courts. Such exceptions may include, for example, the consent of the person to be searched, exigent circumstances, searches incident to a lawful arrest, and border searches. The Commissioner shall promulgate guidelines governing officers' conduct relating to search and seizure. (b) In using a firearm, an officer shall adhere to the standard of conduct set forth in ยง287.8(a)(2). An immigration officer may carry only firearms (whether Service issued or personally owned) that have been approved pursuant to guidelines promulgated by the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall promulgate guidelines with respect to: (1) Investigative procedures to be followed after a shooting incident involving an officer; (2) Loss or theft of an approved firearm; (3) Maintenance of records with respect to the issuance of firearms and ammunition; and (4) Procedures for the proper care, storage, and maintenance of firearms, ammunition, and related equipment.
