FR940516-1-00113 FR940516-1-00006 R. Absence of Averaging, Banking, and Trading Programs EPA is not proposing an averaging, banking, and trading program (ABT) for small SI engines at this time. ABT programs, which EPA uses in its on-highway heavy-duty engine program and proposed for the nonroad large CI engine program, provide manufacturers flexibility in meeting the emission standards. EPA is increasingly using market-based incentive programs such as ABT because such programs can reduce the cost of controlling emissions. An ABT trading program can also reduce the burden of regulation on small manufacturers by providing them flexibility in meeting requirements. At this time, EPA has not been able to construct an ABT program, given the uncertainties surrounding projected in-use emission levels. These uncertainties will be resolved as part of the Phase 2 regulatory negotiations. However, as part of the requirements of approving an ABT program, EPA must know the in- use emission characteristics of engine families in order to implement an ABT standard, unless all engine families deteriorate at the same rate. The lifetime emissions of engine families must be averaged together in order to compute the average emission level of a manufacturer's product line. Use of lifetime emissions is necessary because it may be the case that the emissions of one type of engine deteriorate at a higher rate than another type, or a smaller engine may deteriorate at a higher rate than a larger engine of the same type. EPA is not in a position to determine what the in-use emission level is presently or would be under this Phase 1 regulation. EPA's initial assessment is that the emissions of these engines deteriorate somewhat over time and likely deteriorate at different rates between engine families, but more research is necessary. However, even if engine families deteriorate at different rates, if such deterioration is not systematically biased, it may not undermine the validity of an ABT program. EPA requests comment on this point. Phase 2 will directly assess in-use emission characteristics of engine families and incorporate enforcement of in-use emission levels. Once in-use emission levels are known with more confidence, EPA expects that market-based programs such as ABT will be viewed favorably by the regulatory negotiation committee during policy development. EPA requests comment on the absence of an ABT program. S. Engine Manufacturer Requirement_Disclosure of Maximum Exhaust Pressure and Minimum Inlet Pressure The design of the exhaust system can influence emissions. Most small engines are supplied with both an air inlet system and an exhaust system which are tested as part of the engine package, and the entire package is used by the equipment manufacturer. However, some engines are designed to be installed in a chassis with more complex packaging requirements where the equipment manufacturer may supply and/or install the exhaust system, or part of it, and even the air inlet system. In these latter cases, EPA is considering a requirement that the engine manufacturer would need to specify to the equipment manufacturer the maximum exhaust pressure and the minimum inlet pressure, and the equipment manufacturer would be required to adhere to those specifications. EPA requests both engine and equipment manufacturer comments regarding this issue. T. Direct Health Effects of Air Toxics and CO In addition to the concern of the role of HC and CO in ozone and CO nonattainment, EPA is concerned about direct health effects of air toxics and CO exposure. The concentrations and direct health effects of toxic pollutants in exhaust are especially important because the operator of a small SI engine application is typically near the equipment as it functions. In some applications, the operator must be adjacent to the exhaust outlet and is in the direct path of the exhaust as it leaves the engine. See ``VI. Environmental Benefit Assessment'' for further discussion of this issue. The Agency requests additional information on the effects of air toxics and CO exposure associated with the use of small SI engines. U. Catalyst Durability Relative to all other types of emission-related engine components, catalysts are unique in that: •Relatively small changes in chemical and/or physical characteristics of a catalyst can result in very large deleterious changes in operational characteristics. •The engine manufacturer is not likely to be involved in the design or fabrication of the catalysts nor be able to verify the acceptability of vendor-supplied catalysts by means of the simple checks and tests that are adequate for other engine components. •The satisfactory operational durability of catalysts are much more dependent on the catalyst manufacturer's proprietary techniques and processes than is the case with other emission control system components. •Since it is the last component in the emission control system, a catalyst can compensate for sub-standard performances by other emission control components, but it is not itself supported by any other back-up component that is able to compensate for a reduction in catalyst performance capability. •Substantial reductions in performance can result from: _Abrasion or fracturing as a result of relative motion between the catalyst and its protective outer metal jacket, _Poisoning as a result of fuel contaminants (such as lead), _Glazing as a result of excessive quantities of lubricating oil in the exhaust, and _Thermal degradation as a result of exposure to excessively high temperatures for prolonged periods. Catalytic converters designed for small SI engines in the short term will be low efficiency catalysts to address safety concerns. The catalysts designed for potential Phase 1 use would have conversion efficiencies on the order of approximately 30 percent for HC and CO emission. The design constraint that dictates these low efficiencies is the need to limit the increase in exhaust temperatures, since the exhaust is in close proximity to the operator in handheld equipment. Efficiencies much higher than 30 percent begin to generate exotherms that can substantially increase exhaust temperatures. Since the industry has not yet developed the necessary solutions, such as creative small-scale insulation approaches, to control the added temperature, only low efficiency catalysts would be available for Phase 1 use.
