FR940425-0-00038 FR940425-0-00018 After reviewing the comments, NHTSA continues to believe that it is not necessary or appropriate to specify venting requirements in the CNG vehicle standard. The agency notes that there are no data to verify that gases accumulate under vehicles or otherwise pose a safety problem that could be alleviated if a venting requirement were adopted. In addition, the agency believes that exposure to an ignition source would be unlikely for a parked vehicle. 4. Leak Detection In the NPRM, NHTSA requested comments about whether to require a sensing device to detect unacceptable levels of gaseous leakage from the fuel system and to provide a warning to vehicle occupants. The notice posed questions about the need for and types of warning devices, the amount of fuel in the air that would activate a warning device, and the availability, cost, and reliability of such a device. NHTSA received 11 comments about warning or leakage detection devices. EDO, CNG Pittsburgh, Oklahoma Gas, Minnesota Gas, Navistar, Thomas, Brooklyn Union Gas, Flxible, and NGVC stated that no requirement was necessary. Several commenters stated that a detection device was not needed because CNG is odorized and thus readily detected by the human nose. Therefore, according to these commenters, a vehicle's occupants or bystanders would be able to detect any CNG leakage. Two commenters, Washington State and the Metropolitan Suburban Bus Authority (MSBA), favored a requirement for the detection and warning of fuel leakage. However, neither commenter elaborated about the need for such a requirement. After reviewing the comments, NHTSA has determined that a requirement applicable to detecting or warning about fuel leakage is not necessary. The agency agrees with those commenters who noted that CNG is odorized and thus is readily detectable. 5. Retention of Fuel Storage Containers In the NPRM, NHTSA decided not to propose a specific requirement for container retention. This decision was based on the agency's belief that manufacturers would need to design container retention characteristics in order for their CNG vehicles to meet the allowable leakage limits specified for the crash tests. Nine commenters addressed whether the agency should specify a container retention requirement. Of the commenters, AAMA, Navistar, and NGV Systems agreed with the agency's decision not to include a container retention requirement. Manchester commented that such a requirement would pose problems. Five commenters, the General Services Commission (GSC), the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Flxible, NGVC, and CNG Pittsburgh, disagreed with the agency's decision not to include a container retention requirement. GSC stated that CNG fuel containers should be surrounded by a strong metal cage to prevent the container from breaking loose. Alternatively, GSC recommended that the agency require an internal excess-flow shutoff valve that would prevent loss of fuel if the external valving ruptured. Several commenters stated that container detachment was important and could be prevented by adopting NFPA 52. 5 NFPA further stated that fuel container breakaway could occur without fuel leakage if an excess flow valve or an automatic shutoff valve were actuated during a crash. The container could then cause injury to the occupants or damage the vehicle. 5 NFPA 52 is a voluntary standard issued by the National Fire Protection Association that applies to the design and installation of CNG engine fuel systems including aftermarket and OEMs and their associated fueling systems. After reviewing the comments, NHTSA has decided not to adopt a requirement regulating the retention of fuel storage containers. The agency believes that fuel container retention does not pose a safety problem, as long as a manufacturer produces its vehicles to comply with the standard's leakage requirements. If a CNG fuel container did break away from the vehicle, NHTSA believes that it is highly likely there would be a fuel leak which would not be able to comply with the barrier crash test's leakage requirement. F. Other Considerations 1. Vehicles Manufactured In More Than One Stage In the NPRM, NHTSA tentatively concluded that it would be practicable for final stage manufacturers of multi-stage vehicles to comply with this proposed rule. The agency reasoned that because the vehicle requirements in the proposed rule only involve those vehicles currently covered under Standard No. 301, final stage manufacturers are already subject to similar dynamic crash test requirements. NHTSA requested comment on the agency's tentative conclusion that final stage manufacturers could comply with the proposed requirements and provide the requisite level of safety. NHTSA requested comments about the effect of this rule on final stage manufacturers. Twelve commenters addressed the issue of how this rule would affect vehicles manufactured in more than one stage. Blue Bird, Thomas, Navistar, Washington State, CNG Pittsburgh, CHP, and Chrysler stated it would be appropriate for the proposed requirements to apply to multi-stage vehicles. In contrast, four commenters_the National Truck Equipment Association (NTEA), NGV Systems, Ontario, and Niagara Mohawk Power Company_believed that the new standard should not apply to vehicles manufactured in more than one stage. These commenters were most concerned about how a final stage manufacturer could certify compliance to the Standard without performing crash tests.
