FR941017-1-00043 FR941017-1-00009 Benefits The first type of benefit which should be realized from these new program requirements is an increase in the number of substance-dependent individuals receiving treatment. Other potential benefits to society include a reduction in Social Security and SSI program expenditures due to the 36-month payment restriction and suspension of benefits for noncompliance with treatment requirements. The number of individuals receiving treatment may grow because these requirements would make benefits conditioned on compliance with available treatment. To the extent that treatment is successful, these individuals may realize improved mental and/or physical health, reducing use of public and private health facilities. They may be more receptive and prepared for vocational rehabilitation and/or return to work. Although reductions in substance dependency offer a broad array of benefits to society, the difficulties of quantifying and valuing them lead us to concentrate our efforts in this benefits assessment on changes in the number of individuals receiving treatment and the likely reductions in their substance dependencies. Costs Savings to the Social Security and SSI programs will not accrue without a significant expenditure of Federal administrative resources. SSA personnel must closely track individuals throughout their months of eligibility. They will process suspensions and terminations, select representative payees, and respond to reports of noncompliance with required treatment. SSA will enter into contracts with RMAs to assess treatment needs of beneficiaries, refer beneficiaries for treatment, monitor treatment, and report to SSA on beneficiary compliance (including progress with the treatment plan). The RMA structure required by the statute will represent a significant program cost. Additionally, the substance abuse treatment to which these individuals are referred will have a significant cost. Including this cost in the analysis is appropriate to the extent that the benefits of increased participation in treatment programs is also included. Beneficiaries generally cannot be required to pay for the treatment themselves. Therefore, the cost of treatment will need to be absorbed by existing governmental sources, including Medicare and Medicaid, and private sources. The administrative requirements for implementation of the provisions may result in ``burdens'' on members of the public (e.g., completion of forms and types of information collection) which are subject to clearance by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). If such is the case, required clearance will be obtained from OMB prior to implementation of interim final regulations. The costs and benefits of the provisions are driven by the statutory requirements. This Department would welcome any comments or suggestions for reducing administrative costs and reducing the burden on individuals, RMAs, substance abuse treatment providers and other entities. Such information will help us refine the necessary policies and procedures. Our aim is to carry out the Congressional mandate at the least possible cost and burden to organizations and members of the public. V. Request for Comments To maximize public participation early in the rulemaking process, we invite you to comment on the cost and benefit issues raised in this request, particularly with respect to any policy recommendations in response to this solicitation. In addition, we solicit comments on particular policy issues, such as the definition of ``compliance,'' ``good cause,'' and ``appropriate treatment.'' Finally, we request comments on any other aspects of the provisions of the provisions of the law related to the nonpayment and termination of benefits on behalf of individuals disabled based on DA&A. VI. Next Steps After analysis of the comments received in response to this request, as well as the other information obtained, HHS plans to develop and publish interim final regulations to implement the regulations required to be in place by February 11, 1995. In the interim final regulations, we will provide another opportunity for public comment. After the end of that comment period, we plan to analyze the comments and determine whether changes to our interim final regulations are warranted. VII. Authority The authority citation for this request is: Secs. 205(a), 221, 225, 1102, 1611, 1614, 1631, and 1633 of the Social Security Act; 42 U.S.C. 405(a), 421, 425, 1302, 1382, 1382c, 1383 and 1383b; and sec. 201 of Pub. L. 103&hyph;296. Dated: October 7, 1994. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security. Approved: October 12, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25747 Filed 10&hyph;13&hyph;94; 1:17 pm] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;P
