FR940513-1-00017 FR940513-1-00004 §2812.6 Title. Title to excess personal property/equipment donated under this Part will automatically pass to the donee once the sponsoring agency receives the SF&hyph;122 indicating that the donee has received the property. §2812.7 Costs. Donated excess personal property/equipment is free of charge. However, the donee must pay all costs associated with packaging and transportation, unless the sponsoring agency has made other arrangements. The donee should specify the method of shipment. §2812.8 Accountability and Recordkeeping. USDA requires that property requested by a donee be placed into use by the donee within a year of receipt and used for at least 1 year thereafter. Donees must maintain accountable records for such property during this time period. §2812.9 Disposal. When the property is no longer needed by the donee, it may be used in support of other Federal projects or sold and the proceeds used for technical and scientific education and research activities. §2812.10 Liabilities and Losses. USDA assumes no liability with respect to accidents, bodily injury, illness, or any other damages or loss related to excess personal property/equipment donated under this Part. The donee is advised to insure or otherwise protect itself and others as appropriate. Appendix A to Part 2812_Gift/Acceptance Agreement; Educational Institution or Non-Profit Organization and The United States Department of Agriculture Gift/Acceptance Agreement (Agreement) Between (USDA Agency) and (Educational Institution or Non-Profit Organization). (1) Purpose The purpose of the Agreement is to establish a relationship between the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA Agency) and (Educational Institution or Non-Profit Organization) concerning the transfer of excess research equipment to this educational institution or non-profit organization for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities. Title of ownership transfers to the recipient. (2) Authority Public Law 102&hyph;245, Sec. 303, Research Equipment, Section 11 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, subsection (i) Research Equipment, provides that ``the Director of a laboratory, or the head of any Federal agency or department, may give research equipment that is excess to the needs of the laboratory, agency, or department to an educational institution or non-profit organization for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities.'' (3) Objectives and Program Elements This Agreement is intended to provide a mechanism for the transfer of excess research equipment from USDA to the (Educational Institution or Non-profit Organization) in accordance with the procedures set out in the regulations implementing Public Law 102&hyph;245. (4) Management In order to enable close collaboration, it is agreed that the (Educational Institution or Non-Profit Organization) will provide to (USDA Agency) an annual inventory listing of property acquired under Public Law 102&hyph;245. The (USDA Agency) and (Educational Institution or Non-Profit Organization) will each identify a coordinator to implement this Agreement. These coordinators shall meet when necessary to review new Federal property regulations. The coordinators shall seek to resolve any disputes concerning the Agreement through good faith discussions. (5) Effective Date and Revision or Termination The Agreement shall enter into effect upon signature and shall remain in effect for 3 years. It may be extended or amended by written agreement of the parties at any time prior to its expiration or termination. The Agreement may be terminated at any time upon 60 days written notice by either party to the other. The termination of the Agreement shall not affect the validity of any property transactions under the Agreement which were initiated prior to such termination. Property Coordinators The property coordinators for this Agreement are: Name (Education Institution/Non-Profit Organization) (Complete Address and Phone Number) Name (USDA Coordinator) (Complete Address and Phone Number) Approved: (Education Institution/Non-Profit Organization) Date (USDA Agency Head) Date
