FR940613-2-00091 FR940613-2-00055 The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the Board, and, in particular, with Sections 15B(b)(2) (C) and (G) of the Act. 8 Section 15B(b)(2)(C) authorizes the MSRB to adopt rules designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating transactions in municipal securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. Section 15B(b)(2)(G) authorizes the MSRB to adopt rules that prescribe the records to be made and kept by municipal securities dealers and the periods for which such records shall be preserved. 8 Sections 15B(b)(2)(C), (G); [15 U.S.C. 78o&hyph;4(b)(2)(C), (G)]. The Commission received several comments to rule G&hyph;37 recommending that the rule provide an exemption process, based on the dealer's compliance procedures and supervision, for certain inadvertent violations. 9 The Commission approved the rule and recommended the MSRB separately address these concerns by filing a proposed rule change that provides an exemption process for inadvertent violations. The MSRB's proposal adequately addresses these concerns. 10 The proposal provides procedures for dealers to obtain exemptive relief from rule G&hyph;37's prohibition on business where, for example, covered persons inadvertently make contributions that slightly exceed the de minimis exemption provided by the rule. The proposal's exemptive relief is based on the dealers' supervision of covered persons, compliance procedures concerning rule G&hyph;37, and corrective and remedial action concerning inadvertent violations. The Commission expects that dealers will apply for exemptive relief only in certain, limited situations. Thus, the proposal provides an exemptive process to rule G&hyph;37 without providing dealers a ``loop-hole'' that would frustrate the rule's purpose to, among other things, ensure that high standards and integrity of the municipal securities industry are maintained. 9 See Supra note 1. 10 Because an exemption to rule G&hyph;37 is appropriate in very limited circumstances, The proposal also clarifies provisions of rules G&hyph;37 and G&hyph;8. Amendments to rule G&hyph;37's definitions of ``official of an issuer,'' ``municipal securities business,'' and ``municipal finance professional,'' as well as amendments to rules G&hyph;37 and G&hyph;8 disclosure and recordkeeping requirements will facilitate compliance with the rules. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of the notice of filing in the Federal Register . Accelerated approval is necessary and appropriate to facilitate compliance with rules G&hyph;37 and G&hyph;8. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Board. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;5 and should be submitted by July 5, 1994. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 11 that the proposed rule change be, and hereby is, approved. 11 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 U.S.C. 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14226 Filed 6&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
