FR940525-1-00020 FR940525-1-00007 The risk-based capital treatment of standby letters of credit or guarantee-like arrangements that represent second dollar loss enhancements provided for third-party assets would not be affected by this proposal. For purposes of this part of the proposal, a second dollar loss standby letter of credit or guarantee-like arrangement is one that covers any percentage portion of loss after some level of the first dollars of loss is covered by another party or through internal enhancement ( e.g. , losses from 6 to 20% of the asset value when another party provides first dollar loss enhancement that covers losses from 0 to 6% of the asset value 29 ). These second dollar loss direct credit substitutes would continue to be assessed risk-based capital based on their risk-weighted face amounts. 29 If the enhancement is a back-up for the 0 to 6% coverage ( i.e. , the first party covers the first 6% of losses and the second party covers the first 20% of losses but expects to absorb losses at the 0 to 6% level only if the first party fails to perform), then this is not a ``second dollar loss'' enhancement. The second party has exposure to the risk that the first party will not perform and would be charged capital for that exposure at the risk-weight appropriate for claims against the first party. The proposed rule also addresses participations in financial standby letters of credit and guarantee-like arrangements. D. Summary The proposal would increase capital requirements for first dollar loss financial standby letters of credit and guarantee-like arrangements that cover less than 100% of the face value of the total assets enhanced. There would be no change, however, in the risk-based capital requirement for arrangements that cover the entire amount of losses from a third party's assets, because the current guidelines already require capital to be held against the full asset amount in such direct credit substitute transactions. Based on Agency staff discussions with market participants, the Agencies believe that the majority of first dollar loss financial standby letters of credit and similar arrangements that are provided by banking organizations and thrifts in the current market are of this latter type. Thus, the Agencies do not expect that many banking organizations or thrifts would face increased risk-based capital requirements as a result of this aspect of the proposal. Moreover, as was previously mentioned, the Agencies are considering options for matching the risk-based capital requirement more closely to the risk associated with second dollar loss subordinated interests and financial standby letters of credit and guarantee-like arrangements in connection with the development of one or more multi-level approaches. The multi-level approaches, in conjunction with the proposed rules above, would ensure that banking organizations maintain adequate capital against the risks associated with credit enhancements, would recognize when an institution has reduced its risk, and make capital treatment more consistent across the various types of depository institutions. III. Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Many asset securitizations carve up the risk of credit losses from the underlying assets and distribute it to different parties. The first dollar loss or subordinate position is first to absorb credit losses, the senior investor position is last, and there may be one or more loss positions in between. Each loss position functions as a credit enhancement for the more senior loss positions in the structure. Currently, the risk-based capital standards do not vary the rate of capital assessment with differences in credit risk represented by different credit enhancement or loss positions. To address this issue, the Agencies are requesting comment on a preliminary proposal to adopt a multi-level approach that would assess risk-based capital against all banking organization and thrift participants in certain asset securitizations ( i.e. , recourse providers, direct credit substitute providers and investors) based on their relative exposure to risk of loss from the underlying assets. Credit ratings from nationally recognized statistical rating organizations would be used to determine relative exposure to risk of loss. This proposal, referred to as the ratings-based multi-level approach, would permit reduced risk-based capital assessments for second dollar loss credit enhancers (both recourse and direct credit substitute providers) and for senior investors in eligible securitization transactions. 30 The Agencies also seek comment on whether a multi-level approach is needed for unrated securitization transactions and, if so, on how such a system could be designed. 30 The reduction in the risk-based capital charge for second dollar loss enhancements would be in relation to the treatment that the Agencies are considering proposing for second dollar loss direct credit substitutes that do not qualify for the ratings-based multi-level approach (see discussion below). A. Ratings-Based Multi-Level Approach 1. Threshold Criteria The ratings-based multi-level approach would be restricted to transactions involving the securitization of large, diversified asset pools in which all forms of first dollar loss credit enhancement are either completely free of third-party performance risk ( i.e. , the inability of the credit enhancer to perform) or are provided internally as part of the securitization structure, as specified below. The diversification requirement and the requirement that all first dollar loss credit enhancement be free from third-party performance risk are intended to protect the first dollar loss enhancement from default risk associated with any single party. For purposes of applying a multi-level approach, it is important to minimize the possibility that the first dollar loss enhancement will be exhausted because the presence of this prior enhancement will be the basis, in most transactions, for allowing lower risk-based capital assessments on the second dollar loss and senior positions. For a transaction to qualify for the ratings-based multi-level approach, the first dollar loss credit enhancement could be provided in any of the following four ways: •Cash collateral accounts; 31 31 A cash collateral account is a separate account funded with a loan from the provider of the enhancement. Funds in the account are available to cover potential losses. •Subordinated interests or classes of securities; •Spread accounts, including those that are funded initially with a loan that is repaid from excess cash flows; 32 and 32 A spread account is typically a trust or special account that the issuer establishes to retain interest rate payments in excess of the amounts due investors from the underlying assets, plus a normal servicing fee rate. The excess spread serves as a cushion to cover potential losses on the underlying loans. •Other forms of overcollateralization involving excess cash flows, e.g. , placing excess receivables into the pool so that total cash flows expected to be received exceed cash flows needed to pay investors.
