FR940228-1-00014 FR940228-1-00003 Section 34.5, Interpretations, is standard regulatory language to state that only the General Counsel of the NRC has the authority to provide interpretations of the regulations which will be binding on the Commission. Section 34.8, Information collection requirements: OMB approval, is unchanged from the current regulation, except for changing the section numbers to conform to the new format of the proposed rule and to list any new requirements that require OMB approval. The Commission has submitted the proposed rule for OMB clearance. Final OMB clearance will be obtained before publication of a final rule. Subpart B_Specific Licensing Provisions This proposed subpart provides the basic requirements for submittal of a license application. The sections in this proposed subpart are basically unchanged from those in the current subpart A of part 34. Section 34.11, Application for a specific license, is worded the same as §34.3 in the current part 34. Section 34.13, Specific license for radiography, has several changes from §34.11 in the current part 34. A proposed §34.13(c) would specify requirements for establishing procedures to verify the certification status of radiographers. The requirement for verifying an individual's certification would only apply to previously certified radiographers whom a licensee might hire. A licensee would already know an individual's status if the individual is employed by the licensee at the time of certification. However, the licensee would be required to ensure that all radiographers are certified. Section 34.13(e) proposes a reduction in the frequency of field inspections of radiographers and radiographer's assistants from quarterly to annually for individuals regularly conducting radiographic operations. For individuals who have not performed radiographic operations for more than six months, an inspection of job performance would be required at the time they next participate in a radiographic operation. This reduction is possible due primarily to the proposed two-person rule, adoption of mandatory certification for radiographers, and upgraded radiographer assistants training which would reduce the need for inspection of job performance. The basic requirements for conducting the field inspections have been relocated to §34.43(d) to more accurately reflect its role in the training program. In addition, a requirement for conducting annual safety reviews has also been added in §34.13(b)(1) and §34.43(c) to clarify the intent of the current §34.11(b) which requires periodic training. Section 34.13(g) is proposed to require the licensee to designate an individual on the license to fulfill the duties of the RSO. The qualifications and duties of this individual are specified in §34.42. Section 34.13(i) is a new paragraph which, as proposed, would require a list and description of all permanent radiographic installations and all field stations to be included in the license application. Section 34.13(j) is a new paragraph which, as proposed, would permit licensees to have the option to use certified radiographers before the proposed rule is adopted in final form and becomes effective. Subpart C_Equipment This proposed subpart describes the requirements for radiographic equipment performance and use. Some of the requirements in this proposed subpart are changed from the current part 34 as described below. Section 34.20, Performance requirements for radiography equipment, is slightly changed from §34.20 of the current rule. Section 34.20(b)(3) is revised to prohibit modification of any exposure device. The proposed rule was modified to remove any ambiguity regarding permission to modify safety components. The term Source assembly was added to §34.20 (c) and (e) to make clear that it is one of the pieces of equipment that must meet the requirements of §34.20. Section 34.20(f) is added to require labeling of all associated equipment acquired after January 10, 1996, to identify that the components have met the requirements of this section. Section 34.21, Limits on levels of radiation for radiographic exposure devices, storage containers, and source changers, is basically unchanged from §34.21 of the current rule with the following exceptions. Metric equivalents to the values previously cited have been included. While it is recognized that radiation exposure instruments currently use units of roentgens to measure radioactivity, the rule has been modified to use the terms millisieverts and millirems. Rather than making the transition from roentgens to coulombs per kilogram (in air), the terms millisieverts and millirems were chosen because a quality factor of 1 is appropriate in dealing with gamma-ray emitting radiography sources. Under the proposed rule measurements taken in roentgens may continue to be recorded in terms of roentgens, provided the limits described in the rule, expressed in millisieverts or millirems, are not exceeded.
