FR940727-0-00079 FR940727-0-00025 (4) The firm's organizational documents and records. (5) Statements of witnesses. (6) Monetary loss to the government. (7) Other relevant information. This information will be provided to PFD or other cognizant DOD centralized organization. (i) PFD will provide written notification to the Defense Investigative Service of all suspension or debarment actions taken by the Army. ยง516.62 PFD and HQ USACIDC coordination. PFD and HQ USACIDC will coordinate as follows: (a) Discuss the status of significant procurement fraud or corruption investigations being conducted by USACIDC and possible remedies. These discussions should take place on a regular basis. (b) Discuss the coordination of possible criminal, civil, contractual, or administrative remedies with prosecutive authorities. (c) PFD will maintain liaison with other DOD centralized organizations and will coordinate remedies with those centralized organizations affected by a significant investigation of fraud or corruption that relates to DOD procurement activities. (d) Ascertain the effect on any ongoing investigation of the initiation of civil, contractual, or administrative remedies as follows: (1) PFD will maintain liaison with USACIDC and other DOD criminal investigative organizations in order to determine the advisability of initiating any civil, contractual, or administrative actions. (2) USACIDC will advise PFD of any adverse effect on an investigation or prosecution by the initiation of civil, contractual, or administrative actions. ยง516.63 Coordination with DOJ. (a) PFD will establish and maintain liaison with DOJ and the Defense Procurement Fraud Unit on significant fraud and corruption cases to accomplish the following: (1) Monitor criminal prosecutions. (2) Initiate litigation for civil recovery. (3) Coordinate administrative or contractual actions while criminal or civil proceedings are pending. (4) Coordinate settlement agreements or proposed settlements of criminal, civil, and administrative actions. (5) Respond to DOJ requests for information and assistance. (b) In cases where there is an ongoing criminal investigation, coordination with DOJ by any member of the Army normally will be accomplished by or through USACIDC or the cognizant DOD criminal investigative organization, or with the investigative organization's advance knowledge. This does not apply to the routine exchange of information between government attorneys in the course of civil litigation or the routine referral of cases to DOJ for civil recovery. (c) Initial contact by any attorney associated with the U.S. Army with a U.S. Attorney's office or DOJ, whether initiated by the Army attorney or not, will be reported to PFD. Activity after the initial contact will only be reported to PFD when the Army attorney feels there has been a significant event in the case. If the Army attorney is not a PFI Coordinator or a PFA, the matter should be referred to one of these two attorneys as soon as possible. Routine exchanges between Army attorneys and U.S. Attorney's offices or DOJ do not need to be brought to the attention of PFD. ยง516.64 Comprehensive remedies plan. (a) A specific, comprehensive remedies plan will be developed in each significant investigation involving fraud or corruption that relates to Army procurement activities. When possible, these plans should be forwarded with the DFARS 209.406&hyph;3 reports. In no case, however, should the report be delayed an appreciable time pending completion of the plan. The format for a remedies plan is at Figure H&hyph;2, Appendix G, to this part. (b) The plan will be developed initially by the PFA with the participation of the appropriate criminal investigators and other relevant personnel such as the contracting officer. In significant cases the PFA should also coordinate a remedies plan early with PFD. Defective product/product substitution remedies plans must comply with the requirements of Appendix D to this part. (c) A comprehensive remedies plan will include at a minimum the following information and considerations:
