FR940819-0-00060 FR940819-0-00017 F. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements 1. Sales Restriction_Effective Date for Recordkeeping Section 82.166(a) establishes a recordkeeping requirement for all persons who sell or distribute any class I or class II substance for use as a refrigerant. Since no effective date was specified for this particular requirement, this provision became effective June 14, 1993, the effective date of the Refrigerant Recycling Regulations. However, the restriction on selling or distributing of ozone-depleting refrigerants is not effective until November 14, 1994, pursuant to ยง82.154(n). EPA does not believe it is necessary to maintain records regarding the sale and distribution of refrigerant in advance of the effective date of the actual sales or distribution restriction. Furthermore, such a requirement places an unnecessary burden on industry. Without the existence of a sales restriction, the usefulness of such records is dubious. Therefore, through this action EPA will change the effective date for maintaining records regarding sales and distribution of refrigerants from June 14, 1993 to November 14, 1994. 2. Proof of Employment of Certified Personnel Section 82.166(b) allows the purchasers of any class I or class II refrigerants who employ certified technicians to provide evidence of each technician's certification to the wholesaler who sells them refrigerant. The wholesaler will keep this information on file. The purchaser is further required to notify the wholesaler regarding any changes in a technician's certification or employment status. Concerns have recently been brought to EPA's attention about the practicability of implementing this provision. Large organizations often employ large numbers of certified technicians that may be situated at various locations around the country. Tracking and notifying wholesalers of employee status may result in an overwhelming responsibility. EPA did not intend this requirement to place any undue burden on the employers of large numbers of technicians. In fact, EPA believed that allowing employers to purchase refrigerant for their technicians, instead of requiring the technician to be physically present at the point of sale, would actually decrease the burden for the technician, the wholesaler, and the technician's employer. Therefore, EPA is modifying this requirement to read: Purchasers of any class I or class II refrigerants who employ certified technicians may provide evidence that at least one technician is properly certified to the wholesaler who sells them refrigerant; the wholesaler will then keep this information on file and may sell refrigerant to the purchaser or his authorized representative even if such purchaser or authorized representative is not a properly certified technician. In such cases, the purchaser must notify the wholesaler in the event that the purchaser no longer employs at least one properly certified technician. The wholesaler is then prohibited from selling class I or class II refrigerants to the purchaser until such time as the purchaser employs at least one properly certified technician. At that time, the purchaser must provide new evidence that at least one technician is properly certified. EPA believes that this requirement will still have the intended effect of lessening the likelihood that refrigerant is sold for use by non-certified personnel, while providing a more reasonable means for purchasers to comply with the sales restriction. G. Appendix A EPA adopted an industry standard in the final rule based on the Air-conditioning and Refrigeration Institute (ARI) Standard 700&hyph;1988. This standard appeared as Appendix A to Subpart F_Specification for Fluorocarbon Refrigerants. EPA was aware of efforts to revise ARI 700&hyph;1988 while the final regulations were being drafted. However, the revised version was not completed in time for incorporation into this appendix by EPA. As discussed above, the updated version, known as ARI 700&hyph;1993, includes changes in three areas: it adds purity standards for eleven additional refrigerants; it increases liquid phase contaminant water levels from 10ppm in ARI 700&hyph;1988 to 20ppm in ARI 700&hyph;1993 for R&hyph;11 and R&hyph;113 only; and, where ARI 700&hyph;1988 allowed 0.5 as the maximum percentage by weight of ``other refrigerants,'' ARI 700&hyph;1993 allows 0.50 as the maximum percentage by weight of ``all other organic impurities, including other refrigerants.'' The inclusion of all organic impurities in the limit effectively tightens the standard, and the change from 0.5 to 0.50 reduces the tolerance of the standard by a factor of ten. EPA has reviewed ARI 700&hyph;1993 and believes it should be substituted because it covers additional refrigerants, it increases liquid phase contaminant water levels, and broadens the maximum percentage of weight requirement to include all other organic impurities instead of just other refrigerants. Through this action EPA will substitute the standard based on ARI Standard 700&hyph;1988 with a standard based on ARI Standard 700&hyph;1993. H. Appendix B
