FR940513-2-00090 FR940513-2-00039 •Organizational capability statement and vitae; •Letters of Commitment and Cooperation; •A copy of the Check List of Application Requirements (See Section K, below) with all the completed items checked. The original and each copy should be stapled securely (front and back if necessary) in the upper left corner. Pages should be numbered sequentially. In order to facilitate the handling and reproduction of the application for purposes of the review, please do not use covers, binders or tabs. Do not include extraneous materials such as agency promotion brochures, slides, tapes, film clips, etc. It is not feasible to include such items in the review process. They will be discarded if submitted as part of the application. H. Communications with AoA Do not include a self-addressed, stamped acknowledgment card. All applicants will be notified by mail of the receipt of their application and informed of the identification number assigned to it. This number and the priority area should be referred to in all subsequent communication with AoA concerning the application. If acknowledgment is not received within seven weeks after the deadline date, please notify the Office of Program Development by telephone at (202) 619&hyph;0441. After an identification number is assigned and the applicant has been notified of the number, applications are filed numerically by identification number for quick retrieval. It will not be possible for AoA staff to provide a timely response to inquiries about a specific application unless the identification number and the priority area are given. Applicants are advised that, prior to reaching a decision, AoA will not release information to an applicant other than that its application has been received and that it is being reviewed. Unnecessary inquiries delay the process. Once a decision is reached, the applicant will be notified as soon as possible of the approval or disapproval of the application. I. Background Information and Guidance for Preparing the Application 1. Current Projects and Previous Project Results In the Program Narrative of the application (see Section J&hyph;6 below), applicants are expected to demonstrate familiarity with recent and ongoing activity related to their project proposal. With respect to AoA-supported discretionary grant projects, information on current AoA projects may be obtained by contacting the Office of Program Development at 202/619&hyph;0441. Regarding completed AoA projects, copies of all AoA discretionary grant final reports and printed materials are sent to: the National Aging Dissemination Center; the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), a clearinghouse and document source for federally sponsored reports; Ageline Database, a bibliographic database service sponsored by the American Association of Retired Persons, available online through BRS and DIALOG; and the U.S. Government Printing Office Library Program, a catalog and microfiche service for 1400 depository libraries located throughout the United States. Information concerning access to the bibliographic and document referral services provided by these clearinghouses can be obtained through most public and academic libraries. For direct information, use the following contacts: (1) National Aging Dissemination Center, National Association of State Units on Aging, 1225 I Street NW., suite 725, Washington, DC 20005, (202) 898&hyph;2578. The Dissemination Center maintains a computerized database of descriptions of recent AoA grant products including reports, studies, training materials, technical assistance documents, and audio-visual products. Staff are available to scan the database for products and tailored printouts may be requested. The Center has also established a product repository of over 1000 products generated under Title IV grants. The repository serves as a backup source for original documents from which duplicates can be produced when copies are no longer available from the grantees. Information about products and searches of this database can be requested by telephone (800&hyph;989&hyph;6537) and by written request. In addition, the database will also be available via modem for on-line searches (800&hyph;989&hyph;2243).
