FR940324-2-00061 FR940324-2-00042 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration RIN 0905&hyph;ZA24 HIV/AIDS Mental Health Services Demonstration Program (Includes Cooperative Agreements for Services Demonstration Projects and One Coordinating Center) AGENCY: Center for Mental Health Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, HHS. ACTION: Request for applications. SUMMARY: The Center for Mental Health Services (CMHS), Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), in collaboration with the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH), announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a new HIV/AIDS Mental Health Services Demonstration Program. Because of the complexity of this program, a cooperative agreement mechanism is being utilized to allow for substantial Federal programmatic participation in the conduct of the program, and to facilitate communication and coordination in the overall implementation and evaluation of the program. The program will include cooperative agreements for services demonstration projects to provide mental health services to people affected by and living with HIV/AIDS and a coordinating center which, in conjunction with the services demonstration projects, will design and implement the overall evaluation of the HIV/AIDS Mental Health Services Demonstration Program. A steering committee will be established to facilitate coordination and cooperation among the services demonstration projects and the coordinating center, and to oversee the cooperative agreements. The HRSA Bureau of Health Resources Development (BHRD) and the NIH National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) also will provide funding support for certain aspects of these cooperative agreements, will recommend reviewers for the review of applications, will participate on the steering committee, and will otherwise be involved in the implementation of the HIV/AIDS Mental Health Services Demonstration Program. This notice consists of three parts: Part I covers information on the legislative authority and the applicable regulations and policies related to the HIV/AIDS Mental Health Services Demonstration Program. Part II describes the purpose, goals and scope of the program and discusses eligibility, availability of funds, period of support and the receipt date for applications. Part III describes special requirements of the program, the application process, the review and award criteria and lists contacts for additional information.
