FR940426-0-00088 FR940426-0-00019 Criteria for Loan Origination._1995&hyph;1996 Academic Year_an X Indicates That the Criterion Must Be Met To Participate at the Indicated Origination Level 1Criteria 1Original level 1 1Original level 2 1. Be currently participating in the Federal Perkins Loan Program or the Federal Pell Grant Program or, for a graduate or professional school, a similar program lX 2. If participating in the Federal Perkins Loan Program, not have exceeded the applicable maximum default rate under section 462(g) of the HEA lX 3. Have participated in at least one of the student financial assistance programs under title IV of the HEA for the three years immediately preceding July 1, 1995 lX 4. Not be provisionally certified to participate in programs under title IV of the HEA lX 5. Not be on the reimbursement system of payment in the Federal Pell Grant Program lX X 6. Not have received notice that the school is subject to an emergency action or a proposed or final limitation, suspension, or termination action under the HEA lX X 7. Not, in the opinion of the Secretary, have had severe performance deficiencies for any of the programs under title IV of the HEA lX X 8. If participating in the Federal Pell Grant Program, have submitted Student Aid Reports on a timely basis lX 9. Not be overdue on Federal cash transaction reports required under title IV of the HEA lX 10. Not be overdue on program or financial reports or audits required under title IV of the HEA lX 11. Provide an assurance that the school has no delinquent outstanding debts to the Federal Government (subject to certain exceptions) lX A school that does not meet the criteria to originate loans must use the services of an alternative originator. The Secretary may allow a school to originate loans at a level for which it would not otherwise be eligible if the Secretary determines that the school is fully capable of originating loans at that level. The Secretary may also require a school that meets the criteria for the second level of origination to use the services of an alternative originator if the extent to which the school fails to meet other criteria merits such an action. A consortium of schools may originate loans at a level of origination for which all members of the consortium are eligible.
