FR941125-1-00030 FR941125-1-00008 A. Public Hearing In accordance with section 307(d)(5) of the Clean Air Act as amended by Public Law 101&hyph;549, the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, a public hearing will be held, if requested, to discuss the proposed revisions to subpart A and appendix B. Persons wishing to make oral presentations should contact EPA at the address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. Oral presentations will be limited to 15 minutes each. Any member of the public may file a written statement with the EPA before, during, or within 30 days after the hearing. Written statements should be addressed to the Air Docket Section address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. A verbatim transcript of the hearing and written statements will be available for public inspection and copying during normal working hours at EPA's Air Docket Section in Washington, D.C. (see ADDRESSES section of this preamble). B. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file for all information submitted or otherwise considered by EPA in the development of this proposed rulemaking. The principal purposes of the docket are: (1) to allow interested parties to identify and locate documents so that they can effectively participate in the rulemaking process, and (2) to serve as the record in case of judicial review (except for interagency review materials) [Clean Air Act Section 307(d)(7)(A)]. C. Office of Management and Budget Review Due to the timing of review which was pre-Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735; October 4, 1993), this NPRM underwent Executive Order 12291 Review. Under Executive Order 12291, EPA must judge whether a regulation is ``major'' and, therefore, subject to the requirement of a regulatory impact analysis. This rulemaking is not major because it will not have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more; it will not result in a major increase in costs or prices; and there will be no significant adverse effects on competition, employment, investment, productivity, innovation, or on the ability of U.S.-based enterprises to compete with foreign-based enterprises in domestic or export markets. D. Regulatory Flexibility Act Compliance Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Administrator certifies that this rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities because no additional cost will be incurred by such entities. The requirements of the proposal reaffirm the existing requirements for demonstrating conformance with the COMS PS's. Small entities will be affected to the same degree that they are affected under existing requirements. This rule does not contain any information collection requirements subject to the Office of Management and Budget review under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 60 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Particulate matter. Dated: November 8, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. The EPA proposes that 40 CFR part 60 be amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for part 60 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401, 7411, 7414, 7416, and 7601. Subpart A_[Amended] 2. Section 60.13 is amended by revising paragraph (d)(1) to read as follows: ยง60.13 Monitoring requirements. * * * * * (d)(1) Owners and operators of continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS's) installed in accordance with the provisions of this part, shall automatically check the zero (or low level value between 0 and 20 percent of span value) and span (50 to 100 percent of span value) calibration drifts (CD's) at least once daily. For CEMS's used to measure opacity in accordance with the provisions of this part, owners and operators shall automatically, intrinsic to the continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS), check the zero and upscale calibration drifts at least once daily. For a particular COMS, the acceptable range of zero and upscale calibration materials shall be as defined in the applicable version of PS&hyph;1 in appendix B of this part. Where an opacity standard of 10 percent or less, corrected to stack exit conditions, has been specified, a surrogate 10 percent opacity standard shall be used for determining the daily calibration values for the drift assessments required above. The zero and upscale value shall, as a minimum, be adjusted whenever either the 24-hour zero drift or the 24-hour span drift exceeds two times the limit of the applicable PS in appendix B. The system must allow the amount of the excess zero and span drift to be recorded and quantified whenever specified. For COMS's, the optical surfaces, exposed to the effluent gases, shall be cleaned prior to performing the zero and span drift adjustments, except for systems using automatic zero adjustments. The optical surfaces shall be cleaned when the cumulative automatic zero compensation exceeds 4 percent opacity. * * * * * Appendix B_[Amended] 3. Appendix B to part 60 is amended by revising Performance Specification 1 to read as follows:
