FR940906-1-00010 FR940906-1-00006 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service 19 CFR Part 103 RIN 1515&hyph;AB58 Disclosure or Production of Customs Information Pursuant to Legal Process AGENCY: U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This document proposes to amend the Customs Regulations to clarify the procedures to be followed when subpoenas or other demands of courts and other authorities, except Congress, are issued to compel the disclosure or production of Customs information, i.e. , documents, information, or employee testimony, for use in federal, state, local, and foreign proceedings. The proposed procedures will be applicable to current and former Customs employees and to litigants who seek to compel Customs employees to disclose or produce Customs information. Specifically, the amendments seek to centralize in the Office of Chief Counsel determinations concerning the disclosure of such information. The goal of this proposal is to ensure the uniform processing of subpoenas served on Customs employees and the more efficient use of Customs personnel resources in responding to requests in a timely manner. The amendments also propose to restructure the general organizational scheme of part 103 of the Customs Regulations to clarify their application. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments (preferably in triplicate) may be addressed to the Regulations Branch, Office of Regulations and Rulings, U.S. Customs Service, Franklin Court, 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, D.C. 20229. Comments submitted may be inspected at the Regulations Branch, Office of Regulations and Rulings, U.S. Customs Service, Franklin Court, 1099 14th St., NW, Suite 4000, Washington, D.C. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Senoria Clarke, Office of the Chief Counsel (202) 927&hyph;6900. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Customs enforces some 600 laws for 60 agencies while facilitating the flow of merchandise in international commerce. In addition to maintaining records relevant to its enforcement functions, Customs also maintains information that has a bearing on other law enforcement provisions. Many of the records Customs maintains contain confidential business information subject to the Trade Secrets Act, 18 U.S.C. 1905, which prohibits the unauthorized disclosure of such information by an officer or employee of the United States. Regulations pertaining to Customs release of information, i.e., documents, information, or employee testimony, subpoenaed for use in judicial proceedings are found at ยง103.17 of the Customs Regulations (19 CFR 103.17). But while ยง103.17 provides some procedures regarding the disclosure of information, e.g., the testimony of employees, and the production of documents pursuant to a subpoena duces tecum in cases both where the agency is and is not a party to a legal proceeding, it does not adequately describe the procedures for determining whether and how the information should be released in response to such demands. In 1992, Customs information was subpoenaed in connection with at least 440 cases. In 1993, the number of cases increased to approximately 550. These demands for Customs information necessarily draw personnel and other resources away from the agency's mission to administer the customs and related laws concerning the importation of merchandise. As litigants increasingly subpoena information in the possession, custody or control of Customs, the need to provide clear procedures both to Customs personnel and to litigants is urgent. Clarification of the procedures would allow Customs to manage more effectively the just, speedy, and inexpensive determination of such demands while ensuring Customs has adequate time to properly consider whether the information sought should be made available. Accordingly, Customs proposes to restructure the organizational scheme of part 103 of the regulations in general, to clarify their application, and to amend the provisions of ยง103.17 in particular, to set forth procedures applicable to demands for the disclosure and production of Customs-maintained information. In proposing to revise ยง103.17, we have considered other federal agencies' positions in this regard, particularly those of the Department of Justice (28 CFR Part 16, subpart B), bearing in mind the unique mission of the Customs Service as the principal border enforcement agency of the United States. Furthermore, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 28 U.S.C. App., were relied upon concerning the appropriate burden litigants must bear when they subpoena information from the Federal government.
