FR941205-1-00063 FR941205-1-00014 B. Second leading commodity C. Third leading commodity etc. II. Sub-trade A. First leading commodity etc. Part VII Cargo and Revenue Results by Sub-Trade For each sub-trade within the scope of the agreement, and for each of the leading commodities listed for each sub-trade in the response to Part VI, and for each party, provide the following information: (1) Total TEUs carried port-to-port under tariff rates, and average gross revenue per TEU. (2) Total TEUs carried port-to-port under service contracts, and average gross revenue per TEU. (3) Total TEUs carried by intermodal service under tariff rates, and average gross revenue per TEU. (4) Total TEUs carried by intermodal service under service contracts, and average gross revenue per TEU. The information should be provided in the format below: Calendar Quarter I. Sub-trade A A. First leading commodity 1. Carrier A (a) Port-to-port service under tariff rates (1) Total TEUs of first leading commodity carried (2) Average gross revenue per TEU (b) Port-to-port service under service contracts (1) Total TEUs of first leading commodity carried (2) Average gross revenue per TEU (c) Intermodal service under tariff rates (1) Total TEUs of first leading commodity carried (2) Average gross revenue per TEU (d) Intermodal service under service contracts (1) Total TEUs of first leading commodity carried (2) Average gross revenue per TEU 2. Carrier B (a) etc. 3. etc. B. Second leading commodity 1. Carrier A (a) etc. II. Sub-trade B A. First leading commodity 1. etc. Part VIII Independent Rate Actions (if applicable) For each sub-trade within the scope of the agreement, and for each of the leading commodities listed for each sub-trade in the response to Part VI, and for each party, state the number of independent rate actions taken during the calendar quarter applicable to that commodity moving in that sub-trade, and the total number of TEUs of that commodity covered by the independent actions. Also, state the name of each shipper for whom an independent rate action was taken on that commodity during the calendar quarter, and state whether the shipper was a beneficial cargo owner, a non-vessel-operating common carrier, or a shippers' association. The information should be provided in the format below: Calendar Quarter I. Sub-trade A A. First leading commodity 1. Carrier A (a) Number of IA rate actions (b) Number of TEUs (c) Shippers affected (1) Shipper A_name and type (2) Shipper B_name and type etc. 2. Carrier B (a) etc. B. Second leading commodity 1. Carrier A (a) etc. II. Sub-trade B A. First leading commodity 1. etc. Part IX Port Service For each port within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, state the number of port calls by each of the agreement member lines during the calendar quarter. The information should be provided in the format below:
