FR940620-2-00046 FR940620-2-00027 Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of an Environmental Assessment and Receipt of an Application for a Permit to Allow Incidental Take of the Threatened California Gnatcatcher and the Proposed Endangered Coastal Cactus Wren by Shell Oil Company and Metropolitan Water District, Orange County, CA AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice advises the public that Shell Oil Company (Shell) and the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California (MWD) (Applicants) have applied to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) for an incidental take permit pursuant to section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The application, which includes a Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) and an Implementation Agreement (IA), has been assigned permit number PRT&hyph;784571. The requested permit would authorize the incidental take of the threatened California gnatcatcher ( Polioptila californica californica ), on certain lands located within the sphere of influence of the City of Yorba Linda in unincorporated northern Orange County, California. The HCP submitted in support of the permit application, also provides for the conservation of the coastal cactus wren as if it were listed under the Act as a threatened or endangered species and, barring a determination by the Service of unforeseen circumstances and compliance with applicable public review and comment requirements, would support an amendment to the 10(a)(1)(B) permit to authorize the incidental take of that species should the cactus wren be listed during the term of the permit. The proposed incidental take would occur as a result of grading and construction activities for a residential development and municipal golf course in a depleted oilfield, and improvements to the Diemer Water Treatment Facility. Both sites are occupied by the California gnatcatcher and coastal cactus wren. The Service also announces the availability of an Environmental Assessment (EA) for the proposed issuance of the incidental take permit. This notice is provided pursuant to section 10(c) of the Act and National Environmental Policy Act regulations (40 CFR 1506.6).
