FR940819-2-00144 FR940819-2-00083 Where review of the work programs indicates that essential activities for complying with the regulations are not being adequately undertaken and/or the proposed schedules for completing the activities do not satisfy regulatory requirements, the need for revisions to the work program can be addressed. Where there is not a positive response, FHWA and FTA can pursue this through action on the UPWP or a certification review could be initiated without waiting the normal three years. •It is expected that FHWA and FTA field staff will involve themselves in the planning process on at least a selective basis, e.g., participation in key MPO meetings, monitoring TIP revisions, etc. This can be a valuable mechanism for not only surfacing potential problems and deficiencies in the planning process, and in initiating corrective action but also providing contact with local officials. This is an enhancement of the traditional planning oversight role of FHWA and FTA field offices. •Enhanced planning reviews (EPRs) similar to the ones that FHWA and FTA have been doing in areas over a million can provide valuable input to the certification reviews and other oversight functions. For example, where FHWA and FTA identify an apparent shortcoming in the technical process, a comprehensive review of this portion of the process could be undertaken with Transportation Systems Center (TSC) staff. They could also be used to do ``peer'' type reviews on a selected or request basis. In what ever form, these EPRs will require substantial additional resources. •Reviews conducted under the FHWA Office of Program Review annual review program may also augment the certification reviews and other oversight functions. For example, last year implementation of the flexibility provisions and administration of joint FHWA/FTA projects was the subject of one of the reviews. •Individual certification reviews should be tailored to reflect the information available from other oversight activities. While this may not be a significant factor for the certifications performed in the remainder of FY&hyph;94, this will become a significant factor as other oversight functions reflect the regulatory requirements. This means that while all aspects of the process will be addressed in the certification findings a significant amount of the information needed to make a decision on certification will be obtained from other oversight activities and day-to-day involvement in the planning process. It is expected that the certification process will include a discussion of the findings with the MPO policy body. Certification reviews in the balance of 1994 (at least) will need to be done with the recognition that MPOs, States, and transit operators will have had little time to address new regulatory requirements and even less time to consider any nonregulatory guidance that may be issued to supplement the regulations. These reviews need to focus on how well they have addressed the interim guidance and what they are doing to begin to address the additional requirements in the final regulations. •Guidance for DOT staff conducting certifications will have to be developed. This may include manuals, certification forms, checklists, etc. •FHWA and FTA field staff will be the primary staff involved in certifying MPOs. An assessment will have to be made on training that may be necessary to equip DOT staff to perform certification reviews. One potential mechanism in lieu of any formal training is for Headquarters to lead the initial certification review in each Region. As part of the process, the areas identified below represent focal points in the first round of certification reviews. They have been the subject of keen interest by several key constituencies, represent priority issues to FHWA and FTA and have been the subject of numerous questions by MPOs, States, and transit agencies. These areas should be addressed in a general way, reflecting the phase-in of the planning requirements. Fifteen Factors_The planning regulations (58 FR 58040) require that the 15 factors be explicitly considered and analyzed as appropriate. Public Involvement_The metropolitan transportation planning process should include provisions that encourage and ensure early and continuing involvement of citizens, affected public agencies, representatives of transportation agency employees, private providers of transportation, and other interested parties in the development of plans and TIPs, and in all other stages of the planning process. Major Transportation Investments_Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPO) and their planning partners must undertake detailed and participatory corridor and subarea studies of any major corridor investments contained in a regional plan. These studies will include detailed analysis of the forecasted effectiveness of alternative investments and strategies in terms of a broad array of criteria. Congestion Management System_In TMAs, the planning process must include the development of a Congestion Management System (CMS) that provides for effective management of new and existing transportation facilities through the use of travel demand reduction and operational management strategies. In TMAs that are nonattainment for carbon monoxide and/or ozone, Federal funds are not to be programmed for highway projects that increase Single Occupant Vehicle (SOV) carrying capacity unless such projects result from a CMS, meaning, in essence, that Transportation Demand Management (TDM), transit, operating strategies, and other actions must be looked at as alternatives to new highway construction. Even if such strategies cannot completely satisfy the need for additional capacity, they must be implemented in conjunction with the SOV capacity enhancements. The planning process and Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA) of 1990 conformity_In nonattainment and maintenance areas, the MPO must have an adequate process to ensure conformity of plans and programs with State or Federal implementation plans, in accordance with procedures contained in the rules resulting from the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.
