FR941007-1-00107 FR941007-1-00009 (i) No affiliate may claim the same loan as another institution; and (ii) If the Board considers loans within a particular lending category ( e.g. , home mortgage, small business, small farm, consumer or community development lending) made by one or more of the bank's affiliates in a particular service area, the Board shall consider all the loans within that lending category made by all of the bank's affiliates in that particular service area. (d) Consortia and third-party lending. Community development loans made through consortia in which the bank participates or through third parties in which the bank has invested: (1) Shall be considered under the lending test, if the bank elects, provided the data pertaining to these loans are reported by the bank under the applicable provisions of ยง228.42 of this part; and (2) May be allocated among participants or investors as they choose for purposes of the lending test, provided that no participant or investor claims the same loan or part of a loan as another participant or investor, or claims in the aggregate greater than its percentage share (based on the level of its participation or investment) of the total loans made by the consortium or third party. (e) Lending performance rating. The Board shall rate a bank's lending performance as provided in Appendix A of this part. ยง228.23 Investment test. (a) Scope of test. The investment test evaluates the degree to which a bank is helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) through qualified investments. To be considered under this test, the qualified investments of a bank must benefit its service area(s) or a broader statewide or regional geographic area that includes the bank's service area(s). (b) Qualified investments. (1) Qualified investments are lawful investments, deposits, membership shares in a credit union, or grants that: (i) Primarily benefit low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program; and (ii) Address affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs that are not being met by the private market. (2) Donating, selling on favorable terms, or making available on a rent-free basis any branch of the bank that is located in any predominantly minority neighborhood to any minority depository institution or women's depository institution (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 2907(b)) shall be considered under the investment test. (3) Activities considered under the lending or service tests may not be considered under the investment test. (4) At a bank's option, the Board shall consider in its assessment of a bank's investment performance a qualified investment made by an affiliate of the bank, provided that the qualified investment is not claimed by any other institution. (c) Assessment criteria. The Board shall evaluate the investment performance of a bank pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The dollar amount of qualified investments that directly address credit needs; (2) The use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (3) The degree of responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs.
