FR941031-1-00019 FR941031-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 91&hyph;CE&hyph;46&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; de Havilland DHC&hyph;6 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes to supersede Airworthiness Directive (AD) 83&hyph;18&hyph;03, which currently requires repetitively inspecting the tailplane outboard hinge assembly for cracks on certain de Havilland DHC&hyph;6 series airplanes, and replacing any cracked part. The Federal Aviation Administration's policy on aging commuter-class aircraft is to eliminate, or in certain instances, reduce the number of certain repetitive short-interval inspections when improved parts or modifications are available. The proposed action would require eventually modifying the tailplane outboard hinge arm and tailplane hinge plate as terminating action for the currently required repetitive inspections. The actions specified in the proposed AD are intended to prevent tailplane failure caused by cracks in either the outboard hinge arm or the hinge plate. DATES: Comments must be received on or before January 4, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit comments on the proposal in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Central Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 91&hyph;CE&hyph;46&hyph;AD, Room 1558, 601 E. 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106. Comments may be inspected at this location between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. Service information that applies to the proposed AD may be obtained from de Havilland, Inc., 123 Garratt Boulevard, Downsview, Ontario, Canada, M3K1Y5. This information also may be examined at the Rules Docket at the address above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jon Hjelm, Aerospace Engineer, FAA, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, Room 202, Valley Stream, New York 11581; telephone (516) 791&hyph;6220; facsimile (516) 791&hyph;9024. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 91&hyph;CE&hyph;46&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Central Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 91&hyph;CE&hyph;46&hyph;AD, Room 1558, 601 E. 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106. Discussion The FAA has determined that reliance on critical repetitive inspections on aging commuter-class airplanes carries an unnecessary safety risk when a design change exists that could eliminate, or in certain instances, reduce the number of those critical inspections. In determining what inspections are critical, the FAA considers (1) the safety consequences of the airplane if the known problem is not detected by the inspection; (2) the reliability of the inspection such as the probability of not detecting the known problem; (3) whether the inspection area is difficult to access; and (4) the possibility of damage to an adjacent structure as a result of the problem. These factors have led the FAA to establish an aging commuter-class aircraft policy that requires incorporating a known design change when it could replace a critical repetitive inspection. With this policy in mind, the FAA recently conducted a review of existing AD's that apply to de Havilland DHC&hyph;6 series airplanes. Assisting the FAA in this review were (1) Transport Canada, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada; (2) de Havilland, Inc.; (3) the Regional Airlines Association (RAA); and (4) several U.S. and foreign operators of the affected airplanes. From this review, the FAA has identified AD 83&hyph;18&hyph; 03, Amendment 39&hyph;1658, as one that should be superseded with a new AD that would eliminate short-interval and critical repetitive inspections. AD 83&hyph;18&hyph;03 currently requires repetitively inspecting the tailplane outboard hinge assembly for cracks on certain de Havilland DHC&hyph;6 series airplanes, and replacing any cracked part. De Havilland, Inc. (formerly Boeing of Canada, Ltd.) has issued Service Bulletin (SB) No. 6/421, Revision B, dated November 11, 1983. This service bulletin specifies procedures for replacing the tailplane outboard hinge arm and tailplane hinge plate with parts of improved design. This replacement is known as Modification No. 6/1799. As a result of the previously discussed AD review, Transport Canada considers Modification 6/1799 mandatory and has issued Transport Canada AD CF&hyph;83&hyph;11 in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Canada.
