FR940505-1-00339 FR940505-1-00012 (i) This article shall not apply to any consumer product manufactured in California for shipment and use outside of California. (ii) The provisions of this article shall not apply to a manufacturer or distributor who sells, supplies, or offers for sale in California a consumer product that does not comply with the VOC standards specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) or (a)(3)(viii) of this section, as long as the manufacturer or distributor can demonstrate both that the consumer product is intended for shipment and use outside of California, and that the manufacturer or distributor has taken reasonable prudent precautions to assure that the consumer product is not distributed to California. This paragraph does not apply to consumer products that are sold, supplied, or offered for sale by any person to retail outlets in California. (iii) The requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to fragrances up to a combined level of 2 percent by weight contained in any consumer product. (iv) The requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to any VOC which: (A) Has a vapor pressure of less than 0.1 mm Hg at 20 degrees Centigrade, or (B) Consists of more than 12 carbon atoms, if the vapor pressure is unknown. (v) The requirements of paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section shall not apply to consumer products registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, (FIFRA; 7 U.S.C. 136 et seq. ) (vi) The requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to air fresheners that are comprised entirely of fragrance, less compounds not defined as VOCs under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or exempted under paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section. (vii) The requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to air fresheners and insecticides containing at least 98% paradichlorobenzene. (viii) The requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to: (A) Existing personal fragrance products or personal fragrance products in development on or before April 1, 1992, provided that both: ( 1 ) The registration data specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section is submitted for every such product by the date specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section, or prior to July 1, 1993, whichever date occurs later, and ( 2 ) Such product is sold in California prior to January 1, 1994. For the purposes of this subsection, a product in development means: ( i ) A product which a fragrance materials manufacturer is designing at the request of a personal fragrance product manufacturer, or ( ii ) A product which is the subject of a written marketing profile or other documentation authorizing the creation and marketing of the product. (B) Personal fragrance products in development may be registered to qualify for this exemption under hypothetical trade names or pseudonyms, provided that the actual trade name is supplied to the Administrator within 30 days of marketing such products, or January 1, 1994, whichever occurs first. (ix) The requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to adhesives sold in containers of 1 fluid ounce or less. (x) The requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to any VOC which is a fragrance in a personal fragrance product. (xi) The requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to bait station insecticides. For the purpose of this paragraph, bait station insecticides are containers enclosing an insecticidal bait that is not more than 0.5 ounce by weight, where the bait is designed to be ingested by insects and is composed of solid material feeding stimulants with less than 5 percent active ingredients. (xii) The January 1, 1999 VOC limits specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section for personal fragrance products shall not apply to such products which have been sold in California prior to January 1, 1999. (5) Innovative Products.
