FR940620-1-00061 FR940620-1-00009 (a) Unlimited rights. The Government obtains an unlimited rights license in_ (1) Computer software developed exclusively with government funds; (2) Computer software documentation required to be delivered under this contract; (3) Corrections or changes to computer software or computer software documentation furnished to the contractor by the government; (4) Computer software or computer software documentation that is otherwise publicly available or has been released or disclosed by the contractor or subcontractor without restrictions on further use, release or disclosure other than a release or disclosure resulting from the sale, transfer, or other assignment of interest in the software to another party or the sale or transfer of some or all of a business entity or its assets to another party; (5) Computer software or computer software documentation obtained with unlimited rights under another government contract or as a result of negotiations; or, (6) Computer software or computer software documentation furnished to the government, under a government contract or subcontract with_ (i) Restricted rights in computer software, limited rights in technical data, or government purpose license rights and the restrictive conditions have expired; or, (ii) Government purpose rights and the contractor's exclusive right to use such software or documentation for commercial purposes has expired. (b) Government purpose rights. (1) Except as provided at 227.503&hyph;5(a), the Government obtains government purpose rights in computer software developed with mixed funding. (2) The period during which government purpose rights are effective is negotiable. The clause at 252.227&hyph;7014 provides a nominal five year period. Either party may request a different period. Changes to the government purpose rights period may be made at any time prior to delivery of the software without consideration from either party. Longer periods should be negotiated when a five year period does not provide sufficient time to commercialize the software form for software developed by subcontractors, when necessary to recognize the subcontractors' interests in the software. (3) The government purpose rights period commences upon execution of the contract, subcontract, letter contract (or similar contractual instrument), contract modification, or option exercise that required development of the computer software. Upon expiration of the government purpose rights period, the Government has unlimited rights in the software including the right to permit or authorize others to use the data for commercial purposes. (4) During the government purpose rights period, the Government may not use, or authorize other persons to use, computer software marked with government purpose rights legends for commercial purposes. The Government shall not release or disclose, or authorize others to release or disclose, computer software in which it has government purpose rights to any person unless_ (i) Prior to release or disclosure, the intended recipient is subject to the use and non-disclosure agreement at 227.403&hyph;7; or,
