FR940617-0-00161 FR940617-0-00026 (a) Nonroad engines to which this subpart is applicable must meet the following exhaust emission standards: (1) Exhaust emissions of oxides of nitrogen shall not exceed 9.2 grams per kilowatt hour (g/kW-hr). (2) Exhaust emissions of carbon monoxide shall not exceed 11.4 g/kW-hr for engines at and above 130 kW. (3) Exhaust emissions of hydrocarbon shall not exceed 1.3 g/kW-hr for engines at and above 130 kW. (4) Exhaust emissions of particulate matter shall not exceed 0.54 g/kW-hr for engines at and above 130 kW. (b) Exhaust emission of oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide, and hydrocarbon is measured using the procedures set forth in subpart E of this part. (c) Exhaust emission of particulate matter is measured using the California Regulations for New 1996 and Later Heavy-Duty Off-Road Diesel Cycle Engines. This procedure is incorporated by reference. See §89.6. (d) In lieu of the standard specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, manufacturers may elect to include engine families in the averaging, banking, and trading program, the provisions of which are specified in subpart C of this part. The manufacturer must set a family emission limit (FEL) not to exceed 14.6 grams per kilowatt hour. This FEL serves as the standard for that family. §89.113&hyph;96 Smoke emission standard. (a) Exhaust opacity from compression-ignition nonroad engines for which this subpart is applicable must not exceed: (1) 20 percent during the acceleration mode; (2) 15 percent during the lugging mode; and (3) 50 percent during the peaks in either the acceleration or lugging modes. (b) Opacity levels are to be measured and calculated as set forth in part 86, subpart I. §89.114&hyph;96 Special test procedures. (a) Use of special test procedures by EPA. The Administrator may, on the basis of written application by a manufacturer, establish special test procedures other than those set forth in this part, for any nonroad engine that the Administrator determines is not susceptible to satisfactory testing under the specified test procedures set forth in subpart E of this part or part 86, subpart I. (b) Use of alternate test procedures by manufacturer. (1) A manufacturer may elect to use an alternate test procedure provided that it yields equivalent results to the specified procedures, its use is approved in advance by the Administrator, and the basis for equivalent results with the specified test procedures is fully described in the manufacturer's application. (2) The Administrator may reject data generated under alternate test procedures which do not correlate with data generated under the specified procedures. §89.115&hyph;96 Application for certificate. (a) For each engine family that complies with all applicable standards and requirements, the engine manufacturer must submit to the Administrator a completed application for a certificate of conformity. (b) The application must be approved and signed by the authorized representative of the manufacturer. (c) The application will be updated and corrected by amendment as provided for in §89.123&hyph;96 to accurately reflect the manufacturer's production. (d) Required content. Each application must include the following information: (1) A description of the basic engine design including, but not limited to, the engine family specifications, the provisions of which are contained in §89.116&hyph;96; (2) An explanation of how the emission control system operates, including a detailed description of all emission control system components, each auxiliary emission control device (AECD), and all fuel system components to be installed on any production or test engine(s); (3) Proposed test fleet selection and the rationale for the test fleet selection; (4) Special or alternate test procedures, if applicable; (5) The description of the operating cycle and the period of operation necessary to accumulate service hours on test engines and stabilize emission levels; (6) A description of all adjustable operating parameters (including, but not limited to, injection timing and fuel rate), including the following: (i) The nominal or recommended setting and the associated production tolerances; (ii) The intended physically adjustable range; (iii) The limits or stops used to establish adjustable ranges; (iv) Production tolerances of the limits or stops used to establish each physically adjustable range; and (v) Information relating to why the physical limits or stops used to establish the physically adjustable range of each parameter, or any other means used to inhibit adjustment, are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters to settings outside the manufacturer's intended physically adjustable ranges on in-use engines; (7) For families participating in the averaging, banking, and trading program, the information specified in subpart C of this part; (8) A description of the test equipment and fuel proposed to be used;
