FR940603-1-00098 FR940603-1-00009 All trees and underbrush cleared across the right-of-way shall be considered to be grouped together as a single length in measuring the total length of clearing (See Detail C, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) Spaces along the right-of-way in which no trees are to be removed or trimmed or underbrush cleared shall be omitted from the total measurement. TM&hyph;14 (1). This unit is identical with TM&hyph;14 except the full width of the right-of-way to be cleared shall be XXX ( XXX ) feet wide (See Detail D, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) TM&hyph;15. The unit is 1,000 feet in length and XXX ( XXX ) feet in width (to be measured XXX ( XXX ) feet on one side of the right-of way center line) of actual clearing of the right-of-way. Trees and underbrush should be cleared from ground up within 10 feet of any structure location. The Engineer will mark the trees and brush to be cleared to provide a ``feathered'' appearance in the right-of-way. Low growing trees and brush are to be left in the right-of-way to the extent it will not be hazardous to the line or will not interfere with the service road. The length of actual clearing shall be measured in a straight line parallel to the horizontal line between poles or center line of structures and across the maximum dimension of foliage cleared projected to ground line (See Detail B, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). All trees and underbrush cleared across the right-of-way shall be considered to be grouped together as a single length in measuring the total length of clearing (See Detail C, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). Spaces along the right-of-way in which no trees are to be removed or trimmed or underbrush cleared shall be omitted from the total measurement. TM&hyph;15 (1). This unit is identical to TM&hyph;15 except the full width of the right-of-way to be cleared shall be XXX ( XXX ) feet wide (See Detail D, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). Additional Requirements. (When Specifying TM units denote type of disposal A or B). A. Trees, brush, branches and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as an Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used). 1. Burned. 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way. 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (Describe) XXX . B. Trees that are felled shall be cut to commercial wood lengths, stacked neatly, and left on the right-of-way for the landowner. Commercial wood length means the length designated by the Engineer but in no case shall it be required to be less than XXX ( XXX ) feet. Brush, branches and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used). 1. Burned. 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way. 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (Describe) XXX . Transmission Right-of-Way Units 1Unit No. 1No. of units 1Unit price 1Extended price ␣ l l l ␣ n,s ␣Total l l ␣ Acceptance Subject to the approval of the Administrator, the Owner hereby accepts the foregoing Proposal of the Bidder, XXX for the construction of the following: The total contract price is $ XXX XXX Owner By XXX President XXX Secretary XXX Date of Contract Specifications In preparing the right-of-way, trees shall be removed, underbrush cleared, and trees trimmed so that the right-of-way shall be clear from the ground up as specified in the Proposal. Trees fronting each side of the right-of-way shall be trimmed symmetrically unless otherwise directed by the Engineer. Dead trees beyond the right-of-way which would strike the line in falling shall be removed. Leaning trees beyond the right-of-way which would strike the line in falling and which would require topping if not removed may be removed or topped at the direction of the Engineer. Where TMC&hyph;12, TMC&hyph;12&hyph;(1) units are specified, the right-of-way shall be cleared in accordance with the instructions in the preceding paragraph and in addition, all stumps one-half inch in diameter and larger shall be sprayed as specified by the Engineer. [End of clause]
