FR941117-0-00043 FR941117-0-00009 (3) Establish milestones for the procurement; (4) Finalize the evaluation criteria; (5) Develop the RFO and model contract; and (6) Evaluate offers and determine the awardee. (b) The procurement member of the buying team shall lead clarifications, discussions, and negotiations; shall be the source selection official; and shall conduct debriefings. 1871.204 Small business set-asides. (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, each MidRange acquisition of supplies and services shall be reserved exclusively for small business concerns. (b) The requirement for small business MidRange set-asides does not relieve the buying office of its responsibility to procure from required sources of supply, such as Federal Prison Industries, Industries for the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped, and mandatory multiple award Federal Supply Schedule contracts. (c) Procurement not conducted as small business set-asides and under less than full and open competition require a Justification for Other than Full and Open Competition pursuant to (FAR) 48 CFR part 6. (d) If the buying team procurement member determines there is no reasonable expectation of obtaining offers from two or more responsible small business concerns that will be competitive in terms of market price, quality, and delivery, the buying team need not proceed with the small business set-aside and may purchase on an unrestricted basis utilizing MidRange procedures. The buying team procurement member shall document the contract file with the reason for the unrestricted procurement. (e) If the buying team proceeds with the small business MidRange set-aside and receives an offer from only one responsible small business concern at a reasonable price, the contracting officer will normally make an award to that concern. However, if the buying team does not receive a reasonable offer from a responsible small business concern, the buying team procurement member may cancel the small business set-aside and complete the procurement on an unrestricted basis utilizing MidRange procedures. The buying team procurement members shall document in the file the reason for the unrestricted purchase. (f) Each model contract under a small business MidRange set-aside shall contain the clause at (FAR) 48 CFR 52.219&hyph;6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside. Subpart 1871.3_Publicizing of Solicitation 1871.301 Publicizing policy. Use of the MidRange procedure is intended to streamline and expedite the acquisition process. Presolicitation publication requirements are streamlined; however, it is in the Government's interest to provide as much advance notice as possible of a pending acquisition in order for the Government to obtain maximum competition. As soon as practicable after a requirement has been finalized and before the RFO is ready for release, a presolicitation notice of the procurement action shall be published on the NABB. 1871.302 Publicizing procedure. (a) Synopses are not to be sent or published in the Commerce Business Daily. (b) A separate pre-solicitation notice for each requirement shall be published on the NABB. The pre-solicitation notice shall be published prior to the actual release of the solicitation.
