FR940907-1-00014 FR940907-1-00005 Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. This is attributed to the fact that the proposal merely codifies existing marine events. Furthermore, each of the marine events in Table 1 will require that the navigable waterways delineated be closed for only a short period of time. As demonstrated by past experience, these events have been successfully conducted for several years in cooperation with both the organizers of these events and the boating public. The same event regulations will be implemented for each marine event listed in Table 1 and the Coast Guard will continue to monitor these recurring events in the interest of marine safety. Once the marine event is terminated the rule of the Coast Guard in monitoring the marine event ceases. None of the marine events listed in Table 1 would exceed three days in duration and most of them are for only several hours of one day. Therefore, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. If, however, you think that your business or organization qualifies as a small entity and that this proposal will have a significant economic impact on your business or organization, please submit a comment (see ADDRESSES ) explaining why you think it qualifies and in what way and to what degree this proposal will economically affect it. Collection of Information This proposal contains no collection-of-information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism This proposed action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been demonstrated that the proposed rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environment This regulation has been thoroughly reviewed by the Coast Guard and determined to be categorically excluded from further environmental documentation in accordance with section 2.B.2.c. of Coast Guard Commandant Instruction M16475.1B. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 100 Marine safety, Navigation (water). Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Waterways. Proposed Regulation In consideration of the foregoing, the Coast Guard proposes to amend Part 100 of Title 33, Code of Federal Regulations, as follows: PART 100_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for Part 100 continues to read as follows: Authority: 33 U.S.C. 1233; 49 CFR 1.46 and 33 CFR 100.35. 2. A new ยง100.801 is added to read as follows: ยง100.801 Annual Marine Events in the Eighth Coast Guard District. The following regulations apply to the marine events listed in Table 1 of this section. These regulations will be effective annually, for the duration of each event listed in Table 1. Annual notice of the exact dates and times of the effective period of the regulation with respect to each event, the geographical area, and details concerning the nature of the event and the number of participants and type(s) of vessels involved will also be published in local notices to mariners. Sponsors of events listed in Table 1 must submit an application each year in accordance with 33 CFR 100.15. (a) The Coast Guard will patrol the event area under the direction of a designated Coast Guard Patrol Commander. The Patrol Commander may be contacted on Channel 16 (156.8 MHz) by the call sign ``PATCOM.'' (b) All persons and vessels not registered with the sponsor as participants or official patrol vessels are considered spectators. The ``official patrol vessels'' consist of any Coast Guard, state or local law enforcement and sponsor provided vessels assigned or approved by the Commander, Eighth Coast Guard District, to patrol the event. (c) Spectator vessels desiring to transit the regulated area may do so only with prior approval of the Patrol Commander and when so directed by that officer and will be operated at a no wake speed in a manner which will not endanger participants in the event or any other craft. (d) No spectator shall anchor, block, loiter, or impede the through transit of participants or official patrol vessels in the regulated area during the effective dates and times, unless cleared for entry by or through an official patrol vessel. (e) The Patrol Commander may forbid and control the movement of all vessels in the regulated area. When hailed or signaled by an official patrol vessel, a vessel shall come to an immediate stop and comply with the directions given. Failure to do so may result in expulsion from the area, citation for failure to comply, or both. (f) Any spectator vessel may anchor outside the regulated area specified in Table 1, but may not anchor in, block, or loiter in a navigable channel. (g) The Patrol Commander may terminate the event or the operation of any vessel at any time it is deemed necessary for the protection of life or property. (h) The Patrol Commander will terminate enforcement of the special regulations at the conclusion of the event.
