FR940620-0-00039 FR940620-0-00011 §10.7 Representing oneself; participating in rulemaking; limited practice; special appearances; and return preparation. (a) Representing oneself. Individuals may appear on their own behalf before the Internal Revenue Service provided they present satisfactory identification. (b) Participating in rulemaking. Individuals may participate in rulemaking as provided by the Administrative Procedure Act. See 5 U.S.C. 553. (c) Limited practice _(1) In general. Subject to the limitations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an individual who is not a practitioner may represent a taxpayer before the Internal Revenue Service in the circumstances described in this paragraph (c)(1), even if the taxpayer is not present, provided the individual presents satisfactory identification and proof of his or her authority to represent the taxpayer. The circumstances described in this paragraph (c)(1) are as follows: (i) An individual may represent a member of his or her immediate family. (ii) A regular full-time employee of an individual employer may represent the employer. (iii) A general partner or a regular full-time employee of a partnership may represent the partnership. (iv) A bona fide officer or a regular full-time employee of a corporation (including a parent, subsidiary, or other affiliated corporation), association, or organized group may represent the corporation, association, or organized group. (v) A trustee, receiver, guardian, personal representative, administrator, executor, or regular full-time employee of a trust, receivership, guardianship, or estate may represent the trust, receivership, guardianship, or estate. (vi) An officer or a regular employee of a governmental unit, agency, or authority may represent the governmental unit, agency, or authority in the course of his or her official duties. (vii) An individual may represent any individual or entity before personnel of the Internal Revenue Service who are outside of the United States. (viii) An individual who prepares and signs a taxpayer's return as the preparer, or who prepares a return but is not required (by the instructions to the return or regulations) to sign the return, may represent the taxpayer before officers and employees of the Examination Division of the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the tax liability of the taxpayer for the taxable year or period covered by that return. (2) Limitations. (i) An individual who is under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may not engage in limited practice before the Service under §10.7(c)(1). (ii) The Director, after notice and opportunity for a conference, may deny eligibility to engage in limited practice before the Internal Revenue Service under §10.7(c)(1) to any individual who has engaged in conduct that would justify suspending or disbarring a practitioner from practice before the Service. (iii) An individual who represents a taxpayer under the authority of §10.7(c)(1)(viii) is subject to such rules of general applicability regarding standards of conduct, the extent of his or her authority, and other matters as the Director prescribes. (d) Special appearances. The Director, subject to such conditions as he or she deems appropriate, may authorize an individual who is not otherwise eligible to practice before the Service to represent another person in a particular matter. (e) Preparing tax returns and furnishing information. An individual may prepare a tax return, appear as a witness for the taxpayer before the Internal Revenue Service, or furnish information at the request of the Service or any of its officers or employees. Par. 7. Section 10.26, paragraph (a)(4) is revised to read as follows: §10.26 Practice by former Government employees, their partners and their associates. (a) *␣*␣* (4) Practitioner includes any individual described in §10.3(e). * * * * * Par. 8. Section 10.28 is revised to read as follows: §10.28 Fees.
