FR940412-1-00082 FR940412-1-00012 ยง148.12 Assignment and certification. (a) The National Cargo Bureau, Inc. is authorized to assist the U.S. Coast Guard in administering the provisions contained in this part by_ (1) Inspecting vessels for suitability for loading solid materials in bulk; (2) Examining stowage of solid materials loaded in bulk on board vessels; (3) Making recommendations as to the stowage requirements applicable to the transportation of solid materials in bulk; and (4) Issuing certificates of loading which verify that the stowage of the solid material in bulk is in accordance with the applicable regulations of this part. (b) Certificates of loading from the National Cargo Bureau, Inc. are accepted as evidence of compliance with the applicable provisions regarding the transportation of solid materials in bulk on board vessels. Subpart B_Special Permits ยง148.15 Petition for Special Permit. (a) Each person who wishes to ship a bulk solid material not listed in table 148.10 of this part shall determine whether the material proposed to be shipped meets the definition of any hazard class or the definition of potentially dangerous material. (b) Each person to whom paragraph (a) of this section applies, must submit a petition in writing to the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH) for authorization to ship any hazardous material or potentially dangerous material not listed in table 148.10 of this part. (c) If a petition for authorization is approved by the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH), the petitioner is issued a Coast Guard Special Permit allowing the material to be transported in bulk by vessel and setting requirements for the transport of the material. ยง148.20 Information required when petitioning for a Special Permit. (a) Each petition for a Special Permit must contain, as a minimum, the following information: (1) A description of the material, including, if a hazardous material_ (i) The proper shipping name from the tables in 49 CFR 172.101 and the appendix to that section; (ii) The hazard class and division of the material; and (iii) The identification number of the material. (2) A Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for the material, or_ (i) The chemical name and any trade names or common names of the material; (ii) The composition of the material, including the weight percent of each constituent; (iii) Physical data, including color, odor, appearance, melting point and solubility; (iv) Fire and explosion data, including autoignition temperature, any unusual fire or explosion hazards and any special fire fighting procedures; (v) Health hazards, including any dust inhalation hazards and any chronic health effects; (vi) The threshold limit value (TLV) of the material or its major constituents, if available, and any relevant toxicity data; (vii) Reactivity data, including any hazardous decomposition products and any incompatible materials; and (viii) Special protection information, including ventilation requirements and personal protection equipment required. (3) Other potentially dangerous characteristics of the material not covered by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, including_ (i) Self-heating; (ii) Depletion of oxygen in the cargo space; (iii) Dust explosion; and (iv) Liquefaction (See ยง148.450). (4) A detailed description of the proposed transportation operation, including_ (i) The type of vessel proposed for water movements; (ii) The expected loading and discharge ports, if known; (iii) Procedures to be used for loading and unloading the material; (iv) Precautions to be taken when handling the material; and (v) The expected temperature of the material at the time it will be loaded on the vessel. (5) Test results (if appropriate). (6) Previous approvals or permits. (7) Any relevant shipping or accident experience (or any other relevant transportation history by any mode of transport). (b) Requests for permit extensions or renewals must be submitted in writing to the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH) before the date of expiration of the permit. The request for extension or renewal must include the information prescribed in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(6) and (a)(7) of this section. (c) To permit timely consideration, a petition for a Special Permit or request for extension or renewal of a Special Permit, should be submitted at least 45 days before the requested effective date.
