FR941219-1-00040 FR941219-1-00015 In the CNG container final rule, NHTSA decided to adopt the proposed labeling requirements with a slight modification from the proposed format. In item (a), the agency modified the proposal which states ``The tank manufacturer's name and address'' to state the following: include the statement that ``If there is a question about the proper use, installation, or maintenance of this container, contact [ manufacturer's name, address, and telephone number ].'' In the final rule, the agency decided not to require the other additional items of information in NGV2 since the agency had not proposed requiring such information. Notwithstanding the agency's decision not to require this additional information, the agency explained that a manufacturer may list such information on the label, provided that the additional information does not obscure or confuse the required information. In particular, NHTSA urged manufacturers to include the container type, e.g., Type 1, 2, 3 or 4, since the agency had adopted NGV2's design and material specifications in the final rule. The agency believed that specifying the type of container would facilitate oversight of compliance tests since each type of container is required to undergo a hydrostatic burst test with a safety factor unique to that type. In the final rule, NHTSA also explained that it anticipated proposing additional requirements about the CNG fuel container's label. The agency is now proposing to amend S7.4 to specify that CNG containers be labeled with the following additional information: (1) The container designation (Type 1, 2, 3, or 4), (2) The statement ``CNG ONLY,'' (3) The statement: ``This container should be visually inspected after a motor vehicle accident or fire and at least every 36 months for damage and deterioration in accordance with the Compressed Gas Association (CGA) guidelines C&hyph;6 and C&hyph;6.1 for Type 1 containers and C&hyph;6.2 for Types 2, 3, and 4 containers.'' (4) The statement: ``Do Not Use After XXXXXX ,'' inserting the year that is the 15th year beginning after the year in which the container is manufactured. NHTSA believes that it would be in the interest of motor vehicle safety to add this information to the CNG container label. Adding information about container type, e.g., Type 1, 2, 3 or 4 would be consistent with the agency's adoption of NGV2's design and material specifications in the CNG final rule. The agency believes that specifying the type of container would facilitate oversight of compliance tests since each type of container is required to undergo a hydrostatic burst test with a safety factor unique to that type. Adding the phrase ``CNG ONLY'' would assure that CNG containers are used only for CNG and are not used for other fuels for which the containers were not designed, such as liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). Since NHTSA has no statutory authority to require the periodic inspection of CNG containers after the first consumer purchase, adding information about periodic inspections would help assure their safe use after this time. Such statements would alert owners to the desirability for reinspection over time or in the event of an accident. The agency notes that the proposed requirement is consistent with NGV2's guidelines for visual inspection of CNG containers every 36 months. Reference to the CGA guidelines would provide standardized criteria by which to inspect containers built by different manufacturers. The agency is proposing use of the visual inspection guidelines contained in CGA C&hyph;6, C&hyph;6.1, and C&hyph;6.2, and not those for hydrostatic testing. In addition to the proposal that the container be inspected after an accident or at least every 36 months, NHTSA requests comments about the need to specify both a time interval and a mileage interval (e.g., the agency could require the following statement: ``This container should be visually inspected after a motor vehicle accident or fire, and for damage or deterioration at least every 36 months or 36,000 miles, whichever comes first, in accordance with .␣.␣.''). What time and mileage intervals would be most appropriate? Would an agency requirement for inspection every 12 months be appropriate? NHTSA is proposing to require information about the container's service life in the belief that this information would help assure that a CNG container is removed from service after its design service life expires. As commenters on the NPRM stated, this is especially important since there is a finite period during which CNG containers can be used safely. The agency is proposing 15 years because CNG containers built to follow NGV2 have a design service life of 15 years. Nevertheless, since containers may be built for a service life other than 15 years, the agency would allow a manufacturer to specify the service life length appropriate to its containers. The agency requests comments about the need for each of these proposed items of information and alternative ways to specify this information. b. Label location. In response to the NPRM, EDO and NYCFD stated that the label should include certain labeling information such as the maximum fill pressure at a location close to the fill receptacle. NHTSA has decided to propose requirements related to the label's location. Accordingly, the agency has decided to propose that the containers be installed in a manner that ensures the visibility of the container labeling. Specifically, the agency is proposing to require the label to be near the end of the container containing the outlet valve, since such a location would help ensure that the label would be more visible during refueling. The agency notes that NGV2 contains a similar requirement. 2. Vehicle labeling The CNG vehicle final rule did not specify requirements for the labeling of CNG fueled vehicles. In this SNPRM, the agency is proposing to amend Standard No. 303 to include two items of information. S5.3.1␣The statement: ``Maximum service pressure XXXX kPa ( XXXX psig).'' S5.3.2␣The statement ``See instructions on fuel container for inspection and service life.'' The agency believes that the first item of information would help assure that CNG containers are not overfilled during refueling. The second item is intended to assure that vehicle owners and operators are informed about the important safety information on container inspection. In addition, the agency is proposing that for vehicles manufactured or converted prior to the first sale to the consumer, the manufacturer provide this information in writing to the consumer, either in the owner's manual or on a one page statement. The agency requests comments about the need for vehicle labeling and written information bearing this and other information.
