FR940525-1-00069 FR940525-1-00008 ( 5 ) In specifying the fat component, the claim uses the terms ``saturated fat'' and ``cholesterol''; ( 6 ) The claim indicates that development of heart disease depends on many factors; and ( 7 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of risk reduction for coronary heart disease to diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber. (B) Nature of the food. ( 1 ) The product shall contain a fruit, vegetable, or grain product; ( 2 ) The product shall meet the requirements for ``low fat,'' ``low saturated fat,'' and ``low cholesterol'' as defined in ยง317.362, except that the product may meet all the requirements for ``extra lean'' in ยง317.362; and ( 3 ) The product shall contain at least 0.6 g of soluble fiber per reference amount customarily consumed prior to any nutrient addition, except the basis for meal-type products as defined in 317.313(l) shall be per labeled serving size. (4) Optional information. (i) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors for heart disease about which there is general scientific agreement: A family history of coronary heart disease, elevated blood total- and LDL-cholesterol, excess body weight, high blood pressure, cigarette smoking, diabetes, and physical inactivity. (ii) The claim may indicate that the relationship of diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber to heart disease is through the intermediate link of ``blood cholesterol'' or ``blood total- and LDL-cholesterol.'' (iii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (f) (1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber and coronary heart disease and the significance of the relationship. (iv) In specifying the nutrients, the claim may include the term ``total fat'' in addition to the terms ``saturated fat'' and ``cholesterol.'' (v) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with ``Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans.'' (vi) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have coronary heart disease. The source of this information shall be identified, and it shall be current information from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (vii) The claim may state that individuals with elevated blood total- and LDL-cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. If the claim defines high or normal blood total- and LDL-cholesterol levels, then it shall state that individuals with high blood cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. (5) Model health claims. The following model health claims may be used in food labeling to describe the relationship between diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber and risk of heart disease: (i) Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and rich in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain some types of dietary fiber, particularly soluble fiber, may reduce the risk of heart disease, a disease associated with many factors. (ii) Development of heart disease depends on many factors. Eating a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber may lower blood cholesterol levels and reduce your risk of heart disease. (g) Fruits and vegetables and cancer_ (1) Relationship between substances in diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables and cancer risk. (i) Cancer is a constellation of more than 100 different diseases, each characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. Cancer has many causes and stages in its development. Both genetic and environmental risk factors may affect the risk of cancer. Risk factors include a family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors. (ii) Although the specific roles of the numerous potentially protective substances in plant foods are not yet understood, many studies have shown that diets high in plant foods are associated with reduced risk of some types of cancers. These studies correlate diets rich in fruits and vegetables and nutrients from these diets, such as vitamin C, vitamin A, and dietary fiber, with reduced cancer risk. Persons consuming these diets frequently have high intakes of these nutrients. Currently there is not scientific agreement as to whether the observed protective effects of fruits and vegetables against cancer are due to a combination of the nutrient components of diets rich in fruits and vegetables, including but not necessarily limited to dietary fiber, vitamin A as beta -carotene, and vitamin C, to displacement of fat from such diets, or to intakes of other substances in these foods which are not nutrients but may be protective against cancer risk. (2) Significance of the relationship between consumption of diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables and risk of cancer. (i) Cancer is ranked as a leading cause of death in the United States. The overall economic costs of cancer, including direct health care costs and losses due to morbidity and mortality, are very high.
