FR941216-1-00161 FR941216-1-00012 Static test stand. Locations whereon liquid propellant engines or solid propellant motors are tested in place. Substantial dividing wall. An interior wall designed to prevent simultaneous detonation of explosives on opposite sides of the wall. However, such walls may not prevent propagation (depending on quantities and types of explosives involved). (1) Substantial dividing walls are one way of separating explosives into smaller groups to minimize the results of an explosion and allow a reduction in Q/D. These walls do not protect personnel near the wall from high explosives because the spalling of wall surface opposite the explosion source may form dangerous secondary fragments. (2) Reinforced concrete-type walls may vary in thickness, but shall be at least 12 inches thick. At a minimum, both faces shall be reinforced with rods at least 1/2 inch in diameter. The rods shall be spaced not more than 12 inches on centers horizontally and vertically, interlocked with the footing rods and secured to prevent overturning. Rods on one face shall be staggered with regard to rods on the opposite face and should be approximately 2 inches from each face. Concrete should have a design compressive strength of 2,500 psi or more. The capability to prevent simultaneous detonation is based on a limit of 425 net pounds of mass-detonating explosives. All storage plans and Q/D calculations shall be based on the total quantity of mass-detonating explosives on both sides of a dividing wall when the quantity of either side exceeds 425 pounds. Explosives should be 3 feet or more from the wall. (3) Retaining walls filled with earth or sand shall be at least 5 feet wide, with earth or sand packed between concrete, masonry, or wooden retaining walls. Suspect truck and car site. A designated location for placing trucks and railcars containing ammunition or explosives that are suspected of being in hazardous condition. These sites also are used for trucks and railcars that may be in a condition that is hazardous to their content. Taxiway/taxilane. Any surface designed as such in the basic airfield clearance criteria specified by 14 CFR part 77, Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace. 24 24 Copies may be obtained from Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. Unit risk. The risk to personnel and/or facilities that is associated with debris, fragment and/or blast hazards that is the result of the detonation of a single round of ammunition. Waiver. Written authority that provides a temporary exception, permitting deviation from mandatory requirements of this part. It generally is granted for short periods of time pending cancellation as a result of termination of scheduled work commitments or correction of the waived conditions. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30503 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
