FR940805-1-00074 FR940805-1-00013 (a) Program coordination_ (1) Availability of programs. The facility shall make available inmate programs and services. These programs shall include, but not be limited to, social services, religious services, including traditional religious practices and ceremonies, recreation and leisure time activities, counseling, including crisis intervention, library services, education programs and substance abuse programming. The administrator or designee shall link facility programs and services to existing community resources. (2) Program participation and refusal. Inmates shall have the option to refuse to participate in facility programs, except housekeeping assignments and court-ordered programs. The administrator or designee shall document program participation and refusal in writing. (3) Program coordinator. A facility staff member or trained volunteer shall coordinate inmate programs and services. (b) Work programs_ (1) Work assignments. The administrator or designee shall develop a written inmate work plan that provides for work assignments for inmates including the disabled. Work may include facility maintenance duties and community service projects. The administrator shall prohibit discrimination in inmate work assignments based on race, creed, gender, age, marital status, disability or tribal affiliation. The administrator shall not require pretrial and unsentenced detainees to work except to perform personal housekeeping. Any inmate may volunteer for work assignments or institutional programs. (2) Regulation of work programs. Facility inmate work programs shall comply with applicable federal regulations. (c) Recreation, library and religious programming_ (1) Comprehensive recreation program. The administrator or designee shall permit inmates to have at least one hour a day of leisure time activity outside the cell or room and access to active recreation activities and equipment, including one hour daily of physical exercise, outside the living unit. (2) Library. The administrator or designee shall develop a written plan to provide reading materials to inmates. The plan shall include the location where reading materials are kept, the process by which inmates obtain and return these materials and designation of the staff member or trained volunteer who is responsible for library services. The administrator shall update the plan as needed and review it annually. (3) Religious programs. Inmates shall have the right to practice their religion, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain institutional order and security. (d) Correspondence and telephone_ (1) Regulation of correspondence. The administrator shall regulate inmate correspondence and shall make this policy available to all staff and inmates. The administrator shall review this policy annually and update it as needed. (2) Limitations on inmate correspondence. The administrator shall not limit the volume of lawful correspondence (e.g., letters, packages and publications) an inmate may send or receive and shall not restrict the length, language, content or source of the correspondence, except where there is clear and convincing evidence to justify the limitations for reasons of public safety, facility order, or security. (3) Indigents' correspondence. The administrator or designee shall provide indigent inmates with a system that enables them to send a minimum of two letters per week. (4) Inspection of letters and packages. The administrator or designee may open inmate letters and packages, both in-coming and out-going, to inspect them for contraband. The administrator or designee shall not read or reject letters or packages except where there is reliable information that there is a threat to order and security or that they are being used to further illegal activities. The administrator or designee shall notify inmates when in-coming or out-going letters are rejected. The administrator or designee shall deposit any cash, checks, or money orders in the inmate's account and shall issue a receipt to both the inmate and the sender. The administrator or designee shall forward any contraband found to the appropriate law enforcement authority. The supervisor shall forward all mail within twenty-four hours of receipt except for Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. Inmates shall be prohibited from carrying money. (5) Privileged correspondence. The administrator shall permit inmates to send sealed letters to specified groups of persons and organizations including, but not limited to, courts, including probation staff, counsel, officials of the confining authority, administrators of grievance systems and the media. Mail to inmates from this specified class of persons and organizations shall be opened only to inspect for contraband and only in the presence of the inmate. (6) Holding and forwarding mail. The administrator or designee shall forward or return first-class letters and packages for inmates after their transfer or release. (7) Telephone. The administrator or designee shall provide for inmate access to telephones. (e) Visiting_ (1) Visiting rules. The administrator shall establish rules for inmate visiting. (2) Number of visitors. The administrator or designee shall limit the number of visitors an inmate may receive and the length of the visits only to the degree necessary in terms of facility schedules, space and personnel constraints except where there are substantial reasons to justify such limitations. (3) Sobriety statement. Facility visitors and volunteers shall sign a sobriety statement. The statement shall stipulate that: (i) they are not under the influence of alcohol or illegal mood-altering substances; (ii) they are not carrying such substances on their person or in their belongings; and (iii) they consent to a breath test or non-invasive search as a condition of entry, if there is probable cause. (4) Searches (visiting). The administrator or designee shall provide clear instructions to staff and inmates concerning inmate and visitor search procedures and the approval required for visual observations of unclothed inmates. (5) Special visits. The administrator or designee shall provide for special visits from persons who have travelled long distances, to hospitalized inmates and to inmates in disciplinary status. (6) Visitor personal property. Visitors shall not bring personal property into the secure area of the facility. (7) Visitor registration. The administrator or designee shall provide for visitor registration and identification on entry into the facility.
