FR940621-2-00073 FR940621-2-00050 Occupational Safety and Health Administration Notice of Appointment of Members; National Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health (NACOSH) AGENCY: Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Labor. ACTION: This notice announces the appointment of 12 new members to the National Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health. SUMMARY: The 12-member advisory committee has been chosen on the basis of the knowledge and experience in occupational safety and health of the members designate. Four of the members are selected by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health of the Department of Health and Human Services (two representing the public and two representing the occupational health profession). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Notice is hereby given that 12 appointments have been made to the National Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health. The new Committee members and the categories they represent are as follows: Labor Margaret M. Seminario, Director, Department of Occupational Safety and Health, AFL&hyph;CIO, Washington, DC (2 years) Michael J. Wright, Director of Health, Safety and Environment, United Steelworkers of America, Pittsburg, PA (1 year) Management Henry B. Lick, PhD, Manager, Corporate Industrial Hygiene Department, Ford Motor Company, Dearborn, MI (1 year) Frederick M. Toca, PhD, Director, Occupational Health, Hoechst Celanese Corporation, Somerville, NJ (2 years) Public Nancy Burkheimer, Assistant Secretary, Maryland Department of Licensing and Regulation, Baltimore, MD (1 year) Ellen Schall, JD, Martin Cherkasky Professor of Health Policy and Management, Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Health, New York University (2 years) James A. Merchant, MD, Professor, Department of Preventive and Internal Medicine; Director, Institute of Agricultural Medicine and Occupational Health, University of Iowa, Iowa City (1 year) Ruy N. Delgado Zayas, JD, Legal Advisor for the Commission on Labor and Human Resources, Senate of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras, PR (2 years) Safety Harold G. Culler, Vice President, Insurance Services, Continental Insurance Company, Cranbury, NJ (1 year) Frederic D. Rine, Assistant Vice President for Safety and Health, National Safety Council, Chicago, IL (2 years) Health Shirley A. Conibear, MD, President and Senior Scientist, Carnow, Conibear & Associates, Ltd., Chicago, IL (1 year) Andrea K. Taylor, DrPH, Occupational and Health Policy Consultant/Industrial Hygienist, International Union, UAW, Detroit, MI (2 years) The terms of the new committee members began June 1 and will run one or two years so all the appointments do not expire at the same time. Subsequent terms will be for two years. Nancy Burkheimer will chair the committee. The National Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health was established under section 7(a) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 656) to advise the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Health and Human Services on matters relating to the administration of the Act. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Holly Nelson or Camille Johnston, Office of the Assistant Secretary, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Room S&hyph;2316, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210, telephone: (202) 219&hyph;6027. Signed in Washington, DC., this 14th day of June 1994. Robert B. Reich, Secretary of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14966 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;26&hyph;M
