FR940711-2-00006 FR940711-2-00004 Best Information Available We have determined, in accordance with section 776(c) of the Act, that the use of best information available (BIA) is appropriate for sales of the subject merchandise in this investigation. In deciding whether to use BIA, section 776(c) provides that the Department may take into account whether the respondent was able to produce information requested in a timely manner and in the form required. In this case, exporters of fresh garlic from the PRC did not respond to our requests for information. As outlined in the ``Case History'' section of this notice, the Department made several attempts to obtain information from a number of sources. We have not received any responses to our questionnaire with which to perform our antidumping analysis. Consequently, we based our preliminary determination in this investigation on BIA. In determining what to use as BIA, the Department follows a two-tiered methodology, whereby the Department normally assigns lower margins to those respondents who cooperate in an investigation, and margins based on more adverse assumptions for those respondents who do not cooperate in an investigation. Since the potential respondents in this case have not cooperated, we assigned a BIA margin based on the most adverse assumptions. In this case, BIA is the highest margin contained in the petition ( see Initiation of Antidumping Duty Investigation: Fresh Garlic from the People's Republic of China, 59 FR 9470, February 28, 1994), and is listed below for all manufacturers, producers and exporters of fresh garlic in the PRC. Critical Circumstances Petitioner alleges that ``critical circumstances'' exist with respect to imports of fresh garlic from the PRC. Section 733(e)(1) of the Act provides that there is a reasonable basis to believe or suspect that critical circumstances exist if: (A)(i) There is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of the investigation, or (ii) The person by whom, or for whose account, the merchandise was imported knew or should have known that the exporter was selling the merchandise which is the subject of investigation at less than its fair value, and (B) There have been massive imports of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of the investigation over a relatively short period. Regarding criterion (A) above, we normally consider margins of 25 percent or more as sufficient to impute knowledge of dumping. Since the preliminary estimated dumping margin for all exporters of fresh garlic in the PRC is in excess of 25 percent, we can impute knowledge of dumping under section 733(e)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act. Regarding criterion (B) above, pursuant to 19 CFR 353.16(f), we generally consider the following factors in determining whether imports have been massive over a short period of time: (1) the volume and value of the imports; (2) seasonal trends (if applicable); and (3) the share of domestic consumption accounted for by the imports. If imports during the period immediately following the petition increase by 15 percent over imports during a comparable period immediately preceding the filing of a petition, we consider them massive. Respondents have failed to respond to the Department's questionnaire, as well as to our request for monthly export data. As a result, the Department has assumed, as BIA, that there have been massive imports over a relatively short period of time. Accordingly, because the dumping margin is sufficient to impute knowledge of dumping, and because we have determined that imports of fresh garlic have been massive, we preliminarily determine that critical circumstances do exist in this investigation. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of fresh garlic from the PRC, as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date 90 days before the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated margin amount by which the foreign market value of the subject merchandise exceeds the United States price as shown below. The suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Weighted-average margin percent All Manufacturers/Producers/Exporters 376.67 ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of this determination. Public Comment In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38, case briefs or other written comments in at least ten copies must be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration by no later than August 26, 1994, and rebuttal briefs by no later that September 2, 1994. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38(b), we will hold a public hearing, if requested, to give interested parties an opportunity to comment on arguments raised in case or rebuttal briefs. Tentatively, the hearing will be held on September 7, 1994, at 10:00 a.m. at the U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 3708, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Parties should confirm by telephone, the time, date, and place of the hearing 48 hours before the scheduled time. Interested parties who wish to request a hearing must submit a written request to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room B&hyph;099, within ten days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Requests should contain: (1) the party's name, address, and telephone number; (2) the number of participants; and (3) a list of the issues to be discussed. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38(b), oral presentations will be limited to issues raised in the briefs. This notice is published pursuant to section 733(f) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1673b(f)) and 19 CFR 353.15(a)(4). Dated: July 6, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16741 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
