FR940505-0-00061 FR940505-0-00017 The proposed regulations mitigate the effect of double taxation through a reduction to a decedent's adjusted taxable gifts. In general, the amount of the reduction is the lesser of: (1) The amount by which the transferor's taxable gifts were increased as a result of the application of section 2701 to the initial transfer, or (2) the amount by which the individual's taxable transfers were increased as a result of not applying the valuation rules of section 2701 upon the subsequent transfer of the applicable retained interest. Under certain circumstances, the proposed regulations provide that the transferor's spouse is treated as the transferor for purposes of making the adjustment. However, because a transferor will often acquire (by gift, inheritance, or purchase) an applicable retained interest initially held by an applicable family member and because of the administrative complexity inherent in allowing assignability of the adjustment between the transferor and any other applicable family member, the proposed regulations do not provide for an adjustment by any individual other than the transferor or the transferor's spouse. Potential for Loss of Benefit One commentator argued that some taxpayers will be deprived of the benefit of the adjustment if it is not: (1) Available for lifetime transfers, and (2) freely assignable to all applicable family members. In response to this comment, the final regulations adopt a rule generally allowing the adjustment in the computation of the transferor's gift tax if either the transferor or an applicable family member transfers an applicable retained interest to or for the benefit of an individual other than the transferor or an applicable family member. In addition, if the applicable retained interest has not been so transferred prior to the death of the transferor, the executor of the transferor's estate is entitled to make the adjustment in computing the transferor's estate tax provided that the executor can demonstrate the fair market value of the applicable retained interest as of the date of death of the transferor. However, after carefully considering the merits of a freely assignable adjustment, the IRS and the Treasury have determined that in light of the relief otherwise provided, the administrative complexity involved in tracking the adjustment would far outweigh the additional benefit that would be gained therefrom. ``Purge'' Method One commentator argued that double taxation is avoided only if the adjustment produces no greater tax than would be produced if the initial transfer had not been made (and the value of the entity did not change prior to the transferor's death). In the view of this commentator, section 2701 requires prepayment of transfer tax as the ``cost'' of a corporate or partnership freeze. Under this view, the section 2701(e)(6) adjustment would be accomplished through a mechanism whereby the transferor's transfer tax base is ``purged'' of the effect of section 2701.
