FR940706-2-00062 FR940706-2-00037 Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Mary L. Azcuenaga In The Dow Chemical Company , File No. 941&hyph;0019 Today, the Commission accepts for comment a consent agreement settling charges that Marion Merrell Dow's consummated acquisition of certain stock in the Rugby-Darby Group Companies, Inc. would substantially lessen competition in the United States market for dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules and tablets. I support the allegations in the complaint that the acquisition created a monopoly in the manufacture and sale of dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules and tablets, and I have reason to believe the acquisition violated the law. I dissent because I find the remedy insufficient. Ideally, the Commission would have sought to enjoin the transaction. Although it did not seek a preliminary injunction, the Commission still should seek through administrative litigation divestiture of assets sufficient to create a viable, independent dicyclomine business. Administrative litigation takes time but affords a much higher likelihood of obtaining effective relief by divestiture of an ongoing enterprise than does a technology license designed to induce new entry. The order requires Marion Merrell Dow to grant a nonexclusive license to certain intangible dicyclomine assets, including patents and technology, and for up to seven years to sell to the person acquiring the license dicyclomine tablets and capsules at a price not exceeding 48 percent of the average wholesale price on July 2, 1993. Technology licenses tend to be highly regulatory and less effective than divestitures in restoring competition. Further, because of the great difficulty government agencies have in specifying competitive market prices, it is highly questionable whether requiring sales of dicyclomine at a Commission-specified maximum price will provide consumers with interim relief from the monopoly. Indeed, since the Commission granted early termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period on July 12, 1993, it seems entirely possible that the price on July 2 reflected the impending merger to monopoly and was already supra-competitive. Concurring Statement of Commissioner Deborah K. Owen on Proposed Consent Agreement With Marion Merrell Dow Inc., File No. 941&hyph;0019 The Commission is accepting for public comment a proposed consent agreement with Marion Merrell Dow Inc. (``MMD''), the manufacturer of Bentyl, a drug commonly prescribed for the treatment of certain gastrointestinal disorders. In October 1993, MMD acquired Rugby-Darby Group Companies, Inc. (``Rugby''), a manufacturer of numerous pharmaceutical products, including a generic version of Bentyl: dicyclomine hydrochloride. The proposed complaint alleges, inter alia , that this acquisition ``created a monopoly in the manufacture of dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules and tablets.'' Complaint ¶§VIII(c). I am writing separately in order to explain one aspect of my analysis of this case, and to raise some questions concerning the proposed remedy. A threshold issue in analyzing this merger is whether MMD's Bentyl and Rugby's generic dicyclomine are in the same product market. On the one hand, it may seem obvious that two drugs deemed to be bio-equivalent by the Food and Drug Administration, must be in the same relevant product market. On the other hand, branded drugs and their generic counterparts typically vary dramatically in price, suggesting that consumers may not view the products as equivalent or interchangeable. As indicated in the Merger Guidelines, the Commission approaches the issue of market definition by asking what products, if any, constrained the price of MMD's Bentyl (and Rugby's generic dicyclomine) at the time of the merger. If, in response to a small but significant increase in the price of Bentyl, enough customers would switch to generic dicyclomine (or, if in response to a small but significant increase in the price of generic dicyclomine, enough customers would switch to Bentyl) to make the price increase unprofitable, then the two products are deemed to be in the same market. Whether a particular branded drug and any generic versions are in the same market may vary over time, and depends in part upon their relative prices at the time of the merger. In general, where the price differential between the branded product and the generic product is great, the products are more likely to be in separate markets. 1 Conversely, where the price gap between the branded product and the generic product is relatively small (for example, where there is only one generic version available to consumers), the products are more likely to be in the same market. 1 This price differential may be greatest where there is intense price competition among different generic versions of a drug. In this situation, the branded drug may not serve as a significant constraint on the price of the generic versions; that is, a five or ten percent increase in the (very low) price of the generic drugs would not be defeated by sales lost to the (much higher priced) branded drug. And in this situation, the next best substitute for the branded drug (from the perspective of those consumers who are uninterested in low priced generics) may be another branded drug. Under the Merger Guidelines, the branded and generic drugs may then be viewed as occupying separate product markets.
