FR940202-1-00038 FR940202-1-00014 Summary of Factors Affecting the Species Section 4 of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act set forth the procedures for adding species to the Federal Lists. A species may be determined to be an endangered or threatened species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to the California red-legged frog ( Rana aurora draytonii ) are as follows: A. The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range. Herpetologists have noted the decline or extirpation of California red-legged frogs from the San Francisco Bay area (Sean J. Barry, University of California, Davis, in litt ., 1992; Robert C. Stebbins, University of California, Berkeley, in litt., 1993; John S. Applegarth, herpetologist, in litt ., 1993; Ed Ely, herpetologist, in litt ., 1993), the Salinas River drainage (Lawrence E. Hunt, University of California, Santa Barbara, in litt ., 1993), the San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, and Ventura County area (Aryan I. Roest, California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, in litt ., 1993; Samuel S. Sweet, University of California, Santa Barbara, in litt., 1993), southern California (Patrick McMonagle, herpetologist, in litt., 1993; John D. Goodman, zoologist, in litt ., 1992; Robert B. Sanders, San Bernardino County Museum, in litt ., 1992; John Stephenson, U.S. Forest Service, in litt ., 1993; Michael C. Long, Eaton Canyon Park Nature Center, in litt ., 1992; Joseph F. Copp, herpetologist, in litt ., 1993; Glenn R. Stewart, California Polytechnic University, Pomona, in litt., 1993; Walter B. Allen, herpetologist, in litt ., 1993; Robert Fisher, University of California, Davis, in litt ., 1993), central California (Martin R. Brittan, California State University, Sacramento, in litt ., 1993), and the northern and southern Sierra Nevada foothills (Jay Wright, Feather River College, Quincy, in litt ., 1993; Alan M. McCready, California State University, Sacramento, in litt ., 1992). These observations and data provided by the petitioners indicate that the California red-legged frog has sustained a 75 percent reduction in its geographic range in California. Large aggregations of greater than 350 adults currently are known from only three areas: Pescadero Marsh Natural Preserve in coastal San Mateo County, Point Reyes National Seashore in Marin County, and canals west of San Francisco International Airport in the San Francisco Bay area (Jennings et al. 1992). Habitat loss and alteration are primary factors that have negatively affected the California red-legged frog throughout its range. In the Central Valley of California, over 90 percent of historic wetlands have been diked, drained, or filled primarily for agricultural development and secondarily for urban development (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1978). Much of the wetland habitat lost, such as in the San Joaquin Valley, was prime habitat for the California red-legged frog (Jennings and Hayes 1984). Wetland alterations, including stream channelization, clearing of vegetation, and water diversions that often accompanied agricultural development, rendered remaining aquatic sites unsuitable for California red-legged frogs. As a result, California red-legged frogs on the floor of the Central Valley were eliminated probably sometime before 1960 (Jennings et al. 1992). Remaining aggregations in drainages around the Central Valley became isolated and fragmented. Historically, urbanization with its associated roadway, stream channelization, and large reservoir construction projects also has significantly altered or eliminated California red-legged frog habitat, with the greatest impact occurring in southern California. South of the Tehachapi Mountains in southern California, the California red-legged frog remains at only 4 of over 80 sites where it was found historically (Jennings et al. 1992). No California red-legged frogs were found during amphibian surveys in 1993 in Cleveland National Forest in southern California (J. Stephenson, pers. comm., 1993). Urbanization poses a significant threat to the California red- legged frog. On the central California coast and south San Francisco Bay area, the Service is aware of numerous proposed residential developments that would degrade known California red-legged frog habitat either directly through on-site degradation of the stream environment or indirectly through instream flow reductions to accommodate new urban growth (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service unpubl. data). These projects include the East County Area Plan in Alameda County, which involves development of up to 52,000 acres, and projects currently proposed in the Ruby Hills/Arroyo Del Valle watershed and south Livermore Valley; Reservoir Canyon ponds in Santa Clara County; Alamo, Shadow, and Brookside Creeks in Contra Costa County; Potrero, San Clemente, and San Jose Creeks and the Carmel River in Monterey County; and the Santa Ynez River in Santa Barbara County. In San Luis Obispo County, one of three counties with numerous drainages supporting California red-legged frogs, proposed residential and/or recreational development adjacent to San Simeon, Santa Rosa, San Juan, Chorro, and Cambria Meadows Creeks and Estrella and Salinas Rivers would degrade or eliminate California red- legged frog habitat. Updates to area plans for the North Coast, San Luis Obispo, and Paso Robles/Atascadero areas in San Luis Obispo County propose rezoning of over 240,000 acres primarily for urban development. Between the cities of Ventura and San Luis Obispo, development already has eliminated California red-legged frogs from at least eight drainages along the coast (Galen B. Rathbun and Mark R. Jennings, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, in litt ., 1993).
