FR940222-0-00032 FR940222-0-00011 Comment: We recommend that certified marriage and family therapists be removed from the ``extramedical'' provider category (§199.6(c)(3)(iv)(A)) and be listed under ``Other allied health professionals'' as §199.6(c)(3)(iii)(H)( 3 ). The American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy is concerned that the extramedical designation may lead beneficiaries and providers to believe that a certified marriage and family therapist still requires a physician's supervision and referral. Response: CHAMPUS beneficiaries will be advised of the elimination of the physician supervision and referral requirement for certified marriage and family therapists through changes in the beneficiary's handbook and other public news releases. This should eliminate any confusion. Comment: In paragraph (c)(3) to §199.6(c)(3)(iv), the proposed rule refers to ``paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section for more specific information regarding licensure.'' We assume that this paragraph refers to paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(D) of the proposed rule which discusses additional information applicable to each of the extramedical providers. Response: Your assumption is correct. Comment: For the sake of clarity, we believe that paragraph (c)(3) to §199.6(c)(3)(iv) should explicitly state that ``In jurisdictions that do not provide for licensure or certification, the provider must be certified by or eligible for full clinical membership in the appropriate national professional association that sets standards for the specific profession.'' Currently, the proposed rule could be mistakenly interpreted to mean that if providers live in a state that does not regulate marriage and family therapy, they cannot be CHAMPUS authorized providers. Response: We have incorporated the above technical revision. Comment: Paragraph (c)(3) to §199.6(c)(3)(iv) also does not address the professional status of marriage and family therapists licensed or certified in California, Michigan, and New Jersey. Although marriage and family therapists in each of these jurisdictions meet CHAMPUS' educational and experience requirements, they are technically regulated as marriage, family and child counselors or marriage and family counselors. We fear that California, Michigan, and New Jersey's marriage and family therapists may be denied CHAMPUS provider status based on the semantics of a professional title, despite the fact that the credentials and scope of practice are the same in these states as they are for marriage and family therapists in other regulated jurisdictions. Response: CHAMPUS denial of provider status is not based solely on professional title. Licensing is but one part of the marriage and family certification and review process. Authorization as a certified marriage and family therapist under CHAMPUS includes licensure, graduation from a regionally accredited school, a degree in an appropriate field, and post-graduate clinical training. Comment: We assume and would like to clarify that CHAMPUS providers who currently qualify as marriage and family counselors will qualify as certified marriage and family therapists without having to redocument their credentials. We understand that they must agree to accept the CHAMPUS allowable charge as payment in full as stipulated by proposed paragraph 4 (now paragraph 5) of §199.6(c)(3)(iv)(A)( 4 ), (now paragraph ( 5 )), but we do not understand the change to be a requirement for the resubmission of credential materials. We feel it would be an administrative burden to both OCHAMPUS and individual providers to require such redocumentation of professional qualifications. We recommend language be incorporated within the final rule to circumvent the possibility for such an administrative nightmare.
