FR941110-0-00093 FR941110-0-00016 Response: The selection of facilities for validation surveys depends upon which facilities the State has surveyed recently or intends to survey imminently. Within those constraints, the typical sampling process for selecting facilities for a validation survey ensures that a wide variety of facilities are selected. Because of this and the heavy demands placed upon HCFA survey staff, we do not accept these suggestions that add survey responsibilities not mandated by the Act. Moreover, we do not see the necessity of targeting facilities with waivers for validation surveys because an annual review of the appropriateness of each waiver will be conducted whether the facility to which it was granted is subject to a validation survey or not. Comment: Several commenters suggested that HCFA validation surveys be required to use the ``methods, procedures, and forms prescribed for use by the survey agency.'' Response: The language used in the proposed rule (that HCFA conduct validation surveys ``using the HCFA protocol prescribed for use by the survey agency'') was derived from sections 1819(g)(3)(A) and 1919(g)(3)(A) of the Act, which require that the Secretary conduct validation surveys using ``the same survey protocols as the State is required to use *␣*␣*.'' We do not believe that there is any meaningful difference between the phraseology suggested by the commenter and that used in the proposed rule. Comment: A few commenters said that when HCFA conducts a focused review at its discretion, it should not exceed the authority contained in the Act. Response: HCFA's authority to conduct a survey at its discretion is pervasive in the Act. Comment: One commenter suggested that all validation surveys should be conducted by special teams dispatched from and responsible to the HCFA headquarters office. Response: The HCFA survey staff is located in the ten HCFA regional offices. Although there are staff persons in the HCFA headquarters qualified to conduct surveys, surveying is not their primary function. Comment: One commenter stressed that the HCFA surveyors should meet with the State surveyors if the Federal survey findings disagree with the State findings. Another commenter said that the Federal validation survey team should not review the State survey findings until after the Federal survey. Response: It is HCFA practice to meet with the State survey agency whenever possible if there is a significant difference of findings between a State survey and the Federal validation survey. Often this is not possible because of time and travel constraints. In these cases, we notify the State survey agency of the findings and begin discussions regarding the appropriate enforcement remedy to apply. We agree with the commenter that a face to face meeting is the best practice. Current instructions to Federal and State surveyors are to review all pertinent documents regarding the performance of the facility before starting the survey. In practice, this review seldom covers the most recent State survey, because it is not available, as these survey reports are not sent routinely to the HCFA regional offices. We appreciate the apparent concerns of the commenter; however, it will be difficult to prevent Federal surveyors from seeing the most recent State report at some time during the Federal survey because, in accordance with §483.10(g)(1), survey results must be made available in the facility. Despite the concerns of the commenter, we believe that the accuracy of the Federal survey is not compromised by the knowledge of what the State findings were. In any case, the increased use of the OSPATS process should reduce the concerns of both commenters. Comment: One commenter said that the statutory provision that requires no fewer than five validation surveys in each State is discriminatory to small States.
