FR941222-0-00019 FR941222-0-00003 D.5. Comment. One commenter wanted to know how the temperature differences in the roof, side wall, and floor areas are incorporated into the daily temperature measurement. Response. For the first HSM to be emplaced, the user is required to measure the air inlet and air outlet temperature difference of the system at equilibrium. This measurement is to ensure that the heat capacity of the system will not be exceeded and that the concrete temperature criteria will not be exceeded. For the Standardized NUHOMS, this maximum heat capacity is 24 kW. The 24 kW heat load is the design maximum and is the basis for the thermal hydraulic calculations for the cask. The temperature distribution for various parts of the HSM have been calculated (i.e., the roof, walls, and floor) by the cask vendor. Temperature differences causing thermal stresses in the concrete were evaluated and are duly reported in both the SAR and SER. These calculations were reviewed by NRC as a part of the overall process for this design approval. D.6. Comment. One commenter stated that daily temperature measurements are not necessary to ensure convective air flow, given the requirement to verify that the inlets and outlets are not obstructed. Site-specific NUHOMS require temperature measurements when the DSC is placed into the HSM, 24 hours later, and again at 1 week after loading to ensure adequate thermal performance. Response. The NRC disagrees with this comment. The HSM and DSC are considered components important to safety in the Standardized NUHOMS. Daily temperature measurements of the thermal performance by the licensee are required to provide additional assurance that thermal limits are not exceeded under the general license. This requirement was imposed on the first cask of this type approved by the NRC and listed in 10 CFR 72.214 for use by a general licensee, the VSC&hyph;24 cask (58 FR 17967; April 7, 1994) and is now applied to the Standardized NUHOMS. E. A number of commenters expressed concern about emergency planning and response contingencies. E.1. Comment. Several commenters expressed concern that in the event of problems and the need to off-load fuel (as in the recent situation at Palisades), a transfer cask may not be available in a timely manner because of inclement weather or because the transfer cask itself has experienced problems or is being used elsewhere. One commenter expressed concern at having to have a transfer cask on site within 40 hours of vent blockage to prevent concrete damage. If the transfer cask is leased from VECTRA and is not at the licensee's site, who is liable if something happens that would require the use of a transfer cask? Response. The NRC has analyzed all design basis accidents from the operation of an ISFSI and concluded that there will be no release of radioactive material to the environment. The 40-hour limit on vent blockage is intended to prevent concrete degradation that might occur over a long period of storage. A vent blockage accident would not result in the release of radioactive material because the DSC would not be breached. Therefore, the NRC believes that the potential risk to the public health and safety is extremely small during the time needed to obtain the use of a transfer cask. Thus, there is no requirement that a transfer cask be at an ISFSI site all the time. E.2. Comment. One commenter expressed concern that the effects of tornado winds and missiles during movement of the fuel in a transfer cask or in a storage cask on a transporter were not analyzed. Response. Both the vendor's SAR and NRC staff's SER address the effects of tornado winds and missiles during movement of the transfer cask with a loaded canister. These analyses show that, for tornado winds, there is a safety factor of 1.5 against overturning when subjected to Design Basis Tornado winds (a safety factor greater than 1 will generally be adequate for public protection). The transfer cask stability, tornado missile penetration resistance, and shell and end plate stresses were calculated and shown to be below the allowable stresses for ASME BPVC Service Level D (accident) stresses. E.3. Comment. One commenter described an October 1972 storm that flooded the entire Davis-Besse plant site, including the (pre-operational) reactor building. There has been subsequent flooding of the site, particularly during spring thaws.
