FR941028-2-00055 FR941028-2-00040 [ER&hyph;FRL&hyph;4716&hyph;7] Environmental Impact Statements and Regulations; Availability of EPA Comments Availability of EPA comments prepared October 10, 1994 through October 14, 1994 pursuant to the Environmental Review Process (ERP), under Section 309 of the Clean Air Act and Section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act as amended. Requests for copies of EPA comments can be directed to the Office of Federal Activities at (202) 260&hyph;5076. An explanation of the ratings assigned to draft environmental impact statements (EISs) was published in FR dated April 08, 1994 (59 FR 16807). Draft EISs ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;J65221&hyph;MT Rating EC2, Beaverhead National Forests Oil and Gas Leasing, Exploration, Development and Land Acquisition, Beaverhead, Madison, Silver Bow, Deer Lodge and Gallatin, MT. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding potential impacts to wetlands, water quality, fisheries, and air quality. The EPA indicated that the EIS requires additional resource information and further explanation regarding resource issues in order to fully assess impacts and to assure that the environment will be fully protected. ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;J65222&hyph;ND Rating EC2, Southern Little Missouri and Cedar River Oil and Gas Leasing, Approvals, Custer National Forest, Medora Ranger District, Cedar River National Grassland, Grant River Ranger District, Billings, Golden Valley, Slope, Grant and Sioux Counties, ND. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding potential drilling impacts to surface and ground water resources and air quality impacts. EPA requested that the final EIS provide additional discussion of these issues. ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;L61199&hyph;ID Rating LO, Salmon Wild and Scenic River Corridor Implementation, Issuance of Special-Use-Permits for three Private Camps, Salmon National Forest, Salmon County, ID. Summary: EPA had no objection to the actions as proposed. ERP No. D&hyph;COE&hyph;C36070&hyph;PR Rating EC2, Rio Guanajibo River Basin Flood Protection Project, Implementation, NPDES Permit, Mayaguez and San German, PR. Summary: EPA had expressed environmental concerns about the proposed project's non-structural alternatives evaluation; soil, sediment, and water quality impacts; hazardous substance identification and management; wetlands impacts and mitigation plan; agricultural impacts; and cumulative impacts. Accordingly, additional information was requested to be included. ERP No. D&hyph;FAA&hyph;C51017&hyph;NJ Rating EC2, Newark International Airport Ground Access Monorail-Northeast Corridor Connection Project, Funding, Construction, Operation, Airport Layout Plant and Approval, Essex and Union Counties, NJ. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns about the proposed project's conformance with the New Jersey SIP, potential for encountering hazardous contaminants, and wetland impacts. Accordingly, additional information should be presented in the final EIS to address these concerns. ERP No. DS&hyph;USA&hyph;A11072&hyph;00 Rating EC2, Theater Missile Defense (TMD) Extended Test Range Project, US Army Ground-Based TMD Missiles Extended Range Test Using New Potential Booster Drop Zones, White Sands Missile Range and Fort Wingate Depot Activity, NM; and Green Launch Complex, UT. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns about the lack of adequate information to fully assess environmental impacts. Final EISs ERP No. F&hyph;BLM&hyph;J60015&hyph;WY Creston/Blue Gap Natural Gas and Oil Development Project, Construction and Operation, Special-Use-Permit, Right-of-Way and COE Section 404 Permit, Carbon and Sweetwater Counties, WY. Summary: EPA had no objection to the proposed action. ERP No. F&hyph;BLM&hyph;K60027&hyph;CA Southeast Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant and Geysers Effluent Pipeline Injection Project, Improvements, Funding, COE Section 404 Permit and NPDES Permit, City of Clearlake, Lake County, CA. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns with the EIS Record of Decision that addressed the project's consistency with the Clean Water Act Section 404(b) (1) Guidelines as well as adopt mitigation to reduce noise levels from project-related pumps. ERP No. F&hyph;UAF&hyph;C11009&hyph;NJ McGuire Air Force Base (AFB) Realignment, Implementation, Burlington County, NJ.
