FR940303-2-00200 FR940303-2-00097 The audit costs shall be identified separately for: 1. Preparation of basic financial statements and other accounting services; and 2. Preparation of the supplemental reports and schedules required by OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, AICPA SOP 92&hyph;9, and the review of the supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation. Allowable Costs _Travel: International and domestic (via American flag carriers). May include one planning trip with one participant per institution. _Per diem and maintenance, including Lodging, meals and incidental expenses. _Salaries and benefits for faculty assigned overseas for three or more consecutive months, not to exceed 20 percent of the total amount requested from USIA. USIA strongly encourages cost-sharing in this category and requires that salaries and benefits of all other faculty and staff participating in the project be maintained. _Membership in U.S. professional associations and fees for attendance at professional conferences in the U.S. for foreign participants. _Educational materials, including but not limited to: The translation and publication of instructional materials, collections to be placed in foreign partner institution libraries, hardware and software necessary to establish e-mail communication, and other computer equipment as needed. These costs may not exceed 25% of the total requested grant amount. _Medical insurance for foreign participants during U.S. visits. Medical insurance is mandatory for all participants in J&hyph;1 visa exchange programs. _Student exchanges: Travel, per diem/maintenance, memberships and conferences (foreign students only), educational materials, medical insurance, and other project costs for MA, MS or PhD student exchanges. Exchanges may include a maximum of four foreign students and two U.S. students per year. _Other project costs, limited to: Interpreters, which may include graduate or PhD students; out-of-house administrative support in the foreign partner country; office supplies; and communications expenses ( i.e., telephone, facsimile, postage and delivery). The above costs may not exceed 10% of the total amount requested from USIA. Note: Indirect costs are not allowable costs under the NIS Linkage Program.
