FR941110-2-00015 FR941110-2-00009 Comments Regarding General Issues Comment 1: Timken proposes that assessment of duties should be based on the actual value of the entries suspended by the U.S. Customs Service, as Timken states was done in Antifriction Bearings from France, et al., 58 FR 39729 (July 26, 1993) ( AFBs III ), and was upheld for the first antifriction bearing (AFB) administrative review by the Court of International Trade (CIT) in Koyo Seiko Co., Ltd. v. United States, 796 F. Supp. 1526, 1529, modified, 806 F.Supp. 1008 (1992) ( Koyo Seiko ). Timken acknowledges that, although the Department's approach in the AFB cases was necessary due to the Department's sampling methodology, compelling reasons exist in these reviews to adopt the same approach. Further, Timken cites Timken Company v. United States, Slip Op. 94&hyph;1 at 11&hyph;12 (January 3, 1994) ( Timken III ), wherein the CIT did not order a remand for further investigation, but required the Department to order liquidation of the merchandise in accordance with the AFBs III methodology ( i.e., collect the full amount of antidumping duties calculated to be due in this case by assessing these duties over all suspended entries of the merchandise). Timken submits that this is the only reasonable method of assessing antidumping duties in this long-delayed proceeding. Timken argues that assessing antidumping duties in these reviews may be problematic because ``it is likely'' that entries subject to the dumping finding have been incorrectly liquidated. Similarly, Timken notes that the administrative record contains evidence that an importer incorrectly entered certain merchandise as outside the scope of the antidumping orders on TRBs, referring to U.S. Customs Service, HQ 222367 (December 28, 1990) ( Customs HQ ), originally submitted as Exhibit B of Koyo's October 30, 1991 submission. Timken acknowledges that identification of the merchandise is complicated by the fact that the subject merchandise was often entered as part of a multi-product shipment and points out that, unless the Department adopts an alternative assessment methodology, the correct amount of duty may not be assessed at liquidation. Timken suggests that before the Department issues final assessment instructions, it should require Customs to report the value of suspended entries during the review periods for each manufacturer subject to review. With this information, Timken argues, the Department could then formulate assessment instructions that would ensure collection of the actual amount of duty determined to be payable by each company. Koyo believes the Department should reject Timken's claim for the following reasons: •Timken has provided no evidence to support its claim that entries subject to the dumping finding have been liquidated in error. •Timken's cite to the CIT decision in Koyo Seiko as support for assessment on the basis of entered value is misleading because the use of sampling rendered assessment on entered value necessary in the AFB cases. •Section 751(a)(2) of the Tariff Act requires that the excess of FMV over USP ``shall be the basis for the assessment of antidumping duties on entries of the merchandise included within the determination and for deposits of estimated duties.'' •Timken's cite to Timken III is not valid because in that case Timken challenged the Department's failure to address adequately Timken's arguments regarding discrepancies between the value of U.S. sales reported by respondents and the value of suspended entries reported by the Customs Service. The CIT concluded that the Department had fulfilled its statutory obligation and that Timken should have brought an action in mandamus to compel Customs to perform its duty. Moreover, Koyo argues that the CIT's reference to assessment based on entered value was obiter dicta, as the Department had not instructed the Customs Service to assess antidumping duties based on entered value in the review at issue in that appeal. •Furthermore, Koyo states that the Department cannot legally order the assessment of duties on entries which have already been liquidated. Koyo states that liquidation of entries is final unless the liquidation is properly protested in a timely manner, citing 19 U.S.C. §1514(a) and United States v. Utex Intern, Inc., 857 F.2d 1408, 1410&hyph;11 (Fed. Cir. 1988).
