FR941110-0-00221 FR941110-0-00016 •Be limited to deficiencies at specific scope and severity levels; •Offer opportunities proportionate to the noncompliance; •Allow incorrectly cited deficiencies and scope and severity scale levels to be removed from the deficiency statement; •Require that another survey be conducted by different surveyors; •Establish local or national advisory councils, arbitration panels, or quality assurance committees, etc., comprised of specific types of individuals not previously directly involved in the dispute; and •Involve consumers and ombudsmen. Conversely, other commenters did not believe that a dispute resolution process is necessary. They said that providers already have numerous opportunities to refute survey findings throughout the survey process. Some alleged that an additional process would only serve to delay the enforcement process which would be contrary to the OBRA '87 mandate to minimize the time between the identification of violations and final imposition of enforcement remedies. Some also believed that if such a process were in place, deficiencies may not be cited or, at a minimum, they would be cited at lower scope and severity scale levels to reduce the universe for challenges. One consumer organization argued that the regulatory system is not a two-party system in which the facilities and the State negotiate. Rather, it is a contractual arrangement in which the State holds the public's trust and acts as the public's agent to ensure that the contractees satisfy the arrangement. They believed that if any party should have ``appeal'' rights, it is the residents who should be able to contest survey findings that do not require facilities to comply with the law. They submitted, therefore, that instead of establishing a dispute resolution process for providers, HCFA should build mechanisms into the survey procedures to notify residents, families, ombudsmen and others when surveyors, during the course of the survey, have not yet been able to substantiate suspected problems. These procedures would provide an opportunity for residents and families to provide additional information to surveyors. One commenter, opposed to a dispute resolution process, remarked that there is currently so much interaction between surveyors and providers during the survey process that providers are actually interfering with the performance of the survey. This commenter suggested that a sanction be imposed against providers when this occurs. Overall, most commenters, including States, offered strong support for a dispute resolution process. These commenters were interested in resolving conflicts as early in the survey process as possible and prior to litigation. They prefer to minimize the number of issues that could advance to formal litigation by resolving early those conflicts caused by misunderstandings, miscommunication, oversights, etc. However, the consumer advocacy groups were adamant in their opposition, arguing that any additional process will delay the enforcement process against noncompliant facilities and shift focus away from resident care. These commenters believe that the perceived need by providers for a dispute resolution process must be secondary to the responsibility HCFA, the States, and facilities have to provide for the health and well-being of nursing home residents. Response : We recognize the validity of both major points of view and have concluded that both perspectives must be addressed. In the Fall of 1992, we asked the States to provide us with a description of existing dispute resolution processes offered to providers who disagree with survey findings. All States responded. Washington, DC, Puerto Rico, and Guam were not asked to provide their comments due to the small number of facilities surveyed. We discovered that all States currently have a dispute resolution process. Nevada's system of due process is required by State law. The other States' processes, although not legally mandated, are reflective of State policy and not legislation. The policies vary among States, and there are numerous differences in the details of the processes of individual States. Overall, the opportunities offered to providers by States to challenge survey findings can be divided into two basic stages: during and after the survey. All States offer the providers a chance for rebuttal during at least one of these stages; half of the States include both in the process. During the survey, the opportunities afforded providers include the chance for the provider's staff to interact with the survey team throughout the process and the specific opportunity to discuss survey findings at the exit conference. After the survey, many States allow the providers to elevate unresolved issues to survey agency management and/or the HCFA regional office for resolution. Moreover, providers in all States may record their disagreement with survey findings on the Statement of Deficiencies HCFA&hyph;2567. Our State Operations Manual currently requires that States allow facilities to interact with the survey team during the survey, to discuss findings at an exit conference, to raise unresolved issues to the survey agency and/or to the HCFA regional office and to record their disagreements with survey findings on the HCFA&hyph;2567.
