FR940216-0-00050 FR940216-0-00010 While requiring reformulated gasoline sold in VOC control region 1 to have an RVP of no more than 7.2 psi goes beyond the minimum requirement stated in section 211(k)(3), section 211(k)(1) authorizes EPA to require emission reductions in VOC control region 1 of this magnitude because they are achievable considering costs, other air quality and non-air quality impacts, and the energy implications of such a requirement. Similarly, EPA believes that additional VOC reductions are obtainable if refiners are allowed to meet the RVP and oxygen standards through averaging. If refiners wish to take advantage of averaging, EPA thus will require their average RVP for both VOC control regions 1 and 2 to be reduced by 0.1 psi to 7.1 and 8.0 psi, respectively, and the average oxygen concentration to be increased to 2.1 weight percent oxygen. For additional discussion of the rationale for the more stringent standard in VOC control region 1 and the increase in stringency of the averaging standards, the reader is referred to the April 16, 1992 SNPRM. B. Simple NO x Emissions Model The Clean Air Act requires that there be no NO X emissions increase from reformulated fuels. Based on data available during the regulatory negotiations and at the time of the April 16, 1992 proposal, it appeared that fuel oxygen content and the type of oxygenate used may have an impact on NO X emissions while no other simple model parameter appeared to have such an impact. Due to the statutory requirement for oxygenate use, and the lack of any other parameters in the simple model by which refiners could offset any NO X increase, EPA needed to place restrictions on the amount of oxygen that could be added to the fuel in order to prevent NO X emission increases. EPA proposed on the basis of the data then available that MTBE blends containing up to 2.7 weight percent (wt%) oxygen and other blends containing up to 2.1 wt% oxygen would be presumed to result in no NO X increase. Greater oxygenate concentrations could not be permitted due to the risk of NO X emission increases. When additional data became available, however, there did not appear to be any significant difference between the NO X emission effects of oxygen from different oxygenates. Furthermore, it appeared that reducing the concentration of a number of additional fuel parameters (aromatics, olefins, sulfur, etc) could reduce NO X emissions. Since these fuel parameters all tend to be reduced to varying degrees when oxygenates are added to gasoline, EPA proposed in its February 26, 1993 proposal that all oxygenates be assumed to result in no NO X emission increase under the simple model up to 2.7 wt% oxygen. Under the final Complex Model discussed in Section IV, oxygen has been found to result in no NO X increase, in fact, it results in a very slight decrease. However, the other changes that occur to the fuel when oxygenates are added both increase and decrease NO X emissions (increases in E200 increase NO X emissions while reductions in sulfur, olefins, aromatics, and increases in E300 reduce NO X emissions). Typically the effect of these other fuel changes will be to further reduce NO X emissions. However, there is no control placed on E200 levels under the simple model, and the levels of sulfur, olefins, an E300 are only constrained to the refiner's 1990 baseline levels (aromatics is controlled indirectly to some degree by the toxics requirement). As a result, there is no assurance under the simple model that oxygenate addition will not increase NO X emissions. The more oxygenate added, the greater the increase in E200, and the greater the possibility for a NO X increase. For this reason EPA believes it is still appropriate to cap the maximum oxygen content under the Simple Model at 2.7 wt%. Any higher oxygen concentrations will require use of the complex model. However, for a number of reasons, EPA believes it is appropriate for any oxygenate up to 3.5 weight percent oxygen to be presumed to result in no NO X emission increase under the simple model during those months without ozone violations (e.g., winter months) unless a state requests that oxygenate levels be limited to the 2.7 wt% oxygen level applicable during those months with ozone violations. First, although there are a number of concerns associated with NO X emissions, the main concern of focus in this rulemaking is ozone which is for the most part a summertime problem. Second, while there is no assurance that individual batches of gasoline containing more than 2.7 wt% oxygen will not increase NO X emissions, the increase, if any, would be small (i.e., likely less than 1 percent). Third, on average across all fuel produced by all refiners in an area, a NO X reduction may still occur. Fourth, there are benefits to the use of oxygenates during the winter months (lower CO and air toxics emissions) that may be more important to individual states than the certainty that no one batch of fuel increases NO X emissions relative to the 1990 baseline. A state may make a request for the 2.7 wt% oxygen limit to apply during the non-ozone season when it believes that the use of higher oxygenate levels would interfere with attainment or maintenance of another ambient air quality standard (other than ozone) or another air quality problem. This proposal parallels the Regulatory Negotiation Agreement of August 16, 1991 and EPA's letter to the Renewable Fuels Association dated August 14, 1991.
