FR940826-1-00054 FR940826-1-00008 (2) Typical local commuting distances for medical services; (3) Volume of treatments; and (4) Dialysis facility usage by area residents other than the applying facility's patients. (c) Documentation: (1) Isolated. To be considered isolated, the facility must document that it is located outside an established Metropolitan Statistical Area and provides dialysis to a permanent patient population, as opposed to a transient patient population. (2) Essential. To be considered essential, the facility must document_ (i) That a substantial number of its patients cannot obtain dialysis services elsewhere without additional hardship; and (ii) The additional hardship the patients will incur, generally, in travel time and cost. (3) Cost per treatment. The facility must_ (i) Document that its cost per treatment is reasonable; and (ii) Explain how the facility's cost per treatment in excess of its composite rate relates to the isolated essential facility criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section. (4) Additional information. The facility must also furnish the following information in a format that concisely explains the facility's cost and patient data to support its request: (i) A list of current and requested payment rates for each modality. (ii) An explanation of any unusual geographic conditions in the area surrounding the facility. (iii) A copy of the latest filed cost report and a budget estimate for the next 12 months prepared on cost report forms. (iv) An explanation of unusual costs reported on the facility's actual or budgeted cost reports and any significant changes in budgeted costs and data compared to actual costs and data reported on the latest filed cost report. (v) The name, location of, and distance to, the nearest renal dialysis facility. (vi) A list of patients by modality showing commuting distance and time to the current and the next nearest renal dialysis facility. (vii) The historical and projected patient to staff ratios and number of machines used for maintenance dialysis treatments. (viii) A computation showing the facility's treatment capacity, arrived at by taking the total stations multiplied by the number of hours of operation for the year divided by the average length of a dialysis treatment. (ix) The geographic boundaries and population size of the facility's service area. 15. A new ยง413.188 is added to read as follows: ยง413.188 Payment exception: Extraordinary circumstances. (a) To qualify for an exception to the prospective payment rate based on extraordinary circumstances, the facility must substantiate that it incurs excess costs beyond its control due to a fire, earthquake, flood, or other natural disaster. (b) HCFA does not grant an exception based on increased costs if a facility chose not to_ (1) Maintain adequate insurance protection against such losses (through the purchase of insurance, the maintenance of a self-insurance program, or other equivalent alternative); or (2) File a claim for losses covered by insurance or utilize its self-insurance program.
