FR940323-1-00026 FR940323-1-00005 A modified approach under this option would be to have State agency staff on site at qualified provider locations to supervise or actually assist pregnant women in completing the application form. In these cases, the application date for regular Medicaid plan services would be the date the onsite State agency staff person receives the completed form. This would result in an earlier Medicaid filing date. However, even though State agency staff who are working at qualified provider locations can receive and process applications for regular Medicaid, they cannot make presumptive eligibility determinations unless they themselves meet the definition of ``qualified provider'' under section 1920(b)(2). Since we are considering pregnant women who apply only for presumptive eligibility for ambulatory prenatal care as requesting to receive services under a special status (that is, not regular Medicaid eligibility), we propose not to apply to a decision on presumptive eligibility the notification requirements that a State must meet when it makes a decision on a regular Medicaid application. Existing regulations under §§435.911 and 435.912 and part 431, subpart E, require Medicaid agencies to notify Medicaid applicants within a specified period of time of the agency's decision on a regular Medicaid application, the reasons for the decision, and an explanation of rights to a hearing if the application is denied. Although we propose not to apply the requirements of §§435.911 and 435.912 and part 431, subpart E, to presumptive eligibility decisions, we are proposing to require that the qualified provider inform a pregnant woman in writing of the presumptive eligibility decision at the time of the determination. In the case of a denial of presumptive eligibility, the qualified provider would be required to inform the woman in writing of the reason for the denial of this special status and of her right to apply to the State agency for an eligibility decision for regular Medicaid. In accordance with section 1920 of the Act, we propose to require the qualified provider to inform, in writing, a pregnant woman who is determined presumptively eligible that she is required to file a regular Medicaid application by the last day of the month following the month in which the presumptive determination is made if she wishes to continue to receive ambulatory prenatal care after that date. The qualified provider must inform the pregnant woman in writing that if she does not file her application for regular Medicaid by the last day of the month following the month in which she was determined presumptively eligible, her presumptive eligibility will end on that date. However, if she files within the deadline, she will remain presumptively eligible until she has a regular Medicaid determination. Under the provisions of section 1920(c)(2), the qualified provider also must notify the State agency within 5 working days after the date on which the provider determines that the pregnant woman is presumptively eligible.
