FR941006-1-00041 FR941006-1-00008 (ii) Market charge . An amount shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds in all cases where the current borrowing rate of the Department of the Treasury for the remaining period to original maturity of the security prematurely redeemed exceeds the rate of interest originally fixed for such security. The amount shall be the present value of the future increased borrowing cost to the Treasury. The annual increased borrowing cost for each interest period is determined by multiplying the principal by the difference between the two rates. For notes and bonds, the increased borrowing cost for each remaining interest period to original maturity is determined by dividing the annual cost by two. For certificates, the increased borrowing cost for the remaining period to original maturity is determined by multiplying the annual cost by the number of days remaining until original maturity divided by the number of days in the calendar year. Present value shall be determined by using the current borrowing rate as the discount factor. The term ``current borrowing rate'' means the applicable rate shown in the table of maximum interest rates payable on United States Treasury securities_State and Local Government Series_for the day the request for early redemption is telecopied, postmarked, or where delivered by other carrier, date-stamped, plus one-eighth of one percentage point. Where redemption is requested as of a date less than 30 calendar days before the original maturity date, such applicable rate is the rate shown for a security with a maturity of 30 days. The market charge for bonds, notes, and certificates of indebtedness can be computed by use of the formulas in Appendix A to this part. (4) Redemption proceeds _ Subscriptions from December 28, 1976 through August 31, 1989 . For securities subscribed for from December 28, 1976 through August 31, 1989, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows: (i) Interest . Interest for the entire period the security was outstanding shall be recalculated on the basis of the lesser of the original interest rate at which the security was issued, or the interest rate that would have been set at the time of the initial subscription had the term for the security been for the shorter period. If a note or bond is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, no interest will be paid for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date. (ii) Overpayment of interest . If there have been overpayments of interest, as determined under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, there shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds the aggregate amount of such overpayments, plus interest, compounded semiannually, thereon from the date of each overpayment to the date of redemption. The interest rate to be used in calculating the interest on the overpayment shall be one-eighth of one percent above the maximum rate that would have applied to the initial subscription had the term of the security been for the shorter period. (iii) Market charge . An amount shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds in all cases where the current borrowing rate of the Department of the Treasury for the remaining period to original maturity of the security prematurely redeemed exceeds the rate of interest originally fixed for such security. The amount shall be calculated using the formula in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. (5) Redemption proceeds _ Subscriptions on or before December 27, 1976 . (i) For securities subscribed for on or before December 27, 1976, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows. (ii) The interest for the entire period the security was outstanding shall be recalculated on the basis of the lesser of the original interest rate at which the security was issued, or an adjusted interest rate reflecting both the shorter period during which the security was actually outstanding and a penalty. The adjusted interest rate is the Treasury rate which would have been in effect on the date of issuance for a marketable Treasury certificate, note, or bond maturing on the quarterly maturity date prior to redemption (in the case of certificates), or on the semiannual maturity period prior to redemption (in the case of notes and bonds), reduced in either case by a penalty which shall be the lesser of: (A) One-eighth of one percent times the number of months from the date of issuance to original maturity, divided by the number of full months elapsed from the date of issue to redemption, or (B) One-fourth of one percent. There shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds, if necessary, any overpayment of interest resulting from previous payments made at a higher rate based on the original longer period to maturity. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535&hyph;0091) Subpart C_Demand Deposit Securities ยง344.6 Description of securities. (a) Terms . The securities are defined as one-day certificates of indebtedness. The securities will be issued in a minimum of $1,000 and any increment above that amount. Each subscription will be established as a unique account. Securities will be automatically rolled over each day unless redemption is requested.
