FR941202-2-00003 FR941202-2-00001 On September 14, 1994, APHIS received a petition (APHIS Petition No. 94&hyph;257&hyph;01p) from the Monsanto Company (Monsanto) of St. Louis, MO, requesting a determination of nonregulated status under 7 CFR part 340 for seven Russet Burbank potato lines (BT6, BT10, BT12, BT16, BT17, BT18, and BT23) genetically engineered with the plasmid vector PV&hyph;STBT02, which confers resistance to the Colorado potato beetle (CPB) ( Leptinotarsa decemlineata ). The Monsanto petition states that the subject potato lines should not be regulated by APHIS because they do not present a plant pest risk. As described in the petition, the subject potato lines were genetically engineered to produce an insect control protein derived from the common soil bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. tenebrionis (Btt). This insect control protein is identical in amino acid sequence to one of the proteins (band 3 protein encoded by the cryIIIA gene) naturally produced by Btt and found in commercial microbial Btt formulations registered as pesticides with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). According to Monsanto, the protein is highly selective in controlling CPB and is expressed at a consistently effective level in the potato foliage throughout the growing season. The expression of this insect control protein in the subject lines is regulated by an enhanced 35S promoter derived from the plant pathogen Cauliflower mosaic virus, and by the nontranslated region of the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase referred to as E9 3 ’ derived from pea. The subject potato lines also express an nptII gene derived from the prokaryotic transposon Tn5 encoding the enzyme neomycin phosphotransferase II. The expression of this gene in the subject potato lines is regulated by the 35S promoter (as described above) and the nontranslated 3 ’ region of the nopaline synthase gene derived from the plant pathogen Agrobacterium. The expression of neomycin phosphotransferase II in the subject potato lines allows for selective growth of transgenic plant cells on the antibiotic kanamycin during plant tissue culture. These genes were stably transferred into the genome of potato plants through an Agrobacterium tumefaciens -mediated transformation utilizing a binary, double-border plant expression vector, PV&hyph;STBT02. Monsanto's subject CPB-resistant potato lines are currently considered regulated articles under the regulations in 7 CFR part 340 because they contain gene sequences (vectors, promoters, and terminators) derived from plant pathogenic sources. The subject potato lines were evaluated at a total of 34 locations under nine APHIS permits issued between 1991 and 1993. In the process of reviewing Monsanto's permit applications for field trials of the subject potato lines, APHIS determined that the vectors and other elements were disarmed and that the trials, which were conducted under conditions of reproductive and physical containment or isolation, would not present a risk of plant pest introduction or dissemination. In the Federal Plant Pest Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 150aa et seq. ), ``plant pest'' is defined as ``any living stage of: Any insects, mites, nematodes, slugs, snails, protozoa, or other invertebrate animals, bacteria, fungi, other parasitic plants or reproductive parts thereof, viruses, or any organisms similar to or allied with any of the foregoing, or any infectious substances, which can directly or indirectly injure or cause disease or damage in any plants or parts thereof, or any processed, manufactured or other products of plants.'' APHIS views this definition very broadly. The definition covers direct or indirect injury, disease or damage not just to agricultural crops, but also to plants in general, for example, native species, as well as to organisms that may be beneficial to plants, for example, honeybees, rhizobia, etc. These genetically engineered potato lines are also currently subject to regulation by other agencies. The EPA is responsible for the regulation of pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), as amended (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq. ). FIFRA requires that all pesticides, including insecticides, be registered prior to distribution or sale, unless exempt by EPA regulation. Accordingly, Monsanto has submitted to EPA an application to register this plant-pesticide, i.e. the Btt CPB control protein as produced by the cryIIIA gene and its controlling sequences in these genetically engineered potato lines. On December 8, 1993, EPA announced receipt of this application (EPA File Symbol 524&hyph;UTU) in the Federal Register (58 FR 64582&hyph;64583). This is the first application for registration of a transgenic plant pesticide under section 3(c) of FIFRA, as amended, in which a plant has been genetically altered to produce a pesticide.
