FR941110-2-00126 FR941110-2-00077 [Release No. 34&hyph;34935; File No. SR&hyph;GSCC&hyph;94&hyph;04] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Government Securities Clearing Corporation; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change Establishing New Categories of Netting System Membership for Futures Commission Merchants November 3, 1994. On July 5, 1994, the Government Securities Clearing Corporation (``GSCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;GSCC&hyph;94&hyph;04) pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''). 1 The proposed rule change establishes new categories of netting system membership for futures commission merchants (``FCMs''). The Commission published notice of the proposed rule change in the Federal Register on August 23, 1994. 2 No comments were received. For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is approving the proposed rule change. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34529 (August 12, 1994) 59 FR 43365. I. Description Background GSCC was established primarily to provide the government securities marketplace with risk protections and a means of ensuring orderly settlement of member trading activity in U.S. Treasury securities. Initially, membership criteria were specified for large dealers, interdealer brokers, and clearing banks that might benefit from GSCC's services. Following expressions of interest in netting system membership by several FCMs, GSCC is establishing a Category 1 and a Category 2 FCM netting system membership class. An FCM is generally an entity that solicits orders, accepts orders, and/or accepts funds for the purchase or sale of exchange traded futures or options on futures. In effect, an FCM is the equivalent in the futures industry of a securities broker. 3 The determination of whether an applicant is considered a Category 1 FCM or a Category 2 FCM will be based on the determination by GSCC as to which minimum financial admission criteria such FCM satisfies. 4 3 Under GSCC's rules, the term FCM is defined as having the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(1)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act (``CEA'') except that no entity will be considered an FCM for purposes of GSCC's rules unless it is registered as such with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``CFTC''). Section 2(a)(1)(A) of the CEA defines an FCM to include individuals, associations, partnerships, corporations, and trusts engaged in soliciting or in accepting orders for the purchase or sale of any commodity for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any contract market and that, in or in connection with such solicitation or acceptance of orders, accepts any money, securities, or property (or extends credit in lieu thereof) to margin, guarantee, or secure any trades or contracts that result or may result therefrom. GSCC Rule 1, ``Definitions.'' 4 In addition, because many participants are both broker-dealers and FCMs, GSCC is amending its rules to expressly provide that if an applicant qualifies for more than one category of netting system membership, GSCC will determine in its sole discretion the proper category of netting system membership for which the FCM will be considered. This determination will be made at the time of admission as a netting system member.
