FR940913-0-00044 FR940913-0-00015 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 52 [IL63&hyph;1&hyph;5716a; FRL&hyph;5070&hyph;9] Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plan; Illinois AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) approves Illinois' 1990 base year ozone precursor emission inventories for certain ozone nonattainment areas as revisions to the Illinois ozone State Implementation Plan (SIP). The emission inventories were submitted by the State of Illinois to satisfy a Federal requirement that States containing ozone nonattainment areas submit inventories of actual ozone precursor emissions in accordance with USEPA guidance. The ozone nonattainment areas covered by the emission inventories addressed in this rulemaking are: Chicago (Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and Will Counties, Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County, and Oswego Township in Kendall County); Metro-East St. Louis (Madison, Monroe, and St. Clair Counties); and Jersey County. In the proposed rules section of this Federal Register , USEPA is proposing approval of and soliciting public comment on this requested SIP revision. If adverse comments are received on this direct final rule, USEPA will withdraw this final rule and address the comments received in response to this final rule in a final rule on the related proposed rule which is being published in the proposed rules section of this Federal Register . DATES: This final rule will be effective November 14, 1994 unless an adverse comment is received by October 13, 1994. If the effective date of this action is delayed due to adverse comments, timely notice will be published in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Written comments can be mailed to: J. Elmer Bortzer, Chief, Regulation Development Section (AR&hyph;18J), Regulation Development Branch, Air and Radiation Division, United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604. Copies of the SIP revision and USEPA's analyses are available for inspection at the following address: (It is recommended that you telephone Edward Doty at (312) 886&hyph;6057 before visiting the Region 5 office.) United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, Air and Radiation Division, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Edward Doty, Regulation Development Section (AR&hyph;18J), Regulation Development Branch, Air and Radiation Division, United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 886&hyph;6057. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Emission Inventory Policy and Guidelines Under the Clean Air Act (Act), as amended in 1990 (amended Act), States have the responsibility to inventory emissions contributing to the violation of National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS), to track these emissions over time, and to ensure that control strategies are implemented to reduce the emissions and move the areas towards attainment of the NAAQS. States containing ozone nonattainment areas are required, under section 182(a)(1) of the amended Act, to submit by November 15, 1992, a comprehensive, accurate and current inventory of actual ozone precursor emissions (emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC), Oxides of Nitrogen (NO X ), and Carbon Monoxide (CO)) for each ozone nonattainment area. This inventory must include base year (1990) emissions from point, area, on-road mobile, and non-road mobile anthropogenic (man-made) sources and biogenic (natural or plant generated) sources in the ozone nonattainment area(s) and the ozone precursor emissions from major stationary source (with VOC, NO X , or CO emissions equal to or exceeding 100 tons per year) located within 25 miles of the nonattainment area(s). The emissions inventory must be established for the peak ozone season (those months when peak hourly ozone concentrations occur in excess of the primary ozone NAAQS, generally June through August in Illinois) and must represent typical weekday emissions. Available guidance for preparing and reviewing the emission inventories is provided in the General Preamble to title I of the Act. See 57 FR 13498 (April 16, 1992). Additional guidance is identified in the Technical Support Document (TSD) for this rulemaking. The amended Act also requires States with ozone nonattainment areas classified as moderate, serious, severe, or extreme to submit a plan by November 15, 1993 to reduce VOC emissions by 15 percent by November 15, 1996. The baseline level of emissions, from which the 15 percent reduction is calculated, is determined by adjusting the base year emissions inventory to exclude biogenic emissions and certain emission reductions not creditable toward the 15 percent Reasonable Further Progress (RFP) requirement. The 1990 base year emissions inventory is the primary emissions inventory from which the RFP projection inventory, future period inventories, and attainment demonstration modeling inventories are derived. Further information on these inventories and their purposes can be found in the ``Emission Inventory Requirements for Ozone State Implementation Plans,'' U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, March 1991.
