FR940921-0-00145 FR940921-0-00016 (v) Fuel injected = volume of methanol injected, ml. (vi) Fuel density=density of methanol, 0.7914 g/ml. (vii) Air volume=volume of zero-grade air, m 3 . (viii) Mol. Wt. CH3OH=32.04. (d) FID response factor to methane. When the FID analyzer is to be used for the analysis of natural gas-fueled vehicle hydrocarbon samples, the methane response factor of the analyzer shall be established. To determine the total hydrocarbon FID response to methane, known methane in air concentrations traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) shall be analyzed by the FID. Several methane concentrations shall be analyzed by the FID in the range of concentrations in the exhaust sample. The total hydrocarbon FID response to methane is calculated as follows: r CH4 =FIDppm/SAMppm Where: (1) r CH4 =FID response factor to methane. (2) FIDppm=FID reading in ppmC. (3) SAMppm=the known methane concentration in ppmC. 105. A new section 86.1325&hyph;94 is added to subpart N to read as follows: §86.1325&hyph;94 Methane analyzer calibration. Prior to introduction into service and monthly thereafter, the methane analyzer shall be calibrated: (a) Follow the manufacturer's instructions for instrument startup and operation. Adjust the analyzer to optimize performance. (b) Zero the methane analyzer with zero-grade air. (c) Calibrate on each normally used operating range with CH 4 in air with nominal concentrations of 15, 30, 45, 60, 75 and 90 percent of that range. Additional calibration points may be generated. For each range calibrated, if the deviation from a least-squares best-fit straight line is two percent or less of the value at each data point, concentration values may be calculated by use of a single calibration factor for that range. If the deviation exceeds two percent at any point, the best-fit non-linear equation which represents the data to within two percent of each test point shall be used to determine concentration. 106. A new section 86.1327&hyph;94 is added to subpart N to read as follows: §86.1327&hyph;94 Engine dynamometer test procedures; overview. (a) The engine dynamometer test procedure is designed to determine the brake specific emissions of hydrocarbons, nonmethane hydrocarbons (for natural gas-fueled engines only), carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, particulate (petroleum-fueled, natural gas-fueled, liquefied petroleum gas-fueled and methanol-fueled diesel engines), and methanol and formaldehyde (for methanol-fueled diesel engines). The test procedure consists of a ``cold'' start test following either natural or forced cool-down periods described in §§86.1334 and 86.1335, respectively. A ``hot'' start test follows the ``cold'' start test after a hot soak of 20 minutes. The idle test of Subpart P may be run after the ``hot'' start test. The exhaust emissions are diluted with ambient air and a continuous proportional sample is collected for analysis during both the cold- and hot-start tests. The composite samples collected are analyzed either in bags or continuously for hydrocarbons (HC), methane (CH 4 _for natural gas-fueled engines only), carbon monoxide (CO), carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), and oxides of nitrogen (NO X ), or in sample collection impingers for methanol (CH 3 OH) and sample collection impingers (or capsules) for formaldehyde (HCHO). Measurement of CH 3 OH and HCHO may be omitted for 1990 through 1994 model year methanol-fueled engines when a FID calibrated on methanol is used. A bag or continuous sample of the dilution air is similarly analyzed for background levels of hydrocarbon, methane, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and oxides of nitrogen and, if appropriate, methanol and formaldehyde. In addition, for petroleum-fueled, natural gas-fueled, liquefied petroleum gas-fueled and methanol-fueled diesel engines, particulates are collected on fluorocarbon-coated glass fiber filters or fluorocarbon-based (membrane) filters, and the dilution air may be prefiltered. (b) Engine torque and rpm shall be recorded continuously during both the cold- and hot-start tests. Data points shall be recorded at least once every second. (c) Using the torque and rpm feedback signals the brake horsepower is integrated with respect to time for the cold and hot cycles. This produces a brake horsepower-hour value that enables the brake-specific emissions to be determined (see §86.1342, Calculations, gaseous exhaust emissions; and §86.1343, Calculations, particulate exhaust emissions). (d)(1) When an engine is tested for exhaust emissions or is operated for service accumulation on an engine dynamometer, the complete engine shall be tested, with all emission control devices installed and functioning.
