FR940513-1-00004 FR940513-1-00001 Work performed in the temporary component can not be credited toward meeting the work period requirements of the work-study component. Student Volunteers The student volunteer program will continue to be covered by Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, part 308, Volunteer Service. Student Financial Assistance Option Under both components of this program, agencies have the option of using financial need criteria to hire talented students who demonstrate a need for income from employment to continue their education. OPM will continue to develop and distribute annual economic guidelines for use in determining financial need. State Employment Service Offices and financial aid offices in schools can assist in making these determinations. Benefit Entitlements Since it is expected that appointments under the work-study component would be for more than 1 year, students would be eligible for retirement, health benefits, and life insurance. Students under the temporary component are not eligible for retirement or life insurance but would become eligible for health benefits coverage only after they complete 1 year of current, continuous employment. Since under the temporary appointment no Government contribution would be available, the employee would pay the entire premium. Tuition Assistance Under both components of this program, agencies may use their training authority in 5 U.S.C. chapter 41 and 5 CFR part 410 to pay for all or part of training expenses. Under the work-study component, an agency may pay other expenses directly related to training, including travel and transportation expenses between duty stations and schools. Employment of Minors Participation in this program must be in conformance with Federal, State or local laws and standards governing the employment of minors. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because the regulation applies only to appointment procedures for certain employees in Federal agencies. List of Subjects in 5 CFR Part 213 Government employees, reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Office of Personnel Management. Lorraine A. Green, Deputy Director. Accordingly, OPM proposes to amend 5 CFR part 213 as follows: PART 213_EXCEPTED SERVICE 1. The authority citation for part 213 continues to read as follows:
