FR940118-0-00035 FR940118-0-00011 (3) The Secretary awards additional points equal to 10 percent of the application's score under paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section to an application for a project in Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Palau), or the Northern Mariana Islands if the applicant meets the requirements of subparts A, B, and D of this part. (b) The Secretary makes new grants in rank order on the basis of the applications' total scores under paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section. (c) If the total scores of two or more applications are the same and there are insufficient funds for these applications after the approval of higher-ranked applications, the Secretary uses the remaining funds to serve geographic areas and eligible populations that have been underserved by the Educational Opportunity Centers program. (d) The Secretary may decline to make a grant to an applicant that carried out a project that involved the fraudulent use of funds under section 402A(c)(2)(B) of the HEA. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;11, 1070a&hyph;16, and 1144a(a)) ยง644.21 What selection criteria does the Secretary use? The Secretary uses the following criteria to evaluate an application for a new grant: (a) Need for the project (24 points). The Secretary evaluates the need for an Educational Opportunity Centers project in the proposed target area on the basis of the extent to which the application contains clear evidence of_ (1) A high number or percentage, or both, of low-income families residing in the target area; (2) A high number or percentage, or both, of individuals residing in the target area with education completion levels below the baccalaureate level; (3) A high need on the part of residents of the target area for further education and training from programs of postsecondary education in order to meet changing employment trends; and (4) Other indicators of need for an Educational Opportunity Centers project, including the presence of unaddressed educational or socioeconomic problems of adult residents in the target area. (b) Objectives (8 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the applicant's proposed project objectives on the basis of the extent to which they_ (1) Include both process and outcome objectives relating to each of the purposes of the Educational Opportunity Centers program stated in ยง644.1; (2) Address the needs of the target area; (3) Are clearly described, specific, and measurable; and (4) Are ambitious but attainable within each budget period and the project period given the project budget and other resources. (c) Plan of operation (30 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the applicant's plan of operation on the basis of the following: (1) (4 points) The plan to inform the residents, schools, and community organizations in the target area of the goals, objectives, and services of the project and the eligibility requirements for participation in the project; (2) (4 points) The plan to identify and select eligible participants and ensure their participation without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, or disability; (3) (2 points) The plan to assess each participant's need for services provided by the project; (4) (12 points) The plan to provide services that meet participants' needs and achieve the objectives of the project; and (5) (8 points) The management plan to ensure the proper and efficient administration of the project including, but not limited to, the project's organizational structure, the time committed to the project by the project director and other personnel, and, where appropriate, its coordination with other projects for disadvantaged students. (d) Applicant and community support (16 points). The Secretary evaluates the applicant and community support for the proposed project on the basis of the extent to which the applicant has made provision for resources to supplement the grant and enhance the project's services, including_ (1) (8 points) Facilities, equipment, supplies, personnel, and other resources committed by the applicant; and (2) (8 points) Resources secured through written commitments from schools, community organizations, and others. (e) Quality of personnel (9 points). (1) The Secretary evaluates the quality of the personnel the applicant plans to use in the project on the basis of the following: (i) The qualifications required of the project director. (ii) The qualifications required of each of the other personnel to be used in the project. (iii) The plan to employ personnel who have succeeded in overcoming the disadvantages or circumstances like those of the population of the target area. (2) In evaluating the qualifications of a person, the Secretary considers his or her experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the project. (f) Budget (5 points). The Secretary evaluates the extent to which the project budget is reasonable, cost-effective, and adequate to support the project. (g) Evaluation plan (8 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the evaluation plan for the project on the basis of the extent to which the applicant's methods of evaluation_ (1) Are appropriate to the project's objectives; (2) Provide for the applicant to determine, using specific and quantifiable measures, the success of the project in_ (i) Making progress toward achieving its objectives (a formative evaluation); and
