FR940513-1-00101 FR940513-1-00021 Some employers are covered by all of FLSA's provisions, while others are covered by the FLSA but may be exempt from its minimum wage and overtime provisions though not its child labor provisions. 3 Other employers that are not covered by the FLSA are subject to varying State child labor requirements. The practice of providing sport-attendant experiences to America's youth is a longstanding tradition. As a consequence, many professional and semi-professional sports teams, i.e., baseball, basketball, etc., have violated Federal child labor regulations by employing underage youth, particularly 14- and 15-year-olds, as sports-attendants. 3 For example, section 13(a)(3) of the FLSA exempts any employee employed by an amusement or recreational establishment from the minimum wage (section 6) and overtime (section 7) provisions of the Act, but not from the child labor provisions (section 12), if the establishment does not operate for more than seven months in any calendar year, or if during the preceding calendar year the establishment's average receipts for any six months were not more than 331/2 percent of its average receipts for the other six months. The Department believes that a change in the existing Federal hours and times standards to allow employment of 14- and 15-year-olds as batboys/girls, ballboys/girls, or in other sports-attendant capacities would not be inconsistent with FLSA's oppressive child labor provisions and, therefore, proposes a narrow exception from the requirements of Child Labor Reg. 3 for such work. Specifically, the proposed exception is limited to employment by professional sports organizations and would apply only if the duties performed are traditional in nature and the work is outside regular school hours. Thus, the current restrictions when school is in session, i.e, 3-hour daily limit, 18-hour weekly limit, and 7 p.m. end-of-day time restriction, and the current 9 p.m. end-of-day time restriction when school in not in session would not apply to 14- and 15-year-old sports-attendants. The Department recognizes that a delicate balance exists between the value of jobs that provide positive, formative experiences, and the possible negative effects that excessive employment of youth can have on their academic performance and their health and well-being. The Department believes that the proposed change for 14- and 15-year-olds in sports attending activities will not have an adverse effect on their health, well-being, or educational development. Further, the Department believes that the employment opportunities for 14- and 15-year-olds as provided herein is consistent with the purpose of the FLSA to permit safe and healthy employment opportunities under conditions which protect the health, well-being, and schooling of such young workers. See 29 U.S.C. 203(l). In addition, the Department proposes to delete the regulations at 29 CFR part 570, subpart D (Child Labor Reg. 5). These regulations provide a procedure for the Secretary to promulgate or amend hazardous occupation orders (HOs), which identify occupations in which employment of minors under 18 years of age is prohibited because the Secretary, pursuant to section 3(l) of the Act, has determined that the occupations are particularly hazardous for such workers or detrimental to their health or well-being. The Department proposes to repeal Child Labor Reg. 5, because its procedural requirements are no longer necessary, and because the continued existence of the regulation poses the potential for confusion regarding the process to be utilized by the Secretary in the review, amendment, and promulgation of HOs. Child Labor Reg. 5 was promulgated in 1938, immediately after the enactment of the FLSA (3 FR 2640 (1938)). Although neither the FLSA nor other laws required such procedures, the Children's Bureau, which at that time was charged with administration of the FLSA child labor provisions, prescribed the process so that the public would be informed of the Department's intentions regarding the creation or amendment of restrictions on the employment of minors in hazardous occupations. The original Child Labor Reg. 5 identified certain mandatory steps, including public hearings, to be taken in HO promulgation. The Congress, however, imposed a standardized procedure in 1946 for all Federal agencies to follow when issuing or amending regulations. The procedures in this law, the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 60 Stat. 237, provide greater administrative flexibility than the process in Child Labor Reg. 5, in that, for example, the APA does not mandate a public hearing in every case prior to promulgation of a regulation. There have been no changes to Child Labor Reg. 5 except for a technical amendment in 1961 (26 FR 5005 (1961)) to more align the HO process with APA requirements, i.e., hearings were identified among various optional steps which the Department could utilize.
