FR940830-0-00095 FR940830-0-00013 PART 968_PUBLIC HOUSING MODERNIZATION 14. The authority citation for 24 CFR part 968 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437d, 1437l; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). 15. Section 968.102 is revised to read as follows: §968.102 Special requirements for Turnkey III developments. (a) Modernization Costs. Modernization work on a Turnkey III unit shall not increase the purchase price or amortization period of the home. (b) Paid-off units. Eligible modernization work on any Turnkey III units that have been paid-off, but not conveyed, by the time the CIAP application or CGP Annual Statement is submitted, is limited to work which is necessary to meet statutory requirements ( e.g., accessibility for disabled persons, lead-based paint testing, interim containment, professional risk assessment and abatement). Such work must be completed prior to conveyance. Turnkey III units that have not been paid-off at the time the CIAP application or CGP Annual Statement is submitted and for which work is included in the CIAP application or CGP Annual Statement, are eligible for any physical improvements provided under §968.310(d) even where the units are subsequently paid-off before the work is completed, so long as the work is completed prior to conveyance. (c) Other. The homebuyer family must be in compliance with its financial obligations under its homebuyer agreement in order to be eligible for non-emergency physical improvements, with the exception of work necessary to meet statutory and regulatory requirements, ( e.g., accessibility for disabled persons, lead-based paint testing, interim containment, professional risk assessment, and abatement) and the correction of development deficiencies. Notwithstanding the above requirement, a PHA may, with prior HUD approval, complete non-emergency physical improvements on any homeownership unit where the PHA demonstrates that, due to economies of scale or geographic constraints, substantial cost savings may be realized by completing all necessary work in a development at one time. 16. Section 968.103 is amended by revising paragraph (b); by adding three sentences to the end of paragraph (j); and by revising paragraphs (k)(2)(i) and (k)(3)(iii), to read as follows: §968.103 Allocation of funds under section 14. * * * * * (b) Set-aside for emergencies and disasters. For each FFY, HUD shall reserve from amounts approved in the appropriation act for grants under this part and part 905 of this title, $75 million (which shall include unused reserve amounts carried over from previous FFYs), which shall be made available to PHAs and IHAs for modernization needs resulting from natural and other disasters, and from emergencies. HUD shall replenish this reserve at the beginning of each FFY so that it always begins with a $75 million balance. Any unused funds from previous years will remain in the reserve until allocated. The requirements governing the reserve for disasters and emergencies and the procedures by which a PHA may request such funds, are set forth in §968.312. * * * * * (j) Calculation of number of units. *␣*␣* New development units that are added to an PHA's or IHA's inventory will be added to the overall unit count so long as they are under ACC amendment and have reached DOFA by the first day in the FFY in which the formula is being run. Any increase in units (reaching DOFA and under ACC amendment) as of the beginning of the FFY shall result in an adjustment upwards in the number of units under the formula. New units reaching DOFA after this date will be counted for formula purposes as of the following FFY. (k) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (i) Increases in the number of units resulting from the conversion of existing units will be added to the overall unit count so long as they are under ACC amendment by the first day in the FFY in which the formula is being run; * * * * * (3) *␣*␣* (iii) Exception. A unit which is conveyed under the Mutual Help or Turnkey III programs will result in an automatic (rather than a phased-in) reduction in the unit count. Paid-off Mutual Help or Turnkey III units continue to be counted until they are conveyed. 17. Section 968.305 is amended by removing the definition of Major changes, revising the definition of Annual Statement, and adding in alphabetical order definitions of Annual Submission, Fungibility and Work Statements, to read as follows: §968.305 Definitions. * * * * * Annual Statement. A work statement covering the first year of the Five-Year Action Plan and setting forth the major work categories and costs by development or PHA-wide for the current FFY grant, as well as a summary of costs by development account and implementation schedules for obligation and expenditure of the funds. * * * * * Annual Submission. A collective term for all documents which the PHA must submit to HUD for review and approval before accessing the current FFY grant funds. Such documents include the Annual Statement, Work Statements for years two through five of the Five-Year Action Plan, local government statement, PHA Board Resolution, materials demonstrating the partnership process and any other documents as prescribed by HUD.
