FR940906-2-00117 FR940906-2-00083 (8) Relocation, reentry, and other radiation protection measures prior to recovery. (9) Recommendations for recovery, return, and cleanup issues. (10) Health and safety advice or information for the public and for workers. (11) Estimate effects of radioactive releases on human health and environment. (12) Guidance on the use of radioprotective substances (e.g., thyroid blocking agents), including dosage and projected radiation doses that warrant the use of such drugs. (13) Other matters, as requested by the LFA. 5. Other Federal Resource Support FEMA will coordinate the provision of non-technical (i.e., not related to radiological monitoring and assessment) Federal resources and assistance to affected State and local governments. The Federal non-technical resource and assistance coordination function will be performed at the Disaster Field Office (DFO) established by FEMA. a. Role of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). FEMA will, as requested: (1) Monitor the status of the Federal response to requests for non-technical assistance from the affected States and provide this information to the States. (2) Keep the LFA informed of requests for assistance from the State and the status of the Federal response. (3) Identify and inform Federal agencies of actual or apparent omissions, redundancies, or conflicts in response activity. (4) Establish and maintain a source of integrated, coordinated information about the status of all non-technical resource support activities. (5) Provide information systems capabilities to meet the needs of agencies and organizations represented at the DFO. (6) Provide other non-technical support to Federal agencies responding to the emergency. b. Role of Other Federal Agencies. In order to properly coordinate activities, Federal agencies responding to requests for non-technical support or directly providing such support under statutory authorities will provide liaison personnel to the DFO. The following indicates types of assistance not related to radiological monitoring and assessment that may be provided by Federal agencies as needed or requested: (1) Department of Agriculture (USDA). (a) Provide emergency food coupon assistance in officially designated disaster areas, if a need is determined by officials and if the commercial food system is sufficient to accommodate the use of food coupons. (b) Assist in reallocation of USDA donated food supplies from warehouses, local schools, and other outlets to emergency care centers. These are foods donated to various outlets through USDA food programs. (c) Provide lists that identify locations of alternate sources of food and livestock feed. (d) Assist in providing temporary housing for evacuees. (e) Assess damage to crops, soil, livestock, poultry, and processing facilities; and incorporate findings in a damage assessment report. (f) Provide emergency communications assistance to the agricultural community through the Cooperative Extension System, an electronic mail system. (2) Department of Commerce (DOC). Loaning radiation shielding materials. (3) Department of Defense (DOD). DOD may provide assistance in the form of personnel, logistics and telecommunications, advice on proper medical treatment of personnel exposed to or contaminated by radioactive materials, and assistance, including airlift services, when available, upon the request of the LFA or FEMA. Requests for assistance must be directed to the National Military Command Center or through channels established by prior agreements. (4) Department of Energy (DOE). Provide advice on proper medical treatment of personnel exposed to or contaminated by radioactive materials. (5) Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). (a) Ensure the availability of health and medical care and other human services (especially for the aged, poor, infirm, blind, and others most in need).
