FR941121-2-00114 FR941121-2-00088 Selection Criteria The selection criteria set forth below supersede the criteria presented in the previous operational test notices dated May 8, 1992 (57 FR 19959), July 20, 1992 (57 FR 32047), and September 8, 1993 (58 FR 47310). 1. Relationship to National Program The Operational Test offer of participation shall: (a) Directly support the national goals and milestones of the user service areas described in this solicitation; (b) Advance the development and eventual implementation of the proposed technology or system. Demonstrate that there is an acceptable basis for believing that the technologies being tested will ultimately be successfully deployed or implemented; (c) Have meaningful, distinguishable features involving technical, institutional, market, or other important characteristics which have not been addressed in operational tests to date. Operational tests should not replicate past or current tests unless such replication provides a significant contribution to advancing the ITS program; (d) Fit within a logical evolution of the ITS program and supporting technology; and (e) Provide an approach that is technically feasible and responsive to the requirements of the user service area. 2. Evaluation In concert with the evaluation guidelines stated earlier, the Operational Test offer of participation shall: (a) Identify initial evaluation goals and objectives at the national and local level. These goals and objectives should reflect those activities required to move toward the national goals and milestones outlined in the ``Department of Transportation's IVHS Strategic Plan''. The evaluation goals and objectives should address, as a minimum, institutional issues, user acceptance, system benefits, costs, performance of the system, and impacts on the transportation system, including air quality; (b) Provide a general evaluation work plan that outlines the scope and method of evaluation of each goal and objective and an assessment of the opportunity to collect the necessary data that can answer questions of both local and national significance; (c) Provide for selection of an independent evaluator to ensure an unbiased evaluation of the operational test. The evaluator's responsibilities should be identified in the offer; and (d) Provide estimated overall costs for conducting the evaluation. The costs of data collection and evaluation should be identified as separate items. 3. Project Management and Proposed Partnership The Operational Test offer of participation shall: (a) Provide an overall level of confidence that the test will be successfully completed by: (1) Demonstrating an acceptable level of commitment, management capability, and business reliability of the partners. (2) Demonstrating that there is a commitment by all partners to a national technology sharing effort and a willingness to dedicate the time and effort required to share the technical and institutional results of the test with others. (3) Clearly defining the roles and responsibilities of the principal partners and staff and demonstrating that they have the ability to perform their assigned responsibilities. For large or complex tests, an experienced systems manager to support the project is desirable. (b) Provide sufficient background to validate the accuracy of the cost and schedule estimates for the operational test; (c) Minimize any potential negative effects of the test and demonstrate an awareness of and approach for dealing with complicating technical or institutional factors which might adversely affect the test. Innovative or technically challenging ways for dealing with these factors will be of particular interest; (d) Identify the proposed agreements for sharing of technology developed under this operational test; and
