FR941202-2-00173 FR941202-2-00098 (b) Have a thorough knowledge of the relevant assessment methods and assessment documents; (c) Be technically conversant with the specific tests or types of tests for which the accreditation is sought and, where relevant, with the associated sampling procedures; (d) Be able to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; and (e) Be free of any commercial interest that might cause the assessor to act in other than an impartial or nondiscriminatory manner. 3.2.4␣Assessor Certification Before an assessor can conduct on-site inspections, the individual must be certified to do so, in writing, by either the NELAP or State in which the individual will assess laboratories. For each laboratory inspection performed by a state-designated third party assessor (i.e. non-EPA, non-State), the assessor must sign a statement before the inspection, certifying that no conflict of interest exists. 3.3␣Frequency of On-Site Assessments 3.3.1␣Frequency Accreditors should perform a routine on-site assessment at least annually. Assessments may be more frequent at laboratories where a problem exists, including complaints about laboratory quality, questions of fraud, or recurring failure on performance evaluation samples. 3.3.2␣Follow-Up Evaluations In addition to routine evaluations, assessors may need to conduct one-time follow-up evaluations at laboratories where a significant deficiency was identified by the previous evaluation. These evaluations may be limited to determining whether a laboratory has corrected its deficiency(ies), or determining the merit of a formal appeal from the laboratory. When deficiencies may result in downgrading of accreditation status, follow-up evaluations should occur as soon as possible but no later than 60 days after the original evaluation. 3.3.3␣Changes in Laboratory Capabilities The accrediting authority may also deem necessary a limited one-time evaluation when a major change occurs at a laboratory in personnel, equipment, or a laboratory location that might impair analytical/biological capability and quality. A major change in personnel is defined as the loss or replacement of the laboratory management staff, or loss of a trained and experienced individual who performs a particular test for which accreditation has been granted. 3.3.4␣Announced and Unannounced Visits The accrediting authority is not required to provide advance notice of an assessment. However, the policy is to provide such notification, based on the circumstances of the particular assessment and laboratory. Since these highly technical assessments may involve sensitive information and because there is a need to ensure that appropriate personnel and records are available for assessment, the testing laboratory usually is notified in advance of a planned assessment. The accrediting authority, at its discretion, may conduct unannounced evaluations for cause (e.g., questions of fraud, tips, complaints, or problems with performance evaluation samples) or as part of a routine practice. 3.4␣Pre-Assessment Procedures 3.4.1␣Introduction A good assessment begins with planning, which should commence well before the assessment team visits the laboratory.
