FR940224-2-00056 FR940224-2-00036 Form EIA&hyph;871A (FS), ``Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey, Building Questionnaire (Federal Supplement)'' AGENCY: Energy Information Administration, Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of the Proposed Revision of the Form EIA&hyph;871A, ``Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey, Building Questionnaire,'' and Solicitation of Comments. SUMMARY: The Energy Information Administration (EIA), as part of its continuing effort to reduce paperwork and respondent burden (required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), conducts a presurvey consultation program to provide the general public and other Federal agencies with an opportunity to comment on proposed and/or continuing reporting forms. This program helps to ensure that requested data can be provided in the desired format, reporting burden is minimized, reporting forms are clearly understood, and the impact of collection requirements on respondents can be properly assessed. Currently, EIA is soliciting comments concerning the proposed revision of Form EIA&hyph;871A, ``Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey, Building Questionnaire,'' to collect information on Federal government buildings using EIA&hyph;871A (FS), ``Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey, Building Questionnaire, (Federal Supplement).'' DATES: Written comments must be submitted by March 28, 1994. If you anticipate that you will be submitting comments, but find it difficult to do so within the period of time allowed by this notice, you should advise the contact listed below of your intention to do so as soon as possible. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Martha Johnson, Energy Information Administration, EI&hyph;631, Forrestal Building, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585. Telephone number: (202) 586&hyph;1135. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION OR TO OBTAIN COPIES OF THE PROPOSED FORM AND INSTRUCTIONS: Requests for additional information or copies of the form and instructions should be directed to Martha Johnson at the address listed above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background II. Current Actions III. Request for Comments I. Background In order to fulfill its responsibilities under the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 (Pub. L. No. 93&hyph;275) and the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. No. 95&hyph;91), the Energy Information Administration is obliged to carry out a central, comprehensive, and unified energy data and information program. As part of this program, EIA collects, evaluates, assembles, analyzes, and disseminates data and information related to energy resource reserves, production, demand, and technology, and related economic and statistical information relevant to the adequacy of energy resources to meet demands in the near and longer term future for the Nation's economic and social needs. Form EI&hyph;871A, ``Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey, Buildings Questionnaire'' collects information about energy characteristics and related energy consumption and expenditures in commercial buildings. These data are used for energy modelling and forecasting. Specifically, the data to be obtained by the Form EIA&hyph;871A (FS) will assist in measuring the potential for energy savings in Federal buildings, pursuant to the requirements of Section 152 through 167 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. Form EIA&hyph;871A (FS) will collect data on Federally-owned buildings. Data will be collected on building size, principal building activity, physical characteristics of the building and energy-related equipment, energy sources used and related energy end uses. The data collected will be similar to that previously collected by EIA for commercial buildings using Form EIA&hyph;871A ``Building Questionnaire''. II. Current Actions
