FR940318-0-00206 FR940318-0-00023 (d) Terpenes. Terpenes are acceptable substitutes for MCF in adhesives, coatings, and inks. The principal environmental concern with terpenes is their toxicity to aquatic life. In applications for terpenes in adhesives, coatings, and inks, however, the terpenes are both used and bound in the product formulation, meaning that there are no discharges of wastewater effluent that could present a risk. Other potential environmental hazards associated with these compounds arise from their flammability and unpleasant odors, but these can be controlled by good workplace practices. (2) Water-based formulations/high-solid. Formulations. Water-based formulations and high-solid formulations are acceptable substitutes for MCF in adhesives, coatings, and inks. The Agency did not identify any environmental or health concerns associated with use of these products. These formulations do contain small amounts of VOCs, but the increase in VOC loadings from these products is expected to be extremely small in comparison to VOC contributions from other sources. (3) Alternative processes. Alternative processes, including powder formulations, hot melt, thermoplastic plasma spray, radiation-based formulations, and moisture-cured, chemical-cured, and reactive liquid alternatives, are all acceptable substitutes for MCF in adhesives, coatings, and inks. The Agency did not identify any health or environmental concerns associated with use of these substitutes. Since this grouping includes such a wide variety of products for which it is difficult to complete an in-depth risk screen, the Agency solicits additional detail on any potential environmental or health effects that merit further investigation. X. Additional Information A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) The Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communitites; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. It has been determined that this is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under the terms of Executive Order 12866 and is therefore not subject to OMB review. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;602, requires that federal agencies examine the effects of their regulations on small entities. Under 5 U.S.C. 604(a), whenever an agency is required to publish a final rule-making, it must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis (RFA). Such an analysis is not required if the head of the Agency certifies that a rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b). The Agency believes that this final rule will not have a significant effect on a substantial number of small entities and has therefore concluded that a formal RFA is unnecessary. Because costs of the SNAP requirements as a whole are expected to be minor, the rule is unlikely to adversely affect small businesses, particularly as the rule exempts small sectors and end-uses from reporting requirements and formal Agency review. In fact, to the extent that information gathering is more expensive and time-consuming for small companies, this rule may well provide benefits for small businesses anxious to examine potential substitutes to any ozone-depleting class I and II substances they may be using, by requiring manufacturers to make information on such substitutes available. C. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements in this rule have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. and have been assigned control number 2060&hyph;0226. This collection of information has an estimated reporting burden averaging 166 hours per response and an estimated annual recordkeeping burden averaging 25 hours per recordkeeper. These estimates include time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to Chief, Information Policy Branch; EPA; 401 M Street, SW., (Mail Code 2136); Washington, DC 20460; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.'' XI. References 1. United Nations Environment Programme, World Meteorological Organization, et al. Scientific Assessment of Stratospheric Ozone: 1991 (17 December 1991). 2. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, World Meteorological Organization, United Nations Environment Programme. Climate Change: The IPCC Scientific Assessment (1990). 3. Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance (HSIA), 1,1,1-Trichloroethane (Methyl Chloroform) White Paper (May 1991).
