FR940304-1-00081 FR940304-1-00014 In each of the consumer analyses, such as payback and life-cycle costs, the Department did include all incremental expenses caused by standards. For those design options entailing additional maintenance expenses (beyond the base case), the incremental maintenance expenses were included in the consumer price of the design option. Installation expenses that were specific to the design option and independent of the application were also included in the consumer price of the design option. Regional and Other Variations in Impacts Several comments recommended that the Department look at regional variations in usages of some climate-sensitive products, e.g., direct heating equipment. (Southern Gas Association, No. 4 at 10; United Texas Transmission Company, No. 26 at 3; Florida Energy Office, No. 42 at 1; Arkansas Western Gas Company, No. 64 at 3; and Minnegasco, No. 83 at 2.). The standards analysis assumes that nationwide average appliance usage rates, energy prices, and efficiency applied to all consumers in all areas of the nation, although the Department recognizes that there exist large variations in each of these factors. However, the Department did conduct a sensitivity analysis on the life-cycle cost for energy prices by substituting various high and low regional prices for national prices. The results of these sensitivities are presented in the Technical Support Document. See Technical Support Document, Chapter 4. However, these sensitivity analyses were performed at the national level, and no effort is made to link them with any specific population groups. The Department seeks information concerning the extent to which any proposed national efficiency standard is likely to affect identifiable groups of consumers disproportionally and how best to consider such impacts in the selection of efficiency standard levels. The Department is also seeking additional data to help it better assess the disproportionate impacts on such groups. Usage On a related issue, numerous comments suggested that the usage variables the Department should use are those that are calculated from field usage data. In addition, many of the comments provided estimates of annual operating expenses of several of the appliances, e.g. water heaters, direct heating equipment, and ranges and ovens. (Southern Gas Association No. 4 at 4; __ American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 2; Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 17, 19; Washington Gas Light, No. 37 at 5; Lone Star Gas Company, No. 39 at 3; Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 8; Columbia Gas, No. 45 at 3; Southern Natural Gas Company, No. 46 at 1; Montana-Dakota Utilities Company, No. 54 at 3; Laclede, No. 55 at 4; Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, No. 57 at 3, 5; Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 36; Arkansas Western Gas Company, No. 64 at 6; Peoples Natural Gas Company, No. 65 at 1; Northern Minnesota Utilities, No. 68 at 1; Minnegasco, No. 83 at 2; and Flair, No. 85 at 2). The Department appreciates the data it received. The Department also obtained data on unit energy consumption by appliance type, principally from utility companies. The Department reviewed the data received from all sources and generated what it believes are the best estimates of energy consumption which are contained in the proposed test procedure amendments for mobile home furnaces, direct heating equipment, pool heaters and kitchen ranges and ovens discussed above, and were used in the analyses for today's notice. As noted above, regional energy prices were used in sensitivity analyses. Additionally, in the proposed test procedure amendments, the usage for mobile home furnaces and direct heating equipment have been modified from a national basis to a regional one to reflect the mostly regional distribution of these products. Rebound Effect Two comments raised the issue of rebound effects, which occur when an appliance that is made more efficient is used more intensively, so that the expected energy savings from the efficiency improvement do not fully materialize. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 5; Washington Gas Light, No. 37 at 2). American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy commented that the consumer sees and reacts to his or her total utility bill, so any efficiency change in a particular product that has a small impact on his or her total utility bill should not affect usage behavior. Washington Gas Light suggested that usage elasticities should be decided by rigorous analyses of regional appliance usage characteristics.
