FR940919-2-00147 FR940919-2-00059 7. AT&T offers four hypothetical examples to illustrate the operation of the proposed exemption with respect to the Target Amount concept. In each example, it is assumed that the asset manager has discretion to sell the relevant asset without the prior approval of AT&T 7 and that its performance fee is equal to ten percent of all Net Proceeds in excess of the Threshold Amount. In each example, the Threshold Amount at the time the relevant asset is sold is $110: 7 AT&T represents that under the typical Arrangements contemplated, it intends to retain this discretion, in which event the Target Amount concept will not apply. Example 1: AT&T and an asset manager enter into an Arrangement whereby the asset manager agrees to manage a portion of the real estate investment of an AT&T Investment Fund, including Parcel X, a real estate investment to be acquired by the AT&T Investment Funds at the time the Arrangement is entered into. The cost of Parcel X is $100 cash. At the time the Arrangement is entered into, the asset manager and AT&T agree that the Target Amount shall be $100. Two years later, the asset manager sells Parcel X for $150 without the prior approval of AT&T. Having exceeded the Threshold Amount for the Arrangement, the asset manager is entitled to a performance fee of $4.00 (i.e., [$150 ^ $110] × .10). Since the asset manager exceeded the Target Amount for Parcel X, this performance fee is payable at the time of the sale of Parcel X. Example 2: Assume the same facts as in Example 1 except that Parcel X was acquired by the AT&T Investment Fund three years prior to the date the Arrangement was entered, that the initial cost of Parcel X was $50, and that its value at the time it becomes subject to the Arrangement is $100. AT&T and the asset manager agree that the Target Amount is $100, the value of Parcel X at the time it becomes subject to the Arrangement. Upon the sale of Parcel X for $150, the asset manager is entitled to a Performance Fee of $4.00, calculated and payable in the same manner as described in Example 1. Example 3 : Assume the same facts as Example 2 except that the original acquisition price of Parcel X three years prior to the Arrangement was $120. AT&T and the asset manager agree that the Target Amount is $100, the value of Parcel X at the time it becomes subject to the Arrangement. Upon the sale of Parcel X, the asset manager is entitled to a performance fee equal to $4.00, calculated and payable in the same manner as described in Example 1. Example 4: Assume the same facts as Example 3 except that the asset manager and AT&T agree that the Target Amount for Parcel X is $130 and that the asset manager sells Parcel X for $125 without the prior approval of AT&T. Upon the sale of Parcel X, the asset manager becomes entitled to a performance fee of $1.50 (i.e., [$125 ^ $110] × .10). However, because AT&T did not approve the sale at a price below the Target Amount, payment of the performance fee is deferred until the Termination Date of the Arrangement. Had AT&T approved the sale at the price below the Target Amount, the performance fee of $1.50 would have been payable upon the sale. 8. An Arrangement will terminate upon the Termination Date set forth in the Agreement, which may be changed with the approval of AT&T. Upon termination of an Arrangement, the assets under management will be either sold or retained by the Fund, and the asset manager will be entitled to a Performance Fee or an additional Performance Fee if the Threshold Amount has been reached at or before such time. In the case of any assets which are not sold upon termination of the Arrangement, the Performance Fee will be calculated using the fair market value of such assets as determined on the basis of independent valuations. 9. Each Arrangement will provide that the asset manager may be removed by AT&T at any time, without cause, upon AT&T's delivery of a notice of removal to the asset manager. An asset manager may resign at any time, without cause, upon written notice to AT&T. Upon removal or resignation of an asset manager, the asset manager will be entitled to receive a Performance Fee if, at the time of the asset manager's removal or resignation, Net Proceeds with respect to the assets under management would exceed an amount equal to the Threshold Amount. However, each Agreement will provide that such a Performance Fee will not be payable until the Termination Date and shall be subject to a reduction as determined under Part II, Section (i) of the proposed exemption. Accordingly, even if the aggregate value of the assets under management declines after an asset manager's removal or resignation, the asset manager will still receive a Performance Fee for the period of time that it provided services under an Arrangement if Net Proceeds, based on an assumed sale of the assets at their fair market value, exceed an amount equal to the Threshold Amount at the time of the asset manager's removal or resignation, subject to the calculation required under Part II, Section (i) of the proposed exemption. The applicant represents that this provision ensures that an appropriate reduction in the Performance Fee will be made if the aggregate value of the assets declines after the asset manager resigns or is removed.
