FR940406-0-00161 FR940406-0-00011 (1) The location and description of the manufacturer's emission test facilities which were utilized to conduct testing reported pursuant to this section. (2) The applicable standards against which the vehicles were tested. (3) Deterioration factors for the selected configuration. (4) A description of the vehicle selection method used. (5) For each test conducted. (i) Test vehicle description including: (A) Configuration, engine family, and refueling family identification. (B) Year, make, build date, and model of vehicle. (C) Vehicle Identification Number. (D) Miles accumulated on vehicle. (ii) Location where mileage accumulation was conducted and description of accumulation schedule. (iii) Test number, date initial test results, final results and final deteriorated test results for all valid and invalid exhaust emission tests, and the reason for invalidation. (iv) A complete description of any modification, repair, preparation, maintenance and/or testing which was performed on the test vehicle and: (A) Has not been reported pursuant to any other paragraph of this subpart; and (B) Will not be performed on all other production vehicles. (v) Carbon dioxide emission values for all valid and invalid exhaust emission tests. (vi) Where a vehicle was deleted from the test sequence by authorization of the Administrator, the reason for the deletion. (vii) Any other information the Administrator may request relevant to the determination as to whether the new motor vehicles being manufactured by the manufacturer do in fact conform with the regulations with respect to which the certificate of conformity was issued. (6) The following statement and endorsement: This report is submitted pursuant to sections 206 and 208 of the Clean Air Act. This Selective Enforcement Audit was conducted in complete conformance with all applicable regulations under 40 CFR part 86 and the conditions of the test order. No emission related change(s) to production processes or quality control procedures for the vehicle configuration tested have been made between receipt of this test order and conclusion of the audit. All data and information reported herein is, to the best of (Company Name) knowledge, true and accurate. I am aware of the penalties associated with violations of the Clean Air Act and the regulations thereunder. (Authorized Company Representative) 6. A new §86.610&hyph;98 is added to subpart G to read as follows: §86.610&hyph;98 Compliance with acceptable quality level and passing and failing criteria for Selective Enforcement Audits. (a) The prescribed acceptable quality level is 40 percent. (b) A failed vehicle is one whose final deteriorated test results pursuant to §86.609&hyph;98(c) exceed at least one of the applicable emission standards associated with the test procedures pursuant to §86.608&hyph;98(a). (c)(1) Pass/fail criteria . The manufacturer shall test vehicles comprising the test sample until a pass decision is reached for all of the pollutants associated with all of the test procedures pursuant to §86.608&hyph;98(a) or a fail decision is reached for one of these pollutants. A pass decision is reached when the cumulative number of failed vehicles, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, for each pollutant is less than or equal to the fail decision number appropriate to the cumulative number of vehicles tested. A fail decision is reached when the cumulative number of failed vehicles for one pollutant is greater than or equal to the fail decision number appropriate to the cumulative number of vehicles tested. The pass and fail decision numbers associated with the cumulative number of vehicles tested are determined by use of the tables in appendix XI of this part appropriate for the annual projected sales as made by the manufacturer in its report submitted under §600.207&hyph;80(a)(2) of this chapter (Automobile Fuel Economy Regulations). In the tables in appendix XI of this part, sampling plan ``stage'' refers to the cumulative number of vehicles tested. Once a pass decision has been made for a particular pollutant associated with a particular test procedure pursuant to §86.608&hyph;98(a), the number of vehicles whose final deteriorated test results exceed the emission standard for that pollutant may not be considered any further for purposes of the audit. (2) CST criteria only. For CST testing pursuant to subpart O, a pass or fail decision is determined according to the pass/fail criteria described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that for each vehicle, the CST in its entirety is considered one pollutant. (d) Passing or failing of an SEA audit occurs when the decision is made on the last vehicle required to make a decision under paragraph (c) of this section. (e) The Administrator may terminate testing earlier than required in paragraph (c) of this section.
