FR941027-1-00009 FR941027-1-00001 (1) All Borrowers shall be given reasonable notice of and shall be encouraged to attend and contribute to all meetings and other proceedings relating to the development of the Modernization Plan; and (2) Borrowers developing a Modernization Plan are encouraged to solicit the views of other Telecommunications Providers and interested parties in the State. (3) There is no time limit placed on the REA Borrowers to develop a Modernization Plan, however, REA, as required by the Rural Electrification Loan Restructuring Act of 1993 (107 Stat. 1356), will not approve any direct loans in States that do not have an approved Modernization Plan. See §1751.103 of this subpart. §1751.103 Loan requirements. For information about loan eligibility requirements in relation to the Modernization Plan, see 7 CFR part 1735. In particular, one year after publication of the final rule, REA will make hardship loans, REA cost-of-money loans, and RTB loans for facilities and other RE Act purposes for Telephone Borrowers in a State only if: (a) The State has an REA approved Modernization Plan; and (b) The Borrower is participating in the Modernization Plan for the State. A Borrower is considered to be participating if, in REA's opinion, the purposes of the loan requested by the Borrower are consistent with the Borrower achieving the requirements stated in the Modernization Plan within the timeframe stated in the Modernization Plan unless REA has determined that achieving the requirements is not technically or economically feasible. §1751.104 Obtaining REA approval of a proposed Modernization Plan. (a) To obtain REA approval of a proposed Modernization Plan, the Plan Developer must submit the following to REA: (1) A certified copy of the statute or PUC order, if the State is the Plan Developer, or a written request for REA approval of the proposed Modernization Plan signed by an authorized representative of the Plan Developer, if a majority of Borrowers is the Plan Developer; and (2) Three copies of the proposed Modernization Plan. (b) Generally, REA will review the proposed Modernization Plan within (30) days and either: (1) Approve the Modernization Plan if it conforms to the provisions of this subpart in which case REA will return a copy of the Modernization Plan with notice of approval to the Plan Developer; or, (2) Not approve the proposed Modernization Plan if it does not conform to the provisions of this subpart. In this event, REA will return the proposed Modernization Plan to the Plan Developer with specific written comments and suggestions for modifying the proposed Modernization Plan so that it will conform to the provisions of this subpart. If the Plan Developer remains eligible, REA will invite the Plan Developer to submit a modified proposed Modernization Plan for REA consideration. This process can continue until the Plan Developer gains approval of a proposed Modernization Plan unless the Plan Developer is a PUC or State Legislature whose eligibility has expired. If the PUC's or State Legislature's eligibility has expired, REA will return the proposed Modernization Plan unapproved. Because REA does not have authority to extend a PUC's or State Legislature's eligibility, REA recommends that a PUC or State Legislature submit a proposed Modernization Plan at least 90 days in advance of one year after publication of the final rule to allow time for this process. §1751.105 Amending a Modernization Plan. (a) REA understands that changes in standards, technology, regulation, and the economy could indicate that an REA-approved Modernization Plan should be amended. (b) The Plan Developer of the Modernization Plan may amend the Modernization Plan if REA finds the proposed changes continue to conform to the provisions of this subpart. (c) The procedure for requesting approval of an amended Modernization Plan is identical to the procedure for a proposed Modernization Plan except that there are no time limits on the eligibility of the Plan Developer. (d) The existing Modernization Plan remains in force until REA has approved the proposed amended Modernization Plan. (e) REA may from time to time revise these regulations to incorporate newer technological and economic standards that REA believes represent more desirable goals for the future course of telecommunications services. Such revisions will be made in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. These revisions shall not invalidate Modernization Plans approved by REA but shall be used by REA to determine whether to approve amendments to Modernization Plans presented for REA approval after the effective date of the revision. §1751.106 Modernization Plan_requirements. (a) A Modernization Plan must set service requirements for improving the Public Switched Network and must at a minimum meet the following requirements: (1) The Modernization Plan must provide for the elimination of party line service. (2) The Modernization Plan must provide for the availability of telecommunications services for improved business, educational, and medical services. (3) The Modernization Plan must encourage and improve computer networks and information highways for subscribers in rural areas. (4) The Modernization Plan must provide for: (i) Subscribers in rural areas to be able to receive through telephone lines: (A) Conference calling; (B) Video images; and (C) Data at a rate of at least 1,000,000 bits of information per second; and
