FR940505-1-00318 FR940505-1-00012 R 2004 =Allowable VOC for all emissions sources at the facility for the year 2004 in units of kg (lbs) per month, R o =Baseline VOC emissions in units of kg (lbs) per month for each emissions source at the facility. Baseline emissions shall be calculated in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A)( 2 ) of this section. i=Subscript denoting a specific emissions source, and n=Total number of emissions sources at the facility. E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.077 (See footnote to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B)( 1 ) of this section) where R 2005 =Allowable VOC for all emissions sources at the facility for the year 2005 in units of kg (lbs) per month, R o =Baseline VOC emissions in units of kg (lbs) per month for each emissions source at the facility. Baseline emissions shall be calculated in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. i=Subscript denoting a specific emissions source, and n=Total number of emissions sources at the facility. (iv) Reporting. Each owner or operator of a facility which is subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section shall submit to the Administrator by March 1 of each calendar year, beginning in 2002, a certification of compliance with this section for the previous calendar year. This certification shall include: (A) A declaration that the facility is in compliance with all of the requirements of this section; and (B) Documentation of methods used to achieve the VOC emissions reductions required in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (v) Recordkeeping. Each owner or operator of a facility which is subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, shall collect and record all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section for each emissions source and maintain the information at the facility for a period of five (5) years. The information shall be collected and recorded each day of each calendar year beginning in 2001 and ending with 2005. (vi) Testing and Monitoring. The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and/or to install monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)(B) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (4) Commercial Food Preparation and/or Baking. (i) Definitions. (A) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the general definitions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply. (B) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the following definitions also apply: Brandy-making facility means a facility that distills wine, the refuse of a wine press, or any other fermented fruit juices to produce alcoholic liquors. Charcoal means any substance obtained by charring wood or any other organic matter by a process of smothered combustion to exclude air. Commercial baking facility means a facility that bakes bread, biscuits, rolls, pies, cakes, cookies, or other similar products. Commercial charbroiling facility means a facility that broils any type of food over a charcoal or gas-fired broiler. Food preparation facility means any commercial baking, commercial charbroiling, wine- or brandy-making, fruit and vegetable preservation, grain mill production, vegetable oil production, or malt beverage production facility. This definition includes restaurants involved in activities described in the previous sentence. Fruit and vegetable preservation facility means a facility that preserves food by, but not limited to, canning, curing, pickling, salting, smoking, cooking, or freezing. Grain mill production facility means a facility that grinds any grain including, but not limited to, wheat, rice, corn, or rye into flour or meal. Malt beverage production facility means a facility engaged in malting, fermentation, aging, or packaging of barley or any other grain for the purpose of producing an alcoholic beverage. Vegetable oil production facility means a facility that extracts oil from any vegetable seed. Wine- or brandy-making facility means a facility that ferments juices from grapes or any other fruit for the purpose of producing alcoholic beverages. (ii) Applicability.
