FR940128-2-00185 FR940128-2-00118 Part III. Application Process A. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants for these demonstration projects to be funded under this announcement are public agencies and private nonprofit organizations. B. Application Procedures 1. Submission of Proposal All instructions and forms required for submittal of applications are included in this announcement. An original and three (3) copies of the application shall be submitted. The application package shall consist of two (2) separate and distinct parts. Part I, The Financial Proposal and Part II, the Technical proposal. The Financial Proposal, Part I, shall contain the SF&hyph;424, ``Application for Federal assistance'' (Attachment No. 1) and SF424&hyph;A, ``Budget'' (Attachment No. 2). The budget shall include on a separate page(s) a cost analysis of the budget, identifying in detail the amount of each budget line item attributable to each cost category. The Technical Proposal, Part II shall address the Statement of Work as called for in this application along with documenting the applicants previous experience and capability to carry out the proposed demonstration project. Applicants should describe the proposed technical approach including the phasing of tasks and the scheduling of time and personnel. No cost data or reference to price shall be included in the Technical Proposal, Part II, so that an independent evaluation can be made solely on the basis of technical merit. 2. Late Proposals Any proposal not reaching the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Office of Grants and Contract Management, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, room S4203, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210 by the specified time and date as set forth under the section noted as DATES will not be considered, unless postmarked five (5) days prior to the stated closing date. The term ``postmark'' means a printed, stamped or otherwise placed impression (exclusive of postage meter-machine impression) that is readily identifiable without further action having been supplied or affixed on the date of mailing by employees of the U.S. Postal Service. 3. Hand-Delivered Proposals Although it is preferred that all proposals be submitted through the U.S. Postal Service, hand delivered proposals will be accepted if received and time stamped by the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Office of Grants and Contract Management, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, room S4203, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210 by 2 p.m., Eastern Standard Time by March 14, 1994. Telegraphed and/or faxed proposals will not be accepted. Failure to adhere to the above instructions will be a basis for a determination of nonresponsiveness. 4. Period of Performance The period of performance will be twelve (12) months from the date of execution by the government. 5. Option To Extend Depending upon the availability of funds, and the assessment of the grantee's performance by the U.S. Department of Labor, the government reserves the right to extend the grant for up to two (2) one year extensions beyond the initial 12-month period of performance. C. Proposal Format Each application should contain the information necessary for the Department to evaluate it in terms of the selection criteria, identified in part III.D. The general format that should be followed is outlined below: 1. A statement of the problem to be addressed and a brief summary of the proposed demonstration project. 2. A historic overview of your organization and a statement of relevant experience supporting the proposed demonstration project.
