FR940620-1-00075 FR940620-1-00009 (3) Limited Rights. (i) Except as provided in subparagraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(iv) through (b)(1)(ix) of this clause, the Government shall have limited rights in technical data_ (A) Pertaining to items, components, or processes developed exclusively at private expense and marked with the limited rights legend prescribed in paragraph (f) of this clause; or, (B) Created exclusively at private expense in the performance of a contract that does not require the development, manufacture, construction, or production of items, components, or processes. (ii) The Government shall require a recipient of limited rights data for emergency repair or overhaul to destroy the data and all copies in its possession promptly following completion of the emergency repair/overhaul and to notify the Contractor that the data have been destroyed. (iii) The contractor, its subcontractors, and suppliers are not required to provide the Government additional rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, or disclose technical data furnished to the Government with limited rights. However, if the Government desires to obtain additional rights in technical data in which it has limited rights, the contractor agrees to promptly enter into negotiations with the contracting officer to determine whether there are acceptable terms for transferring such rights. All technical data in which the contractor has granted the Government additional rights shall be listed or described in a license agreement made part of the contract. The license shall enumerate the additional rights granted the Government in such data. (4) Specifically negotiated license rights. The standard license rights granted to the Government under subparagraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this clause, including the period during which the Government shall have government purpose rights in technical data, may be modified by mutual agreement to provide such rights as the parties consider appropriate but shall not provide the Government lesser rights than are enumerated in paragraph (a)(13) of this clause. Any rights so negotiated shall be identified in a license agreement made part of this contract. (5) Prior government rights. Technical data that will be delivered, furnished, or otherwise provided to the Government under this contract, in which the Government has previously obtained rights shall be delivered, furnished, or provided with the pre-existing rights, unless_ (i) The parties have agreed otherwise; or,
