FR941213-2-00048 FR941213-2-00036 Geological Survey National Digital Cartographic Data Base SUMMARY: The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) needs to obtain Digital Line Graphs (DLG), Digital Elevation Models (DEM), Digital Raster Graphics (DRG), and Digital Orthophotoquads (DOQ) captured from or registered to USGS primary series topographic maps for entry into the National Digital Cartographic Data Base (NDCDB) as part of the public domain. The USGS recognizes the public benefit of obtaining DLG, DEM, DLG, and DOQ data prepared by State and local government agencies, public utilities, and private firms. The USGS seeks to identify other sources of digital map data for areas now lacking DLG, DEM, DRG, or DOQ coverage, and to obtain technically acceptable data through cooperative agreements. When it is in the Government's interest, and subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the USGS will assist qualified organizations in preparing digital map data to USGS standards for NDCDB archiving and public distribution in non-proprietary formats. DATES: Program Announcement 8080 is expected to be available in December 1994. Prospective applicants are requested to state in writing their interest. ADDRESSES: Letters should be addressed to Nedra Stallone, Mail Stop 205A, Contracting Officer, U.S. Geological Survey, 12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, Reston, VA 22092 (703) 648&hyph;7364. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: U.S. Geological Survey, Attn. Richard L. Kleckner, 590 National Center, 12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, Reston, VA 22092, (703) 648&hyph;5741, email rkleckne@usgs.gov. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice does not solicit contract support for specific USGS digital mapping requirements, nor does it encourage speculative ventures by any potential cooperator. The intent is to identify accurate primary digital map data being prepared by non-Federal organizations to support their own mapping needs, and to determine whether the data can be obtained in DLG, DEM, DRG, and DOQ formats (or converted to these formats by USGS) through cooperative agreements. All data obtained under this initiative will be archived by USGS as part of the public domain. Acceptable data must meet general requirements for source, content, accuracy, and format as detailed in USGS National Mapping Program Technical Instructions: Standards for Digital Line Graphs; Standards for Digital Elevation Models ; Standards for Digital Raster Graphics; and Standards for Digital Orthophotos (Internet FTP nmdpow9.er.usgs.gov/public). The USGS may support acceptable proposals by providing any of the following: funds; source materials; public domain software; data validation; technical assistance; other materials and services. Assistance will be offered to the applicant(s) offering the greatest technical benefits at a fair and reasonable cost relative to the amount of USGS funds available. All proposed cooperative agreements must be determined by the USGS to serve the public interest, and to comply with applicable public law. Authority for this Program is contained in the Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey Fiscal Year 1994 appropriation bill. Dated: November 29, 1994. William Gossmann, Acting Assistant Director for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30563 Filed 12&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;31&hyph;M
