FR940804-2-00137 FR940804-2-00077 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34462; File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;18] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Changes in the Chicago Basket July 28, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on July 22, 1994, the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CHX'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange submits the following proposed rule change to amend the first paragraph of Interpretation and Policy .01 of Rule 3 of Article XXXVI. The remainder of Interpretation and Policy .01 would remain unchanged. Specifically, the changed language is as follows: Additions are italicized ; deletions [bracketed] .01␣The Chicago Basket (CXM) The Exchange will trade a basket of stocks based upon the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's stock index XMI futures contract (the ``Merc Futures Contract''). The CXM will consist of the stocks included in the Merc Futures Contract in a fixed quantity of [25] 5 shares of each of the stocks included in the futures contract. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed change is to reduce the size of the Chicago Basket (``CXM'') from 25 shares of each component stock to 5 shares of each component stock, in order to permit more entities and persons to be able to trade the CXM basket. The rules that permit the CXM basket to be traded on the Exchange were submitted for Commission approval and were approved on October 15, 1993. 1 1 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33053 (October 15, 1993), 58 FR 54610 (October 22, 1993) (File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;93&hyph;18). The CXM basket would not be comprised of a new fixed quantity of shares (5 instead of 25) of each of the stocks included in a futures contract traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. This XMI futures contract is based on the American Stock Exchange's Major Market Index (``MMI''). The MMI is a broad-based, price-weighted index currently based on 20 stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and to perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) As the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CHX. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;18 and should be submitted by August 25, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18961 Filed 8&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
