FR941019-1-00053 FR941019-1-00005 15. Paragraph (g)(2)(iv) is added. 16. Paragraph (h) is revised. 17. The added and revised provisions read as follows: §48.4081&hyph;6 Taxable fuel; gasohol. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (iii) Products derived from alcohol. Alcohol includes alcohol described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section that is chemically transformed in producing another product so that the alcohol is no longer present as a separate chemical in the other product, provided that there is no significant loss in the energy content of the alcohol. Thus, for example, alcohol described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section that is used to produce ethyl tertiary butyl ether (ETBE) in a chemical reaction in which there is no significant loss in the energy content of the alcohol is treated as alcohol when the ETBE is mixed with gasoline. (2) Gasohol _(i) In general . Gasohol is a mixture of gasoline and alcohol that is 10 percent gasohol, 7.7 percent gasohol, or 5.7 percent gasohol immediately after the mixture is blended. The determination of whether a particular mixture is 10 percent gasohol, 7.7 percent gasohol, or 5.7 percent gasohol is made on a batch-by-batch basis. A batch of gasohol is a discrete mixture of gasoline and alcohol. If a batch is splash blended, the contents of the batch typically correspond to a gasoline meter delivery ticket and an alcohol meter delivery ticket, each of which shows the number of gallons of liquid delivered into the mixture. In such case, the volume of each component in a batch (without adjustment for temperature) ordinarily is determined by the number of metered gallons shown on the delivery tickets for the gasoline and alcohol delivered. However, if a blender adds metered gallons of gasoline and alcohol to a tank already containing more than a minor amount of liquid (other than gasohol), the determination of whether a batch is gasohol and of its type will be made by taking into account the amount of alcohol and non-alcohol fuel contained in the liquid already in the tank. Ordinarily, any amount in excess of 0.5 percent of the capacity of the tank will not be considered minor. (ii) 10 percent gasohol _(A) In general . A batch of gasoline/alcohol mixture is 10 percent gasohol if it contains at least 10 percent alcohol by volume, without rounding. (B) Batches containing less than 10 percent but at least 9.8 percent alcohol. If a batch of mixture contains less than 10 percent alcohol but at least 9.8 percent alcohol, without rounding, a portion of the batch is considered to be 10 percent gasohol. That portion equals the number of gallons of alcohol in the batch multiplied by 10. Any remaining liquid in the mixture is excess liquid. If tax was imposed on the excess liquid at the gasohol production rate (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section), the excess liquid in the batch is considered to be gasoline with respect to which there is a failure to blend into gasohol for purposes of paragraph (g) of this section. Excess liquid is considered to be removed before the removal of the gasohol portion. If tax was imposed on the excess liquid at the rate of tax described in section 4081(a), a credit or refund under section 6427(f) is not allowed with respect to the excess liquid. (iii) 7.7 percent gasohol . A batch of gasoline/alcohol mixture is 7.7 percent gasohol if and only if it contains at least 7.7 percent, but less than 9.8 percent, alcohol by volume, without rounding. (iv) 5.7 percent gasohol . A batch of gasoline/alcohol mixture is 5.7 percent gasohol if and only if it contains at least 5.7 percent, but less than 7.7 percent, alcohol by volume, without rounding. (v) Examples . This paragraph (b)(2) may be illustrated by the following examples. In these examples, a gasohol blender creates a gasoline/alcohol mixture by pumping a specified amount of gasoline into an empty tank. The blender then splash blends a specified amount of alcohol into gasoline. Example 1. Mixtures containing exactly 10 percent alcohol. The applicable delivery tickets show that the mixture is made with 7200 metered gallons of gasoline and 800 metered gallons of alcohol. Accordingly, the mixture contains 10 percent alcohol (as determined based on the delivery tickets provided to the blender) and qualifies as 10 percent gasohol. Example 2. Mixtures containing less than 10 percent alcohol but at least 9.8 percent alcohol. The applicable delivery tickets show that the mixture is made with 7205 metered gallons of gasoline and 795 metered gallons of alcohol. Because the mixture contains less than 10 percent alcohol, but more than 9.8 percent alcohol, (as determined based on the delivery tickets provided to the blender), 7950 gallons of the mixture qualify as 10 percent gasohol. If tax was imposed on the gasoline in the mixture at the gasohol production rate, the remaining 50 gallons of the mixture are treated as gasoline with respect to which there was a failure to blend into gasohol for purposes of paragraph (g) of this section. If tax was imposed on the gasoline in the mixture at the rate of tax described in section 4081(a), a credit or refund under section 6427(f) is allowed only with respect to 7155 gallons of gasoline. Example 3 . The applicable delivery tickets show that the mixture is made with 7550 metered gallons of gasoline and 450 metered gallons of alcohol. Because the mixture contains only 5.625 percent alcohol (as determined based on the delivery tickets provided to the blender), the mixture does not qualify as gasohol. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (ii) *␣*␣* (B) Has no reason to believe that any information in the certificate is false. (2) *␣*␣* (ii) Model certificate. CERTIFICATE OF REGISTERED GASOHOL BLENDER (To support sales of gasoline at the gasohol production tax rate under section 4081(c) of the Internal Revenue Code) Name, address, and employer identification number of seller XXXXXXXX (Buyer) certifies the Name of Buyer following under penalties of perjury: Buyer is registered as a gasohol blender with registration number XXXXXXXX . Buyer's registration has not been suspended or revoked by the Internal Revenue Service. The gasoline bought under this certificate will be used by Buyer to produce gasohol (as defined in §48.4081&hyph;6(b) of the Manufacturers and Retailers Excise Tax Regulations) within 24 hours after buying the gasoline. Type of gasohol Buyer will produce (check one only): XXXX 10% gasohol XXXX 7.7% gasohol XXXX 5.7% gasohol If the gasohol the Buyer will produce will contain ethanol, check here: XXXX . This certificate applies to the following (complete as applicable):
