FR940429-0-00147 FR940429-0-00014 Changes: This section has been revised to make clear that the provisions of §§600.8 and 600.10 also apply to the eligibility of additional locations. Section 600.40␣Loss of Eligibility Comments: A number of commenters suggested that to avoid an institution's sudden closure and the consequent interruption of the education of currently enrolled students, there should be some provision for those students to receive aid to complete their educational program even after the institution has lost its eligibility. Discussion: Under §668.25 of the current Student Assistance General Provisions regulations, and proposed 34 CFR 668.26 (see 59 FR pages 9580&hyph;9581) that will go into effect on July 1, 1994, provisions have been made to pay title IV, HEA program funds to students enrolled in institutions that are terminated. Under those sections, if termination became effective during a payment period and a student had received a commitment to receive title-IV, HEA Program funds for that payment period before the effective date of termination, the student would receive those funds for that payment period as long as the institution continued to provide instruction to the student during that payment period. Changes: None. Comments: Several commenters suggested that the end of the applicable award or fiscal year should not be used as the effective date for loss of eligibility as a result of a violation of the requirement to derive more than 85 percent of an institution's revenues from title IV, HEA program funds. They pointed out that the loss of eligibility has the effect of causing an institution to be liable for any title IV, HEA program funds disbursed or delivered after that date but before a compliance audit substantiating the institution's calculations is performed. These commenters suggested that institutions not be held liable for any such disbursements or deliveries of those funds made before the date on which calculations are audited. Discussion: These comments have been addressed in connection with §600.5. Changes: None. Section 600.41␣Termination and Emergency Action Proceedings Comments: Three commenters supported the Secretary's proposed position in this section to use a show-cause proceeding for terminations of institutional eligibility only in instances where neither the facts nor the law would be in dispute during the proceeding. Two commenters objected to the use of a show-cause proceeding (in place of a proceeding under 34 CFR part 668, subpart G) for terminations of institutional eligibility for a violation under §§600.5(a)(8) or 600.7(a), claiming that violations of these provisions could involve questions of fact that are in dispute. A commenter also objected to the use of a show-cause proceeding (in place of a proceeding under 34 CFR part 668, subpart G) for terminations for loss of accreditation, preaccreditation, or State legal authorization. One commenter suggested that the Secretary always use a proceeding under 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, for violations of provisions in part 600. One commenter suggested that the Secretary always use a show-cause proceeding, rather than a proceeding under 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, for terminations of institutional eligibility. Discussion: The Secretary reiterates that because an institution itself reports that it is not in compliance with the applicable eligibility requirements of §§600.5 or 600.7, there is no question of fact in dispute in a termination action taken on those grounds. The Secretary continues to believe that a termination proceeding under 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, is neither necessary nor cost effective when facts are not in dispute. The Secretary agrees, however, that it is appropriate to use the provisions of 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, when the Secretary undertakes to terminate an institution's eligibility when the facts giving rise to that termination are in dispute. However, even with regard to these institutions, the Secretary may take an emergency action against such an institution if that action is considered warranted, and if the institution challenges the emergency action, that dispute is heard in a show-cause proceeding. Changes: None. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification Comment: In the NPRM, the Secretary certified that the proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Several commenters suggested that this statement was erroneous and that these rules will definitely have a significant impact on institutions, especially the smaller ones that are not computerized. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes that the regulations will have an impact on small institutions. However, based on Department estimates of the impact, the Secretary does not believe that the impact will be disproportionately or economically significant. The Secretary therefore reaffirms his certification that the regulations would not have a significant economic impact or a substantial significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. To the extent that commenters are able to provide additional information on the economic impact of the regulations, the Secretary invites the commenters to submit this information so that it may be considered in reviewing the regulations to reduce regulatory burden. Changes: None. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Comment: In the NPRM, the Secretary provided an estimate for the total number of burden hours associated with these regulations. Several commenters suggested that this estimate was understated. Discussion: In estimating the total number of burden hours associated with these regulations, the Secretary considers the best information that is available to the Department and computes the estimate based on that information. The commenters have complained about the burden but have not provided sufficient additional information to support a revised computation of burden hours. The Secretary appreciates the comments and recognizes that the requirements of the statute and regulations impose a burden. As a result of the comments and revisions to the regulations, the Department is modifying the burden estimates. The total annual reporting and recordkeeping burden that would result from the collection of the information is 20,375 burden hours for this package. Changes: None. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the final regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements were identified and explained in the NPRM. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the regulations justify the costs.
