FR940603-1-00032 FR940603-1-00007 (ii) The vessel has made a qualifying landing or submits a complete moratorium qualification transfer application with the vessel permit application; and (iii) The LOA of the vessel, which is specified on the permit application, does not exceed the maximum LOA for that vessel. If the vessel reconstruction provisions at §676.3(b)(2) apply, a vessel owner also should submit a complete vessel reconstruction application with the vessel permit application. All permits issued by NMFS will list the maximum LOA applicable for that vessel and for any vessel to which the moratorium qualification is transferred. (2) If NMFS determines that the vessel is not an eligible vessel, the vessel owner will be notified in writing by NMFS that a vessel permit will not be issued and the reasons therefor. If NMFS denies an application for a vessel permit, the applicant may appeal the initial decision within 45 days of issuance of the denial in accordance with the appeal procedures set forth at §676.6. (b) Crab permits. (1) A vessel owner that intends to harvest king and Tanner crab fisheries in Federal waters of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area from January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1997, must apply for and be issued a crab moratorium vessel permit from NMFS. An application for a vessel permit can be obtained from NOAA/NMFS, Alaska Enforcement Division, P.O. Box 21767, Juneau, Alaska 99802&hyph;1767. A vessel permit will be issued if: (i) The vessel owner submits a complete vessel permit application to NMFS as required by §671.4; (ii) The vessel has made a qualifying landing or submits a complete moratorium qualification transfer application with the vessel permit application; and (iii) The LOA of the vessel that is specified on the permit application does not exceed the maximum LOA for that vessel. If the vessel reconstruction provisions at §676.3(b)(2) apply, a vessel owner also should submit a complete vessel reconstruction application with the vessel permit application. A permit issued by NMFS will list the maximum LOA for that vessel and for any vessel to which the moratorium qualification is transferred. (2) If NMFS determines that the vessel is not an eligible vessel, the vessel owner will be notified in writing by NMFS that a vessel permit will not be issued and the reasons therefor. If NMFS denies an application for a vessel permit, the applicant may appeal the initial decision within 45 days of issuance of the denial in accordance with the appeals section at §676.6. (c) Halibut Licenses. (1) A vessel owner that intends to harvest halibut in waters in and off the State of Alaska from January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1997, must apply for and be issued an unrestricted vessel license from the International Pacific Halibut Commission. An unrestricted vessel license will be issued if: (i) The vessel owner submits a complete vessel license application to the International Pacific Halibut Commission as required by part 301; (ii) The vessel has made a qualifying landing; and (iii) The LOA of the vessel specified on the license application does not exceed the maximum LOA. An unrestricted vessel license issued by the International Pacific Halibut Commission will list the maximum LOA for that vessel and for any vessel to which the moratorium qualification is transferred. (2) If the IPHC determines that the vessel does not satisfy the requirements of (c)(1) of this section, the vessel owner will be issued a restricted vessel license applicable only for International Pacific Halibut Commission management area 2A or 2B. If the applicant is issued a restricted vessel license, the applicant may submit additional information to NMFS within 45 days of issuance of the restricted license. NMFS will review the additional information submitted and notify the vessel owner in writing whether an unrestricted vessel license will be issued. If NMFS determines that an unrestricted vessel license should be issued, NMFS will instruct the IPHC to issue an unrestricted vessel license to the vessel owner. If NMFS determines that an unrestricted vessel license should not be issued, and the reasons therefor, the vessel owner may appeal the initial decision within 45 days of issuance of the denial in accordance with the appeal procedures set forth at §676.6. (d) Vessel used in the IFQ sablefish and halibut fixed gear fisheries. An owner of a vessel used in the IFQ sablefish and halibut fixed gear fisheries from January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1997, must apply for a groundfish and crab vessel permit. A vessel permit will be issued if the vessel owner submits a complete application to NMFS as required by §§671.4, 672.4, or 675.4. The type of permit issued will be based upon the eligibility of the vessel under the moratorium as follows: (1) Eligible vessel. A vessel used in the IFQ sablefish and halibut fixed gear fisheries that is an eligible vessel under the moratorium will be issued an unrestricted groundfish and crab vessel permit. A vessel that is issued an unrestricted groundfish and crab vessel permit may retain amounts of moratorium species other than sablefish and halibut subject to applicable directed fishing standards.
