FR940106-0-00011 FR940106-0-00003 Detailed Schedule of Inventory Differences A detailed schedule of differences between physical inventory, perpetual inventory records, and the general ledger (identifying gross overages and gross shortages) is provided below. This schedule is not a required part of the basic financial statements but is supplementary information required by 7 CFR 1773.34(d). We have applied certain limited procedures, which consisted principally of inquiries of management regarding the method of measurement and presentation of the supplementary information. However, we did not audit the information and express no opinion on it. [Disclose the disposition of inventory differences.] [The detailed schedule of inventory differences would be included here. The word ``unaudited'' should appear in the title of the schedule.] For Electric Borrowers Only: Detailed Schedule of Deferred Debits and Deferred Credits Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole. The detailed schedule of deferred debits and deferred credits required by 7 CFR 1773.34(h) and provided below is presented for purposes of additional analysis and is not a required part of the basic financial statements. This information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audit of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole. [The detailed schedule of deferred debits and deferred credits would be included here. The total amount of deferred debits and deferred credits as reported in the schedule must agree with the totals reported on the Balance Sheet under the specific captions of ``Deferred Debits'' and ``Deferred Credits''. Those items that have been approved, in writing, by REA should be clearly indicated.] This report is intended solely for the information and use of the board of directors, management, and the REA and supplemental lenders. However, this report is a matter of public record and its distribution is not limited. Name of Firm Michael V. Dunn, Acting Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;196 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;M
