FR940325-2-00090 FR940325-2-00046 d. Ability of applicants to perform. Organizations must detail their competence in the specific program area. Documentation must be provided which addresses (1) accomplishments relevant to the proposed project, and (2) experience relevant to the CSBG program. Organizations which propose providing training and technical assistance must detail their competence in the specific program priority area and as a deliverer with expertise in the fields of training and technical assistance on a nationwide basis. If applicable, information provided by these applicants must also address related achievements and competence of each cooperating or sponsoring organization. e. Staffing and resources. The application must fully describe (e.g. a resume) the experience and skills of the proposed project director and primary staff showing that the individuals are not only well qualified but that their professional capabilities are relevant to the successful implementation of the proposed project. Part G_Post Award Information and Reporting Requirements Following approval of the applications selected for funding, notice of project approval and authority to draw down project funds will be made in writing. The official award document is the Notice of Grant Award which provides the amount of Federal funds approved for use in the project, the project and budget periods for which support is provided, the terms and conditions of the award, and the total project period for which support is contemplated. In addition to the standard terms and conditions which will be applicable to grants, grantee will be subject to the provisions of 45 CFR parts 74 (non-governmental) and 92 (governmental) and OMB Circulars A&hyph;128 and A&hyph;133. Grantees will be required to submit quarterly progress and financial reports (SF&hyph;269) as well as a final progress and financial report. Grantees are subject to the audit requirements in 45 CFR parts 74 (non-governmental) and 92 (governmental) and OMB Circulars A&hyph;128 and A&hyph;133. Section 1352 of Public Law 101&hyph;121, signed into law on October 23, 1989, imposes prohibitions and requirements for disclosure and certification related to lobbying on recipients of Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and loans. It provides exemptions for Indian tribes and tribal organizations. Current and prospective recipients (and their subtier contractors and/or grantees) are prohibited from using Federal funds, other than profits from a Federal contract, for lobbying Congress or any Federal agency in connection with the award of a contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or loan. In addition, for each award action in excess of $100,000 (or $150,000 for loans) the law requires recipients and their subtier contractors and/or subgrantees (1) to certify that they have neither used nor will use any appropriated funds for payment to lobbyists, (2) to disclose the name, address, payment details, and purpose of any agreements with lobbyists whom recipients or their subtier contractors or subgrantee will pay with profits or nonappropriated funds on or after December 22, 1989, and (3) to file quarterly up-dates about the use of lobbyists if material changes occur in their use. The law establishes civil penalties for noncompliance. See Attachment F for certification and disclosure forms to be submitted with the applications for this program. Attachment H indicates the regulations which apply to all applicants/grantees under this program. Dated: March 17, 1994. Donald Sykes, Director, Office of Community Services. BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN25MR94.000 BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;C
