FR940413-0-00045 FR940413-0-00012 Discussion of Comments and Changes The Coast Guard has received eight comments on the NPRM. Six comments endorsed the expansion of the safety zone or reversed previous comments which raised questions about the safety zone. One comment stated that LOOP should provide assurances that they will contain their activities to the limits of the safety zone and that LOOP should provide additional equipment and operational policies necessary to do so. The Coast Guard has determined that LOOP has taken sufficient measures to assure safe operation of the facility. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration identified four miles of submerged pipelines in the expanded safety zone. These pipelines have been located in this area at least since 1987 when the excursion zone was first put into effect. The Coast Guard concludes that the expanded safety zone will not increase the opportunity for disturbance of submerged pipelines in the safety zone. The Coast Guard has not revised the final rule based on comments received on the NPRM. Regulatory Assessment This rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(F)(1) of Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735; October 4, 1993), and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that Order. It has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under that Order. It is not a significant regulation under the ``Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures'' (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The economic consequences of this rulemaking are minimal. Economic effects include impacts on mineral extraction and the commercial fishing industry. The expansion is relatively insignificant, comprising an approximate 15 percent increase in the size of the safety zone. When the original safety zone was established, it was not expected that there would be significant interference with mineral extraction or navigation. Due to the relatively small size of the expansion, no impacts on mineral extraction or navigation are expected in this case either. Access is available via alternative methods such as directional drilling. This rulemaking will have minimal economic consequences for commercial vessels, including commercial fishing vessels. Commercial fishing vessels will continue to have restricted use of portions of the safety zone as provided in 33 CFR Table 150.345(a). Therefore, due to the small additional area involved, the impact on fishing activities is negligible. No opposition to the NPRM was received from the commercial fishing industry. The Coast Guard did not receive any comments on the economic consequences of this rulemaking. In addition, this rulemaking provides permanent safety benefits. Providing additional maneuvering area minimizes the likelihood of a catastrophic pollution incident resulting from a vessel colliding with any portion of the LOOP facility. Therefore, the Coast Guard expects that expansion of the safety zone will reduce the environmental hazard. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this safety zone will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small business concerns under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). The small entities affected by this rule are commercial fishing activities at the deepwater port. The Coast Guard did not receive any comments on the impact of this rulemaking on small entities. The impact will be minimal. Therefore, the Coast Guard certifies under section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This rule contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501, et seq. ).
