FR940304-0-00053 FR940304-0-00017 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Parts 61 and 69 [CC Docket No. 91&hyph;213, FCC 94&hyph;9] Transport Rate Structure and Pricing AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This order modifies certain features of the price cap regulatory system applicable to local exchange carriers (LECs) to complement the FCC's recent restructure of the LECs' local transport rates. Specifically, the order moves transport services, including all the transmission-related elements, the tandem switching charge, and the interconnection charge, out of the price cap basket for traffic sensitive services, and places them into a combined ``trunking'' basket containing transport and special access services. The order realigns the service categories and subcategories within the trunking basket, and adapts the pricing bands applicable to these categories and subcategories, to reflect the similarities between certain special access and flat-rated transport services, and to accommodate the new density zone pricing system that the Commission adopted for both special access and transport. These rule changes encourage the LECs to align their transport rates to reflect more closely how costs are incurred, thus promoting more efficient usage and deployment of the country's telecommunications networks, advancing competition in both the long-distance and local access markets, and ultimately reducing access charges and long-distance rates and stimulating the economy by increasing demand for these services. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David L. Sieradzki, Common Carrier Bureau, Policy & Program Planning Division, 202&hyph;632&hyph;1304. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a synopsis of the Commission's Second Report and Order in CC Docket No. 91&hyph;213, adopted on January 19, 1994 and released on January 31, 1994. The complete text of this Second Report and Order is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference Center, 1919 M St. NW., room 230, Washington, DC 20554. Synopsis of Second Report and Order 1. The Commission adopts its proposal to remove the transport service categories from the traffic sensitive basket and place them into a combined basket that also contains special access services. The Commission renames this merged basket the ``trunking basket.'' The Commission is placing the tandem switching charge in the newly formed trunking basket, and keeping it in the same service category as tandem-switched transport. The Commission is placing the interconnection charge service category in the trunking basket. 2. The Commission is adopting a modified version of its proposal in the Further Notice in this proceeding, 57 FR 54205 (Nov. 17, 1992), on the arrangement of service categories within the newly formed trunking basket. The Commission concludes that flat-rated transport (entrance facilities, direct-trunked transport, and dedicated signalling transport) should be incorporated into the corresponding special access service categories. Thus, demand for voice grade flat-rated transport will be assigned to the existing voice grade-WATS-metallic-telegraph service category in the current special access basket for the purposes of computing the service band index (SBI) and pricing bands for that category. Demand for DS1 and DS3 flat-rated transport will be assigned, respectively, to the DS1 and DS3 subcategories of the high capacity-DDS service category in the current special access basket for purposes of computing the SBIs and bands for those subcategories. Tandem-switched transport (including the tandem switching element) and the interconnection charge will be separate service categories in the trunking basket. 3. The Commission concludes that the density pricing zone subcategories within the flat-rated transport service category should be incorporated into the existing zone subcategories within the existing DS3 and DS1 special access subcategories, with one exception. In some cases, a LEC might implement density zone pricing for transport in a different tariff year than it implemented density zone pricing for special access. In such circumstances, the Commission will require LECs to retain separate zone bands for special access and flat-rated transport services until the end of the tariff year following the tariff year in which density pricing was implemented for the later service. After that time, the zone bands for special access and transport can be consolidated.
