FR941205-2-00079 FR941205-2-00045 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;35016; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;46] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by American Stock Exchange, Inc. Revising Qualification Examinations Administered by the Exchange. November 29, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on October 25, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The American Stock Exchange, Inc. is filing this proposed rule change pursuant to a Commission request that all qualification examinations administered by the Exchange be filed with the Commission. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, Amex, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Commission takes the position that self-regulatory organizations must file for Commission review all actions imposing qualification standards. 1 The Exchange has gone through an extensive process to update and revise its examinations to conform them to new rules and procedures. Accordingly, the Amex is submitting the contents of its qualification examinations and related materials as a proposed rule change. 1 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 17258 (October 30, 1980), 45 FR 73906. See also letter from Brandon Becker, SEC, to Gordon L. Nash, Amex, dated March 5, 1991. The Amex administers six qualification examinations: the Qualification Examination for Regular Members, the Qualification Examination for Options Principal Members (``OPMs''), the Put and Call Stock Option Examination, the Put and Call Option Questionnaire for Listed Personnel, the Specialist Examination and the Registered Equity Trader and Registered Equity Market Maker Examination. Pursuant to Exchange Rule 50(a) very applicant for regular and options principal membership shall pass a qualifying examination prior to undertaking any active duties on the Floor. As a result, regular members who may trade stocks and options take both the Qualifying Examination for Regular Floor Members and the Put and Call Stock Option Examination. OPMs, who are prohibited from trading equities, take the Qualifying Examination for OPMs and the Put and Call Stock Option Examination. Limited Trading Permit Holders take the Qualifying Examination for OPMs and the Put and Call Stock Option Examination. Commentary .01 to Exchange Rule 50(a) requires that a regular member who applies to register as a specialist and a regular or OPM member who applies to register as a registered floor trader must also pass an examination. Specialists take the Specialist Examination. Registered floor traders take the Registered Equity Trader and Registered Equity Trader and Registered Equity Market Maker Examination. Any member who was registered and approved by the Exchange prior to 1977, the date when the Series 7 exam began to cover standardized options, must successfully complete an examination before being registered to do public options business. 2 These individuals must take the Listed Put and Call Options Questionnaire for Registered Personnel. 2 See Amex Rule 920. The Qualification Examinations for Regular Members and OPMS, and the Put and Call Examination are administered by the Director of Membership Services. The Specialist and Registered Traders Examinations are administered by the Assistant Director of Trading Analysis.
