FR940114-1-00033 FR940114-1-00008 Establish victim assistance and victim restitution programs and require the use of a victim impact statement prior to sentencing in all Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) cases where death or serious injury occurred. B. Public Information and Education for Deterrence States should implement public information and education (PI&E) programs to maximize public perception of the risks of being caught and punished for impaired driving. Public information programs should be: Comprehensive; Seasonally focused; and Sustained. C. Enforcement States should implement comprehensive enforcement programs to maximize the likelihood of detecting, investigating, arresting, and convicting impaired drivers. These programs should: Secure a commitment to rigorous DWI enforcement from the top levels of police management and State and local government; Provide state-of-the-art training for police officers, including Standardized Field Sobriety Testing (SFST) and Drug Evaluation and Classification (DEC); Provide adequate equipment and facilities, including preliminary and evidentiary breath test equipment; Deploy patrol resources effectively, using cooperative efforts of various State and local police agencies as appropriate; Maximize the likelihood of violator-officer contact; Make regular use of sobriety checkpoints; Facilitate the arrest process; Implement state-of-the-art post-arrest investigation of apprehended impaired drivers; Emphasize enforcement of youth impaired driving and drinking age laws; and Emphasize enforcement of laws regulating alcohol or drug impairment by CMV drivers. D. Prosecution States should implement a comprehensive program for visible and aggressive prosecution of impaired driving cases. These programs should: Give DWI cases high priority for prosecution; Provide sufficient resources to prosecute cases presented by law enforcement efforts; Facilitate uniformity and consistency in prosecution of impaired driving cases; Provide training for prosecutors so they can obtain high rates of conviction and seek appropriate sanctions for offenders; Prohibit plea bargaining in DWI cases, through appropriate legislation; Encourage vigorous prosecution of alcohol-related fatality and injury cases under both DWI and general criminal statutes; and Ensure that prosecutors are knowledgeable and prepared to prosecute youthful offenders appropriately. E. Adjudication The effectiveness of prosecution and enforcement efforts is lost without support and strength in adjudication. States should implement a comprehensive impaired driving adjudication program to: Provide sufficient resources to adjudicate cases and manage the dockets brought before them; Facilitate uniformity and consistency in adjudication of impaired driving cases; Give judges the skills necessary to appropriately adjudicate impaired driving cases; Provide similar training to administrative hearing officers who hear administrative license revocation appeals;
