FR941110-1-00079 FR941110-1-00011 In recognition of the critical role that previously used materials would play in ensuring a smooth transition to ozone- friendly substances, the Parties to the Montreal Protocol decided to encourage their expanded use. Specifically, in Decision IV/24 (Copenhagen, 1992), the Parties decided ``not to take into account, for calculating consumption, the import and export of recycled and used controlled substances.'' EPA implemented this decision domestically in the December 10, 1993 phaseout rule (December 10, 1993; 58 FR 65018). Accordingly, EPA rules now allow importation of previously used or recycled controlled substances without allowances (ยง82.4(a) and (b)). Although the December rule allows importation of used or recycled controlled substances, EPA is now investigating several cases of potential fraud in which the importer claimed that the substance was used or recycled when in fact, the Agency believes the substance was virgin or ``off-spec'' virgin (a newly manufactured substance that does not meet industry specifications for quality). Several other countries are investigating importation of controlled substances that were believed to be fraudulently labelled as used or recycled. Due to the difficulty of determining whether a substance is used or recycled, the Parties to the Montreal Protocol are very likely to consider a clarification of Decision IV/24 during the 1994 meeting. In an effort to facilitate final adoption of a rule that is consistent with the Protocol Parties' action, EPA is today proposing alternative methods for ensuring that materials brought into the country under the used and recycled allowance exemption are in fact used or recycled. Additionally, EPA is today proposing that the current definition of used and recycled controlled substances be changed to include only the term ``used'' since EPA believes recycled and reclaimed substances fall under the current definition. In this manner, a controlled substance is defined as used if it was recovered from a use system, regardless of whether it was subsequently recycled or reclaimed. The proposed change simplifies the references to used substances without confusion regarding their subsequent treatment. 1. Information Requirements One method for ensuring that a substance claimed to be used is in fact used is to require that the importer have proof of the origin of the substance prior to import. Naming the previous use of the substance offers opportunities for verification, whether through chemical analysis or through knowledge of a country's infrastructure. Therefore, EPA is considering incorporating some or all of the following information requirements: _the name and address of the firm that recovered the chemical, _the type of equipment from which the substance was recovered,
