FR940429-0-00177 FR940429-0-00015 Section 668.82␣Standard of Conduct The Secretary has revised paragraph (d)(1)(D) to clarify that a third-party servicer violates its fiduciary duty and that of any institution with which the servicer contracts if the servicer uses or contracts in a capacity that involves any aspect of the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs any person, agency, or organization that has been or whose officers or employees are guilty of a crime or judicially or administratively determined to have committed fraud or other material violation of law with respect to government funds. Section 668.92␣Fines The Secretary has revised this section to take into account additional criteria when determining the amount of a fine against a third-party servicer. Paragraph (a)(5) is revised so that a repeated mechanical systemic unintentional error is not counted as a single violation if the third-party servicer, against whom the fine is assessed, had already been cited for a similar violation and had not taken the appropriate steps to correct the problem. The Secretary will also take into consideration in determining the amount of the fine, the amount of Title IV, HEA program funds that were wasted as a result of the repeated mechanical systemic unintentional error. The Secretary also makes a conforming change in §682.413 to parallel the changes described in this section. Part 682_Federal Family Education Loan Programs Subpart D_Guaranty Agency Programs Section 682.413␣Remedial Actions The Secretary has revised the provisions of this section governing the means of collecting a liability that results from a third-party servicer's violation of applicable Title IV, HEA program requirements in administering a lender's or guaranty agency's FFEL programs. A third-party servicer is required to repay any outstanding liabilities because of its violation only if the lender or guaranty agency has not paid the full amount of the liability or has not made satisfactory arrangements to pay the amount of the liability within 30 days from the date that the lender or guaranty agency receives the notice from the Secretary of the liability. If the 30-day period elapses and the lender or guaranty agency has not paid the full amount of the liability within that time frame or has not set up a payment plan acceptable to the Secretary to repay that liability, the Secretary will attempt to collect any remaining amount owed by offsetting the lender's or guaranty agency's first bill to the Secretary for interest benefits or special allowance. After that, if the liability has not been completely paid, the Secretary will seek payment for the remainder of the liability from the third-party servicer. Section 682.416␣Requirements for Third-Party Servicers and Lenders Contracting With Third-Party Servicers The Secretary has revised paragraph (b) to specify that the Secretary will apply the provisions of 34 CFR 668.15(b) (1)&hyph;(4) and (6)&hyph;(9) to determine that a third-party servicer is financially responsible under this part. Any references to an institution under those provisions shall be understood to mean the third-party servicer, for this purpose. Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the NPRMs, 84 parties submitted comments on the NPRM published on February 17, 1994 and 421 parties submitted comments on the NPRM published on February 28, 1994. An analysis of the comments and of the changes in the regulations since publication of the NPRMs follows. Substantive issues are discussed under the section of the regulations to which they pertain. Technical and other minor changes and suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under the applicable statutory authority are not addressed. General comments that refer to broad issues rather than a specific section or sections of the proposed regulations are discussed first, followed by a discussion of other issues in the order in which they appeared in the NPRMs. It should be noted that not all comments are addressed in these final regulations. There are several reasons for this. First, many of the concerns expressed by commenters were directed to the statute, not the proposed regulations. In some instances, those comments are mentioned in the discussion that follows because of the importance of the issues that were raised. In most instances, however, they are not mentioned because the Secretary is not legally authorized to make the changes suggested by commenters. Second, many commenters made excellent suggestions for editorial and technical changes, as well as other minor changes, that, in the Secretary's opinion, strengthened the regulations; the Secretary has merely incorporated these suggestions without comment. Third, some comments appeared to be based on misunderstandings of what was actually in the NPRMs. For example, a few commenters expressed concern about the absence of a particular provision that was, in fact, included in the NPRMs. In general, these types of comments are not discussed. General Comments The Secretary received numerous comments about the overall impact of the proposed regulations. In general, commenters opposed to the proposed regulations believed that the February 28, 1994 NPRM did not achieve the coordinated balance of responsibilities among the triad members that it sought to achieve, and that it provided for extensive and duplicative data collection and reporting requirements that created a costly and unnecessary burden on the higher education community. Further, they believed that the regulations did not regulate ``narrowly to the law,'' as they purported to do. In general, these commenters suggested that the Secretary should review each requirement in the proposed regulations to determine if it was required by the statute and should further ensure that all requirements that meet this test and are included in the final regulations are implemented in the most reasonable and cost effective manner. This, they believed, would ensure the Department's compliance with Executive Order 12866. The more specific concerns of commenters opposed to the proposed regulations may be summarized as follows: (1) The proposed regulations are overly prescriptive and excessive in detail and either exceed the statutory authority of the Secretary or significantly expand the statute beyond Congressional intent. (2) The proposed regulations will force institutions and third-party servicers to engage in excessive and duplicative information gathering and reporting, at considerable cost, with no net increase in the quantity or quality of information available to the public, and will result in the diversion of institutions' and third-party servicers' already scarce resources away from their primary mission of providing a quality education.
