FR940810-0-00289 FR940810-0-00021 ( 3 ) A minimum of ^0.02 column inches of water pressure differential, relative to outside pressure, shall be maintained within the NPE as evidenced by manometric measurements, ( 4 ) The NPE shall be kept under negative pressure throughout the period of its use, and ( 5 ) Air movement shall be directed away from employees performing asbestos work within the enclosure, and toward a HEPA filtration or a collection device. (B) Work Practices: ( 1 ) Before beginning work within the enclosure and at the beginning of each shift, the NPE shall be inspected for breaches and smoke-tested for leaks, and any leaks sealed. ( 2 ) Electrical circuits in the enclosure shall be deactivated, unless equipped with ground-fault circuit interrupters. (ii) Glove bag systems shall be used to remove PACM and/or ACM from straight runs of piping with the following specifications and work practices. (A) Specifications: ( 1 ) Glovebags shall be made of 6 mil thick plastic and shall be seamless at the bottom. ( 2 ) [Reserved] (B) Work Practices: ( 1 ) Each glovebag shall be installed so that it completely covers the circumference of pipe or other structure where the work is to be done. ( 2 ) Glovebags shall be smoke-tested for leaks and any leaks sealed prior to use. ( 3 ) Glovebags may be used only once and may not be moved. ( 4 ) Glovebags shall not be used on surfaces whose temperature exceeds 150 ○. ( 5 ) Prior to disposal, glovebags shall be collapsed by removing air within them using a HEPA vacuum. ( 6 ) Before beginning the operation, loose and friable material adjacent to the glovebag/box operation shall be wrapped and sealed in two layers of six mil plastic or otherwise rendered intact, ( 7 ) Where system uses attached waste bag, such bag shall be connected to collection bag using hose or other material which shall withstand pressure of ACM waste and water without losing its integrity: ( 8 ) Sliding valve or other device shall separate waste bag from hose to ensure no exposure when waste bag is disconnected: ( 9 ) At least two persons shall perform Class I glovebag removals. (iii) Negative Pressure Glove Bag Systems. Negative pressure glove bag systems shall be used to remove ACM or PACM from piping. (A) Specifications: In addition to specifications for glove bag systems above, negative pressure glove bag systems shall attach HEPA vacuum systems or other devices to bag to prevent collapse during removal. (B) Work Practices: ( 1 ) The employer shall comply with the work practices glove bag systems in paragraph (g)(5)(ii)(B)( 2 ) of this section. ( 2 ) The HEPA vacuum cleaner or other device used to prevent collapse of bag during removal shall run continually during the operation. ( 3 ) Where a separate waste bag is used along with a collection bag and discarded after one use, the collection bag may be reused if rinsed clean with amended water before reuse. (iv) Negative Pressure Glove Box Systems: Negative pressure glove boxes shall be used to remove ACM or PACM from pipe runs with the following specifications and work practices. (A) Specifications: ( 1 ) Glove boxes shall be constructed with rigid sides and made from metal or other material which can withstand the weight of the ACM and PACM and water used during removal: ( 2 ) A negative pressure generator shall be used to create negative pressure in system: ( 3 ) An air filtration unit shall be attached to the box: ( 4 ) The box shall be fitted with gloved apertures: ( 5 ) An aperture at the base of the box shall serve as a bagging outlet for waste ACM and water: ( 6 ) A back-up generator shall be present on site: ( 7 ) Waste bags shall consist of 6 mil thick plastic double-bagged before they are filled or plastic thicker than 6 mil. (B) Work practices: ( 1 ) At least two persons shall perform the removal: ( 2 ) The box shall be smoke tested prior to each use: ( 3 ) Loose or damaged ACM adjacent to the box shall be wrapped and sealed in two layers of 6 mil plastic prior to the job, or otherwise made intact prior to the job. ( 4 ) A HEPA filtration system shall be used to maintain pressure barrier in box. (v) Water Spray Process System. A water spray process system may be used for removal of ACM and PACM from cold line piping if, employees carrying out such process have completed a 40-hour separate training course in its use, in addition to training required for employees performing Class I work. The system shall meet the following specifications and shall be performed by employees using the following work practices. (A) Specifications: ( 1 ) Piping shall be surrounded on 3 sides by rigid framing, ( 2 ) A 360 degree water spray, delivered through nozzles supplied by a high pressure separate water line, shall be formed around the piping.
