FR940725-2-00059 FR940725-2-00036 ␣ 1Size of parents' family1 1Income level2 1 §9,700 2 12,600 3 15,000 4 19,200 5 22,600 6 or more 25,400 1Includes only dependents listed on Federal income tax forms. 2Adjusted gross income for calendar year 1993, rounded to $100. Grants may be awarded to eligible applicants to meet the costs of special projects to increase nursing education opportunities for individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds: 1. By identifying, recruiting and selecting such individuals; 2. By facilitating the entry of such individuals into schools of nursing; 3. By providing counseling or other services designed to assist such individuals to complete successfully their nursing education; 4. By providing, for a period prior to the entry of such individuals into the regular course of education at a school of nursing, preliminary education designed to assist them to complete successfully such regular course of education; 5. By paying such stipends as the Secretary may determine for such individuals for any period of nursing education; 6. By publicizing, especially to licensed vocational or practical nurses, existing sources of financial aid available to persons enrolled in schools of nursing or who are undertaking training necessary to qualify them to enroll in such schools; and 7. By providing training, information or advice to the faculty of such schools with respect to encouraging such individuals to complete the programs of nursing education in which the individuals are enrolled. The period of federal support should not exceed 3 years. Eligibility: Public and nonprofit private schools of nursing and other public or nonprofit private entities are eligible for grant support. Review Criteria: The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria: 1. The national or special local need which the particular project proposes to serve; 2. The potential effectiveness of the proposed project in carrying out such purposes; 3. The administrative and managerial capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project; 4. The adequacy of the facilities and resources available to the applicant to carry out the proposed project; 5. The qualifications of the project director and proposed staff; 6. The reasonableness of the proposed budget in relation to the proposed project; and 7. The potential of the project to continue on a self-sustaining basis after the period of grant support. Professional Nurse Traineeships Purpose: Section 830 of the Public Health Service Act authorizes the Secretary to award grants to meet the cost of traineeships for individuals in advanced-degree programs in order to educate the individuals to serve in and prepare for practice as nurse practitioners, nurse midwives, nurse educators, public health nurses, or in other clinical nursing specialties determined by the Secretary to require advanced education. Federal support must be requested annually. Eligibility: Eligible applicants are public or private nonprofit entities which provide: (1) Advanced-degree programs to educate individuals as nurse practitioners, nurse-midwives, nurse educators, public health nurses or as other clinical nursing specialists; or (2) nurse-midwifery certificate programs that conform to guidelines established by the Secretary under section 822(b).
