FR940921-2-00076 FR940921-2-00066 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION Pilot Export Working Capital Program AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Notice of Pilot Program. SUMMARY: The Small Business Administration (SBA) is issuing a notice to advise the public that it is beginning the Export Working Capital Program (EWCP) on a pilot basis nationwide. The pilot program is scheduled to end September 30, 1995, at which time it will be evaluated to determine what, if any, aspects of the pilot should be made permanent. This notice is issued pursuant to §120.1&hyph;2 of SBA's regulations (13 CFR 120.1&hyph;2). Under EWCP, SBA guarantees short-term working capital loans made by participating lenders to exporters for the purpose of financing export transactions. EWCP is intended to replace SBA's Export Revolving Line of Credit (ERLC) Program. Accordingly, the regulations for the ERLC Program (13 CFR 122.54) will not apply to EWCP loans. The SBA and the Export Import Bank of the United States (ExIm Bank) are working to harmonize their export financing programs. Accordingly, many features of SBA's EWCP and ExIm Bank's Export Working Capital Program are similar. By design, SBA's Program will assist smaller businesses that need a guarantee of $750,000 or less and ExIm Bank's Program will serve the larger businesses and small businesses that have larger credit needs. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wayne Foren, Office of Financial Assistance, (202) 205&hyph;7502. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: EWCP loans are made under the authority of SBA's regular business loan program known as the 7(a) Program. The policies and procedures governing the EWCP pilot are contained in operating guidelines developed for the Program. These guidelines describe the eligibility, credit and processing considerations for the Program. Eligibility Considerations Under EWCP, SBA guarantees short-term working capital loans made by participating lenders to exporters. Loan proceeds may only be used to finance the acquisition or production of goods and services being exported and accounts receivable of such export sales under EWCP. •A Pre-shipment Guarantee is used to finance the acquisition or production cost of export goods and services. The term of these loans is usually no more than 12 months. Payment is secured by letter of credit, valid purchase orders or contracts, or other such arrangement. •A Post-shipment Guarantee is used to finance receivables resulting from export sales. The maximum term of these loans should not exceed 6 months. •A Combined Guarantee is used to finance both the acquisition or production of export goods and services and the account receivables resulting from such export sales. The maximum term of a Combined Guarantee is 18 months. Although payment may be made through one of several arrangements, usually ExIm bank insurance (or other comparable insurance) will be required in conjunction with an EWCP Guarantee where Post-shipment or Combined guarantees are being extended unless payment is being made by a confirmed, irrevocable letter of credit. A loan Guarantee may be for a single transaction or for a Revolving Line of Credit which is used to finance ``bundles'' of individual transactions. Credit lines may be for as long as three years subject to annual renewals. Such renewals will be granted unless an adverse change has occurred in the exporter's financial condition or operations sufficient to jeopardize its ability to perform on export transactions. If a Line of Credit is terminated, no additional bundles will be financed and a reasonable period will be provided to liquidate the outstanding balance on the Line of Credit. Standby letters of Credit are issued by a bank to cover a particular contingency. Frequently, they are used in place of a bid, performance or financial bonds. EWCP loans can be used to facilitate a Standby Letter of Credit. Most products are eligible for EWCP financing. In some cases, however, Federal restrictions cause the product to be ineligible. For example, if ExIm Bank export credit insurance is required, the product must contain at least 51% U.S. content. Also, certain defense products are not eligible for ExIm Bank insurance. Where the product is customized or designed for special use, care must be taken to assure that the exporter has sufficient capability of payment should the transaction not be consummated. Although service exports are eligible for EWCP financing, they entail greater risk than product exports, especially those that are independent of product sales. EWCP financing of service exports usually will require progress payments and possible additional collateral. Applicants who produce, manufacture or sell products or provide services that enter into the export channel but do not directly export their products or services, including suppliers to other domestic manufacturers, are eligible for EWCP financing. In such cases, the applicant shall provide evidence to SBA that the goods or services are in fact being exported. The dollar amount of the SBA Guarantee is of an EWCP loan limited to the lesser of two factors. First, EWCP loans are limited to the exporter's cost, if they are for Pre-shipment financing, or the receivable associated with the product being exported, if they are for Post-shipment or Combined financing. Second, with few exceptions, the maximum guarantee amount that may be outstanding or committed to any small business concern under the 7(a) and the 504 Programs in the aggregate is $750,000. EWCP loans are considered 7(a) loans for this calculation.
