FR940419-1-00053 FR940419-1-00009 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Information Collections The information collection requirements contained in this proposed rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3520). The public reporting burden for each of these collections of information is estimated to include the time for reviewing the instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Information on the estimated public reporting burden is provided under the preamble heading, Other Matters. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Rules Docket Clerk, 451 Seventh Street SW., room 10276, Washington, DC 20410; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Attention Desk Officer for HUD, Washington, DC 20503. II. Background Section 20 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437r) (the ``1937 Act'') was enacted to encourage increased resident management of public housing projects *␣*␣* ``to promote formation and development of resident management entities.'' The Department implemented section 20 by regulations (24 CFR part 964 for Public Housing, and 24 CFR part 905, subpart O for Indian Housing), that governed tenant participation and resident management in public/Indian housing under Section 20 of the 1937 Act. III. Overview of Public Housing Changes Several weaknesses in the regulations have interfered with successful program implementation. The current regulations fail to establish clear and detailed policy on resident participation and guidance on the structure for public housing resident organizations. Additionally, the current regulations fail to establish specific requirements for resident involvement in public/Indian housing management, and a strong partnership between the PHAs/IHAs (thereinafter referred to as HAs) and resident councils. Internal conflict between competing resident councils in a development poses serious problems to HUD with respect to program eligibility and participation, as well as HA recognition. The Department is concerned about the need to provide more details on how resident councils/resident management corporations should be structured and how to broaden tenant involvement in public housing. The Department recognizes the need to increase the amount of cash contributions for resident council activities, presently limited at three (3) dollars per unit per year, and to compensate resident council officers who are serving as volunteers in the public housing community. The Secretary asked a former top HUD official to develop policy recommendations on the role of residents in the management of public housing. Based on these recommendations, the Secretary established an Interim Resident Advisory Committee consisting of representatives of regional and state resident organizations who developed a Policy Paper on resident involvement in public housing. Public Housing Advocacy Groups: Public Housing Authorities Directors Association (PHADA), Council of Large Public Housing Authorities (CLPHA) and National Association of Housing Redevelopment Officials (NAHRO), were given an opportunity to review and comment on the Policy Paper. Section 20 authorizes funds for technical assistance and training to resident councils (RCs)/resident management corporations (RMCs) to promote increased resident management of public housing. HUD's experience in providing grants to RCs/RMCs under the Public Housing Resident Management Program has revealed that major changes were needed in the provisions of the program. RCs/RMCs and HAs across the country overwhelmingly requested revamping of the program to assist in meeting their residents' need for economic development, education, job training and development, social services, and opportunities for other self-help initiatives. Recommendations from the Interim Resident Advisory Committee on Tenant Involvement in Public Housing, and requests for changes in the Resident Management Technical Assistance Program resulted in the proposed comprehensive revision of 24 CFR part 964.
