FR941025-2-00142 FR941025-2-00077 [Release No. 34&hyph;34862; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;36 Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Elimination of Monthly Fee Charged for Obtaining Certain Statistical Reports on Extensions of Time October 19, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on October 5, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NYSE is proposing to eliminate the monthly fifteen dollar fee charged margin extension system users for obtaining certain statistical reports on extensions of time. The fee elimination is effective upon filing with the SEC. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose In March 1984, four statistical reports were created as part of the redesign of the Exchange's computerized margin extension system. The purpose of these reports is to provide member organizations with information to assist them in controlling and monitoring ``extension of time'' requests. Further, these reports act as a surveillance tool for member organizations and the Exchange, to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations that govern extension requests and procedures. The reports currently are distributed at no charge on a quarterly basis to all member organizations submitting their ``extensions of time'' to the Exchange. Member organizations may request one or more of the reports on a monthly basis, for a fee of fifteen dollars ($15) for each report requested. This charge was instituted to cover the Exchange's cost for producing and processing the reports. The Exchange is eliminating the fifteen dollar fee for these additional statistical reports and will furnish statistical reports produced through the computerized extension system to member organizations monthly at no charge beginning with the October 1994 reports. 1 1 The proposed rule change states that the elimination of the monthly fee would commence as of September 1, 1994. Because the reports produced for September are quarterly reports, which already are distributed without charge, the proposal should have referenced the October 1994 reports as the first monthly reports that would be distributed at no charge. Telephone conversation between Donald van Weezel, Managing Director, Regulatory Affairs, NYSE, and Beth Stekler, Attorney, SEC, on October 18, 1994. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with the requirement under Section 6(b)(4) of the Act that an exchange have rules that provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees and other charges among its members and issuers and other persons using its facilities. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change will impose no burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has not solicited, and does not intend to solicit, comments regarding the proposed rule change. The Exchange has not received any unsolicited written comments from members or other interested parties.
