FR940711-1-00059 FR940711-1-00016 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 90-Day and 12-Month Findings for a Petition To List 83 Mollusc Species AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of petition findings. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces 90-day and 12-month findings on a petition to list 83 mollusc species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). After careful assessment of the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the present and future threats facing the petitioned species, the Service either finds that the petition did not present substantial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted (90-day finding) or determines that the petitioned action is not warranted at this time (12-month finding). DATES: The finding announced in this document was made on June 28, 1994. Comments and materials related to this petition finding may be submitted until further notice to the Assistant Regional Director for Ecological Services at the address listed below. ADDRESSES: Data, information, comments, or questions concerning the status of the petitioned species described below should be submitted to the Assistant Regional Director for Ecological Services, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Regional Office, 911 N.E. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181. The petition, findings, supporting data, and comments are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jim Bartel, Chief, Division of Listing and Recovery, at the address above or 503/231&hyph;6131. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1533) (Act), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information indicating that the petitioned action may be warranted. The finding is to be based on all information available to the Service at the time the finding is made. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of the receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . If the Service finds that a petition presents substantial information indicating the requested action may be warranted, then the Service initiates a status review on that species. Section 4 (b)(3)(b) of the Act requires that for any petition that presents substantial scientific and commercial information, a finding be made within 12 months of the date of receipt of the petition on whether the petitioned action is (a) not warranted, (b) warranted, or (c) warranted but precluded from immediate proposal by other pending proposals to list, delist, or reclassify species. Such 12-month findings are to be published promptly in the Federal Register . The Service has made a negative 90-day finding for 75 noncandidate species referenced in a petition to list 83 mollusc species as threatened or endangered. The Service has made a positive 90-day finding, but not warranted 12-month finding for the eight category 2 candidate species contained in the petition to list 83 mollusc species as threatened or endangered. The Service has been assessing the status of these eight species since their designation as category 2 candidates. Minimal new information was received or available to the Service beyond that used to assign these species to category 2. As a result, the Service determines that the petitioned action is not warranted at this time. These eight species will be retained in category 2. This notice also serves to announce a negative 90-day finding on a previous petition to list the giant Columbia River limpet (short-faced lanx) ( Fisherola nuttalli ) as threatened or endangered. On August 18, 1993, the Service received a petition from the Oregon Natural Resources Council (ONRC) to list 83 mollusc species as threatened or endangered. The petition was dated August 16, 1993. The document used to support the petition was the report ``Mollusc Species of Special Concern within the Range of the Northern Spotted Owl'' (Frest and Johannes 1993) prepared for the President's Proposed Forest Plan. On November 6, 1987 the Service received a petition from Dr. Peter Bowler of Laguna Beach, California, to list the giant Columbia River limpet as endangered. The giant Columbia River limpet, or short-faced lanx, was one of the species included in the ONRC petition and was evaluated along with the other petitioned species.
