FR940524-0-00026 FR940524-0-00007 §24.411 Miscellaneous forms. (a) Licensee qualifications. FCC Form 430 (``Common Carrier and Satellite Radio Licensee Qualifications Report'') shall be filed by Narrowband Personal Communications Service licensees only as required by Form 490 (Application for Assignment or Transfer of Control Under part 22). (b) Renewal of station license. Except for renewal of special temporary authorizations, FCC Form 405 (``Application for Renewal of Station License'') must be filed in duplicate by the licensee between thirty (30) and sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of the license sought to be renewed. §24.412 [Reserved]. §24.413 General application requirements. (a) Each application (including applications filed on Forms 175 and 401) for a radio station authorization or for consent to assignment or transfer of control in the narrowband PCS shall disclose fully the real party or parties in interest and must include the following information: (1) A list of its subsidiaries, if any. Subsidiary means any business five per cent or more whose stock, warrants, options or debt securities are owned by the applicant or an officer, director, stockholder or key management personnel of the applicant. This list must include a description of each subsidiary's principal business and a description of each subsidiary's relationship to the applicant. (2) A list of its affiliates, if any. Affiliates means any business which holds a five per cent or more interest in the applicant, or any business in which a five per cent or more interest is held by another company which holds a five per cent interest in the applicant (e.g. Company A owns 5% of Company B and 5% of Company C; Companies B and C are affiliates). (3) A list of the names, addresses, citizenship and principal business of any person holding five per cent or more of each class of stock, warrants, options or debt securities together with the amount and percentage held, and the name, address, citizenship and principal place of business of any person on whose account, if other than the holder, such interest is held. If any of these persons are related by blood or marriage, include such relationship in the statement. (4) In the case of partnerships, the name and address of each partner, each partner's citizenship and the share or interest participation in the partnership. This information must be provided for all partners, regardless of their respective ownership interests in the partnership. A signed and dated copy of the partnership agreement must be included in the application. This information must be included in Exhibit V of the application. (b) Each application for a radio station authorization in the narrowband PCS must: (1) Submit the information required by the Commission's rules, requests, and application forms; (2) Be maintained by the applicant substantially accurate and complete in all significant respects in accordance with the provisions of Sec. 1.65 of this chapter; and (3) Show compliance with and make all special showings that may be applicable. (c) Where documents, exhibits, or other lengthy showings already on file with the Commission contain information which is required by an application form, the application may specifically refer to such information, if: (1) The information previously filed is over one A4 (21 cm×29.7 cm) or 8.5×11 inch (21.6 cm×27.9 cm) page in length, and all information referenced therein is current and accurate in all significant respects under §1.65 of this chapter; and (2) The reference states specifically where the previously filed information can actually be found, including mention of: (i) the station call sign or application file number whenever the reference is to station files or previously filed applications; (ii) The title of the proceeding, the docket number, and any legal citations, whenever the reference is to a docketed proceeding. However, questions on an application form which call for specific technical data, or which can be answered by a ``yes'' or ``no'' or other short answer shall be answered as appropriate and shall not be cross-referenced to a previous filing. (d) In addition to the general application requirements of subpart F and §§1.2105, 24.413 and 24.415 of this part, applicants shall submit any additional documents, exhibits, or signed written statements of fact: (1) As may be required by these rules; and (2) As the Commission, at any time after the filing of an application and during the term of any authorization, may require from any applicant, permittee, or licensee to enable it to determine whether a radio authorization should be granted, denied, or revoked. (e) Except when the Commission has declared explicitly to the contrary, an informational requirement does not in itself imply the processing treatment of decisional weight to be accorded the response. (f) All applicants (except applicants filing FCC Form 175) are required to indicate at the time their application is filed whether or not a Commission grant of the application may have a significant environmental impact as defined by 47 CFR 1.1307. If answered affirmatively, the requisite environmental assessment as prescribed in §1.1311 of this chapter must be filed with the application and Commission environmental review must be completed prior to construction. See §1.1312 of this chapter. All narrowband PCS licensees are subject to a continuing obligation to determine whether subsequent construction may have a significant environmental impact prior to undertaking such construction and to otherwise comply with §§1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter. See 47 CFR 1.1312. §24.414 [Reserved]. §24.415 Technical content of applications; maintenance of list of station locations. (a) All applications required by this part shall contain all technical information required by the application forms or associated public notice(s). Applications other than initial applications for a narrowband PCS license must also comply with all technical requirements of the rules governing the narrowband PCS (see subparts C and D as appropriate). The following paragraphs describe a number of general technical requirements. (b) Each application (except applications for initial licenses filed on Form 175) for a radio station authorization for narrowband PCS must comply with the provisions of §§24.129 through 24.135. (c)_(i) [Reserved] (i) The location of the transmitting antenna shall be considered to be the station location. Narrowband PCS licensees must maintain a current list of all station locations, which must describe the transmitting antenna site by its geographical coordinates and also by conventional reference to street number, landmark, or the equivalent. All such coordinates shall be specified in terms of degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest second of latitude and longitude. §24.416 Station antenna structures. (a) Unless the narrowband PCS licensee has received prior approval from the FCC, no antenna structure, including radiating elements, tower, supports and all appurtenances, may be higher than 61 m (200 feet) above ground level at its site. (b) Unless the narrowband PCS licensee has received prior approval from the FCC, no antenna structure at an airport or heliport that is available for public use and is listed in the Airport Directory of the current Airman's Information Manual or in either the Alaska or Pacific Airman's Guide and Chart Supplement; or at an airport or heliport under construction that is the subject of a notice or proposal on file with the FAA, and except for military airports, it is clearly indicated that the airport will be available for public use; or at an airport or heliport that is operated by the armed forces of the United States; or a place near any of these airports or heliports, may be higher than: (1) 1 m above the airport elevation for each 100 m from the airport runway longer than 1 km within 6.1 km of the antenna structure.
