FR940318-0-00181 FR940318-0-00023 Again, while dry chemicals are in widespread use, another new technology for both the total flooding and streaming markets involves the use of powdered aerosols, which combine fine powder particulates with gas to achieve a total flood effect. While foams are also in widespread use, one manufacturer has prepared a blend of etoxylated linear alcohol and sulfonated soap for use in streaming applications. This blend is not a clean agent, but offers another alternative technology where secondary damage can be tolerated. It presents benefits of rapid cool-down, prevention of reignition, and decrease in the quantity of water required to extinguish fires. 3. Response to Comments Key issues included in the public comment are addressed in this section. For a complete discussion of public comments received, refer to the ``Response to Comments'' document in the public docket. The issues addressed in this section include: Alternative technologies, efficacy and design, use conditions, narrowed use restrictions, and halon categories and subdivisions. a. Alternative technologies. As halon is being phased out, there is a growing interest in not only clean chemical substitutes but also in reassessing the use of conventional substitutes, adopting new risk management strategies and using alternative technologies. Several commenters expressed the view that alternatives such as water and CO 2 are not clean agent chemical substitutes, but rather conventional suppression system substitutes, and have been in widespread use for many years. Thus, these commenters stated that such alternatives are outside the scope of SNAP and that EPA should only list clean agent chemical substitutes. They indicated that it would be counterproductive to list all acceptable substitutes and alternatives under SNAP, which are better addressed by the entire fire protection community, and that doing so would restrict trade and development of new technology. One commenter said it was unclear what purpose would be served by attempting to list all substitutes and alternatives, including a variety of system technologies. Section 612 of the Clean Air Act specifies that class I and class II substances shall be replaced by ``chemicals, product substitutes, or alternative manufacturing processes that reduce overall risks to human health and the environment'' and directs EPA to assist in identifying such substitutes and alternatives, promote their development, maintain a public clearinghouse, and publish lists of acceptable and unacceptable substitutes for specific uses. EPA interprets this language as a broad mandate to include alternative technologies. For the fire suppression and explosion protection sector, EPA is defining alternative technology to be any non-halocarbon substance discharged for the purpose of fire suppression or explosion protection. Thus, water mist, inert gas mixtures, powdered aerosols and any other `not in kind' alternative to CFCs and halons are alternative technologies. EPA believes that its assessment of potential human health and environmental impacts of these new technologies does, in fact, speed their acceptance and adoption by removing uncertainty about their safe use. In addition, while water sprinklers, carbon dioxide, foam, and dry chemical are currently in use, these substances fall within the definition of alternative technology. EPA will simply list these as acceptable and note their applicable NFPA standards. EPA will assess each class of alternative technology and determine whether a separate review is prudent due to variations in formulation and design of similar technologies, or whether it is possible to construct a broad listing of acceptability that covers several manufacturers. In this final rule, EPA is listing each water mist technology as well as inert gas blends and powdered aerosols separately due to the unique formulation, design and intended use of each. An acceptable or unacceptable listing of a particular alternative technology is not generalizable to similar technologies from other manufacturers. b. Efficacy and design issues. Many commenters state that in the NPRM, EPA has assumed that a single design concentration (obtained from a cup burner test for heptane) is applicable for all fire hazards and requested that EPA remove all reference to design concentration. However, several commenters noted that listing of the design concentration was useful in comparing the relative efficacy of substitute agents, as long as EPA is clear about the source of the data. In addition, many commenters feel that while EPA states that the SNAP rule ``is intended not to replace, but to complement the guidance of the fire protection community,'' EPA has ``dangerously oversimplified'' the many factors that must be taken into consideration in designing a system, and a listing of ``acceptability'' implies that any alternative will work in a safe and effective manner. One commenter specifically requested that EPA remove all references to design and installation requirements. Many commenters believe that EPA should not comment on the efficacy of substitutes, as this is outside the scope of the SNAP rule, and that EPA should only comment on environmental and toxicological concerns. The commenters believe EPA should only list the agent name, EPA's decision, NOAEL, and any specific environmental or regulatory concerns (such as ODP, GWP, or future phaseout date.) One commenter is concerned that EPA's involvement in efficacy issues will cause users to select agents that will result in less effective and more expensive protection than is needed, and will make American industry less competitive in world markets. One commenter summed up the requests of many others, suggesting that, at a minimum, EPA should include cautionary wording that a listing of `acceptable' does not imply the agent will work in any given application. Further, EPA should point out that the efficacy of an agent is dependent on the application system and should encourage users to consult current consensus fire codes and standards such as those developed by NFPA. By contrast, EPA believes that efficacy of a substitute agent must be a consideration in decision making, because EPA's charge is to ensure that substitutes are not on balance more risky than the ozone-depleting compounds being replaced. A substitute which is not effective cannot be considered safer than the halon being replaced. In addition, design concentration is germane to a discussion of potential exposure and its consequent effects on human health.
