FR940119-0-00017 FR940119-0-00004 Regulatory Flexibility Act The Secretary, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this rule before publication and by approving it certifies that this rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, because the rule does not impose additional audit requirements, but merely makes uniform the procedures that will be followed. Executive Order 12612, Federalism The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that this rule does not have ``federalism implications'' because it does not have substantial direct effects on the States (including their political subdivisions), or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Executive Order 12606, the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, the Family, has determined that this rule does not have potential significant impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being. Semiannual Agenda of Regulations This rule was listed as item 1467 in the Department's Semiannual Agenda of Regulations published on October 25, 1993 (58 FR 56402, 56415), in accordance with Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects 24 CFR Part 44 Accounting, Grant programs, Grant programs_housing and community development, Intergovernmental relations, Loan programs_housing and community development, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 45 Audit requirements-nonprofits, universities; Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 85 Accounting, Grant programs, Intergovernmental relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 92 Administrative practice and procedure, Grant programs_housing and community development, Grant programs_Indians, Low and moderate income housing, Manufactured homes, Rent subsidies, reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 207 Manufactured homes, Mortgage insurance, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Solar energy. 24 CFR Part 213 Cooperatives, Mortgage insurance, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 221 Low and moderate income housing, Mortgage insurance, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 232 Fire prevention, Health facilities, Loan programs_health, Loan programs_housing and community development, Mortgage insurance, Nursing homes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 236 Grant programs_housing and community development, Low and moderate income housing, Mortgage insurance, Rent subsidies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 242 Hospitals, Mortgage insurance, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 277 Aged, Handicapped, Loan programs_housing and community development, Low and moderate income housing. 24 CFR Part 280 Community development, Grant programs_housing and community development, Loan programs_housing and community development, Low and moderate income housing, Nonprofit organizations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 570 Administrative practice and procedure, American Samoa, Community development block grants, Grant programs_housing and community development, Grant programs_education, Guam, Lead poisoning, Loan programs_housing and community development, Low and moderate income housing, Northern Mariana Islands, Pacific Islands Trust Territory, Puerto Rico, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Virgin Islands, Student aid. 24 CFR Part 572 Condominiums, Cooperatives, Fair housing, Government property, Grant programs_housing and community development, Low and moderate income housing, Nonprofit organizations, reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 575 Civil rights, Community facilities, Grant programs_housing and community development, Grant programs_social programs, Homeless, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 576 Community facilities, Grant programs_housing and community development, Emergency shelter grants, Homeless, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 577 Grant programs_housing and community development, Homeless, Community facilities, Employment, Grant programs_social programs, Handicapped, Mental health programs, Nonprofit organizations, Reporting and recordkeeping. 24 CFR Part 578 Community facilities, Grant programs_housing and community development, Grant programs_social programs, Handicapped, Homeless, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Mental health programs, Nonprofit organizations, Technical assistance. 24 CFR Part 579 Grant programs_housing and community development, Homeless, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Community facilities, Grant programs_social programs. 24 CFR Part 880 Grant programs_housing and community development, Rent subsidies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 881 Grant programs_housing and community development, Rent subsidies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
