FR941227-1-00029 FR941227-1-00007 (3) Should the railroad worker's supervisor be assessed a monetary penalty for failure to report a known accident or injury that occurred to a railroad worker? (4) With respect to ``notifying his or her employer in writing,'' would the seven-day provision require employees to complete the company's standard ``personal injury/illness statement'' for any alleged noise-induced hearing loss case? (5) Should proposed ยง225.39(a) contain language that would exclude the employee's ``seven-day notification in writing requirement'' in the event of severe injury and fatality cases when it may not be possible for the employee to comply with this provision? I. Notification to Worker (Proposed Section 225.39(b)) FRA proposed that each railroad shall provide a copy of the proposed Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log (Form FRA F 6180.xx) to the injured or ill worker within seven calendar days of completing the log. (1) What steps should be taken to notify the employee that his or her case has been reported to FRA? Could this be accomplished without placing an excessive burden on the reporting railroad? (2) Should proposed ยง225.39(b) contain language that would exclude the railroad from providing a copy of the proposed Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log to the injured or ill worker within seven calendar days of completing the log when this may not be possible in severe injury and fatality cases? J. Recordkeeping (Proposed Section 225.25) 1. Logs for Recording Injuries (Proposed Section 225.25(a)) FRA proposed that each railroad shall maintain the Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log (Form FRA F 6180.xx) of all reportable and recordable injuries and illnesses to railroad workers for each railroad establishment, including, but not limited to, an operating division, general office, and major installation such as a locomotive or car repair or construction facility. (a) What technique do railroads currently utilize to record injuries, even those not reportable to the FRA? (b) Should FRA require railroads to maintain the employee's handwritten personal injury/illness statement on file? 2. Logs for Recording Accidents (Proposed Section 225.25(b)) FRA proposed that each railroad shall maintain the Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Log (Form FRA F 6180.xx(a)) and Property Damage Estimate Worksheet and Record (Form FRA F 6180.xx(b)) of reportable and recordable collisions, derailments, fires, explosions, acts of God, or other events involving the operation of railroad on-track equipment, signals, track, or track equipment (standing or moving) that result in damages to railroad on-track equipment, signals, tracks, track structures, or roadbed, including labor costs and all other costs for repairs or replacement in kind for each railroad establishment.
