FR940727-0-00135 FR940727-0-00026 (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget, Approval Number 1225&hyph;0017) Termination and Enforcement §95.60 Purpose of termination and enforcement. Sections 95.61 and 95.62 set forth uniform suspension, termination and enforcement procedures. §95.61 Termination. (a) Awards may be terminated in whole or in part only if paragraphs (a) (1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section apply. (1) By grant officers, if a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award. (2) By grant officers, with the consent of the recipient, in which case the two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. (3) By the recipient upon sending to the grant officer written notification setting forth the reasons for such termination, the effective date, and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. However, if the grant officer determines in the case of partial termination that the reduced or modified portion of the grant will not accomplish the purposes for which the grant was made, the grant officer may terminate the grant in its entirety under either paragraphs (a) (1) or (2) of this section. (b) If costs are allowed under an award, the responsibilities of the recipient referred to in §95.71(a), including those for property management as applicable, shall be considered in the termination of the award, and provision shall be made for continuing responsibilities of the recipient after termination, as appropriate. §95.62 Enforcement. (a) Remedies for noncompliance. If a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award, whether stated in a Federal statute, regulation, assurance, application, or notice of award, DOL may, in addition to imposing any of the special conditions outlined in §95.14, take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances: (1) Temporarily withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the recipient or more severe enforcement action by DOL. (2) Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and any applicable matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance. (3) Wholly or partly suspend or terminate the current award. (4) Withhold further awards for the project or program. (5) Take other remedies that may be legally available. (b) Hearings and appeals. In taking an enforcement action, DOL shall provide the recipient an opportunity for hearing, appeal, or other administrative proceeding to which the recipient is entitled under any statute or regulation applicable to the action involved.
