FR940616-2-00145 FR940616-2-00095 A maximum of one grant will be awarded for this project. Guidelines The components of this program and their respective purposes are: (1) Training To enlighten organizations that recruit, select, place and educate students supported under the Freedom Support Act Secondary School Exchange Program about the importance of integration of participants with disabilities into their programs; to train these organizations in the logistics of handling the needs of a participant with a disability and provide supporting materials needed for training; to provide materials needed for continued training within organizations. (2) Materials To provide reference materials for organizations which do not participant in the above-mentioned training; to compile information about accessible educational facilities abroad, and; (3) Facilitative Assistance To facilitate connections between organizations to the NIS which provide support for persons with disabilities and the organizations which recruit, select and place students participating in NIS&hyph;US exchange programs; to facilitate connections between organizations in the US that provide support for persons with disabilities and organizations in the US which recruit, select, and place students participating in US&hyph;NIS exchange programs. The following factors should be considered in preparing proposals. _The Secondary School Initiative funds programs administered by over 50 different organizations in the United States. It is anticipated that this training will involve many, but not all, of these organizations. The final number of trainees is subject to the availability of funding. Budgets should outline both general costs associated with development of training and materials and specific costs for these services on a per-organization basis. _Interested organizations must submit a proposal to administer all components of this program. _Proposals under the facilitative assistance component of this program must demonstrate the organization's connections to U.S. and NIS based organizations in support of people with disabilities. Proposals should include a description of the process your organization would use to train organizations about the need to integrate persons with disabilities in programs and the type of logistical education necessary to facilitate integration. The grantee organization should describe the process by which the information about accessible educational facilities in the NIS will be gathered, organized and distributed. The grantee organizations should also demonstrate a plan for connecting US based organizations in support of disabled persons and US organizations administering grant money for student exchange. In addition, the organization should describe a culturally-sensitive plan for linking NIS organizations in support of persons with disabilities to secondary school exchange organizations. Proposed Budget Organizations must submit a comprehensive line item budget. Details are available in the application packet. Organizations should be familiar with OMB circulars A110, A122, and A133 on cost accounting principles. Cost sharing is encouraged. Cost sharing may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the federal government. Such records are subject to audit.
