FR941216-2-00149 FR941216-2-00088 OMB approves information collections from the public under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Three years is the maximum authorization period. At the appropriate time, OPM will seek renewal of the OMB authorization. The forms do not show the expiration date so they will be usable in the future when the authorization is extended. (10) Did OMB also approve OPM's use of computer-assisted systems to rate applicants? Yes. OMB approved OPM's use of the revised optical scan forms (1203 series) that collect applicant information and qualifications in a format suitable for automated processing. The revised forms no longer contain questions related to suitability because agencies will obtain that information through the new Declaration for Federal Employment. OMB also approved OPM's collection of applicant information through the Telephone Application Processing System (TAPS) used to fill certain jobs. (11) Can a Federal agency design its own form and seek OMB approval for its use? A proliferation of Government application forms would be counter to the National Performance Review objective of simplifying the job application process. OMB will consider requests for agency-specific forms only for unique jobs with highly specialized requirements or for special forms needed for a computer-assisted application system. (12) Can a Federal agency require all applicants to use the new Optional Application for Federal Employment? No. But if an agency fills jobs through an automated system that uses a computer-compatible version of the form that is otherwise identical, it may require the computer-compatible form. OMB and GSA approval is not required for an otherwise identical, computer-compatible Optional Application for Federal Employment. Agency forms management officials will find instructions in GSA's Federal Information Resources Management Regulation Bulletin B&hyph;3, Revision 1. Use of a non-identical, computer-compatible application would require OMB and GSA approval even if it asks for the same information as the Optional Application for Federal Employment. (13) Can a Federal agency require its own employees to file for vacancies using a particular form? Yes. When recruiting from only its own employees and not seeking candidates through outside-the-register or competitive examining, an agency may require a particular form, for example, the Optional Application for Federal Employment. Although it may make existing supplies of the SF 171 available to its employees, an agency may not require the SF 171 because after December 31, 1994, it is no longer an authorized form. OMB approval is not required for a form that seeks job-related information only from an agency's own employees. An agency's ``own employees'' are its current employees, not former employees with reinstatement eligibility, and not employees from other agencies. An agency for this purpose is, for example, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of the Navy, and the Environmental Protection Agency. (14) What is the status of agency-specific application forms approved by OMB prior to the implementation of these new application procedures? Each agency should check with its forms management office. That office will probably consult with the agency's OMB desk officer to determine how the new process impacts on existing OMB approvals. (15) Given that the SF 171 is authorized only through the end of 1994, can an agency require the SF 171 in a vacancy announcement issued in 1994 with a closing date in 1995? If an agency issues a vacancy notice that opens in 1994 but closes on or before January 31, 1995, the agency may require applicants to submit an SF 171. Similarly, an agency must close by January 31, 1995, any open continuous announcement that requires an SF 171. Any announcement issued on or after January 1, 1995, may not require the SF 171. (16) How should agencies handle incomplete applications, i.e., applications that do not contain all the information requested in the vacancy announcement? Each agency needs to establish a policy on how it will handle incomplete applications. It may decide not to consider incomplete applications, to ask applicants for the missing information, or to rate incomplete applications as is. All applicants for a particular vacancy must be treated in the same way. It would be helpful and more fair to applicants if agency vacancy announcements stated the policy on incomplete applications. (17) The new procedures tell applicants to submit proof with their applications if they claim 5 point veterans' preference. Should agencies reject applications that do not include proof of 5 point preference? Currently, applicants for civil service examinations submit proof at the time of selection. However, the interagency work group (see question 2) concluded that waiting until the end to verify 5 point preference slowed down the selection process. To phase in this new requirement without harming preference eligibles, OPM strongly suggests that agencies not reject applications that lack proof of 5 point preference but instead ask the veterans to submit it promptly. (18) What part does the agency vacancy announcement play in the new application process? The vacancy announcement is key; it tells applicants what information the agency needs. The vacancy announcement can request any job-related information necessary to evaluate candidates for the position(s) and any information required by law, such as: Identification, including name, address, Social Security Number, date of birth, phone numbers. Job related qualifications, such as work experience, education, minimum college credits for professional positions, training, licenses, accomplishments, evidence of specialized knowledge, skills, and abilities.
