FR940812-0-00089 FR940812-0-00019 §2542.330 Notice of suspension. When a respondent is suspended, notice shall immediately be given: (a) That suspension has been imposed; (b) That the suspension is based on an indictment, conviction, or other adequate evidence that the respondent has committed irregularities seriously reflecting on the propriety of further Federal Government dealings with the respondent; (c) Describing any such irregularities in terms sufficient to put the respondent on notice without disclosing the Federal Government's evidence; (d) Of the cause(s) relied upon under §2542.310 for imposing suspension; (e) That the suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or ensuing legal, debarment, or Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act proceedings; (f) Of the provisions of §§2542.330 through 2542.350 and any other Corporation procedures, if applicable, governing suspension decisionmaking; and (g) Of the effect of the suspension. §2542.340 Opportunity to contest suspension. (a) Submission in opposition. Within 30 days after receipt of the notice of suspension, the respondent may submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and argument in opposition to the suspension. (b) Additional proceedings as to disputed material facts. (1) If the suspending official finds that the respondent's submission in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension, respondent(s) shall be afforded an opportunity to appear with a representative, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any witness the agency presents, unless: (i) The action is based on an indictment, conviction or civil judgment; or (ii) A determination is made, on the basis of Department of Justice advice, that the substantial interests of the Federal Government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced. (2) A transcribed record of any additional proceedings shall be prepared and made available at cost to the respondent, upon request, unless the respondent and the agency, by mutual agreement, waive the requirement for a transcript. §2542.350 Suspending official's decision. The suspending official may modify or terminate the suspension (for example, see §2542.280(c) for reasons for reducing the period or scope of debatement or may leave it in force. However, a decision to modify or terminate the suspension shall be without prejudice to the subsequent imposition of suspension by any agency. The decision shall be rendered in accordance with the following provisions. (a) No additional proceedings necessary. In actions: Based on an indictment, conviction, or civil judgment; in which there is no genuine dispute over material facts; or in which additional proceedings to determine disputed material facts have been denied on the basis of Department of Justice advice, the suspending official shall make a decision on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the respondent. The decision shall be made within 45 days after receipt of any information and argument submitted by the respondent, unless the suspending official extends this period for good cause. (b) Additional proceedings necessary. (1) In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary to determine disputed material facts, written findings of fact shall be prepared. The suspending official shall base the decision on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the respondent and any other information in the administrative record. (2) The suspending official may refer matters involving disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending official may reject any such findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary or capricious or clearly erroneous. (c) Notice of suspending official's decision. Prompt written notice of the suspending official's decision shall be sent to the respondent. §2542.360 Period of suspension. (a) Suspension shall be for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or ensuing legal, debarment, or Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act proceedings, unless terminated sooner by the suspending official or as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. (b) If legal or administrative proceedings are not initiated within 12 months after the date of the suspension notice, the suspension shall be terminated unless an Assistant Attorney General or United States Attorney requests its extension in writing, in which case it may be extended for an additional six months. In no event may a suspension extend beyond 18 months, unless such proceedings have been initiated within that period. (c) The suspending official shall notify the Department of Justice of an impending termination of a suspension, at least 30 days before the 12-month period expires, to give that Department an opportunity to request an extension. §2542.370 Scope of suspension. The scope of a suspension is the same as the scope of a debarment (see §2542.290) except that the procedures of §§2542.320 through 2542.350 shall be used in imposing a suspension.
