FR941202-2-00088 FR941202-2-00063 [Release No. 34&hyph;35005; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;30] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment No. 1 by the American Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing and Trading of Commodity Linked Notes November 23, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on August 22, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Amex proposes to approve for listing and trading under Section 107 of the Amex Company Guide intermediate term notes whose value will be linked in part to changes in the levels of either the J.P. Morgan Commodity Excess Return Index (``JPMCIX'') or the J.P. Morgan Commodity Return Index (``JPMCI,'' together with JPMCIX, ``Indexes''). 1 According to the Amex, both Indexes measure the return from an investment in the same 11 liquid industrial futures contracts. 1 The Amex on November 16, 1994, submitted Amendment Number 1 (``Amendment No. 1'') to the proposal to allow the underwriter to link the value of the notes to either the JPMCI or JPMCIX, depending upon market conditions and investor interest at the time of the offering. Additionally, the Amendment provides that: only options approved accounts will be permitted to trade the notes; the notes will provide for a 75% floor; the index value will be calculated at least once a day; and the Amex has executed the necessary surveillance sharing agreements with the relevant commodities exchanges. See Letter from Benjamin Krause, Amex, to Michael Walinskas, Derivative Products Regulation, SEC, dated November 16, 1994. The text of the proposed rule change and Amendment No. 1 is available at the Office of the Secretary, Amex and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Amex included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Amex has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose Under Section 107 of the Amex Company Guide (``Section 107''), the Exchange may approve for listing and trading securities which cannot be readily categorized under the listing criteria for common and preferred stocks, bonds, debentures, and warrants. The Amex now proposes to list for trading under Section 107 intermediate term notes the value of which can be expected to fluctuate based on changes in the level of an index consisting of base metals, precious metals and energy related commodities. These securities will conform to the listing guidelines under Section 107 which provide that such issues have: (1) A public distribution of one million trading units; (2) 400 holders; and (3) a market value of not less than $20 million. The Exchange also will require that the issuer have a minimum tangible net worth of $150 million. In addition, the Exchange will require that the total original issue price of the security (when combined with all of the issuer's commodity linked notes which are listed on a national securities exchange or traded through the facilities of NASDAQ), shall not be greater than 25% of the issuer's tangible net worth at the time of issuance. Such notes will have a term of one to three years and will not pay interest. Upon maturity, holders will receive not less than 75% of the original issue price plus an amount in U.S. dollars equal to a participation rate ( i.e. , a specified percentage) multiplied by any positive difference between the level of the appropriate index at the time of the offering and the average of the closing index level on the five business days preceding maturity. The notes may not be redeemed prior to maturity, and holders of the notes have no claim to the physical commodities in the linked index.
