FR940224-2-00008 FR940224-2-00003 Accordingly, it is hereby Ordered: I. All outstanding individual validated licenses in which Sofep appears or participates, in any manner or capacity, are hereby revoked and shall be returned forthwith to the Office of Export Licensing for cancellation. Further, all of Sofep's privileges of participating, in any manner or capacity, in any special licensing procedure, including, but not limited to, distribution licenses, are hereby revoked. II. Until September 30, 2003, Sofep Petrole et Derives, 6 rue Galilee, 77116 Paris, France, hereby is denied all privileges of participating, directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity, in any transaction in the United States or abroad involving any commodity or technical data exported or to be exported from the United States, in whole or in part, and subject to the Regulations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, participation, either in the United States or abroad, shall include participation, directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity: (i) As a party or as a representative of a party to any export license application submitted to the Department; (ii) in preparing or filing with the Department any export license application or request for reexport authorization, or any document to be submitted therewith; (iii) in obtaining from the Department or using any validated or general export license, reexport authorization or other export control document; (iv) in carrying on negotiations with respect to, or in receiving, ordering, buying, selling, delivering, storing, using, or disposing of, in whole or in part, any commodities or technical data exported or to be exported from the United States, and subject to the Regulations; and (v) in financing, forwarding, transporting, or other servicing of such commodities or technical data. III. After notice and opportunity for comment as provided in ยง770.15(h) of the Regulations, any person, firm, corporation, or business organization related to Sofep by affiliation, ownership, control, or position of responsibility in the conduct of trade or related services may also be subject to the provisions of this Order. IV. As provided in ยง787.12(a) of the Regulations, without prior disclosure of the facts to and specific authorization of the Office of Export Licensing, in consultation with the Office of Export Enforcement, no person may directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity: (i) Apply for, obtain, or use any license, Shipper's Export Declaration, bill of lading, or other export control document relating to an export or reexport of commodities or technical data by, to, or for another person then subject to an order revoking or denying his export privileges or then excluded from practice before the Bureau of Export Administration; or (ii) order, buy, receive, use, sell, deliver, store, dispose of, forward, transport, finance, or otherwise service or participate: (a) in any transaction which may involve any commodity or technical data exported or to be exported from the United States; (b) in any reexport thereof; or (c) in any other transaction which is subject to the Export Administration Regulations, if the person denied export privileges may obtain any benefit or have any interest in, directly or indirectly, any of these transactions. V. This Order is effective immediately and shall remain in effect until September 30, 2003. VI. A copy of this Order shall be delivered to Sofep. This Order shall be published in the Federal Register. Dated: February 10, 1994. Eileen M. Albanese, Acting Director, Office of Export Licensing. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4093 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DT&hyph;M
