FR940817-1-00029 FR940817-1-00011 Experience indicates that if the parties in interest were to work together to negotiate the text of a proposed rule, they might be able in some circumstances to identify the major issues, gauge their importance to the respective parties, identify the information and data necessary to resolve the issues, and develop a rule that is acceptable to the respective interests, all within the contours of the substantive statute. ACUS adopted this recommendation in ``Procedures for Negotiating Proposed Regulations,'' 47 FR 30708, June 18, 1982. The thrust of the recommendation is that representatives of all interests should be assembled to discuss the issue or hazard and all potential solutions, reach consensus, and prepare a proposed rule for consideration by the agency. After public comment on any proposal issued by the agency, the group would reconvene to review the comments and make recommendations for a final rule. This inclusive process is intended to make the rule more acceptable to all affected interests and prevent the need for petitions for reconsideration and litigation that often follow promulgation of a final rule. The movement toward negotiated rulemaking gained impetus with enactment of the Negotiated Rulemaking Act of 1990 (Reg-Neg), 5 U.S.C. ยง561, et seq. More recently, President Clinton issued Executive Order 12866 (EO) (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), which states the need to reform the current regulatory process into one that is effective, consistent, and understandable. The objectives of the EO are: To reaffirm the primacy of Federal agencies in the regulatory decision-making process; to restore the integrity and legitimacy of regulatory review and oversight; and to make the process more accessible and open to the public. Id. Section 6(a) of the EO charges government agencies with providing the public meaningful participation in the regulatory process: In particular, before issuing a notice of proposed rulemaking, each agency should, where appropriate, seek the involvement of those who are intended to benefit from and those expected to be burdened by any regulation . . . Each agency is also directed to explore and, where appropriate, use consensual mechanisms for developing regulations, including negotiated rulemaking. Id. at 51740. Although relatively new, negotiated rulemakings have been used successfully by many regulatory agencies, including the Federal Aviation Administration, the United States Coast Guard, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. FRA now intends to begin this process in a formalized manner for the first time, and does so with enthusiasm and high expectations. FRA welcomes the opportunity to work with those who will be affected directly by a roadway worker safety rule, and is confident that the agency and the industry will benefit from the process by creating an effective and reasonable regulation. Pursuant to section 563(a) of Reg-Neg, an agency considering rulemaking by negotiation should consider whether: (1) There is a need for the rule; (2) There is a limited number of identifiable interests; (3) These interests can be adequately represented by persons willing to negotiate in good faith to reach a consensus; (4) There is a reasonable likelihood that the committee will reach consensus within a fixed period of time; (5) The negotiated rulemaking procedure will not unreasonably delay the notice of proposed rulemaking; (6) the agency has adequate resources and is willing to commit such resources to the process; and (7) The agency is committed to use the result of the negotiation in formulating a proposed rule if at all possible. For the reasons stated in this Notice, FRA believes that these criteria have been met with respect to railroad roadway safety issues. The regulatory negotiation FRA proposes would be carried out by an advisory committee (Committee) created under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), as amended, 5 U.S.C. App., and in a manner that reflects appropriate rulemaking objectives, including pertinent Executive Orders. FRA will be represented on the Committee and will take an active part in the negotiations as a Committee member. However, pursuant to section 566(c) of Reg-Neg, the person(s) designated to represent FRA would not facilitate or otherwise chair the proceedings. The agency is committed to this process and is quite optimistic that it will result in the issuance of an NPRM and final rule that will be acceptable to the members of the Committee. Because of the need to issue a rule on this subject, FRA is prepared to go forward with an NPRM that is not the product of the negotiations in the unlikely event the negotiation fails or if the Committee's recommendation is not acceptable. III. Procedures and Guidelines The following proposed procedures and guidelines would apply to this process, subject to appropriate changes made as a result of comments received on this Notice or as are determined to be necessary during the negotiating process. (A) Facilitator: FRA is seeking the services of a facilitator for the negotiating group. The facilitator will not be involved with substantive development of this regulation. This individual will chair the negotiations, may offer alternative suggestions toward the desired consensus, will help participants define and reach consensus, and will determine the feasibility of negotiating particular issues. The facilitator may ask members to submit additional information or to reconsider their position. FRA will contact mediation organizations for potential candidates, and will consider nominations made in comments received in response to this Notice. (B) Feasibility: FRA has examined the issues and interests involved and has made a preliminary inquiry among representatives of those interests to determine whether it is possible to reach agreement on: (a) individuals to represent those interests; (b) the preliminary scope of the issues to be addressed; and (c) a schedule for developing a notice of proposed rulemaking. On the basis of the history of this issue and our preliminary inquiry, we believe that regulatory negotiation could be successful in developing a workable proposal for a notice of proposed rulemaking and a final rule, and that the potential participants listed below would adequately represent the affected interests. (C) Participants and Interests: The number of committee participants generally should not exceed 25.
