FR940203-2-00016 FR940203-2-00009 Although the Councils have discussed the live rock issue, particularly pertaining to EEZ waters over recent years, they took no regulatory action since the FMFC had decided to initiate rulemaking regarding live rock landings from the EEZ off Florida. Specifically, the Councils deferred action since Florida's planned phase-out of live rock landings appeared to address what seemed to be a Florida area management issue. In June 1992 the Florida Governor and Cabinet approved the FMFC rule to phase-out live rock landings from the EEZ over a 3-year period ending on June 30, 1995. The phase-out period was designed to allow development of live rock aquaculture which would be exempt from the harvest ban. The phase-out was to be accomplished by a 25 percent annual reduction in allowable landings (based on the 1991 reported landings) accompanied by a 500 pound daily vessel limit. On March 31, 1993, a U.S. District Court Judge issued a preliminary injunction to prevent enforcement of Florida's quota and vessel landing limits relating to possession or landing of live rock taken in the EEZ. Florida live rock fishermen argued that the Magnuson Act superseded state landing laws and the Councils had made ``an affirmative and conscious decision'' not to prohibit the taking of live rock in the EEZ. Because of the District Court action, the Councils are now concerned that removal of live rock from the EEZ is currently unregulated. Also, there is growing interest in harvest of live rock from North Carolina to Alabama. In April 1993, the South Atlantic Fishery Management Council (SAFMC) approved a motion to include live rock in the FMP and reactivate the Coral Advisory Panel. In May 1993, the Gulf Council, on being advised of live rock landings in Alabama, and at the request of that State and Florida, initiated development of options for live rock management. In June 1993, the SAFMC held a public scoping meeting in Duck Key, Florida, to solicit input from the harvesters and the general public on the management of live rock. In November 1993, the Councils prepared draft Amendment 2 to the FMP to address the live rock issue, and established a schedule for future public hearings. See addresses to obtain a copy of this document. In establishing a control date and making this announcement, the Councils intend to discourage speculative entry into the live rock fishery while they discuss possible management regimes. As the Councils consider a limited entry or access-controlled management regime, among other options, certain fishermen who do not currently harvest live rock, and never have done so, may decide to enter the fishery for the sole purpose of establishing a record of making commercial live rock landings. In the absence of a control date, such a record generally may be considered indicative of economic dependence on the fishery. In addition, when management authorities begin to consider use of a limited access management regime, speculative entry into a fishery often is responsible for a rapid increase in fishing effort that may exacerbate adverse environmental impacts. Establishment of a control date does not commit the Councils or the Secretary of Commerce to any particular management regime or criterion for entry into the commercial fishery for live rock. Fishermen are not guaranteed future participation in the fishery regardless of their date of entry or intensity of participation in the fishery before or after the control date. The Councils may subsequently choose a different control date, or they may choose a management regime that does not make use of such a date. Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. Dated: January 28, 1994. Nancy Foster, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2417 Filed 2&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;M
