FR940812-2-00213 FR940812-2-00076 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20445; 812&hyph;9060] First American Funds, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application August 5, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICATIONS: First American Funds, Inc. (``FAF'') and First Bank National Association (the ``Adviser''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested. (a) Under section 17(b) granting an exemption from section 17 (a) and (b) permitting certain joint transactions under section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order under section 17(b) for an exemption from section 17(a) and an order under section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1 to permit certain series FAF to acquire all of the assets of certain other series of FAF in exchange for shares of the acquiring series. FILING DATES: The application was filed on June 17, 1994 and amended on August 4, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing request should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on August 30, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: FAF, 680 East Swedesford Road, Wayne, Pennsylvania 19087. The Adviser, First Bank Place, 601 Second Avenue South, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55480. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John V. O'Hanlon, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0578, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Office of Investment Company Regulation, Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. FAF is a open-end management investment company organized as a Minnesota corporation and registered under the Act. FAF currently offers five series of shares: Money Fund, Institutional Money Fund, CT Government Fund, Institutional Government Fund, and CT Treasury Fund. Each series is a money market fund within the meaning of rule 2a&hyph;7 under the Act. The Adviser acts as investment adviser to each series. The Adviser is a wholly owned subsidiary of First Bank System, Inc. (``FBS''). 2. First Trust National Association (``First Trust'') also is a wholly owned subsidiary of FBS, and acts as custodian for FAF. First Trust and its affiliates hold of record in their own name and in the name of their nominee more than 5% of the outstanding shares of Institutional Money Fund, Institutional Government Fund, and CT Government Fund, and they hold or share voting and/or investment discretion with respect to a portion of such shares. All such shares are held for the benefit of others in a trust, agency, custodial, or other fiduciary or representative capacity. First Trust and its affiliates do not have any economic interest in any such shares. 3. Applicants propose that Money Fund and CT Government Fund (the ``Acquired Funds'') be combined with and into, respectively, Institutional Money Fund and Institutional Government Fund (the ``Acquiring Funds'') in tax free reorganizations (the ``Reorganizations''). In the Reorganizations each Acquiring Fund will acquire all of the assets and liabilities of its respective Acquired Fund in exchange for shares of the Acquiring Fund, which then will be distributed to former shareholders of the Acquired Fund. The investment objectives, policies, and restrictions of each Acquired Fund are identical or substantially similar to those of its respective Acquiring Fund. 4. The number of Acquiring Fund shares to be issued in exchange for each Acquired Fund share will be determined by dividing the net asset value of one Acquired Fund share as of the effective time of the Reorganization (before giving effect thereto) by the net asset value of one Acquiring Fund share at such time. Because each Acquired Fund and Acquiring Fund computes its net asset value per share using the amortized cost method under rule 2a&hyph;7, these procedures will result in a share-for-share and dollar-for-dollar exchange of Acquiring Fund shares for Acquired Fund shares, without adjustment. It is a condition to closing of the Reorganizations that the net asset value per share of each of the Acquiring Funds and the Acquired Funds immediately before the effective time, so computed, be $1.00 per share and that the net asset value per share of each Acquiring Fund immediately after the reorganizations, so computed, be $1.00 per share. 5. At a meeting on June 8, 1994, the Board of Directors of FAF, including the disinterested directors, made the findings required under rule 17a&hyph;8 and unanimously approved the Reorganizations. In doing so, the Board considered: (a) The compatibility of the investment objectives, policies and restrictions of the respective Acquired Funds and Acquiring Funds; (b) the expected advantages to the Acquired Funds and the Acquiring Funds of the Reorganizations; (c) the anticipated tax-free nature of the Reorganizations; (d) the terms and conditions of the Reorganization; (e) the costs associated with the Reorganizations, and the agreement of the Adviser to bear such costs; (f) the anticipated advisory fees before and after the Reorganization and the Adviser's agreement to waive a portion of such fees; and (g) the potential benefits to the Adviser of the Reorganizations.
