FR940919-2-00192 FR940919-2-00081 35. While there is widespread agreement that competition is putting pressure on existing mechanisms for funding universal service, there is no consensus on the amount of subsidies at risk. 48 Thus, a study sponsored by the United States Telephone Association concluded that interexchange access and toll services provided by local exchange telephone companies (LECs) are priced to produce approximately $20 billion of contribution in excess of their long-run incremental costs. 49 Those additional revenues are presumably needed to fund universal service. Teleport Communications Group (Teleport), a major provider of competitive local telecommunications services, disputes this claim, contending that only $400 million of the LECs' $86 billion in annual revenues goes toward subsidizing rates for basic telephone service. 50 A study done for MCI estimated that the subsidy is about $3.7 billion when basic service costs are examined and extraneous LEC revenue requirements are subtracted. 51 Finally, the Consumer Federation of America alleges that, far from requiring support from other services, local telephone service produces net income for the LECs in the amount of five to ten dollars per month. 52 48 To the extent that universal service is redefined to include additional services and features, the costs (and associated subsidies) of making that new package of services universally available would likely increase above current levels. 49 Calvin S. Monson and Jeffrey H. Rohlfs, Strategic Policy Research, The $20 Billion Impact of Local Competition in Telecommunications 2,3 (issued July 16, 1993). 50 Teleport Communications Group, What $20 Billion Impact? A Reply to USTA (issued Aug. 10, 1993). 51 See Hatfield Associates, Inc., The Cost of Basic Universal Service 4 (July 1994). 52 See Dr. Mark Cooper, Consumer Federation of America Local Exchange Costs and the Need for a Universal Service Fund: A Consumer View 1 (May 1994). 36. We ask for comments on the amount of the subsidy today and the basis for the estimates. What methodologies were used to derive the estimates cited, and what are the strengths and weaknesses of each approach? What data sources are available on which to base the estimates? What are the implications of universal service subsidies in terms of market inefficiencies and the positive ``externalities'' generated by the addition of subscribers to the network? With respect to a system of subsidies, is there a threshold point at which the net positive benefits to society are maximized? 37. There is a similar lack of agreement concerning possible new mechanisms for funding universal service, although certain themes have begun to emerge. The debate overwhelmingly centers on the sources and distribution of the funding, since most parties appear to agree that some form of universal service support should be continued. 53 The following discussion highlights some of the proposals that are currently under discussion. 53 During the five NII field hearings on universal service and open access, numerous witnesses set forth proposals relating to funding sources and distribution. See NII Field Hearings , pp. 9&hyph;10. A. Sources of Contribution 38. Many proposals focusing on potential funding sources look to service providers as a source of subsidies. For example, NARUC's Universal Service Project Group contends that as markets continue to evolve toward competition, all service providers that deliver services over the public switched network should be required to contribute proportionally to the universal service support mechanisms, including enhanced service providers. 54 Metropolitan Fiber Systems (MFS), another provider of competitive local telecommunications services, would require contributions from all providers of telecommunications services. 55 Teleport, on the other hand, suggests that all common carriers providing facilities-based, two-way telecommunications contribute to funding universal service. 56 Professor Eli Noam has developed a plan under which all entities providing ``transmission path services'' to third parties for compensation would pay a proportionate share, based on revenues, toward universal service funding. 57 54 NARUC Universal Service Project, NARUC Committee on Communications, Presentation of Staff Position Statement, NARUC Summer Meetings (San Diego, California) (July 25, 1994); Universal Service Project, NARUC Subcommittee on Communications, Staff Draft Position Statement on Universal Service Principles, 22 (June 27, 1994) (Staff Draft Position Paper). 55 See e.g., Inquiry into Policies and Programs to Assure Universal Telephone Service in a Competitive Market Environment, Petition of MFS Communications Company, Inc. for a Notice of Inquiry and En Banc Hearing, at 5 (filed Nov. 1, 1993) (Petition of MFS). 56 Comments of Michael A. Morris, Western Regional Director, Regulatory and External Affairs, Teleport Communications Group, Transcript of Los Angeles Hearing at 223 (Feb. 16, 1994). 57 Eli M. Noam, NetTrans Accounts: Reforming the Financial Support System for Universal Service in Telecommunications (Sept. 1993) (unpublished paper) (Noam). His scheme would apply to all facilities-based two way transmission carriers regulated by the FCC under Title II, including local exchange carriers, interexchange carriers, cellular carriers, competitive access providers, and satellite carriers. He would exclude enhanced service providers, information providers, resellers, private networks, equipment manufacturers, and cable and broadcast operators. A system of credits and debits would be used to determine amounts owed and transfers would only be made in the event of a difference owing between providers. He would begin this program at the same time that local competition would be fully permitted, with full interconnection and collocation rights. He indicates that his proposal could be implemented under existing mechanisms. 39. We request comment on these and other mechanisms for generating funds to support universal service. What are the advantages and disadvantages of deriving universal service support funding from service providers? What criteria should be used to determine which service providers should be required to contribute to universal service funding? Should contributions be required only from facilities-based service providers and, if so, why? If contributions are to be required from non-facilities based service providers ( e.g. , resellers, enhanced service providers), do steps have to be taken to prevent double payment? How can the contribution scheme be structured so as to minimize adverse effects on competition? 58 Finally, should we keep any of the existing funding mechanisms? 58 For example, MFS suggests that universal service obligations be determined annually, based on competitively neutral criteria, such as percentage of revenues or a fixed amount per access line. See Petition of MFS, supra note 55, at 19. 40. Some have suggested public funding as an alternative to obtaining universal service funding from service providers. For example, Professor Noam lists a variety of tax measures that could be used to fund universal service ( e.g. , general tax revenues, a telecommunications sales tax, a tax on telecommunications equipment, or a property tax on carriers), while pointing to problems with each. 59 Some witnesses at the NTIA field hearings asserted that subsidies should be generated from tax-based funding under ideal circumstances, with a sectoral levy on telecommunications as a second best option. 60 Finally, at NTIA's Indianapolis hearing, an executive of Procter and Gamble suggested that commercial advertising on the NII could be an alternative mechanism for funding universal service objectives. 61 59 Noam, supra note 57, at 17&hyph;20. 60 Comments of Barbara A. Cherry, Ameritech 2 (Indianapolis hearing); Transcript of Los Angeles hearing at 207 (Comments of Timothy J. McCallion, West Area Vice President_Regulatory, GTE). A State regulatory official testifying at the New Mexico field hearing raised the possibility of using revenues from Federal spectrum auctions to fund universal service objectives. Ken Solomon, Acting Director of Telecommunications, New Mexico State Corporation Commission, New Mexico transcript, at 256. 61 Comments of Robert Herbold, Senior Vice President, The Proctor & Gamble Company (Indianapolis Field Hearing).
