FR940217-2-00068 FR940217-2-00033 Review Criteria The following review criteria were established in FY 1990 after public comment (55 FR 4482, dated 2/8/90) and the Administration is again extending these criteria in FY 1994. The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria: •The degree to which the proposed project adequately meets legislative intent; •The background and rationale for the proposed project; •Whether the project contains clearly stated realistic and achievable national or regional objectives which are described in Healthy People 2000. •The extent to which the project contains a methodology which is integrated and compatible with project objectives, including collaborative arrangements and feasible workplans; •Evaluation plans and procedures for program and trainees, if applicable; •The administrative and management capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project, including institutional infrastructure and resources; •The extent to which the budget justification is complete, cost-effective and includes cost-sharing, when applicable; and •Whether there is an institutional plan and commitment for self-sufficiency when Federal support ends. Other Considerations In addition, the following funding factors may be applied in determining funding of approved applications. A funding preference is defined as the funding of a specific category or group of approved applications ahead of other categories or groups of approved applications. A funding priority is defined as the favorable adjustment of aggregate review scores of individual approved applications when applications meet specified criteria. It is not required that applicants request consideration for a funding factor. Applications which do not request consideration for funding factors will be reviewed and given full consideration for funding. Statutory Preference In making awards of grants, preference will be given to qualified schools agreeing that the project for which the award is made: (1) Will establish or strengthen field placements for students in public or nonprofit private health agencies or organizations; and (2) will involve faculty members and students in collaborative projects to enhance public health services to medically underserved communities. Proposed Funding Priorities It is proposed that a funding priority will be given to programs which demonstrate either substantial progress over the last three years or a significant experience of ten or more years in enrolling and graduating trainees from those minority or low-income populations identified as at risk of poor health outcomes. This priority is consistent with a HRSA strategy to increase the number of minority health professionals, to assure equal access to health professions education for all population groups, and ultimately, to provide a greater volume of health care in underserved areas. It is also proposed that a funding priority be given for projects that address the program purpose of reducing the incidence of domestic violence. The incidence of reported violence, especially domestic or family violence, has increased significantly in recent decades. This proposed priority is intended to provide incentive to schools of public health to take responsibility for helping to reduce domestic violence through the special projects grant program. Additional Information Interested persons are invited to comment on the proposed funding priorities. The comment period is 30 days. All comments received on or before March 21, 1994 will be considered before the final funding priorities are established. Written comments should be addressed to: Neil Sampson, M.P.H., Director, Division of Associated, Dental, and Public Health Professions, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, room 8&hyph;101, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. All comments received will be available for public inspection and copying at the Division of Associated, Dental, and Public Health Professions, Bureau of Health Professions, at the above address, weekdays (Federal holidays excepted) between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. Application Requests Requests for application materials and questions regarding grants policy and business management issues should be directed to:
