FR940622-2-00051 FR940622-2-00039 DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3793; FR&hyph;3740&hyph;N&hyph;01] Submission of Proposed Information Collection Requirement to OMB AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, HUD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The proposed information collection requirement described below has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for expedited review, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act. The Department is soliciting public comments on the subject proposal. DATES: Comments due date: Comments must be received by June 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding this proposal. Comments should refer to the proposal by name and should be sent to: Joseph F. Lackey, Jr., OMB Desk Officer, Office of Management and Budget, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kay F. Weaver, Reports Management Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street SW., Washington, DC 20410, telephone (202) 708&hyph;0050. This is not a toll-free number. Copies of the proposed forms and other available documents submitted to OMB may be obtained from Ms. Weaver. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This Notice informs the public that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has submitted to OMB, for expedited processing, an information collection package with respect to owner application for funds for a special adjustment for drug-related security retrofitting for Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation projects. Funds were appropriated for drug-related security retrofitting for Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation projects by Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;124, approved October 28, 1993). HUD intends to provide six million dollars to Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation owners who apply and are approved for a special adjustment for drug-related security retrofitting. The form provides for owners of Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation projects to apply for Fiscal Year 1994 funds for special rent adjustments for security retrofitting. It also provides for Housing Agencies (HAs) to review and comment on the owner's application, for the HUD Field Office to approve or disapprove the owner's application. All funding decisions regarding approved application will be made on a first come first served basis until the available funding has been depleted. The Department has submitted the proposal for the collection of information as described below, to OMB for review, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 25); (1) The title of the information collection proposal: Form HUD&hyph;52662, Owner Application, Funds for Special Adjustment for Drug-Related Security Retrofitting, Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation Program. (2) Office of the agency to collect the information: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. (3) The description of the need for the information and its proposed use: The data that will be collected on the form is necessary for HUD to determine whether a Moderate Rehabilitation project meets the statutory and administrative requirements necessary for HUD approval of funds for a special adjustment for drug-related security retrofitting. (4) Agency form number: Form HUD&hyph;52662. (5) Members of the public who will be affected by the proposal: Owners of Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation projects; HAs with Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation Programs. (6) How frequently information submissions will be required: Once a year in years when Congress appropriates funds for this purpose. (7) An estimate of the total number of hours needed to prepare the information submissions including number of respondents, frequency of response, and hours of response: Two hundred Moderate Rehabilitation owners are expected to apply voluntarily for the special adjustment for security retrofitting in Fiscal Year 1994. Owners will spend approximately three (3) hours competing the form. HA review of the form will take approximately one (1) hour. HUD Field Office review of the form will take approximately one (1) hour. This process will take place no more than once a year for funding purposes; Fiscal Year 1994 is the first year such funding has occurred, and it is not know whether future fiscal years will provide another opportunity for owners to apply for these funds. Total Fiscal Year 1994 hours of response is 1,000. (8) Type of request: New request. (9) The names of telephone numbers of an agency official familiar with the proposal: Gary Bowen, Office of Public and Indian Housing, (202) 708&hyph;7424. Authority: Section 3507 of the Paper Work Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3507; Section 7(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Dated: June 15, 1994. Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing.
