FR940803-1-00015 FR940803-1-00004 1. General. One means of disclosing dividend rate information is to disclose the dividend rate earned on the account for the previous dividend period. The term ``dividend declaration date'' is used to define the date that the board of directors of a credit union declares a dividend for the preceding dividend period. Credit unions are cautioned that the ``dividend declaration date'' (the date dividends are legally declared and earned) and the ``dividend distribution date'' (the date dividends are credited to an account) may differ. (k) Dividend period. 1. General. The dividend period is to be set by a credit union's board of director's for each account type, e.g., regular share, share draft, money market share, and term share. The most common dividend periods are weekly, monthly, quarterly, semiannually, and annually. Dividend periods need not agree with calendar months, e.g., a monthly dividend period could begin March 15 and end April 14. (l) Dividend rate. 1. General. The dividend rate does not reflect compounding. Compounding is reflected in the ``annual percentage yield'' definition. 2. Referencing. Except where specifically stated otherwise, use of the term ``dividend rate'' in part 707 also refers to ``interest rate,'' where appropriate (for interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deposit accounts at some state-chartered credit unions). (m) Extraordinary dividends. 1. General. Extraordinary dividends are commonly referred to among credit unions as ``bonus dividends.'' The definition encompasses all irregularly scheduled and declared dividends, and as dividends, extraordinary dividends are exempt from the ``bonus'' disclosure requirements. Extraordinary dividends do not have to be disclosed on account disclosures, but the dollar amount of an extraordinary dividend credited to the account during the statement period does have to be separately disclosed on the periodic statement for the dividend period during which the extraordinary dividends are earned. (n) Fixed-rate account. 1. General. Includes all accounts in which the credit union, by contract, gives at least 30 days advance written notice of decreases in the dividend rate or interest rate. Thus, credit unions can decrease rates only after providing advance written notice of rate decreases, e.g., a ``change-in-terms notice.'' (o) Grace period. 1. General. A period after maturity of an automatically renewing term share account during which the member may withdraw funds without being assessed a penalty. Use of a ``grace period'' is discretionary, not mandatory. This definition does not refer to the ``grace period'' account, which is a synonym for ``federal rollback method'' or ``in by the 10th'' accounts, which are prohibited by TISA and part 707. (p) Interest. 1. General. Member savings placed in deposit accounts are debt investments, and the return earned on these accounts is interest. Federal credit unions are not authorized to offer any interest-bearing deposit accounts. State-chartered credit unions may offer both share and deposit accounts if permitted by state law. Interest excludes the payment of a bonus or other consideration worth $10 or less given during a year, the waiver or reduction of a fee, the absorption of expenses, non-dividend membership benefits, and extraordinary dividends. 2. Differences between Dividends and Interest. Dividends are returns on an equity investment (shares); interest is return on a debt investment (deposits). Dividends are not properly payable until declared at the close of a dividend period; interest is properly payable daily according to the deposit contract. Dividend rates are prospective until actually declared; interest rates are set according to contract in advance and are earned on that basis. Share accounts establish a member (owner)/credit union (cooperative) relationship; deposit accounts establish a depositor (creditor)/depositary (debtor) relationship. 3. Referencing. Except where specifically stated otherwise, use of the terms ``dividend'' or ``dividends'' in part 707 also refers to ``interest'' where appropriate (for interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deposit accounts at some state-chartered credit unions). (q) Member. 1. Professional capacity. Examples of accounts held by a natural person in a professional capacity for another are: Attorney-client trust accounts Trust, estate and court-ordered accounts Landlord-tenant security accounts 2. Nonprofessional capacity. Examples of accounts not held in a professional capacity are: Accounts held by parents for a child under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act (or Uniform Transfers to Minors Act) Accounts established by a tenant for apartment lease payments pending resolution of a landlord-tenant dispute 3. Retirement plans. Individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and simplified employee pension (SEP) accounts are member accounts to the extent that funds are invested in accounts subject to the regulation. Keogh accounts, like sole proprietor accounts, are not subject to the regulation. (r) Non-dividend membership benefits. 1. General. Term reflects unique credit union practices that are difficult to value, encourage community spirit, and are not granted in such quantity as to be includable as calculable dividends.
