FR940526-2-00069 FR940526-2-00047 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;438 and 50&hyph;439] Bellefonte Nuclear Plant; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of extensions of the latest construction completion dates specified in Construction Permit Nos. CPPR&hyph;122 and CPPR&hyph;123 issued to Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA, applicant) for the Bellefonte Nuclear Plant (BLN), Units 1 and 2, respectively. The facility is located at the applicant's site on the west shore of Guntersville Reservoir, about 6 miles east-northeast of Scottsboro, Alabama. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed action would extend the latest construction completion date of Construction Permit No. CPPR&hyph;122 from July 1, 1994 to October 1, 2001 and the latest construction completion date of Construction Permit No. CPPR&hyph;123 from July 1, 1996 to October 1, 2004. The proposed action is in response to the applicant's request dated April 19, 1994. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed action is needed because the construction of the facility is not yet fully completed. The applicant requested the extensions because construction activities had been deferred in 1988 due, in part, to a lower than expected load forecast. On March 23, 1993, TVA notified NRC that it planned to resume completion activities 120 days from the date of the letter. As a result of the delay from the inactivity during the construction deferral, TVA is unable to complete the construction of the two units before the expiration dates of the construction permits, therefore extensions are now necessary. In addition, pursuant to the provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, TVA is currently engaged in an Integrated Resource Planning (IRP) process to consider the least cost options for providing an adequate supply of electricity to TVA's customers. As part of this planning process, TVA will evaluate the completion of the BLN units along with other generating options. The IRP process is presently scheduled for completion in November 1995. Additional delays associated with the above efforts to ensure that BLN meets regulatory requirements and licensing commitments make it necessary for TVA to request extensions of the expiration dates for Construction Permit Nos. CPPR&hyph;122 and CPPR&hyph;123. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The environmental impacts associated with the construction of the facility have been previously discussed and evaluated in the staff's Final Environmental Statement (FES) issued in June 1974 for the construction permit stage which covered construction of both units. The proposed extensions will not allow any work to be performed that is not already allowed by the existing construction permit. The only change is that the environmental impacts discussed and evaluated in the FES will be gradual and extend to longer periods of time than the construction periods considered in the FES. The probability of accidents has not been increased and post-accident radiological releases will not be greater than previously determined, nor do the proposed extensions otherwise affect radiological plant effluents. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed extensions. Based on the foregoing, the NRC staff has concluded that the proposed action would have no significant environmental impact. Since this action would only extend the period of construction activities described in the FES, it does not involve any different impacts or a significant change to those impacts described and analyzed in the original environmental impact statement. Consequently, an environmental impact statement addressing the proposed action is not required. Alternatives Considered A possible alternative to the proposed action would be to deny the request. Under this alternative, the applicant would not be able to complete construction of the facility. This would result in a denial of the benefit of power production. This option would not eliminate the environmental impacts of construction already incurred. If construction were halted and not completed, site redress activities would restore some small areas to their natural states. This would be a slight environmental benefit, but much outweighed by the economic losses from denial of use of a facility that is nearly completed. (Unit 1 is about 85% complete, and Unit 2 is about 45% complete). Therefore, this alternative is rejected. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not previously considered in the FES for Bellefonte. Agencies and Persons Contacted The NRC staff reviewed the applicant's request and applicable documents referenced therein that support the extensions. The NRC did not consult other agencies or persons. Finding Of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for this action. Based upon the environmental assessment, the staff concludes that this action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For details with respect to this action, see the request for extensions dated April 19, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC and at the Local Public Document Room, Scottsboro Public Library, 1002 South Broad Street, Scottsboro, Alabama 37402. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 19th day of May 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission Frederick J. Hebdon, Director, Project Directorate II&hyph;4, Division of Reactor Projects I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12859 Filed 5&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
