FR941128-1-00006 FR941128-1-00001 (g) Cosponsorship: A ``Cosponsorship'' as defined in and governed by ยง8(b)(1)(A) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(A), and SBA's Standard Operating Procedures. (h) Counseling: Individual advice, guidance or instruction given to a person or entity concerning the formation, management, financing and operation of small business enterprises. Counseling may be provided by different modes of transmission, including face-to-face, electronic media, publications and video. (i) Direct costs: ``Direct costs'' as defined in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;21, A&hyph;87 or A&hyph;122, as appropriate. Under these Circulars, SBDC recipient organizations are required to allocate at least 80 percent of the Federal funds provided through the Cooperative Agreement to the Direct costs of program delivery. (j) Dispute: For purposes of this part, Dispute means any financial disagreement arising between a recipient organization and the SBA. (k) Full-time employee: An employee of the recipient organization who is assigned to the SBDC and who performs work for it during the full customary work week of the recipient organization. (l) Grants/cooperative agreement appeals committee: The SBA committee responsible for, among other things, resolving appeals arising from disputes between an applicant or recipient organization and the SBA. The membership of the Committee and its Chairperson are designated by the SBA Administrator. (m) Grants management specialist: An individual in the SBA's Central Office designated by the SBA Administrator to be responsible for the financial review, negotiation, award, and administration of one or more SBDC Cooperative Agreements. (n) Host: See ``Recipient Organization''. (o) Indirect costs: ``Indirect costs'' as defined in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;21, A&hyph;87, or A&hyph;122, as appropriate. (p) In-kind contributions: Property, facilities, services or other non-monetary contributions from non-Federal sources. Some examples of in-kind contributions are donated printing, supplies, or the value of volunteer services (except that SCORE services cannot be used as in-kind match). See OMB Circular A&hyph;87, A&hyph;102, or A&hyph;110, as appropriate. (q) Key SBDC employee: Any employee in the SBDC network having managerial or budgetary control over the activities of the Lead Center or its SBDC service providers. (r) Lead Center: The entity of the SBDC network which administers and operates the SBDC network. The Lead Center may also provide assistance directly to the small business community. (s) Lobbying: As applied to the recipient organization of a Federal grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, ``lobbying'' shall have the meaning given in OMB Circulars A&hyph;21, A&hyph;87 and A&hyph;122, and Pub. L. 101&hyph;121, section 319. (t) Matching funds: The statutorily required amount of non-Federal contribution to SBDC project costs. In the SBDC program, this required amount is equal to the Federal contribution. At least 50% of the statutorily required matching funds must be provided in the form of Cash Match. The remaining 50% of the statutorily required matching funds may be provided through any allowable combination of additional cash, in-kind contributions, or indirect costs. Any non-Federal contributions in excess of the statutorily required amount are considered Overmatched Amounts. No portion of the matching funds may be from Federal sources or be program income or fees collected from clients or attendees. (u) Notice of award: See ``Cooperative agreement''. (v) Overmatched amount: That amount of indirect, in-kind or cash contributions by the recipient organization or by a third party to the recipient organization which exceeds the statutorily required non-Federal contribution. (w) Part-time employee: An employee of the recipient organization who is assigned to and who performs work for the SBDC for less than the full customary work week of the recipient organization. (x) Program announcement: The SBA's annual publication of items which an applicant organization must address in its application in order to be considered for SBDC funding by the SBA. (y) Program income: Income earned or received by the SBDC recipient organization or SBDC subrecipient from any SBDC supported activity as defined in Attachment D of OMB Circular A&hyph;100 and Attachment E of OMB Circular A&hyph;102. (z) Program manager: An individual in the SBA's Central Office designated by the AA/SBDC to oversee the operations of one or more SBDCs. (aa) Project officer: An individual designated by the AA/SBDCs who negotiates the annual Cooperative Agreement and monitors the ongoing operations of an SBDC. (bb) Project period: The period of time in which an SBDC actively participates with the SBA in providing assistance to the small business community served by the SBDC. A project period begins on the day of award and normally continues over a number of budget periods, in twelve (12) month increments. (cc) Proposal: The written submission by a proposed or existing SBDC explaining its projected SBDC activities for an upcoming budget period and requesting that the Small Business Administration provide funding for use in its operations. (dd) Recipient organization: After funding is approved and the applicant enters into a Cooperative Agreement with the SBA, the applicant organization becomes the recipient organization. The recipient organization receives the Federal funds and is responsible for establishing the Lead Center. The recipient organization is also at times referred to as the Host. (ee) SBDC : An abbreviated name for a Small Business Development Center network, created pursuant to ยง21 of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 648. (ff) SBDC Director: The full-time senior manager designated by each recipient organization and approved by the SBA.
