FR940223-2-00234 FR940223-2-00104 Pedestrian Safety •Pedestrian Safety Elementary Education Program Two programs are available to reach young children with safe pedestrian information. The ``Willy Whistle'' program can be conducted in one or two pedestrian safety lessons. Resources include an age appropriate video for children from kindergarten through third grade or fourth through seventh grade and teaching guides with discussion questions, activity ideas, and a parent letter. Both videos teach critical behaviors needed by young pedestrians to avoid dangerous situations. ``Wary Walker'' is a pedestrian safety school-based curriculum consisting of five classroom lessons, an outdoor field day, and a two-part parent/child activity workbook to be completed at home by the family. The focus is on teaching elementary school children basic pedestrian skills emphasizing street crossing while encouraging independent thinking, making safe choices, and evaluating themselves and others as pedestrians using a variety of props including instructional videos, worksheets, cartoon characters, a pedestrian safety rap song, and a Map to Safety. (Can be conducted in conjunction with schools.) •School Crossing Guard Program Adult school crossing guard programs have been developed to help safely expedite the movement of children to and from school by creating gaps in traffic. Crossing guards act in identified high risk intersections separately from school student safety patrols who assist students on school property. The crossing guard program is used in cities of all sizes and has become an integral part of school crossing protection programs across the country. Most crossing guard programs are organized and administered by local law enforcement units in cooperation and coordination with school authorities and require strict reliability of participants. State or local legislation may establish procedures and guidelines pertaining to school crossing guards which could include minimum age, education requirements, and uniform attire for guards. Training materials available through the American Automobile Association (AAA) and other sources may be used if standard training materials are not already established in a particular locality. (Can be conducted in conjunction with law enforcement and schools. Note that this project can only be implemented if it will not displace other employees.) Bicycle Safety •Bicycle Helmet Program Despite the effectiveness of wearing helmets in preventing death and serious head injury, only a very small percentage of cyclists wear them for many reasons including misperceptions of helmets being uncool, ugly, too hot, and too heavy. Purchasing bicycle helmets may also be cost prohibitive to consumers not fully aware of their potential life-saving benefits. Bicycle videos promoting safe cycling through increased use of helmets and videos demonstrating the proper fit of helmets are available through the American Academy of Pediatrics and other organizations. Potential program activities could include bicycle helmet demonstrations allowing first-hand helmet use, the distribution of bicycle helmet discount coupons obtained with the cooperation of local merchants or manufacturers, and the development and distribution of local shopping guides specifying area stores with model availability, sizes, and price lists. (Can be conducted in conjunction with parent and teacher organizations, civic groups, and schools.) •Bicycle Rodeo
