FR940505-1-00243 FR940505-1-00012 b. Optional state-wide program. EPA is concerned that the FIP areas may be too small to create sufficient market incentive for equipment manufacturers to develop and offer for sale equipment meeting the proposed standards and that therefore, little equipment would be provided meeting the requirements of this program. EPA is further concerned that even if there are such engines, that the availability of more traditional equipment in areas adjacent to the FIP areas will create incentives for people to attempt to avoid the fleet average requirements. Finally, EPA is concerned that FIP residents may choose to comply with the first years of the fleet average requirements by purchasing extra nationally-regulated engines right before the start of the program. While such a strategy does not impact air quality, provided full compliance occurs, it could be extremely destabilizing for the equipment dealers and could put the viability of dealers' businesses at risk. To address these concerns, EPA is requesting comment on various revisions to the enhanced in-use compliance program for nonroad engines. First, as described in the standards discussion (section C.(3)), the Agency is requesting comment on a 1.5 g/bhp-hr NO X standard for all three FIP areas. This revision would eliminate any problems that a Sacramento-only standard would create for manufacturers. Unfortunately, it would not address most of the other concerns. Another option is to apply the enhanced nonroad emission standards statewide (including the 1.5 g/bhp-hr NO X standard, the exhaust NMHC standard and the low evaporative requirements described in section C.(3)). Under this approach, only equipment certified to the enhanced nonroad engine standards would be available in California beginning in 1999. The statewide requirement expands the market available for engine and equipment manufacturers and should provide them sufficient incentive to offer all types of nonroad equipment. Further, in a statewide program, the size of the state and the location of the FIP areas should counteract any incentive to cheat by using higher emitting equipment available in neighboring areas. Unfortunately, statewide application will not eliminate the possibility of significant pre-FIP purchasing and corresponding lack of purchasing in the early years of the program and the destabilizing effect on the economy both could have. EPA is therefore asking for comment on a requirement that engine manufacturers sell a similar fraction of their engines in the state in the FIP years as they did on average for the three years preceding the FIP. Fractional requirements would be converted into numerical requirements to facilitate averaging and trading among engine types and manufacturers. No banking would be allowed, since banking would create the destabilizing problems the program was designed to avoid. Trading and averaging permitted would be modeled on the current averaging, and trading program for heavy-duty on-highway engines (55 FR 30584, July 26, 1990). EPA is proposing to apply this requirement to engine manufacturers, rather than equipment manufacturers, because the equipment manufacturers cannot control the emissions level of their equipment without the cooperation of the engine manufacturers. EPA is also considering a more flexible sales requirement to ensure that natural economic fluctuations do not affect compliance. Such a program would require that in the first year of the program manufacturers sell at least eighty percent of the number of engines they sold in the previous year. In the following several years the sales requirement could be reduced to seventy, sixty and fifty percent of the sales in the 1998 model year. Finally, once the transition to FIP engines was complete and market fluctuations were unlikely, the sales requirement could be dropped entirely. Either form of the option would diminish somewhat the importance of the requirements for registration, fleet average determination, stickers and other enforcement programs directed towards the equipment user. Presumably, if manufacturers are selling the new equipment at historical rates, it is getting used and is replacing the old equipment at historical rates. EPA would consider, therefore, if it adopted a strict sales requirement, dropping the fleet average program and sticker enforcement. The Agency almost certainly would need to maintain a nonroad registration program as a check on the efficacy of the sales requirement. If the requirements proved to be ineffective in maintaining historical turnover, then EPA would have to implement a fleet average requirement in order to ensure the attainment targets were met. While EPA acknowledges that sales requirements can force manufacturers to offer discounts and otherwise subsidize their engines, they are in a better position to accommodate the impacts of the program than fleets or dealers. Manufacturers sell throughout the nation and can recover costs by spreading small cost increases across a larger market than can fleets or dealers. On the other hand, lack of business in one area for a few years could put many dealers, which operate in much smaller areas, out of business. It is important to note that so long as the turnover rates stay at historical levels through the implementation of the FIP, both programs would be transparent to the regulated parties. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Parts 52 and 81 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Hydrocarbons, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Oxides of nitrogen, Ozone, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: February 14, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
