FR940930-1-00045 FR940930-1-00015 F. Reasonableness Petitioners argue that the final rule is unreasonable in requiring modification of line sections when single components are replaced. Petitioners assert that such modifications result in minimal benefits and excessive costs. RSPA believes that significant benefits can accrue from inspections with smart pigs. Both the Colonial Pipeline Company's and the Texas Eastern Pipeline Company's experiences with pipeline failures caused by outside force damage demonstrate the benefits of internally inspecting pipelines using smart pigs. The Colonial failure on March 28, 1993 resulted in the release of an estimated 408,000 gallons of petroleum into Sugarland Run Creek, a tributary of the Potomac River. The Texas Eastern failure occurred on March 23, 1994 when a 36-inch gas transmission line exploded. The resulting fire leveled 128 condominium units in Edison, New Jersey and caused death, injury, and substantial property damage. The failure in each case resulted from mechanical damage to the pipeline caused by external damage that occurred at an indeterminate time before the failure. Recent technological developments in smart pigs allow for internal inspections that identify dents, gouges, and other anomalies that could lead to failure on buried pipelines. Smart pig inspections done on each pipeline following these failures have resulted in the detection and removal of anomalies that could, over time, have led to additional failures. In addition, smart pig inspections have long been used by pipeline operators concerned about corrosion. In each of these cases, serious pipeline failures occurred in high density populated areas placing a significant portion of the population at risk. In each case, the ``piggability'' of the pipelines provided a more certain means to assure that similar incidents would not recur on those pipelines. Such ``piggability'' is the goal of the final rule. Requiring a pipeline operator to make necessary modifications in a line section whenever a replacement is made is not only reasonable, but also necessary for safety in high-density populated areas. Accordingly, RSPA finds no reason to reconsider the final rule as it applies to replacements in line sections in Class 3 and 4 locations. With respect to gas transmission pipelines in less populated areas, AGA argues that a requirement to modify the complete line section to accommodate smart pigs ``will result in a risk to public safety by diverting limited funds for capital improvement projects_many of them safety related_to making pipelines accommodate smart pigs in rural areas where there would be little, if any, benefit to the public.'' After citing two examples of replacement projects that would have had large enormous increases under the line section modification requirement, AGA goes on to state that ``this enormous increase in costs will result in the final rule having an economic impact of well over $100 million annually for the industry.'' While RSPA does not accept these costs as typical for modifying the obstructions to smart pigs in most line sections, we see the need to reconsider the resulting benefits in less populated areas. Accordingly, as discussed below, we are proposing to modify the final rule as it applies to replacements in Class 1 and 2 locations. Offshore Pipelines INGAA requests that RSPA reconsider the final rule and except all new and replaced offshore transmission lines from compliance. INGAA argues that requiring offshore transmission lines to accommodate smart pigs is technically infeasible and impracticable and does not meet the special statutory criteria for pipeline safety standards. Those criteria, found in 49 U.S.C. 60102(b), require consideration of relevant available pipeline safety data, appropriateness of the standards for the particular type of pipeline transportation or facility, the reasonableness of the proposed standards, and the extent to which the standards will contribute to public safety and the protection of the environment.
