FR940610-2-00173 FR940610-2-00086 2. The Planning Agency Sponsor Assurances are amended as follows: a. Assurance C.1. is revised as follows: C. 1. General Federal Requirements * * * * * Federal Regulations d. 49 CFR Part 29_Governmentwide debarment and suspension (non-procurement) and governmentwide requirements for drug-free workplace (grants). n. 49 CFR Part 20_New restrictions on lobbying. b. Assurance 13 is deleted: 13. Drug-Free Workplace. It will provide a drug-free workplace at the site of work specified in the grant application in accordance with 49 CFR part 29 by (1) publishing a statement notifying its employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the sponsor's workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against its employees for violation of such prohibition; (2) establishing a drug-free awareness program to inform its employees about the dangers of drug abuse in the workplace and any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employees' assistance programs; (3) notifying the FAA within 10 days after receiving notice of an employee criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace; and (4) making a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace. 3. The Nonairport Sponsor Assurances are amended as follows: a. Assurance C.1. is revised as follows: C.1. General Federal Requirements * * * * * Executive Orders Executive Order 12699_Seismic Safety of Federal and Federally Assisted New Building Construction Federal Regulations f. 49 CFR Part 29_Governmentwide debarment and suspension (non-procurement) and governmentwide requirements for drug-free workplace (grants). i. 29 CFR Part 3_Contractors and subcontractors on public building or public work financed in whole or part by loans or grants from the United States. m. 49 CFR Part 41_Seismic safety of Federal and federally assisted or regulated new building construction. n. 49 CFR Part 20_New restrictions on lobbying. b. Assurance 20 is revised to read: 20. Disposal of Land. a. For land purchased under a grant for airport noise compatibility purposes, it will dispose of the land, when the land is no longer needed for such purposes, at fair market value, at the earliest practicable time. That portion of the proceeds of such disposition which is proportionate to the United States' share of acquisition of such land will, at the discretion of the Secretary, 1) be paid to the Secretary for deposit in the Trust Fund, or 2) be reinvested in an approved noise compatibility project as prescribed by the Secretary. b. Disposition of such land under (a) will be subject to the retention or reservation of any interest or right therein necessary to ensure that such land will only be used for purposes which are compatible with noise levels associated with operation of the airport. c. Assurance 22 is deleted. 22. Drug-Free Workplace. It will provide a drug-free workplace at the site of work specified in the grant application in accordance with 49 CFR part 29 by (1) publishing a statement notifying its employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the sponsor's workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against its employees for violation of such prohibition; (2) establishing a drug-free awareness program to inform its employees about the dangers of drug abuse in the workplace and any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employees' assistance programs; (3) notifying the FAA within 10 days after receiving notice of an employee criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace; and (4) making a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14149 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
