FR940603-0-00138 FR940603-0-00029 2. Partners and employees of Smith & Jones, Attorney at Law, who work in Wilmington, Delaware; 3. Members of the GHI Association who live in Wilmington, Delaware, and qualify for membership in accordance with its charter and bylaws in effect on December 31, 1994. II.D.3_Additional Documentation For multiple group charters, NCUA will need the following, in addition to what is required for new charters generally: •For each group seeking to be included in the proposed federal credit union's field of membership, the credit union must provide a letter from the group, on the group's letterhead stationery and signed by an official representative of the group wherever possible, or if that is not possible, such other documentation or certification as the regional director may, in his or her discretion, deem appropriate, containing this information: •The fact that the group wants to obtain service from the proposed federal credit union, the kind of service it desires and the credit union has agreed to provide, and the extent to which the group supports the credit union_e.g., by providing access to its employees or members via payroll deduction, by permitting use of employee or members' newsletter, etc. •The number of employees or members in the group. •The proximity to the proposed federal credit union's closest service facility. •The name of any credit union to which the group currently has access. •The group's headquarters location and all other work locations the credit union is proposing to serve. •If the group is eligible for membership in another credit union, documentation must be provided to support inclusion of the group under the standards set forth in the ``Overlaps'' section of this chapter. II.E_Other Persons Sharing Common Bond A number of persons by virtue of their close relationship to a common bond group may be included, at the charter applicant's option, in the field of membership. These include the following: •``Spouses of persons who died while within the field of membership of this credit union.'' •``Employees of this credit union.'' •``Persons retired as pensioners or annuitants from the above employment.'' •Members of their immediate families.'' •``Volunteers.'' •``Organizations of such persons.'' ``Members of their immediate families'' may be generally defined as deemed appropriate by a federal credit union when including this group among those to be served. To be made effective, however, the federal credit union's board of directors must approve the definition by resolution, and include it in Article XVIII, Section 2, of its by-laws. NCUA approval is not necessary. Volunteers, by virtue of their close relationship with a sponsor group, may be included. Examples include volunteers working at a hospital or church. Under Article II, Section 5, of NCUA's Standard Bylaws, if a member leaves the field of membership, standard member services are terminated. However, the board of directors may, by resolution, set forth the circumstances under which a member may maintain membership. This option is commonly referred to as the ``once a member, always a member'' bylaw provision. NCUA approval is not necessary here, either. III_Subscribers Federal credit unions are organized by persons who donate time and resources and are responsible for determining the interest, commitment, and advisability of forming a federal credit union. The organization of federal credit union takes considerable planning and dedication in order to ensure the success of the new credit union. Persons interested in organizing a federal credit union should contact the NCUA regional office serving the state in which the credit union will be organized or one of the trade associations. Lists of NCUA offices and trade associations are shown in the appendices. NCUA will provide information to groups interested in pursuing a federal charter and will assist them in contacting an organizer. A credit union organizer may be a trade association representative or a person with training and experience in chartering new federal credit unions. The functions of the organizer are to provide direction, guidance, and advice on the chartering process. The organizer also provides the group with information about a credit union's functions and purpose as well as technical assistance in preparing and submitting the charter application. Close communication and cooperation between the organizer and the group members are critical to the chartering process. The Federal Credit Union Act requires that seven or more natural persons_the ``subscribers''_must present to NCUA for approval a sworn organization certificate stating at a minimum: •The name of the proposed federal credit union. •The location of the proposed federal credit union and the territory in which it will operate. •The names and addresses of the subscribers to the certificate and the number of shares subscribed by each. •The initial par value of the shares. •The detailed proposed field of membership. •The term of the existence of the corporation, which may be perpetual. •The fact that the certificate is made to enable such persons to avail themselves of the advantages of the Federal Credit Union Act. False statements on the organization certificate may be grounds for federal criminal prosecution. IV_Economic Advisability IV.A_Viability IV.A.1_General Before chartering a federal credit union, NCUA must be assured that the institution will be viable and that it will not materially affect existing state or federal credit unions. This economic advisability inquiry has become especially important since 1970, when Congress assigned NCUA the obligation to establish a fund insuring credit union members' shares and to preserve that fund. NCUA will conduct an independent on-site investigation of each charter application to assure itself that the proposed credit union can be successful. In general, the success of any credit union depends on: (a) the depth of the members' support; (b) the character and fitness of management; and (c) present and projected market conditions. IV.A.2_Proposed Management's Character and Fitness The Federal Credit Union Act requires NCUA to satisfy itself as to the ``general character and fitness'' of the subscribers. In addition, prospective officials and employees will be the subject of credit and background investigations. The investigation reports must demonstrate their ability to effectively handle financial matters. NCUA also needs assurance that the management team will have the requisite skills_particularly in leadership and accounting_and the commitment to dedicate the time and effort needed to make the proposed federal credit union a success. IV.A.3_Member Support While NCUA has not set a minimum size field of membership for chartering a federal credit union, experience has shown that a credit union with under 500 potential members generally is unlikely to succeed. Therefore, a charter applicant with a proposed field of membership of under 500 will have to demonstrate convincing support for the credit union. For example, a small occupational group must demonstrate a commitment for significant long-term support from the employer. The group's size is meaningful only if members participate in the credit union. The charter applicant must show that a substantial percentage of the group's members will join the credit union and use its services. Survey results must be based, at a minimum, on a sampling of 250 potential members. In particular instances, especially where the common bond is broadly defined or newly established, NCUA may require a larger sampling. IV.A.4_Present and Future Market Conditions_Business Plan
