FR941028-2-00184 FR941028-2-00109 Supplement 1: Determining the Infectiousness of a TB Patient The infectiousness of patients with TB correlates with the number of organisms expelled into the air, which, in turn, correlates with the following factors: (a) Disease in the lungs, airways, or larynx; (b) presence of cough or other forceful expiratory measures; (c) presence of acid-fast bacilli (AFB) in the sputum; (d) failure of the patient to cover the mouth and nose when coughing; (e) presence of cavitation on chest radiograph; (f) inappropriate or short duration of chemotherapy; and (g) administration of procedures that can induce coughing or cause aerosolization of M. tuberculosis (e.g., sputum induction). The most infectious persons are most likely those who have not been treated for TB and who have either (a) pulmonary or laryngeal TB and a cough or are undergoing cough-inducing procedures, (b) a positive AFB sputum smear, or (c) cavitation on chest radiograph. Persons with extrapulmonary TB usually are not infectious unless they have (a) concomitant pulmonary disease; (b) nonpulmonary disease located in the respiratory tract or oral cavity; or (c) extrapulmonary disease that includes an open abscess or lesion in which the concentration of organisms is high, especially if drainage from the abscess or lesion is extensive ( 20,22 ). Coinfection with HIV does not appear to affect the infectiousness of TB patients ( 63&hyph;65 ). In general, children who have TB may be less likely than adults to be infectious; however, transmission from children can occur. Therefore, children with TB should be evaluated for infectiousness using the same parameters as for adults (i.e., pulmonary or laryngeal TB, presence of cough or cough-inducing procedures, positive sputum AFB smear, cavitation on chest radiograph, and adequacy and duration of therapy). Pediatric patients who may be infectious include those who (a) are not on therapy, (b) have just been started on therapy, or (c) are on inadequate therapy, and who (a) have laryngeal or extensive pulmonary involvement, (b) have pronounced cough or are undergoing cough-inducing procedures, (c) have positive sputum AFB smears, or (d) have cavitary TB. Children who have typical primary tuberculous lesions and do not have any of the indicators of infectiousness listed previously usually do not need to be placed in isolation. Because the source case for pediatric TB patients often occurs in a member of the infected child's family ( 45 ), parents and other visitors of all pediatric TB patients should be evaluated for TB as soon as possible. Infection is most likely to result from exposure to persons who have unsuspected pulmonary TB and are not receiving anti-TB therapy or from persons who have diagnosed TB and are not receiving adequate therapy. Administration of effective anti-TB therapy has been associated with decreased infectiousness among persons who have active TB ( 66 ). Effective therapy reduces coughing, the amount of sputum produced, and the number of organisms in the sputum. However, the period of time a patient must take effective therapy before becoming noninfectious varies between patients ( 67 ). For example, some TB patients are never infectious, whereas those with unrecognized or inadequately treated drug-resistant TB may remain infectious for weeks or months ( 24 ). Thus, decisions about infectiousness should be made on an individual basis. In general, patients who have suspected or confirmed active TB should be considered infectious if they (a) are coughing, (b) are undergoing cough-inducing procedures, or (c) have positive AFB sputum smears, and if they (a) are not on chemotherapy, (b) have just started chemotherapy, or (c) have a poor clinical or bacteriologic response to chemotherapy. A patient who has drug-susceptible TB and who is on adequate chemotherapy and has had a significant clinical and bacteriologic response to therapy (i.e., reduction in cough, resolution of fever, and progressively decreasing quantity of bacilli on smear) is probably no longer infectious. However, because drug-susceptibility results are not usually known when the decision to discontinue isolation is made, all TB patients should remain in isolation while hospitalized until they have had three consecutive negative sputum smears collected on different days and they demonstrate clinical improvement.
