FR940505-1-00214 FR940505-1-00012 The two remaining emission controls, the oxygen sensor and catalysts (both under body and quick light-off) are widely recognized as key components in maintaining proper in-use emissions performance. A manufacturer could decide to improve the durability of the active surface of the oxygen sensor or change its placement in the exhaust to limit deposits and thermal degradation. Likewise, more durable catalyst washcoats exist relative to those commonly used and the overall loading of catalytic material can also be increased. Regarding evaporative emissions, its more basic operation should make a manufacturer's durability assessment much easier. The key components besides the onboard computer are the purge valve, the vapor lines and the charcoal canister. The design of a durable purge valve should be much easier to assess and improve if necessary, relative to an EGR valve, given the clean nature of the vapor flowing through the valve. Non-metal vapor lines can be replaced with metal lines if necessary to provide increased confidence of leak-free operation. With adequate purge, charcoal canister should not fall below their in-use design capacity with time or usage. While uncertainty exists as to exactly how manufacturers will choose to comply with this program, the main issue appears to be one of further improvements in durability versus cost tradeoffs. The program appears to be technologically feasible. As for the costs, estimates of which are contained in the draft RIA supporting this FIP, EPA believes them to be reasonable. j. Alternatives. The objective of the proposed enhanced in-use compliance recall program is to identify and correct systemic design defects or lack of durability within an engine family. However, as discussed in section A.(f)., the proposed enhanced in-use standards could be exceeded if just a few percent of the vehicles within an engine family had high emissions, even though the rest emitted at well below the standard. In this situation, recalling the entire engine family to correct random defects which result in a few high emitters is inefficient, inconvenient and costly. Hopefully, the enhanced I/M program will identify and correct these high emitters. However, in some situations such as a defect in the cold start emission control system, the I/M program will not identify the problem. On-board diagnostics could identify the problem, but it does not guarantee that the owner will seek repair of the defect in a timely manner. This may be especially a concern for older vehicles where the relative cost of repairs compared to the value of the car is high. An alternative to the proposed enhanced in-use recall program involves the use of remote sensing to quickly identify individual vehicles with excess emissions. Remote sensing of emissions is now required by federal law in all non-attainment areas subject to enhanced I/M, including the three FIP areas. A potentially more effective approach could utilize recent advances in electronics which allow communication between the vehicle's on-board diagnostic system and a roadside transmitter. This type of communication with moving vehicles has been developed to substitute for toll booths on highways and bridges, and for collecting use-fees for heavy trucks. CARB will soon be demonstrating the application of this technology to on-board diagnostics. Under this concept, when prompted, a small transmitter on the vehicle would communicate the VIN and if the on-board computer has sensed any emission control system defects. The owners of vehicles with defects would be notified by mail to repair the vehicle and report to a smog inspection station for verification. This is the same remedy that will soon be required of owners whose vehicles fail a remote or roadside emission test in an area with enhanced I/M. The advantages of such a system include assuring that vehicles with high emissions are repaired quickly, rather than up to two years later at the next I/M test. This would help lower average in-use emissions closer to the certification standard. In addition, this approach would remain effective throughout the vehicle's life, an important advantage over the proposed enhanced in-use compliance program, since over 40 percent of California's light-duty on-road vehicles have exceeded their 100,000 mile useful life. Like the I/M 240 test, the objective of CARB's OBD program is to identify nearly all problems causing excess emissions. Thus, this same remote detection system could also lower the cost of periodic inspections since the inspection could be performed by driving by an unmanned sensor at any time. The cost of such an inspection would be minimal, and could quickly offset the cost of equipping new vehicles with an on-board transmitter. The major disadvantage of this approach is that the remote sensing technology has not been fully demonstrated. Thus, EPA cannot yet propose the details of a regulation which would implement such a requirement as part of the FIP. However, EPA is seeking comments on whether this approach has sufficient merit to be considered as an alternative or complement to the proposed enhanced in-use compliance program.
