FR941026-1-00018 FR941026-1-00009 (i) Responsible parties or other persons have implemented all appropriate response actions required; (ii) All appropriate Fund-financed response actions under CERCLA have been implemented, and no further response action by responsible parties is appropriate; (iii) The remedial investigation has shown that the release poses no significant threat to public health or the environment and, therefore, remedial measures are not appropriate. III. Deletion Procedures Upon determination that at least one of the criteria described in ยง300.425(e) has been met and if the State has concurred with the intent to delete EPA may formally begin deletion procedures. This Federal Register notice, and a concurrent notice in the local newspaper in the vicinity of the site, announces, the initiation of a thirty day comment period. The public is asked to comment on USEPA's intention to delete the site from the NPL. All critical documents needed to evaluate EPA's decision are generally included in the information repository and the deletion docket. Upon completion of the public comment period, if necessary, the EPA Regional Office will prepare a Responsiveness Summary to evaluate and address comments that were received. The public is welcome to contact the EPA Region V Office to obtain a copy of this responsiveness summary, if one is prepared. If USEPA then determines that deletion from the NPL is appropriate, a final notice of deletion will be published in the Federal Register . IV. Basis for Intended Site Deletion The Boise Cascade/Onan/Medtronics Superfund Site covers 183 acres and is located in the City of Fridley in Anoka County in the state of Minnesota. From approximately 1921 through 1961, National Pole and Treating Company and its affiliate, Minnesota and Ontario Paper Company (M&O) operated a wood treating facility at the site. Initial operations included the use of creosote treatment of wood for the manufacture of railroad ties and utility poles. In approximately 1958, pentachlorophenol (PCP), another wood preservative, was also used for treating lumber. Wood-treating operations ceased in early 1961. In 1964, M&O merged with the Boise Cascade Corporation (Boise). Boise sold the site in 1967. Subsequently, Medtronics, Inc. acquired 50 acres of the Boise Cascade property located to the west and south, and Onan, Inc. acquired 133 acres of the site to the north and east. In 1979, Onan began excavation for construction purposes and encountered large quantities of creosote and PCP saturated soil. Similar deposits were subsequently discovered on the Medtronics portion of the Site. Wood-treating operations had contaminated soils and groundwater with creosote and PCP by spillage, dripping, and wastewater disposal. The Boise Cascade site was placed on the National Priorities List on September 21, 1984, at 49 FR 37066&hyph;37090. In conjunction with the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA), Boise conducted extensive soil and groundwater investigations from 1979 through 1982. Because the Site's ownership is divided between two different companies, Site investigations at the Boise Cascade Site were conducted separately within the individual property boundaries. On the Onan property the analyses verified that the major contaminants of concern were creosote derived polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHS) and phenolic compounds (phenolics are also derived from PCP). The heaviest concentrations of these substances were found on two areas where significant aspects of the tie treating process had been conducted: (1) The area where the ties were pressure treated in the retorts; and (2) the area where the ties were left to cool and dry after they were removed from the retorts and before they were loaded onto railroad cars for shipment.
