FR940630-2-00083 FR940630-2-00066 Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations in the Outer Continental Shelf AGENCY: Minerals Management Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Minerals Management Service (MMS) is continuing the evaluation of the safety and environmental management program (SEMP) concept. The SEMP is a safety management system that is intended to reduce the risk and occurrence of accidents and pollution events on offshore oil and gas drilling and production facilities. The MMS believes that development and implementation of SEMP, by individual companies operating Outer Continental Shelf (OSC) drilling and production facilities, promotes safety and environmental protection in the OCS. The MMS encourages all OCS lessees and operators to voluntarily adopt and implement the SEMP concept. The MMS will monitor the implementation of this voluntary program over the next 2 years to determine whether rulemaking is needed to meet the goals of the SEMP concept. DATES: Comments may be submitted at any time. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may send comments regarding the SEMP concept and this notice to the Chief, Inspection, Compliance and Training Division; Minerals Management Service; Mail Stop 4800; 381 Elden Street; Herndon, Virginia 22070&hyph;4817. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bill Cook, Chief, Inspection and Enforcement Branch; Mail Stop 4800; Minerals Management Service; 381 Elden Street; Herndon, Virginia 22070&hyph;4817, telephone (703) 787&hyph;1591. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The MMS inspection program is mandated by the OCS Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1348) to conduct annual onsite inspections at all OCS facilities, as well as periodic unannounced inspections, to ensure compliance with environmental and safety regulations. In 1989, MMS requested that the Marine Board study the inspection program to develop and assess alternative inspection strategies and recommend alternative inspection procedures which will improve operational safety and the effectiveness of the inspection process. One of the Marine Board report findings was that although the inspection program adhered to the OCS Lands Act inspection requirements, OCS operator compliance with regulations did not equal safety. The Marine Board recommended that MMS develop programs to motivate operators to incorporate safety directly into OCS drilling and production operations. In the same year, an MMS internal task force also assessed the OCS inspection and enforcement program. The MMS directed the task force to develop measures to (1) enhance the inspection program operations and (2) increase the safety of OCS operations. The task force found that the inspection program was presently effective but may not meet future inspection demands without incorporating innovative alternative inspection strategies. One recommended strategy was to require OCS operators to develop and implement an MMS-approved SEMP to stimulate safety consciousness. July 1991 Federal Register Notice On July 2, 1991, MMS published a Federal Register Notice (56 FR 30400) that announced its investigation of alternative strategies to promote safety and environmental protection in the OCS. The notice discussed the SEMP concept and outlined key points of a SEMP plan that a lessee/operator should adopt to ensure safety and environmental protection while conducting operations in the OCS, including: _Management Policy_short policy statement by appropriate management official; _Organizational Structure_description of responsibilities, authorities, and communications for actions implementing SEMP;
