FR940707-2-00140 FR940707-2-00066 Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for Rough-leaved Loosestrife for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of an agency draft recovery plan for rough-leaved loosestrife ( Lysimachia asperulaefolia ). This rare perennial herb, native only to North Carolina and South Carolina, grows on moist sand or peat in the transition zone between longleaf pine or oak savannas and wetter, shrubby plant communities. Only nine populations of rough-leaved loosestrife are currently known to exist. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before September 6, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the agency draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the Asheville Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 330 Ridgefield Court, Asheville, North Carolina 28806. Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the Field Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Ms. Nora Murdock at the address above; Telephone: 704&hyph;665&hyph;1195 (Ext. 231). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring endangered or threatened animals and plants to the point where they are again secure, self-sustaining members of their ecosystems is a primary goal of the Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for recognizing the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) (Act), requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that a public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The primary species considered in this draft recovery plan is rough-leaved loosestrife ( Lysimachia asperulaefolia ). The areas of emphasis for recovery actions are the southern coastal plain and sandhills of North Carolina (Cumberland, Pamlico, Onslow, Brunswick, Beaufort, and Pender Counties) and the sandhills of South Carolina (Richland County). Habitat protection and management, reintroduction, and preservation of genetic material are major objectives of this recovery plan. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: June 23, 1994. Brian P. Cole, Field Supervisor, Asheville Field Office, North Carolina. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16352 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
