FR940318-0-00131 FR940318-0-00023 The Agency anticipates two possible exceptions to this practice. The first is where release of the chemical identity of a substitute constitutes release of proprietary information. In that event, the Agency will report generic chemical names based on chemical classes as described in section V.C. The other exception would be in cases where the Agency believes that a more general categorization is needed to account for the diversity of possible chemicals used in a particular set of substitutes. For example, in the solvents cleaning sector, many substitutes are formulations composed of compounds drawn from several categories of chemicals. In this case, the toxicity profile of each chemical is similar to those of other chemicals in that class. b. Decision categories. Under section 612, the Agency has considerable discretion in the risk management decisions it can make in SNAP. In this final rule, the Agency has identified five possible decision categories, as described below. Commenters suggested that there was confusion with the Agency's intent to designate some substitutes as acceptable subject to narrowed use limits versus unacceptable except for critical use exemptions. In response to these comments, the Agency has determined that the goal of both categories was to limit the use of a substitute that had generally unacceptable characteristics yet provide relief for specialized applications within an end-use where no other alternatives exist. Given the similarity in goals, the decision categories have been streamlined by eliminating the category listed in the NPRM as ``unacceptable except for critical use exemptions.'' Those substitutes that were listed in the NPRM as proposed unacceptable except for critical use exemptions are listed as unacceptable in this final rule, and the concerns which the critical use exemption petition process was created to address will now be addressed as part of EPA's responsibilities under the section 612(d) petition process. (1) Acceptable. Where the Agency has reviewed a substitute and found no reason to prohibit its use, it will list the alternative as acceptable in the end-uses for which the submitter provided information. Where appropriate, the Agency may provide some additional comment (e.g., general recommendations encouraging recapture and recycling). However, these comments are not conditions for use of the substitute. (2) Acceptable subject to use conditions. As proposed in the NPRM, after reviewing a submission, the Agency may determine that a substitute is acceptable if certain conditions on use are adopted. The Agency cannot predict at this time all necessary restrictions, but has imposed some conditions based on substitute reviews already completed for this final rule. Several commenters supported the application of use conditions as necessary in providing important guidance to companies in reviewing alternative replacements for ODSs. While also supporting use conditions generally, other commenters noted that they should be used sparingly, so as to create the minimum uncertainty in the regulated community and encourage swift transition. The Agency agrees with these comments. In this final rule, any conditions imposed will depend on the risks involved and the substitute and application in question. For example, the Agency may impose conditions on the use of a substitute and require recycling equipment to limit workplace and ambient releases or require use of other control practices within a certain application. Where a substitute is found acceptable subject to conditions on uses, use without adherence to the conditions in the relevant end-use is prohibited in this final rule. Determinations of acceptability subject to use conditions will only be made pursuant to notice-and-comment rulemaking. In implementing conditions on use, the Agency has sought to avoid overlap with existing regulatory authorities. EPA has taken a number of steps to mitigate this potential for duplication. First, EPA intends to restrict the use of conditions to cases in which clear regulatory gaps exist. Second, these existing regulatory gaps must render the use of a substitute an unreasonable risk in the absence of any additional controls. Third, in the limited cases in which conditions may be necessary, the Agency will impose them only as a result of formal notice-and-comment rulemaking. Finally, use conditions will be effective only until other appropriate regulatory controls are imposed under other authorities and will be withdrawn by the Agency when they are superseded by such controls. (3) Acceptable subject to narrowed use limits. The Agency cannot restrict use of a substitute under SNAP if there are no technically feasible alternatives to the use of an ozone-depleting compound. Thus, EPA may approve a compound not for general use within a sector, but for use only within certain specialized applications within a sector end-use. EPA refers to these restrictions as narrowed use limits. For example, the Agency could list a substitute with a generally unfavorable environmental or human health effect as acceptable in certain specific metals cleaning applications in the solvents cleaning sector. This would allow transition away from the damaging ozone-depleting compounds to proceed, by allowing industry the flexibility to use in narrow niche applications a substitute which provides the only means of transition. At the same time, the narrowed use determination prevents a widespread shift of an entire sector to substitutes which overall do not offer the risk reduction available through the use of other alternatives.
