FR940916-0-00062 FR940916-0-00016 13. Section 298.31 is amended by amending paragraph (a) as follows: a. After the heading, `` In general '', designate the existing first two sentences as paragraph (a)(1) and the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth sentences as paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4) and (a)(5), respectively. b. Revise newly designated paragraph (a)(2) to read as follows: §298.31 Mortgage. (a) * * * (2) In order to ensure that the Secretary's Mortgages or other security interests are valid and enforceable, the Secretary shall require that the Obligor obtain legal opinions, in form and substance satisfactory to the Secretary, from independent, outside legal counsel satisfactory to the Secretary, including foreign independent outside legal Counsel with respect to Eligible Export Vessels, which opinions shall state, among other things, that the Mortgage or other security interest(s) are valid and enforceable: (i) In the country in which the Vessel is documented (or, in the case of a security interest, in jurisdictions acceptable to the Secretary); (ii) In the United States; and (iii) For vessels operating on specified trade routes, in the country or countries involved in this service, unless the Secretary determines that those destinations are too numerous, in which case, the Secretary will instead require an opinion of foreign validity and enforceability in the Vessel's primary port of operation. * * * * * 14. Section 298.32 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(6), (b)(4) and (b)(5) to read as follows: §298.32 Required provisions in documentation. (a) Performance under shipyard and related contracts *␣*␣* * * * * * (6) Requiring that all components of the hull and superstructure of a U.S.-documented Vessel be fabricated, and that all components of the hull and superstructure of an Eligible Export Vessel shall be assembled in the United States. If obligations will not be issued during the period of construction of a Vessel, shipyard-related contracts shall generally include the provisions specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section and this paragraph (a)(6). (b) Assignments and general covenants from Obligor to Secretary. *␣*␣* * * * * * (4) Covenants relating to the annual filing of satisfactory evidence of continuing United States citizenship, in accordance with 46 CFR part 355, with the exception of Eligible Export Vessels and shipyards with Advanced or Modern Shipbuilding Technology projects; warranty of Vessel or Advanced or Modern Shipbuilding Technology title free from all liens other than those specifically excepted; maintaining United States documentation of the Vessel or documentation under the laws of a country other than the United States with regard to an Eligible Export Vessel; compliance with the provisions of 46 U.S.C. 31301&hyph;31343, except that Eligible Export Vessels shall comply with the definition of a ``preferred mortgage'' in 46 U.S.C. 31301(6)(B), requiring, among other things, that the Mortgage shall comply with the mortgage laws of the foreign country where the Vessel is documented and shall have been registered under those laws in a public register; Notice of Mortgage, payment of all taxes (except if being contested in good faith); annual financial statements audited by independent certified or independent licensed public accountant. (5) Covenants to keep records of construction costs paid by or for the Obligor's account and to furnish the Secretary with a detailed statement of those costs, distinguishing between: (i) Items paid or obligated to be paid, attested to by independent certified public accountants unless otherwise verified by the Secretary; and (ii) Costs of American and foreign materials (including services) in the hull and superstructure. * * * * *
