FR940314-1-00044 FR940314-1-00012 The agency established the same exemption in ยง101.36(f)(1) (21 CFR 101.36(f)(1)) for dietary supplements of vitamins and minerals in a final rule entitled ``Food Labeling; General Requirements for Nutrition Labeling for Dietary Supplements of Vitamins, Minerals, Herbs, or Other Similar Nutritional Substances'' that it published in the Federal Register of January 4, 1994 (59 FR 354) (hereinafter referred to as ``the dietary supplement final rule''). Under that final rule, ยง101.9(j)(1) applies to dietary supplements of herbs and of other similar nutritional substances manufactured, packed, or distributed by small firms. At about the same time that FDA published the mandatory nutrition labeling final rule, a number of small businesses and the trade associations that represent them made a concerted effort to bring their concerns about the exemption from nutrition labeling for food products of small businesses and about their problems in meeting the requirements of the new law to the attention of Congress. In response to these concerns, a bill was introduced and passed to provide relief to small businesses. In presenting this bill for consideration in Congress, Congressman Dingell noted that: Over the last two years, it has become evident that, unfortunately, the NLEA exemption for small businesses was too limited. It became clear that many small food businesses simply could not comply with the law's requirements in the timeframe allowed. Some very small businesses may have great difficulty complying at all. Concerns about this matter have been raised to FDA's attention and ours. They are legitimate concerns and they should be addressed. The bill we are introducing today addresses companies with small numbers of employees and products sold in relatively small quantities. * * * * * These amendments will provide greatly needed help to small businesses for whom a more realistic deadline for NLEA compliance is essential. Small specialty food manufacturers and retail confectioners, many of whom rely on low-volume sales of seasonal products, will be able to spread the cost of product analysis and printing over a 2- or 3-year period. This literally will allow them to stay in business. According to the Retail Confectioners Association, for example, a 1-year delay in NLEA implementation saves hundreds of millions of dollars. (139 Congressional Record E 2016 (August 5, 1993).) On August 13, 1993, the President signed the 1993 amendments into law (Pub. L. 103&hyph;80). The 1993 amendments establish a new exemption for low-volume food products that will be available to manufacturers, packers, and distributors based on the number of people that they employ. In creating this new exemption, Congress was responding to the information presented to it that: (1) It can cost several thousand dollars to change the label of a food product to bring it into compliance with the requirements for nutrition labeling; (2) many small businesses simply cannot comply with the requirements within the time frames allowed; and (3) the cost of complying with the nutrition labeling requirements will be prohibitive for small businesses with a low volume of products at low profits (Refs. 2 through 4). By providing additional time before low-volume food products of small businesses must conform with the requirements for nutrition labeling, the 1993 amendments will permit small firms to use up stocks of labels, thereby reducing the costs of label inventory disposal, and to avoid having to compete for design and printing resources with larger firms. By providing that food produced by firms having fewer than 100 employees and selling fewer than 100,000 units of a food product will not have to be nutrition labeled (at least until 2002), the 1993 amendments save such firms the expense of nutrient analysis and preparation of new labels for those products. Under the new provisions, persons that claim an exemption for a low-volume food product must file with FDA an annual notice claiming the exemption, with the first such notice due by May 7, 1994 (section 403 (q)(5)(E)(iii) of the act), that is, before the first 12-month period during which the nutrition labeling regulations will be in effect. Although the filing of the notice is necessary for an exemption, the agency notes that, under section 403 (q)(5)(E)(i)(I) and (q)(5)(E)(ii) of the act, a product would not be exempt if its labeling provides nutrition information or bears a nutrient content or health claim.
