FR940622-0-00032 FR940622-0-00011 Whether or not HCFA took a termination action on a given case, all investigated cases were to be referred to the OIG for possible imposition of civil monetary penalties. +␣Suspension of a provider agreement by the OIG and imposition of civil monetary penalties. We proposed for the OIG to suspend providers, impose monetary penalties on violators and exclude responsible physicians. The proposed rule stated that the OIG would not be precluded from suspending a hospital if, upon further investigation, it determined there were additional violations of section 1867 beyond those warranting the HCFA termination that indicated a pattern of dumping more widespread than initially believed by HCFA, or that additional instances of dumping were so egregious that a penalty of suspension was appropriate. In addition, the proposed rule stated that the OIG could also impose a civil monetary penalty (of not more than $50,000 per violation) for a hospital knowingly violating the screening, treatment and transfer requirements of the statute and a civil monetary penalty (also of not more than $50,000) against each responsible physician. The proposed regulations also stated that, in addition to imposing civil monetary penalties, the OIG may exclude the responsible physician from Medicare participation for up to five years. Congress repealed the suspension authority in section 4008(b) of OBRA 90. •Civil enforcement. An individual who suffers personal harm, or a medical facility that suffers a financial loss, as a direct result of the hospital's violation of a requirement in §489.24, may bring a civil action, in an appropriate Federal district court, against the hospital for damages and other equitable relief as appropriate. No civil action may be brought more than 2 years after the date of the violation. The Federal district court will apply the law of the State in which the hospital is located. We continue to believe that it was neither necessary nor appropriate to revise the regulations to reflect this provision. •Preemption of State law. The legislation provides that it does not preempt State or local law except where there is a conflict with the statutory provision. Since Federal law ordinarily supersedes State law where there is a conflict, it was not necessary to propose this provision for the regulations. 2. Responsibilities of Hospitals Receiving Improperly Transferred Individuals Preliminary findings of a study being conducted by the OIG (``Patient Dumping After COBRA: Assessing the Incidences and the Perspectives of Health Care Professionals'' (August 1988)) confirmed that a number of individuals in unstable condition have been transferred improperly and that the cases were not reported to HCFA. Because we needed to know about all improper transfers, we proposed to add new paragraphs §489.20(g) and §489.24(f) to require a hospital that suspects it may have received an improperly transferred individual to promptly report the matter to HCFA and to the State survey agency. To be in compliance with this requirement, the receiving hospital would have to report any suspected incident within 72 hours of its occurrence; this requirement would appear in manual instructions. We also proposed to add material to §489.53(a) to show that failure to report improper transfers may subject the receiving hospital to termination of its provider agreement. In those instances in which HCFA determines that a hospital is in violation of §489.20(g) and §489.24(f), we proposed to initiate termination action. 3. State Survey Agency Responsibilities The preliminary findings of the OIG study previously cited also identified incidents of improper transfer being reported to the State survey agency that were not then reported to HCFA. To assure that we are aware of all instances of improper transfer, we also proposed to require the State survey agencies to report promptly any credible complaints (that is, complaints that are specific and detailed enough to be investigated) related to violations of section 1867 of the Act. Therefore, we intended to revise §405.1903 (recodified as §488.18), Documentation of findings, by adding a new paragraph (d) that would require State survey agencies to inform HCFA of credible reports of violations of §489.24.
