FR940214-1-00039 FR940214-1-00009 •The total viable microbial count for the dialysate should not exceed 2000/ml. The supplier of the dialysate supply system recommends a method of cleaning the equipment that results in a device capable of meeting this requirement. The user is responsible for monitoring the purity of the dialysate. 3.2.2␣Maximum Level of Chemical Contaminants •This section includes a table listing the maximum allowable chemical contaminant levels for the water used to prepare dialysate. The manufacturer or supplier of the water treatment device is responsible for recommending a system capable of meeting the requirements of this section. The physician in charge of dialysis has the ultimate responsibility for selecting the water treatment system and is also responsible for monitoring the water. Appendix B, Sections B1 Through B5: Guideline for Monitoring Purity of Water Used for Hemodialysis •Appendix B outlines the responsibilities of users of hemodialysis systems to ensure purity of water used for hemodialysis. Sections B1 through B5 delineate committee recommendations with respect to frequency of monitoring water used in dialysis to ensure that the maximum levels of contaminants specified in section 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 are not exceeded. These recommendations include: + The bacteriology of water and dialysate should be sampled at least monthly or more frequently to define, solve, and control problems. + The frequency of sampling for chemical contaminants varies from 3 months to 12 months depending on the method of water treatment. Because chemical contamination can vary widely from month to month, monthly testing is recommended initially to develop a data base for determining optimum frequency of testing for each facility. When chloramines are added municipally to the water supply, the water used to prepare dialysate should be checked for the presence of chloramines at least once a day. + Maximum levels of organic chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, and radioactive material cannot be specified at present, therefore, frequency of testing for these materials cannot be established. + Frequency of disinfection of the water treatment and disinfection system, dialysis machines, and equipment used to distribute and prepare dialysate should be determined by the results of microbiological monitoring, by any requirements to meet AAMI standards and/or guidelines, and by the manufacturer's recommendations. IV. Reuse of Hemodialyzers Section 1881(f)(7) of the Act requires the Secretary to establish protocols for reuse of hemodialyzers for those facilities that voluntarily elect to reuse the filters. In the process of hemodialysis, the patient's blood is cleansed of impurities by passing the blood through the filter (hemodialyzer) of a hemodialysis machine. Various techniques exist that allow these filters to be reused. Reuse involves cleaning, disinfecting, and preparing disposable hemodialysis devices for subsequent use for the same patient. Although the potential exists for adverse patient outcomes from reuse, reprocessing and reuse of dialyzers are safe when done properly. On October 2, 1987, through a Federal Register publication (52 FR 36926), final regulations were issued specifying the performance requirements for reuse of hemodialyzers and other dialysis supplies (§405.2150). Section 405.2150 requires ESRD facilities reusing hemodialyzers to meet the voluntary guidelines and standards adopted by AAMI and issued in July 1986 as ``Recommended Practice for Reuse of Hemodialyzers''. Unlike AAMI ``standards'' which are directed to manufacturers, ``recommended practices'' are directed to health professionals and provide guidelines for the use, care, and processing of a medical device or system. The AAMI guidelines on reuse of hemodialyzers are based on the national consensus of physicians, other health care professionals, government representatives, patients, and industry. They describe the details of reprocessing dialyzers and address various areas such as personnel qualifications and training, patient considerations, equipment, reprocessing supplies, monitoring during dialysis, quality assurance, and quality control. Since the publication of the 1986 edition of the ``Recommended Practice for Reuse of Hemodialyzers'' and HCFA's adoption of the recommended practice, users of the guidelines have asked numerous questions. As a result of the AAMI review of the 1986 guidelines, the Hemodialyzer Reuse Subcommittee of the AAMI Renal Disease and Detoxification Committee developed a 1993 edition. The subcommittee consists of representatives from the manufacturing, governmental (including HCFA), physician, dialysis facility, and patient consumer communities.
