FR940325-1-00089 FR940325-1-00008 (iv) Nationally or regionally recognized wild horse and burro interest groups. (3) 5 members of each council shall be appointed, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, from nominees that: (i) Hold State, county or local elected office; (ii) Are employed by the State agency responsible for the management of fish and wildlife; (iii) Are employed by the State agency responsible for the management of water quality; (iv) Are employed by the State agency responsible for water allocations or the establishment of priorities for use of ground water; (v) Are employed by the State agency responsible for the management of State lands; (vi) Represent Indian tribes within or adjacent to the area for which the council is organized; (vii) Are employed as academicians in natural resource management or the natural sciences; or (viii) Represent the affected public-at-large. (4) In appointing members of a multiple resource advisory council from the 3 categories set forth in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section, the Secretary or designee shall provide for balanced and broad representation from within each category. (d) In making appointments to multiple resource advisory councils the Secretary shall consider nominations made by the Governor of the State or States affected and nominations received in response to public calls for nominations pursuant to ยง1784.4&hyph;1. Persons interested in serving on multiple resource advisory councils may nominate themselves. All nominations shall be accompanied by letters of reference from interests or organizations to be represented that are located within the area for which the specific council is organized. (e) Persons appointed to multiple resource advisory councils shall attend a course of instruction in the management of rangeland ecosystems that has been approved by the responsible Bureau of Land Management State Director. (f) A multiple resource advisory council shall meet at the call of the designated Federal officer and elect their own officers. The designated Federal officer shall attend all meetings of the council. (g) At least 3 council members from each of the 3 categories of interest from which appointments are made pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section must be present to constitute an official meeting of the council. Formal recommendations shall require agreement of at least 3 council members from each of the 3 categories of interest from which appointments are made. Requests for Secretarial review provided for in paragraph (h) of this section shall require agreement of the 15 council members. (h) Where the multiple resource advisory council becomes concerned that its advice is being arbitrarily disregarded, the council may request that the Secretary respond directly to such concerns within 60 days of receipt. Such a request can be made only upon the agreement of all council members. The Secretary's response shall not constitute a decision on the merits of any issue that is or might become the subject of an administrative appeal, and shall not be appealable. (i) Administrative support for a multiple resource advisory council shall be provided by the office of the designated Federal officer. 13. A new ยง1784.6&hyph;2 is added to read as follows:
