FR940413-0-00076 FR940413-0-00026 (7) Allocation to non-elderly disabled families of units in other projects owned or controlled by the PHA that will be vacated by elderly families who will relocate to the project designated for occupancy by elderly families; (8) Use of public housing development funds, or funds appropriated for major reconstruction of obsolete public housing to provide housing for disabled families; (9) Use of all or a portion of net increases in units available for occupancy in a project as a result of the rehabilitation of vacant units in this project which had been uninhabitable. Projects Subject to the Requirements of Part 945 Clarification of Exemption From Designation Requirements for Mixed Population Projects Under Part 960 The majority of commenters understood that a PHA with a project that houses a mixed population of elderly families and disabled families (``mixed population project''), and that intends to continue to house a mixed population of elderly families and disabled families, is not required to comply with the designation requirements of new part 945. Other commenters stated that the proposed rule was not clear whether mixed population projects were required to comply with the part 945 designation requirements. The final rule includes additional language to clarify that mixed population projects are exempt from the designation requirements of part 945. The final rule also clarifies that the fact that a mixed population project houses persons with disabilities does not require a supportive service plan, as does a project that is designated for occupancy by disabled families under part 945. Supportive Services Required Only for Designated Housing for Disabled Families Several commenters expressed confusion about when supportive services are required by the designated housing process. PHAs are required by statute, and by this regulation, to provide or obtain supportive services only for projects designated for occupancy by disabled families. However, in designating a project for elderly families, the PHA must consider the needs of non-elderly disabled applicants for services currently provided in the project to be designated for elderly families. Section 7(d) provides, in relevant part, that ``in designing, developing, otherwise acquiring and operating, designating and providing housing and assistance under this title, each public housing agency shall meet to the extent practicable, the housing and service needs of eligible families applying for assistance under this title as provided in any allocation plan of the agency approved under subsection (f).'' In an effort to reflect ``the extent practicable'' language of section 7(d), ยง945.103 of the proposed rule contained a paragraph (paragraph (d)) which stated that the requirements of ยง945.205 to submit a supportive service plan for approval to designate public housing for disabled families was not to be construed to mean that PHAs may provide supportive services only to those disabled families occupying designated housing for disabled families. The purpose of paragraph (d) in ยง945.103 was to encourage PHAs that may be currently providing supportive services to elderly families occupying public housing to continue to provide those services. The fact that a PHA may be able to deliver supportive services, or is currently delivering supportive services to elderly families, or to disabled families not occupying a designated project does not bring the PHA within the scope of the requirements of part 945. Because of the confusion over this issue expressed by a number of commenters, the final rule removes paragraph (d) in ยง945.103 from the final rule. The Department, however, continues to encourage PHAs to meet to the extent practicable the housing and supportive service needs of all eligible families applying for assistance.
