FR940826-0-00045 FR940826-0-00014 (2) additional Federal funds are needed to complete the project; or (3) the recipient requests a revision that involves specific costs for which prior written approval requirements may be imposed under Section 12.927. (i) No other prior approval requirements for specific items will be imposed unless OMB approves a deviation. (j) When a Federal awarding agency makes an award that provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, the Federal awarding agency may require the recipient to request prior approval before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported. (k) For both construction and nonconstruction awards, Federal awarding agencies shall require recipients to notify the Federal awarding agency in writing promptly whenever the amount of Federal authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the recipient for the project period by more than $5,000 or five percent of the Federal award, whichever is greater. This notification shall not be required if an application for additional funding is submitted for a continuation award. (l) When requesting approval for budget revisions, recipients shall use the budget forms that were used in the application unless the Federal awarding agency indicates that a letter of request suffices. (m) Within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, the Federal awarding agency shall review the request and notify the recipient whether the budget revisions have been approved. If the revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, the Federal awarding agency shall inform the recipient in writing of the date when the recipient may expect the decision. §12.926 Non-Federal audits. Certain recipients and subrecipients shall be subject to non-Federal audits in accordance with the applicable directive from the table below. ␣ 1Type of recipient 1Applicable directive Institution of higher education or other non-profit organization OMB Circular A&hyph;133. State or local government Single Audit Act 31 U.S.C. 7501&hyph;7 and 43 CFR Part 12, Subpart B. Hospital OMB Circular A&hyph;133 or audit requirements of the Federal awarding agency.
