FR941110-0-00256 FR941110-0-00016 (b) Remedies that must be established. At a minimum, the State must establish the following remedies or approved alternatives to the following remedies: (1) Termination of the provider agreement. (2) Temporary management. (3) Denial of payment for new admissions. (4) Civil money penalties. (5) Closure of the facility in emergency situations or transfer of residents, or both. (6) State monitoring. (c) State plan requirement. If a State wishes to use remedies for noncompliance that are either additional or alternative to those specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, it must_ (1) Specify those remedies in the State plan; and (2) Demonstrate to HCFA's satisfaction that those remedies are as effective as the remedies listed in paragraph (a) of this section, for deterring noncompliance and correcting deficiencies. (d) State remedies in dually participating facilities. If the State's remedy is unique to the State plan and has been approved by HCFA, then that remedy, as imposed by the State under its Medicaid authority, may be imposed by HCFA against the Medicare provider agreement of a dually participating facility. ยง488.408 Selection of remedies. (a) Categories of remedies. In this section, the remedies specified in ยง488.406(a) are grouped into categories and applied to deficiencies according to how serious the noncompliance is. (b) Application of remedies. After considering the factors specified in ยง488.404, as applicable, if HCFA and the State choose to impose remedies, as provided in paragraphs (c)(1), (d)(1) and (e)(1) of this section, for facility noncompliance, instead of, or in addition to, termination of the provider agreement, HCFA does and the State must follow the criteria set forth paragraphs (c)(2), (d)(2), and (e)(2) of this section, as applicable. (c) Category 1. (1) Category 1 remedies include the following: (i) Directed plan of correction. (ii) State monitoring. (iii) Directed in-service training. (2) HCFA or the State must apply one or more of the remedies in Category 1 when there_ (i) Are isolated deficiencies that constitute no actual harm with a potential for more than minimal harm but not immediate jeopardy; or (ii) Is a pattern of deficiencies that constitutes no actual harm with a potential for more than minimal harm but not immediate jeopardy. (3) Except when the facility is in substantial compliance, HCFA or the State may apply one or more of the remedies in Category 1 to any deficiency. (d) Category 2. (1) Category 2 remedies include the following: (i) Denial of payment for new admissions. (ii) Denial of payment for all individuals imposed only by HCFA. (iii) Civil money penalties of $50&hyph;3,000 per day. (2) HCFA applies one or more of the remedies in Category 2, or, except for denial of payment for all individuals, the State must apply one or more of the remedies in Category 2 when there are_ (i) Widespread deficiencies that constitute no actual harm with a potential for more than minimal harm but not immediate jeopardy; or (ii) One or more deficiencies that constitute actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy.
