FR940128-1-00047 FR940128-1-00006 FDA is proposing to require in §123.10(c)(3) that the filtration and other equipment used to protect the food from such contaminants be inspected, and the inspection documented, with such frequency as is necessary to ensure control. Normally, this frequency will be directed by the manufacturer of the filtration equipment. FDA is not proposing to require daily inspection because the filter and related equipment do not normally need cleaning or replacement on a daily basis. FDA is proposing to require in §123.10(a)(13) that the processor take action to ensure that unprotected cooked, ready-to-eat fishery products, smoked fishery products, raw molluscan shellfish, and raw fish and fishery products are physically separated from each other during refrigerated storage. Cooked, ready-to-eat products are products that will not normally receive a cooking by the consumer adequate enough to kill pathogens. Therefore, any microbiological recontamination of the product after cooking can subject the consumer to health risks. Raw molluscan shellfish may contain pathogens that can cause severe illness to certain at-risk individuals, e.g., those who are immunocompromised. These individuals might know to avoid eating raw molluscan shellfish but would not expect the same health risk from cooked, ready-to-eat products. Similarly, raw fish and fishery products may contain filth and pathogenic microorganisms not normally associated with raw molluscan shellfish or cooked, ready-to-eat products (Refs. 63 and 84). In §123.10(c), the agency is proposing to require that refrigerated storage areas be inspected at least daily to ensure that the three types of products are physically separated from each other. This check should normally be performed during actual operations, at a time when commingling of these products is likely to take place. The agency has tentatively concluded that daily inspection is necessary because products are normally moved in and out of refrigerated storage areas on a regular basis, creating an ongoing threat that problems will occur. FDA is proposing to require in §123.10(a)(14) that refrigerated storage units operate at 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below when storing raw materials, in-process or finished cooked, ready-to-eat fishery products, smoked fishery products, and fish and fishery products made in whole or in part of scombroid toxin forming species. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that processors control microbiological hazards associated with refrigerated storage for these products (Refs. 85 and 86). Cooked, ready-to-eat products as defined in proposed §123.3(b) and smoked fishery products (see Appendix 1) are not shelf-stable and must be kept refrigerated to retard the growth of microorganisms. As stated above, these products will not normally be cooked by the consumer at a sufficient temperature to destroy any pathogens that may be present. Scombroid toxin forming species are addressed in considerable detail later in this document. These species can form a toxin harmful to humans if subjected to time/temperature abuse after capture. Proper refrigeration is essential for fish and fishery products that include these species. Maintaining product temperatures during storage in a range that will minimize the growth of mesophilic and psychrotropic pathogens is necessary to ensure product safety throughout the shelf life of these products (Ref. 85). It is uniformly more convenient to control refrigeration unit temperatures than to control and monitor the internal temperatures of the various products under refrigerated storage, particularly when these products are in sealed containers. For these reasons, FDA is proposing that refrigeration units be operated at or below 40 ○F (4.4 ○C). FDA tentatively finds that this temperature is appropriate because it is adequate to minimize the growth of pathogens (Refs. 85 and 86.) The agency also strongly recommends this temperature or lower for all fish and fishery products that need refrigeration, regardless of whether safety is an issue. The agency is also especially interested in obtaining comment on the appropriateness of this temperature. In §123.10(c)(4) the agency is proposing to require that the processor use instruments that monitor the temperature of refrigeration units on a continuous basis. The measurements from those instruments must be checked and documented with such frequency as is necessary to ensure control.
