FR940927-0-00012 FR940927-0-00002 7 CFR Part 457 Common Crop Insurance Regulations; Coarse Grains Crop Insurance Provisions AGENCY: Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) hereby adopts regulations for specific crop provisions to insure coarse grains (corn, grain sorghum, and soybeans). These provisions will supplement the Common Crop Insurance Policy which contains standard terms and conditions common to most crops. This rule consolidates the provisions for insuring coarse grains into one policy and provides insurance for corn intended to be harvested as silage and corn intended to be harvested as grain without the previously required corn silage option. The intended effect of this rule is to move specific crop provisions for insuring coarse grains from the General Crop Insurance Policy (ยง401.8) to the Common Crop Insurance Policy for ease of use by the public and conformance among policy terms. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mari L. Dunleavy, Regulatory and Procedural Development, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, telephone (202) 254&hyph;8314. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This action has been reviewed under USDA procedures established by Executive Order 12866 and Departmental Regulation 1512&hyph;1. This action constitutes a review as to the need, currency, clarity, and effectiveness of these regulations under those procedures. The sunset review date established for these regulations is March 1, 1999. This rule has been determined to be ``not significant'' for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the information collection or record-keeping requirements included in this rule can be found in 7 CFR part 400, subpart H. It has been determined under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The policies and procedures contained in this rule will not have substantial direct effects on states of their political subdivisions, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among various levels of government. This action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The amount of work required of the insurance companies delivering these policies will not increase from the amount of work required to deliver previous policies. The combination of a number of previously independent policies into one policy should ease program administration and increase efficiency. Therefore, this action is determined to be exempt from the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act and no Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was prepared. This program is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.450.
