FR940111-0-00071 FR940111-0-00019 2. The Mandatory Review Proceeding The Commission on December 9, 1987 published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (hereafter ``ANPR'') describing the planned review of the Funeral Rule. 15 The ANPR notified the public that the Commission intended to conduct the rulemaking, and solicited public comments on many of the key Rule-related issues. The ANPR contained 44 questions concerning consumer and funeral provider experiences, the scope of the Rule, compliance, various Rule provisions, regulatory flexibility and the paperwork burden imposed by the Rule. The majority of the commenters 16 recommended retention of the Rule. Funeral director trade groups recommended repeal or, in the alternative, substantial modification and expansion of the Rule to cover other sellers, such as cemeteries. 15 52 FR 46706. 16 Over 350 persons responded to the request for public comment, including 131 consumers, 134 funeral directors, 46 memorial societies, and approximately 20 trade associations and related industries. Following a review and assessment of the comments, the Commission on May 31, 1988 published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (hereafter ``NPR'') initiating this review proceeding. 17 The Commission in the NPR established a schedule for three public hearings to be held in Washington, Chicago, and San Francisco, and requested comment on a number of questions set out in the notice. In all, 189 individuals and groups submitted written comments, including two funeral directors, five cemetery/crematory/third-party casket seller groups or individuals, six funeral director trade associations, 147 consumers, 27 consumer/memorial society groups, one federal official and one state group. 17 R&hyph;A&hyph;1 (53 FR 19864). During the public hearings, 18 testimony was received from sixteen funeral directors, five monument builders, one vault seller, sixteen cemeterians/cremationists, one individual who provides business and consulting services to industry members, seven state officials, twenty consumer advocates, nine consumers/ clergy/counselors, and eight economists/survey experts or consultants (one economist testified twice). 18 Based on requests from interested parties who wished to question witnesses at the public hearings, the Presiding Officer designated four groups for that purpose: (1) The Consumer Interest Group, including the American Association of Retired Persons and the Continental Association of Funeral and Memorial Societies; (2) the Funeral Director Group, including the National Funeral Directors Association and the National Selected Morticians (that group also included William Pierson, the owner of the Hursen Funeral Home, the Illinois Funeral Directors Association, and the Conference of Funeral Service Examining Boards; (3) the Crematory and Prearrangement Group, including the Cremation Association of North America and the Pre-Arrangement Association of America; and (4) the Special Cemetery Group, including the American Cemetery Association. The Presiding Officer established the last group for the limited purpose of conducting examination on whether the Rule should be expanded to include cemeteries. See R&hyph;A&hyph;37. In April 1989, Rebuttal Submissions were filed by the staff, the Cremation Association of North America (``CANA''), the Monument Builders of North America (``MBNA''), the National Funeral Directors Association (``NFDA'') and National Selected Morticians (``NSM'') (joint rebuttal), the American Cemetery Association (``ACA''), the American Association of Retired Persons (``AARP'') and the Pre-Arrangement Association of America (``PAA''). In response to a request from the Presiding Officer, those groups other than the staff also filed Proposed Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Recommended Decision in May 1989. In addition to all of the testimonial and written information just described, the record contains three national surveys of actual funeral arrangers, conducted in 1981, 1987 and 1988. The 1981 Baseline Study (or ``BLS'') 19 was conceived as a benchmark for later comparison with the 1987 Replication Study (or ``RS''). 20 Conducted for the Commission, these studies examined: (1) Consumer purchasing behavior and expenditures for funerals; (2) consumer knowledge of the funeral market; and (3) industry practices and prices. By comparing the results of the two studies, inferences could be drawn about the Funeral Rule's impact on the funeral market. The Bureau of Economics Report of February 1989 21 contains that comparative analysis. The Gallup Organization conducted the third, and most recent, study of funeral arrangers for the AARP. 22 Viewed together, those three empirical surveys represent the most reliable and comprehensive systematic data available on consumer experiences under the Rule in shopping for and choosing funeral goods and services, and of industry Rule compliance. 23 19 R&hyph;B&hyph;3, supra n. 1. 20 R&hyph;B&hyph;2, supra n. 1. 21 HX&hyph;122. 22 The Gallup Study, HX&hyph;66, supra n. 1. 23 With respect to the BLS, however, the 1982 rulemaking staff concluded from its review of a telephone validation study that the BLS data were subject to qualification and differing interpretation in four specific areas where the data appeared to conflict with evidence already on the original record_consumers' receipt of telephone price information, written itemized price information and itemized statements, and requests for permission to embalm. See R&hyph;B&hyph;70 (Memorandum from Funeral Rule Staff to Commission, ``Impact Evaluation Survey, Funeral TRR,'' July 15, 1982). The Commission in its comparative analysis of the Baseline and Replication study data does not rely on the Baseline data in those four areas. In addition to these empirical studies, statistical data and testimony presented by Mr. Wendell Hahn of the Federated Funeral Directors of America (hereafter ``FFDA''), an independent firm that provides financial and business consulting services to some 1,500 independent funeral homes in 30 states, representing about 10% of all funerals per year, afforded evidence on changes in funeral home costs of operation and prices under the Rule. A 1988 national survey of 500 funeral directors presented by the AARP provided similar evidence. 24 A 1987 survey of state laws regulating the funeral transaction is also part of the record, as is the 1984 survey of NFDA members regarding changes in provider practices under the Rule. The record further contains two national opinion surveys concerning consumers' views about, and knowledge of, various Rule requirements, and five other surveys of cemeterians, cremationists, monument builders and memorial societies conducted by interested groups on specific, Rule-related issues. 24 Ayers, HX&hyph;108, supra n. 1.
