FR940906-0-00058 FR940906-0-00019 a. The first year of the Research Plan will generate sufficient start-up funds during 1995 to allow full implementation of the Research Plan by January, 1996; b. NMFS will seek funding for the financial support of the observer programs, at least through fiscal year 1996; c. The first year of the Research Plan will not require ``double payment'' by any participant in the Research Plan fisheries for any period of time during 1995; and d. The first year of the Research Plan will credit actual costs paid by a participant in the Research Plan fisheries for observer coverage during 1995 up to the limit of the participant's fee liability. The revised program for the first year of the Research Plan is set out in this final rule at ยง677.6 and is further discussed in the final EA/RIR prepared for this action (see ADDRESSES ). In summary, this final rule exempts owners of groundfish catcher vessels equal to or greater than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA from payment of fee assessments during 1995 because, as a group, this vessel size class currently pays observer costs that exceed 1 percent of the exvessel value of their catch. Crab catcher vessels participating in fisheries for Chionoecetes tanneri Tanner crab, C. angulatus Tanner crab, or Lithodes cousei king crab are required to carry observers under Alaska State regulations at 5 AAC 34.082 and 5 AAC 35.082. Vessel costs for this observer coverage equal or exceed the vessels' expected fee liability for the retained catch of these species. As a result, these catcher vessels also are exempt from contributing to the portion of the 1995 fee assessment based on the exvessel value of retained catch of these specific Tanner and king crab species. Under the final rule, groundfish mothership processor vessels and shoreside processors will be billed for their portion of the 1995 fee assessment (i.e., a fee assessment based on one-half of the annual fee percentage multiplied by the exvessel value of retained catch) plus one-half of the fee assessment calculated for the exvessel value of retained catch delivered by vessels less than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA. Each of these processors may subtract its observer coverage costs from the processor's portion of the bimonthly bill. With the exception of processors retaining C. tanneri, C. angulatus, or L. cousei, who will be billed one half the fee percentage for these species, groundfish catcher/processors, crab catch/processors, crab shoreside processors, crab floating processors, and halibut processors will be billed the full fee percentage. Groundfish catcher/processors, crab catcher/processors, and crab floating processors may subtract their groundfish and crab observer coverage costs, respectively, from their bimonthly fee assessment for retained catch of groundfish and crab. The annual deduction for observer costs is limited to the actual cost paid for observer coverage during 1995 or the 1995 fee liability, whichever is less. Several changes from the proposed rule have resulted from the revised program for the first year of the Research Plan. In addition, other changes have been made to respond to more specific public comments on the proposed rule and to improve the clarity and consistency of regulations. Significant changes are as follows. 1. The OMB control numbers for approved information collection requirements have been added to 50 CFR part 204 to comply with requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act. 2. Figure 1 of 50 CFR part 677, the Federal Processing Permit Application (Form FPP&hyph;1), has been revised to combine existing permitting requirements under ยง672.4 and ยง675.4 to reduce the reporting burden on processors and to facilitate administrative efficiency in issuing permits. Form FPP&hyph;1 also has been changed to more clearly identify persons who qualify as ``processors'' for purposes of the Research Plan. 3. Figure 2 of 50 CFR part 677, the Observer Coverage Payment Receipt Form (Form FPP&hyph;2), has been revised to collect information on payments to an observer contractor by a processor for observer coverage during 1995. NMFS will use this information to audit the observer coverage costs subtracted by a processor from its billed fee assessments. 4. In ยง677.2, the definitions of the terms ``Bimonthly'', ``Catcher vessel'', ``Fishing trip'', ``Mothership processor vessel'', ``Processor'', ``Retained catch'', and ``Shoreside processor or shoreside processing facility'' have been changed; the definitions of the terms ``At-sea processor'', ``Standard observer day'', and ``Standardized cost of an observer day'' have been removed; and a definition of the term ``Fishermen'' has been added.
