FR940725-0-00088 FR940725-0-00013 •Revised §440.180 to add a new paragraph (b)(8) to provide for the inclusion of day treatment or other partial hospitalization services, psychosocial rehabilitation services, and clinic services for individuals with chronic mental illness as home and community-based waiver services; •Added new §§441.302(i) and 441.303(i) to specify requirements for written State health and welfare assurances for the provision of these services and for supporting documentation of these assurances; •Added a new §441.310(a)(4) to specify limits on FFP for the provision of these services. We received the following public comment on these proposed regulations: Comment: One commenter noted that States may provide the specified services to the mentally retarded as well as to the chronically mentally ill. Response: Section 1915(c)(4)(B) of the Act authorizes the provision of day treatment or other partial hospitalization services, psychosocial rehabilitation services, and clinic services (whether or not furnished in a facility) for individuals with chronic mental illness. Neither the statute nor the conference committee report mentions individuals diagnosed as mentally retarded. However, States may request the authority to provide these services to the mentally retarded under the broader waiver authority of section 1915(c)(4)(B) of the Act as ``other'' services. The ``other'' services category has been in existence since the home and community-based services waiver program was established, and HCFA has approved a variety of services under this category that States establish as cost-effective and necessary to avoid institutionalization. 2. Provisions of the Final Rule We are adopting the proposed provisions, with minor editorial changes, as final rules. We have also redesignated §441.302(i) as §441.302(j) to accommodate other revisions. C. Scope of Respite Care 1. Background Under section 1915(c)(4)(B) of the Act, a State may provide respite care under its home and community-based waiver services program. Respite care may be provided in institutional and noninstitutional settings. However, under existing regulations at §441.310, FFP is not available for the cost of room and board, except when provided as part of respite care in a State-approved facility that is not a private residence. Because respite care generally should be a short-term service, we have required States to fully document the need for more than 30 days of care. In the proposed §440.180(b)(7), in accordance with section 1915(c)(4) of the Act, we imposed a 30-day limitation on the duration of institutional respite care services provided during a waiver year to any individual under a waiver program. We indicated in the proposed rule that we were not placing a limit on noninstitutional respite care but that we would closely review all waiver applications that requested noninstitutional respite care in excess of 30 days per waiver year. ( Note : We have traditionally used the term ``waiver year'' for any 12-month period for which a waiver applies. While we recognize that the statute uses the term ``fiscal year'', we have not had a problem with our use of ``waiver year'' for ``fiscal year''. Since the term ``waiver year'' is generally understood and accepted by those involved in the waiver process, we are continuing to use it in the Medicaid regulations. We believe that a switch from the term ``waiver year'' to ``fiscal year'' would cause unnecessary confusion.) Subsequent to the publication of the proposed rule, section 4742(d)(l) of OBRA '90 amended section 1915(c)(4) of the Act to eliminate restrictions on the number of hours or days of respite care that a State may provide in any period under a waiver as long as the State continues to show cost-neutrality in its waiver program. (``Cost-neutrality'' means that the average per capita expenditures for individuals under waivers does not exceed what the average per capita expenditures for these individuals would have been if the waiver had not been granted.) Section 4742(d)(2) of OBRA '90 specifies that the changes under section 4742(d)(1) apply as if included under OBRA '81, the original legislation for the waiver program, enacted August 13, 1981. We received the following public comments on this proposal: Comment: Six commenters expressed concerns about the proposed 30-day limit on institutional respite care. Two commenters indicated that room and board should be included under noninstitutional respite care. Three commenters indicated that the 30-day limit is too strict; two recommended a 60-day limit and one a 90-day limit. One of the commenters who recommended a 60-day limit also recommended a 2-week limit on consecutive weeks of institutional respite care.
