FR940323-0-00085 FR940323-0-00021 IV. Summary of Revised Process Under the new process, tribes will continue to seek grants under the authority of statutes authorizing EPA to treat eligible tribes in a manner similar to that in which it treats states. For instance, tribes seeking approval of an NPDES or Wetlands permits program will comply with the applicable provisions of 40 CFR parts 123 or 233. However, tribes will now generally be required to submit only a single application to demonstrate eligibility for the grant, without the need for a separate application for ``TAS.'' EPA will verify that the tribe meets all statutory prerequisites for eligibility in the process of reviewing the single tribal application. EPA believes that the changes outlined in this notice will simplify and streamline the process of assessing tribal eligibility while still ensuring full compliance with all applicable statutes. The Agency expects that the new process will reduce the burdens and barriers to tribes of participating in environmental management. V. Executive Order 12866 OMB has reviewed this action under the terms of Executive Order 12886. VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act EPA did not develop a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis for the amendments in this rule. This is because they are exempt from notice and comment rulemaking under section 553(a)(2) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553(a)(2)) and therefore are not subject to the analytical requirements of sections 603 and 604 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 603 and 604). VII. Paperwork Reduction Act The proposed regulations contain no new or additional information collection activities and, therefore, no information collection request will be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review in compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. List of Subjects 40 CFR Part 35 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Coastal zone, Grant programs-environmental protection, Grant programs-Indians, Hazardous waste, Indians, Intergovernmental relations, Pesticides and pests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Superfund, Waste treatment and disposal, Water pollution control, Water supply. 40 CFR Part 130 Environmental protection, Grant programs-environmental protection, Indians-lands, Intergovernmental relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Water pollution control, Water supply. Dated: March 10, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
