FR940727-2-00111 FR940727-2-00063 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20420; 812&hyph;9044] SIT Mutual Funds, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application July 21, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). Applicants: SIT Mutual Funds, Inc., SIT Mutual Funds II, Inc., SIT Growth Fund, Inc., SIT Growth & Income Fund, Inc., SIT U.S. Government Securities Fund, Inc., SIT Money Market Fund, Inc., and SIT Investment Associates, Inc. (``SIT Investment''). Relevant Act Sections: Exemption requested under section 6(c) of the Act that would grant an exemption from section 12(d)(1)(A)(ii), under sections 6(c) and 17(b) that would grant an exemption from section 17(a), and under rule 17d&hyph;1 to permit certain transactions in accordance with section 17(d) of the Act and rule 17d&hyph;1. Summary of Application: Applicants seek an order that would permit certain money markets funds to sell their shares to affiliated investment companies. Applicants request that any order also apply to other registered investment companies that are now or in the future advised by SIT Investment. 1 1 All existing investment companies that presently intend to rely on the requested order are named as applicants. Filing Date: The application was filed on June 7, 1994, and amended on July 11, 1994. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on August 15, 1994, and should be accompanies by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 4600 Norwest Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John V. O'Hanlon, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0578, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. SIT Mutual Funds, Inc., SIT Mutual Funds II, Inc., SIT Growth Fund, Inc., SIT Growth & Income Fund, Inc., SIT U.S. Government Securities Fund, Inc., and SIT Money Market Fund, Inc. (collectively, the ``SIT Group'') are open-end management investment companies. The SIT Group currently offers eleven series (each a ``Fund''). One of the Funds is a money market fund subject to the requirements of rule 2a&hyph;7 under the Act (together with any future money market portfolios, the ``Money Market Funds''). The other ten Funds are non-money markets funds (together with any future non-money market funds, the ``Non-Money Market Funds''). 2. SIT Investment is the investment adviser for the SIT Group. Sit/Kim International Investment Associates, Inc. serves as sub-adviser for two of the Funds (together with SIT Investment and any future sub-adviser to a Fund, the ``Investment Advisers.'' SIA Securities Corp. serves as principal underwriter for the Funds. Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. serves as transfer agent and custodian to the Funds. At the present time, each of the Funds is offered without any sales charge, redemption fee, or rule 12b&hyph;1 or shareholder servicing fee. 3. The Money Market Funds seek current income, liquidity, and capital preservation by investing exclusively in short-term money market instruments, such as U.S. government securities, bank obligations, commercial paper, municipal obligations, or repurchase agreements secured by government securities. These short-term debt securities are valued at their amortized cost pursuant to the requirements of rule 2a&hyph;7. The Non-Money Market Funds invest in a variety of debt and/or equity securities in accordance with their respective investment objectives and policies. Each of the Funds has, or may be expected to have, uninvested cash in an account with the custodian. This cash either may be invested directly in individual short-term money market instruments or may not be otherwise invested in any portfolio securities.
