FR940516-1-00133 FR940516-1-00008 C. Implementation 28. If the Commission exercises further forbearance with respect to individual providers, how should the Commission enforce its standards efficiently, in terms of both identifying eligible entities and deterring evasive behavior? One option would be to amend application forms to require certification of compliance with specific standards as part of our revised application form for the mobile services. The Commission could use random staff audits of licensees to determine whether they in fact quality for further forbearance. A second alternative would be to impose affirmative reporting requirements on small providers. A third option would be to rely on complaints alleging violations of our further forbearance standards. Commenters should discuss these and any alternative enforcement methods. The Notice also seeks comment on whether existing licensees should have to file a separate certification to be eligible for further forbearance. Procedural Matters Ex Parte Consideration 29. This is a non-restricted proceeding. Ex parte presentations are permitted, except during the Sunshine Agenda period, provided they are disclosed as provided in the Commission's rules. See generally 47 CFR 1.1202, 1.203 and 1.206(a). Comment Information 30. Pursuant to applicable procedures set forth in Sections 1.415 and 1.419 of the Commission's Rules, 47 CFR §§1.415, 1.419, interested parties may file comments on or before June 27, 1994 and reply comments on or before July 12, 1994. All relevant and timely comments will be considered by the Commission before final action is taken in this proceeding. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Statement I. Reason for Action. In an effort to avoid the imposition of unwarranted costs or other burdens upon carriers, the Second Report and Order determined that the Commission would initiate a rule making (the instant proceeding) to determine whether further forbearance from application of Title II provisions to CMRS was necessary. II. Objectives of the Action. We seek here to determine whether to forbear further from the imposition of Title II regulation on certain types of CMRS providers, particularly small providers, and how to define small CMRS providers. III. Legal Basis. Communications Act, section 332, 47 U.S.C. 332. IV. Description, potential impact, and number of small entities affected. We do not have the data at this time to estimate the number of CMRS providers affected by this rule making, but we are herein proposing to reduce regulatory burdens for these providers. V. Reporting, record keeping and other compliance requirements. The proposals under consideration in this Notice include the possibility of new reporting and record keeping requirements for small CMRS providers; however, one of the objectives in this proceeding is to minimize such burdens. VI. Federal rules which overlap, duplicate or conflict with these rules. If adopted, the proposals here in would modify existing rules codified at 47 CFR part 20 and 47 CFR 1.728&hyph;1.734. VII. Any significant alternatives minimizing the impact on small entities and consistent with stated objectives. This Notice proposes to reduce the administrative burdens and costs of compliance with Title II regulation on small CMRS providers. As required by Section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Commission has prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) of the expected impact on small entities of the proposals suggested in this document. Written public comments are requested on the IFRA. These comments must be filed in accordance with the same filing deadlines as comments on the rest of the Notice, but they must have a separate and distinct heading designating them as responses to the IRFA. The Secretary shall send a copy of this Notice, including the IRFA, to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration in accordance with paragraph 603(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;354, 94 Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. (1981). Paperwork Reduction Act Statement The proposal contained herein has been analyzed with respect to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 and found to impose a new or modified information collection requirement on the public. This proposed requirement would, however, reduce information collection requirements otherwise applicable to small CMRS providers. Implementation of any new or modified requirement will be subject to approval by the Office of Management and Budget as prescribed by the Act. Ordering Clauses Accordingly, the Commission adopts this Notice pursuant to the authority contained in Section 332 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §332. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 20 Commercial mobile radio services, Radio. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11750 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
