FR941116-0-00011 FR941116-0-00001 (3) The actions complained about, including dates and reason given; (4) The charging party's reasons for believing that the actions taken constitute unlawful discrimination; (5) Remedies sought by the charging party; (6) Information concerning the charging party's exhaustion of administrative remedies before the Architect of the Capitol, including the date the internal complaint of discrimination was filed and, if applicable, the date on which the employee received a final decision from the Architect of the Capitol on his or her complaint of discrimination; (7) Name and address of the representative, if any, who will act for the charging party; (8) Signature of the charging party or the charging party's representative. (e) Attorney fees only issue raised. The General Counsel shall not represent the petitioner when the only issue raised is attorney fees. When attorney fees are the only issue raised in a charge to the General Counsel, the General Counsel shall transmit the charge to the Board for processing as a petition for review. ยง29.9 General Counsel procedures. (a) The General Counsel shall serve on the Architect of the Capitol a copy of the charge, investigate the matters raised in the charge, refine the issues where appropriate, and attempt to settle all matters at issue. (b) The General Counsel's investigation may include gathering information from the Architect of the Capitol, and interviewing and taking statements from witnesses. Employees of the Architect of the Capitol shall be on official time during the time that they are responding to any requests from the General Counsel. (c) Following the investigation, the General Counsel shall provide the charging party with a Right to Appeal Letter. Accompanying this letter will be a statement of the General Counsel advising the charging party of the results of the investigation. This statement of the General Counsel is not subject to discovery and may not be introduced into evidence before the Board. (d) If, following the investigation, the General Counsel determines that there are not reasonable grounds to believe that the charging party has been subjected to unlawful discrimination or retaliation as described in ยง29.3, then the General Counsel shall not represent the charging party. If the General Counsel determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the charging party has been subjected to such discrimination or retaliation, then the General Counsel shall represent the charging party, unless the charging party elects not to be represented by the General Counsel. Any charging party may represent him- or herself or obtain other representation. (e) When the charging party elects to be represented by the General Counsel, the General Counsel is to direct the representation in the charging party's case. The charging party may also retain a private representative in such cases. However, the role of the private representative is limited to assisting the General Counsel as the General Counsel determines to be appropriate. (f) When the General Counsel is not participating in a case, the General Counsel may request permission to intervene with respect to any issue in which the General Counsel finds a significant public interest in the enforcement of the right to be free of unlawful discrimination and retaliation in employment. ยง29.10 Filing a petition for review with the Board. (a) Who may file. A petition for review may be filed with the Board by any employee of the Architect of the Capitol who has received a Right to Appeal Letter from the General Counsel and who is claiming to have been subjected to unlawful discrimination or retaliation as described in ยง29.3. (b) When to file. Petitions for review must be filed within 30 days after service upon the charging party of the Right to Appeal Letter from the General Counsel. (c) How to file. Petitions for review may be filed in person or by mail. Please note that the address to be used differs for the two kinds of filing. (1) Filing in person: A petition may be filed in person at the office of the Board, Suite 830, Union Center Plaza II, 820 First Street, NE., Washington, DC. (2) Filing by mail: A petition may be filed by mail addressed to the Personnel Appeals Board, Suite 830, Union Center Plaza II, 441 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20548. When filed by mail, the postmark shall be the date of filing for all submissions to the Board. (d) What to file. The petition for review shall include the following information: (1) The name, address, and telephone number of the petitioner. In the case of a class action, a clear description of the class of employees on whose behalf the petition is being filed; (2) The names and titles of persons, if any, responsible for the actions the petitioner wishes to have the Board review; (3) The actions being complained about including dates and reasons given; (4) Petitioner's reasons for believing that the actions constituted unlawful discrimination or retaliation; (5) Remedies sought by petitioner;
