FR940627-0-00233 FR940627-0-00019 Acute inhalation study means a short-term toxicity test characterized by a single exposure by inhalation over a short period of time (at least 4 hours and less than 24 hours), followed by at least 14 days of observation. Aerodynamic diameter means the diameter of a sphere of unit density that has the same settling velocity as the particle of the test substance. It is used to compare particles of different sizes, densities and shapes, and to predict where in the respiratory tract such particles may be deposited. It applies to the size of aerosol particles. Chronic inhalation study means a prolonged and repeated exposure by inhalation for the life span of the test animal; technically, two years in the rat. Concentration means an exposure level. Exposure is expressed as weight or volume of test aerosol/substance per volume of air, usually mg/m 3 or as parts per million (ppm) over a given time period. Micrograms per cubic meter (μg/m 3 ) or parts per billion may be appropriate, as well. Cumulative toxicity means the adverse effects of repeated exposures occurring as a result of prolonged action or increased concentration of the administered test substance or its metabolites in the susceptible tissues. Inhalable diameter means that aerodynamic diameter of a particle which is considered to be inhalable for the organism. It is used to refer to particles which are capable of being inhaled and may be deposited anywhere within the respiratory tract from the trachea to the alveoli. Mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) means the calculated aerodynamic diameter, which divides the particles of an aerosol in half based on the mass of the particles. Fifty percent of the particles in mass will be larger than the median diameter, and fifty percent will be smaller than the median diameter. MMAD describes the particle distribution of any aerosol based on the weight and size of the particles. MMAD and the geometric standard deviation describe the particle-size distribution. Material safety data sheet (MSDS) means documentation or information on the physical, chemical, and hazardous characteristics of a given chemical, usually provided by the product's manufacturer. Reynolds number means a dimensionless number that is proportional to the ratio of inertial forces to frictional forces acting on a fluid. It quantitatively provides a measure of whether flow is laminar or turbulent. A fluid traveling through a pipe is fully developed into a laminar flow for a Reynolds number less than 2000, and fully developed into a turbulent flow for a Reynolds number greater than 4000. Subacute inhalation toxicity means the adverse effects occurring as a result of the repeated daily exposure of experimental animals to a chemical by inhalation for part (less than 10 percent) of a lifespan; generally, less than 90 days. Subchronic inhalation study means a repeated exposure by inhalation for part (approximately 10 percent) of a life span of the exposed test animal. Toxic effect means an adverse change in the structure or function of an experimental animal as a result of exposure to a chemical substance. (c) Principles and design criteria of inhalation exposure systems. Proper conduct of inhalation toxicity studies of the emissions of fuels and additive/fuel mixtures requires that the exposure system be designed to ensure the controlled generation of the exposure atmosphere, the adequate dilution of the test emissions, delivery of the diluted exposure atmosphere to the test animals, and use of appropriate exposure chamber systems selected to meet criteria for a given exposure study. (1) Emissions generation. Emissions shall be generated according to the specifications in 40 CFR 79.57. (2) Dilution and delivery systems.
