FR940525-2-00052 FR940525-2-00042 The role of the Collaborator will be as follows: 1. The Collaborator will provide technology for the identification of membrane fusion and cell adhesion molecules. In particular, the Collaborator should be able to provide technology for the implementation of photosensitized labeling approach for identification of membrane fusion and cell adhesion molecules. 2. The Collaborator will be responsible for the purification and micro-sequencing of selected peptides, enabling NCI to proceed with hybridization cloning of the accessary fusion molecules. 3. The Collaborator will generate reagents (e.g. peptides and antibodies) using information derived from their cDNA sequences. 4. The Collaborator will provide technology which will allow the control and synchronization of migratory and invasive processes of metastatic cells. This technology will be used to model invasion of metastatic cells in vivo. 5. The Collaborator will screen and test reagents (e.g. peptides and antibodies) for their ability to block HIV infection and/or metastatic cell invasion using in vitro assays. 6. Potent inhibitors of HIV infection and/or metastatic cell invasion identified by screening will be further tested by the Collaborator on animal models and in eventual clinical trials for their efficacy as therapeutic agents. The role of the Division of Cancer Biology Diagnosis and Centers, NCI, in this CRADA will be as follows: 1. Provide the Collaborator with techniques, expertise and facilities to study virus-cell interactions. 2. Provide computer and literature search support for the project. 3. Provide access to sophisticated instrumentation (e.g. fluorescence spectroscopy and video microscopy (imaging), protein separation). 4. Characterize physicochemical properties of the biomolecules involved in the fusion process as well as researching their mechanisms of biological action. 5. Publish these results and provide the Collaborator all data as soon as they become available. The selection criteria on which in Collaborator will be chosen are as follows: 1. The ability to collaborate with NCI on further research and development of this technology as demonstrated by experience and expertise in this or a related area of technology. 2. The demonstration of adequate resources to perform the research, development and commercialization of this technology (i.e. facilities, personnel) and accomplish the objectives in a timely manner. 3. The willingness to commit best effort to reach CRADA objectives. 4. The level of financial support the collaborator will provide for CRADA-related NCI activities. 5. A willingness to cooperate with the National Cancer Institute in the publication of research results. 6. An agreement to be bound by the DHHS rules involving human subjects, patent rights and ethical treatment of animals. 7. Provisions for equitable distribution of patent rights to any invention. Generally, the rights of ownership are retained by the organization which is the employer of the inventor, with: (1) An irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license to the Government (when a company employee is the sole inventor) or (2) an exclusive or non-exclusive license to the company on terms that are appropriate (when the Government employee is the sole inventor). Dated: May 15, 1994. Barbara M. McGarey, Deputy Director, Office of Technology Transfer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12688 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;10&hyph;P
