FR940706-0-00052 FR940706-0-00013 The FHWA proposed that vehicles be equipped with either (1) three bidirectional reflective triangles or (2) six fusees or liquid-burning flares. With regard to performance standards for fusees and liquid-burning flares, the FHWA proposed to amend §393.95(j) to require that these devices be capable of burning for at least 30 minutes, and meet the standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., Highway Emergency Signals (UL 912). Discussion of Comments The FHWA received 12 comments to the NPRM. The commenters were: 3M; Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety (Advocates); the American Trucking Associations (ATA); Chemical Waste Transportation Institute (CWTI); Cortina Tool and Molding Company; James King and Company, Inc.; Federal Mogul; National Tank Truck Carriers, Inc.; Ohio University, College of Engineering and Technology, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering; Pyrotechnic Signal Manufacturers Association (PSMA); Sate-Lite Manufacturing Company (Sate-Lite); and the Transportation Safety Equipment Institute (TSEI). The commenters were generally opposed to allowing the use of fusees and liquid-burning flares in lieu of bidirectional reflective triangles. The CWTI did not support or oppose the proposal but indicated that the FHWA should retain its restrictions on flame producing devices on certain vehicles and recommended that the FHWA use this rulemaking to amend §393.95(g) to incorporate the use of the current hazardous materials classifications (i.e., Divisions 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3, 2.1 and Class 3). The PSMA provided the only comments in support of the proposed amendments. Interpretation of Section 1041(b) of the ISTEA Several of the commenters questioned the FHWA's interpretation of section 1041(b) of the ISTEA. Sate-Lite believes that section 1041(b) is ambiguous and as such the FHWA has great latitude in the implementation of the requirement. Sate-Lite stated: By explicitly acknowledging the safety hazards associated with fusees and flares and by specifically addressing these hazards by prohibiting the use of fusees and flares in certain situations, the FHWA has recognized that ISTEA granted the FHWA broad discretion in implementing Section 1041(b). Clearly Congress did not anticipate or intend to require that the FHWA sacrifice motorist safety and the security of our federal highway system on the altar of ``equal priority.'' As the FHWA has recognized, on these issues of motorist safety, Congress must defer to the expertise and judgment of the FHWA. In light of the dangers and manifest deficiencies inherent in the use of fusees and flares as a substitute for warning triangles *␣*␣* Sate-Lite respectfully urges the FHWA to exercise its discretion by amending the proposed rule change. Sate-Lite strongly believes that the FHWA should continue to require motor carriers to carry three emergency warning triangles in accordance with the current rule. In its comments, the ATA stated: The language of Section 1041(b) of the [ISTEA] strongly suggests that its sponsor(s) believe[s] that a fusee and a liquid-burning flare are essentially similar␣*␣*␣*. It should be made clear that fusees are acceptable only as a short-term warning device for use while long-term warning devices are put in place. In addition, it should be made clear that the trucking industry abandoned the use of liquid-burning flares (pot torches) as soon as the use of a superior type of warning device (the ``dot-over-dot'' emergency reflectors) was authorized by federal and state regulators. For the reasons outline[d] above, liquid-burning flares have not been manufactured for 30 years, or more. In our view, the current effort to encourage a return to their use by the motor carrier industry is a step backward. Advocates did not believe that the ISTEA prohibits the FHWA from continuing to require that each CMV be equipped with three bidirectional reflective triangles. The FHWA believes that section 1041(b) of ISTEA requires that fusees and liquid-burning flares be allowed, but not mandated, in lieu of bidirectional reflective triangles. The FHWA already allows the use of fusees and other warning devices in addition to reflective triangles. With regard to the ATA's comments about liquid-burning flares, or ``pot torches,'' the ISTEA refers to ``fusees and flares.'' The FHWA believes the term ``fusee'' refers to a solid material that is ignited by friction and the term ``flare'' refers to a liquid-burning warning device. These terms, as used in the ISTEA, are not interchangeable. As such, the ISTEA allows the use of fusees and liquid-burning flares as primary emergency warning devices. While the apparent lack of availability of liquid-burning flares, as indicated by the ATA, might preclude their use as an alternative to bidirectional reflective triangles, the requirement of the ISTEA is not contingent upon the availability of the warning device. In response to the Advocates' concerns, the FHWA does not believe it would be appropriate to require all CMVs to carry bidirectional reflective triangles. For those cases in which the CMV is equipped only with fusees or liquid-burning flares, the NPRM proposed, and this final rule includes, an amendment to §392.22 stating that there shall be at least one lighted fusee or liquid-burning flare at each of the locations specified in §392.22(b)(1) for the entire period that the vehicle is stopped. If a motor carrier chooses to rely solely upon fusees or liquid-burning flares as emergency warning devices, the motor carrier should not be penalized by being forced to carry an additional warning device that, under these circumstances, it would not be required to use.
