FR940721-2-00052 FR940721-2-00035 We are proposing to add a new routine use (number (24)/(26)) to the Carrier and Intermediary systems of records, for the release of data without an individuals' prior written consent. The new routine use would permit the release of beneficiary data via ERA to servicing Medicare banks and to provider banks. Servicing Medicare banks enter into agreements with the Health Care Financing Administration and with contracted Medicare claims processors to provide check clearing, account maintenance and electronic payment origination services for the Medicare program. The proposed routine use allows release of data from the IMCR and the CMCR to servicing Medicare banks and/or Medicare provider banks for one or more of the following purposes: (1) For servicing Medicare banks to transmit ERAs on behalf of Medicare contractors to Medicare providers directly or through the banking system to either the provider's bank or a VAN; (2) For provider banks to receive ERAs from the servicing Medicare banks and to transmit the remittance information directly to Medicare providers via mail, telefax, or electronic transmission; (3) For provider banks to receive ERAs from the originating Medicare banks in order to perform account maintenance activities at the request of Medicare providers. Transmitting remittance data electronically to providers or their banks directly from the servicing Medicare bank, and/or electronically transmitting beneficiary and provider data along with payment information from the servicing Medicare bank to providers, their banks or a VAN service, allows for more efficient payment and reconciliation processes for both HCFA and providers. The new routine use number (24), for the IMCR, and (26), for the CMCR, will read as follows: (24)/(26) Servicing Fiscal Intermediary/Carrier banks, Automated Clearing Houses, VANs and provider banks to the extent necessary to transfer to providers electronic remittance advices of Medicare payments, and with respect to provider banks, to the extent necessary to provide account management services to providers using this information. Technical amendments have been made to routine use number (24)/(26) for consistency with the current notices. The IMCR and CMCR systems maintain information for the purpose of processing and paying Medicare benefits to or on behalf of eligible individuals. The proposed new routine use is consistent with the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(7), since it is compatible with this purpose. In accordance with OMB Guidelines (Circular A&hyph;130, 58 FR 36068, 36077 July 2, 1993), this addition of a routine use constitutes a significant change in the system of records. Accordingly, we have prepared a report of an altered system of records under 5 U.S.C. 552a(r). In addition, for the convenience of the reader, we are publishing the notice for both systems in their entirety below. Dated: July 12, 1994. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration.
