FR940627-0-00053 FR940627-0-00009 Standards of Conduct and Reporting Requirements for Transportation and Affiliate Transactions_Docket No. RM94&hyph;6&hyph;000 (Issued June 17, 1994) Hoecker, Commissioner, concurring in part and dissenting in part: Today I concur that the time has come to cut the regulatory burden associated with the marketing affiliate rules, particularly the filing and record maintenance requirements tentatively adopted six years ago to ensure an equitable transition to competition among independent and pipeline-affiliated marketers. My colleagues and I disagree only in part and that disagreement is surely a matter of degree, not principle. I support the retention of the modestly revised Standards of Conduct applicable to pipeline relationships with marketing affiliates because, under these circumstances, they impose a useful and relatively light-handed transactional discipline on these relationships and help guarantee fair play and equal information in the marketplace. I nevertheless think the retention of the reporting and records maintenance requirements in revised FERC Form No. 592 is excessive and unnecessary. 1 I am inclined to think it demonstrates an unhappy tendency to which we all occasionally fall prey in a bureaucratic culture: assumptions and requirements, once adopted, tend to perpetuate themselves beyond their useful lives. As Vice President Gore's National Performance Review observes: 1 FERC Form No. 592 is codified in section 250.16 of the Commission's regulations. If this form were eliminated, I believe certain of the other requirements contained in section 250.16 (such as the requirement to include specified information in the tariff) could be transferred to the Standards of Conduct to allow for complete recision of section 250.16. The federal government does at least one thing well: It generates red tape. But not one inch of that red tape appears by accident. In fact, the government creates it all with the best of intentions. It is time now to put aside our reverence for those good intentions and examine what they have created_a system that makes it hard for our civil servants to do what we pay them for, and frustrates taxpayers who rightfully expect their money's worth. 2 2 Creating a Government that Works Better & Costs Less, Report of the National Performance Review, 1993, p. 11. This might strike my readers as rhetorical overkill as applied to this case, given the best of intentions that underlies today's decision to retain the reporting requirements and FERC Form No. 592. After all, the rule claims (somewhat inexplicably) that on average they will require only 60 workhours from each company per year. Yet, the continuation of these recordkeeping requirements is not, in my estimation, supported by any strong evidence of need. I find no significant numbers or patterns of complaints alleging that pipelines have favored affiliates. There is virtually no evidence of industry interest in these data. In fact, in one of the few pleadings in this case that offers more than opinion, a major pipeline system indicates that its Order No. 497 log was accessed only an average of 2&hyph;3 times monthly since 1990, with a significant portion of those calls (up to 50 percent at times) coming from Commission staff. The rule was not designed to generate discounting data for rate cases. Nor was it formulated as a device to obviate discovery in rare complaint cases. The need for these data is, therefore, highly conjectural. In the final analysis, it is clear that the majority wants to retain this small part of the Code of Federal Regulations ``just in case.'' And, by eliminating the sunset date, it is likely that FERC Form No. 592 will linger in regulatory perpetuity. In my opinion, the cost (however small) to the industry and ultimately to ratepayers of continuing any part of this recordkeeping requirement is greater than any probable benefit. Therefore, I dissent from that aspect of the rule that continues FERC Form No. 592. James J. Hoecker, Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15372 Filed 6&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
