FR941104-1-00044 FR941104-1-00009 The AHA indicated that new export markets have caused narwhal ivory prices to increase in Canada following a price decline in the mid-1980's, which has returned ivory prices to about the same prices as existed in the early 1980's. This increase in the price of narwhal ivory prices has suggested that ivory rather than maktag and meat has become the basis of modern hunting in eastern Canada. AHA noted that take quotas have not been imposed by Greenland, and that there are no controls on trade in ivory. However, as previously mentioned, since 1985 a no detriment finding is necessary for the issuance of CITES export permits by Greenland and for an import permit by Denmark. Defenders also asserted that the prime motivation for the take of narwhal in recent years has been the ivory, stimulated by new export markets and a resurgence in the price of ivory since the mid-1980's, which has biased take to the adult males. They feel that this could jeopardize narwhal population structure by the removal of a larger number of males. They contended that the current CITES listing of the narwhal in Appendix II does not provide adequate monitoring of take because there is not a substantial domestic market for narwhal tusks in Canada, and yet export permits were issued for fewer than half the tusks obtained in Canadian narwhal hunts between 1975 and 1990. From this, Defenders concluded that a large number of tusks must have been exported without CITES permits, but presented no evidence for this conclusion. Therefore, due to the uncertainty and concern surrounding the catch levels of narwhals for the ivory market, Defenders supported an Appendix I listing. The EIA submitted comments that supported their original proposal that the narwhal be included in Appendix I. They provided an estimate of 28,000 narwhal in the combined Canada-Greenland High Arctic population. They discussed the utilization of maktag and meat, the demand for narwhal ivory in Canada, and the export of Greenland ivory to Denmark and on into the EU. The decline in ivory prices of the early 1980's has, according to EIA, now returned to about those same levels. EIA pointed out the absence of quotas on take of narwhal in Greenland, suggested that the application of quotas in Canada is inadequate, and that the number of narwhal taken does not reflect actual take numbers because of the loss of wounded or killed animals before they are landed. They also pointed out the difficulty of assessing the relationship between the market demand for ivory and hunting intensity. EIA believed that additional information on life history, distribution, abundance, and hunting loss rates was needed to assess the stocks and the impacts of trade in the various parts derived from narwhal in order to properly manage the stocks. The Greenland Home Rule Government and the Fisheries Agency of Japan (FAJ) objected to transferring the narwhal to Appendix I. Greenland did not agree that narwhals should be placed in Appendix I due to unsustainable hunting pressures caused by the international trade in narwhal ivory. They argued that recent population estimates did not adequately take into account submerged whales, which would give corrected estimates sufficient to sustain hunting pressures greater than current harvest levels. They also maintained that low levels of ivory export reported for Greenland before 1985 are partially an artifact of the change in their political designation at that time, prior to which the shipment of ivory to Denmark was not considered as an export. They noted that, even though there are no catch quotas for Greenland, there are strict regulations on catch reporting, vessel sizes, etc., and that there are two reserve areas in Greenland waters where narwhal are protected. Generally, the FAJ felt that a listing in Appendix I should be based only on scientific evidence that there is a threat to extinction and that trade control is necessary for the protection of the species. Furthermore, the FAJ noted that the narwhal is already in Appendix II, providing some control of trade and a mechanism for collecting trade data, and that in the absence of new information indicating a deterioration in the status of the species there is no need for consideration of a change to Appendix I. The Government of Canada also does not agree with an Appendix I proposal for the narwhal. They feel that recent estimates of the Canadian High Arctic stocks are low by as much as 50 percent due to an underestimation of the time narwhals spend under water (as indicated in the 1992 Report of the Sub- Committee on Small Cetaceans of the International Whaling Commission), and that this larger population size can sustain current catch levels. They also feel that their catch quotas are adequate. The U.S. Marine Mammal Commission (MMC) does not support an Appendix I listing for the narwhal at this time, but noted that Canada and Greenland should be encouraged to obtain additional and better information on the status and trends of narwhal stocks, and on harvest levels (particularly regarding animals that are struck and lost during hunting).
