FR941110-1-00091 FR941110-1-00011 EPA is also proposing that the producers and importers of controlled substances for essential uses submit the following information to the Agency quarterly: (i) A list of the labs and essential-use allowance holders for whom specific controlled substances were produced or imported during the quarter, (ii) the name and quantity of the controlled substance produced or imported for each lab and essential-use allowance recipient. To verify and crosscheck that essential-use allowances were conferred and that the controlled substance was delivered, EPA is proposing that the original recipients of essential-use allowances submit quarterly a list of the producers or importers to whom they transferred allowances and the quantity of the specific controlled substance that will be, or was, delivered. Those persons purchasing controlled substances under the global exemption for labs must provide the producer or importer with a detailed description of the analytical procedures requiring the substance with references to published instructions, standards, or specifications. c. Reporting and recordkeeping for importers. EPA is proposing a clarification of the reporting and recordkeeping for importers to include the entry of virgin and ``off-spec'' virgin controlled substances under current requirements in order to forestall those mislabelled as used, recycled or reclaimed controlled substance (the issue raised in Section B. ``Imports of Used or Recycled Controlled Substances,'' of this preamble). EPA is proposing that importers in general, including importers of used, recycled or reclaimed controlled substances, be required to maintain records on the items included in Section B. of this preamble that are included in the final rule. In addition, EPA is proposing that the current quarterly reports from importers differentiate between quantities of imported virgin substances and imported substances that are used, recycled or reclaimed. EPA is also proposing that, at the point of entry into U.S. jurisdiction, importers of used refrigerant provide documentation (or verification) of the reclamation facility where the controlled substance will be sent before it is sold within the United States. In accordance with the regulation published in the Federal Register on May 14, 1993, (40 CFR Part 82) no class I or class II controlled substance may be sold or offered for sale for use as a refrigerant unless it has been reclaimed to the ARI&hyph;700 Standard (ยง82.154). Therefore, EPA is proposing that importers of used or recycled controlled substances (including halons) provide information regarding the facility at which the substance will be reclaimed. The proposal asks for information that should be readily available to the importer because it is required by 40 CFR Part 82. By asking the importer to name the point of reclamation, EPA hopes to deter the immediate sale of virgin or off-spec virgin controlled substances that are mislabelled as imported used or recycled substances.
