FR940304-2-00101 FR940304-2-00040 Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information is used ``in house'' for management of security activities. Notwithstanding the above, access may also be gained to these records under the following conditions: (a) In the event that a system of records maintained by this agency to carry out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether federal, state, local or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statutes, or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant thereto. (b) A record from the system of records may be disclosed as a ``routine use'' to a federal, state or local agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to an agency decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. (c) A record from this system of records may be disclosed to a federal agency, in response to this request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefits by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper files. Retrievability: Manual. Identifier: Name. Safeguards: Records available to authorized persons only. Retention and disposal: Disposed of upon the departure of the employee from the agency. System manager(s) and address: General Services Officer, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart St., Arlington, VA 22203. Notification procedure: Contact individual listed above, or Vice President, Administration and Finance, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart St., Arlington, VA 22203. Records access procedures: IAF access procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information in IAF records. Contesting record procedures: Contesting Records Procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information in IAF Records. Records source categories: Individual him/her self. IAF&hyph;12 System name: Credit Card Accountability Records. System location: Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart St., Arlington, VA 22203. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals issued Diners Club and Telephone Calling Cards. Categories of records in the system: Lists of those employees issued Diners Club and Telephone Calling Cards for use in connection with official travel. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information is used ``in house'' for management of travel activities. Notwithstanding the above, access may also be gained to these records under the following conditions:
