FR941122-0-00010 FR941122-0-00005 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Immigration and Naturalization Service 8 CFR Parts 100 and 103 [INS No. 1501&hyph;94] RIN 1115&hyph;AD72 Implementation of Internal Reorganization of the Immigration and Naturalization Service AGENCY: Immigration and Naturalization Service, Justice. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule amends existing Immigration and Naturalization Service (Service) regulations by revising the organizational structure of the Service to conform to the Service reorganization plan approved by Attorney General Reno. These regulations will allow for empowerment of Headquarters and field managers, and further enhance Service planning and communications capabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 22, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary S. Messina, Acting Executive Associate Commissioner, Policy and Planning, Immigration and Naturalization Service, 425 I Street NW., Room 6042, Washington, DC 20536, telephone (202) 514&hyph;3242. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The reorganization of the Immigration and Naturalization Service was approved by Attorney General Reno on January 14, 1994. A copy of the organization chart, which graphically illustrates the approved structure, is published with this final regulation as Appendix A. The reorganization will: (a) Create a clearer sense of mission by knitting together the Service's major functions and programs; (b) decentralize decision-making authority and delegate authority to persons geographically closer to the locations where work is being performed; (c) empower field operational units to improve the delivery of services to customers; (d) re-engineer major processes, such as those which develop and disseminate organizational policy and guidelines, and which are outdated approaches to handing records and information; and (e) develop a capability and commitment to plan for the future, set customer service standards, and establish quantitative performance measures to enable the Service to evaluate its programs and service delivery. To accomplish these goals, the reorganization creates several new components through the restructuring of some existing ones and the abolition of others. Some components retain their identity, but with revised duties and reporting relationships, while other components remain unchanged. This final regulation formalizes the new components, responsibilities, and reporting relationships.
