FR941026-2-00085 FR941026-2-00054 (2) With regard to non-discretionary advisory committees mandated by statute, the agency will notify GSA of plans to establish such committees prior to filing the charter required by section 9(c) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Such notification will provide GSA with at least 10 working days to review the proposed committee charter and advise the agency of its recommendations. 6. OMB Responsibilities. The Office of Management and Budget shall: (a) review and approve agency advisory committee management plans pursuant to Section 5 and in accordance with the Executive order; (b) set advisory committee ceilings for each agency within the government-wide advisory committee reduction goal established by the Executive order; (c) work with agencies to control the establishment of statutory advisory committees and develop legislation to terminate those non-discretionary committees which are no longer necessary; (d) ensure that relevant legislation is reviewed consistent with OMB Circular A&hyph;19; and (e) ensure agencies meet the cost reduction target recommended by the Vice President's National Performance Review. 7. GSA Responsibilities. The General Services Administration shall (in addition to its responsibilities under the FACA and as an agency under Section 5 above): (a) prepare required justifications and recommendations specified in Section 5 for each advisory committee subject to the FACA and not sponsored by another department or agency; (b) assist OMB in its management and oversight of advisory committees, including tracking agency compliance with the reduction goals specified by E.O. 12838; (c) develop guidance, specific reporting formats and instructions to implement Section 5 of this Circular. To the extent practicable, new reporting requirements will be limited to information not readily available through existing sources of data; (d) provide recommendations to OMB and each agency regarding the continuance or management of advisory committees as required by Section 7(b) of FACA, which mandates an annual comprehensive review of all advisory committees; and (e) implement section 5(2) of this Circular. 8. Information Contact. Questions about this Circular should be addressed to the Federal Services Branch (202) 395&hyph;5090. Questions concerning the role of GSA should be directed to the Committee Management Secretariat (202) 273&hyph;3556. 9. Termination Review Date. This Circular will be subject to review two years after issuance. 10. Effective Date. This Circular is effective upon issuance. Alice M. Rivlin, Acting Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26457 Filed 10&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3110&hyph;01&hyph;P
