FR941007-1-00038 FR941007-1-00008 II. Scope of this Notice NHTSA is concerned that despite its efforts to provide warnings to not place an infant in a rear-facing infant restraint in the right front seat of a vehicle that has a passenger air bag, these warnings will provide minimal benefit if a parent chooses to transport his/her infant in a vehicle that is physically unable to accommodate a child any place other than the front seat, e.g., a vehicle that has no rear seat. Examples of such vehicles are a two-seater sports car and a light duty truck with only a front seat. It is exclusively for this minority of vehicles that this notice is intended. NHTSA believes that allowing manufacturers the option to install a manual cutoff device would not unduly diminish the ability of these vehicles to provide crash protection to the adult population and would avoid the potential problem of air bag/infant seat interaction. III. Legality of Air Bag Cutoff Devices After the January 1994 meeting with AAMA, the agency examined whether Standard No. 208 currently permits a vehicle to be equipped with an air bag cutoff device. Standard No. 208 currently requires the front outboard seating positions in passenger cars and light trucks to be equipped with automatic crash protection systems which protect their occupants by means that require no action by vehicle occupants. Compliance with the automatic crash protection requirements of Standard No. 208 is determined in a dynamic crash test. That is, a vehicle must comply with specified injury criteria, as measured on a test dummy, in a 30 mph barrier crash test. The two types of automatic crash protection currently offered are automatic safety belts (whose automatic nature helps to assure belt use) and air bags (which supplement safety belts and offer some protection even when safety belts are not used). The September 1993 final rule will require manufacturers to comply with the automatic crash protection requirements by installing air bags. Two types of cutoff devices are possible. The first type involves manual technology such as an ``on-off'' switch to disable the operation of the passenger air bag by moving the switch to the ``OFF'' position. To reactivate, the switch is then moved to the ``ON'' position. This reactivation may take place manually or it may occur automatically, e.g., after deactivation the system reactivates the next time that the ignition is turned on or when a door is opened. The second type of cutoff device is one that automatically deactivates and reactivates the air bag. In past agency interpretations of the safety standards, NHTSA has stated that if (1) there are two possible conditions during a compliance test (e.g., whether a particular device is in the ``ON'' or ``OFF'' position), and (2) the standard does not specify which test condition is to be used, and (3) the language of the standard as a whole and the standard's purpose do not imply a limit that would make one of those conditions inappropriate, there is a presumption that the requirements have to be met in both test conditions.
