FR940425-2-00024 FR940425-2-00019 One committee will meet in partially closed session: Subject Area Committee # 1. From 10 a.m. to 11 a.m., the Committee will meet in closed session to hear and discuss the plans for the NAEP U.S. History Special Study. This meeting must be closed to the public because the Committee will discuss information about NAEP cognitive items. Premature disclosure of information presented for review might significantly frustrate a proposed agency action. Such matters are protected by exemption 9(B) of Section 552b(c) of Title 5 U.S.C. The Committee will meet in open session from 11 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. to discuss the NAEP Civics procurement and the national standards project timelines. Beginning at 11:30 a.m. the Subject Area Committee # 1 and the Design and Analysis Committee will meet jointly to hear a presentation from Educational Testing Service on assessment accommodations for individualized educational program (IEP) and limited English proficient (LEP) students. The full Board will reconvene in closed session from 12 Noon to 1:15 p.m. During this portion of the meeting a report, Effective Schools and Instruction in Mathematics, will be presented for discussion by staff of the NAEP contractor, Educational Testing Service. The discussion will include references to specific items from the assessment, the disclosure of which might significantly frustrate implementation of NAEP. This session must be closed to the public because reference may be made to data which may be misinterpreted, incorrect, or incomplete. Premature disclosure of this data might significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action. Such matters are protected by exemption 9(B) of section 552b(c) of Title 5 U.S.C. The full Board meeting will reopen to the public at 1:15 p.m. and continue until 4:45 p.m. This session of the meeting will be primarily devoted to a panel presentation by the State Testing Program Directors for California, Connecticut, Kentucky, Maryland, and North Carolina. The panelists will discuss the processes utilized, in their respective states, for setting performance standards. The session will conclude with an update on NAEP activities presented by the Department of Education's Commissioner of the National Center for Educational Statistics. On May 14, the full Board will be in open session from 9 a.m. until approximately 12 Noon. The agenda for this session includes a continuation of the presentation on NAEP equity/inclusion issues, followd by Board committee reports. Records are kept of all Board proceedings and are available for public inspection at the U.S. Department of Education, National Assessment Governing Board, Suite 825, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, D.C., from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. A summary of the activities at the closed sessions and related matters which are informative to the public consistent with the policy of Title 5 U.S.C. 552b(c) will be available to the public within fourteen days of each closed session. Dated: April 20, 1994. Roy Truby, Executive Director, National Assessment Governing Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9903 Filed 4&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;M
