FR940610-1-00072 FR940610-1-00008 (3) Comparing average daily levels. Once the appropriate procedures of paragraph (k)(2) of this section have been completed, the results shall be compared to the appropriate age group level for each nutrient and for calories in the table, Minimum Nutrient Levels for School Lunch, in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. In addition, comparisons shall be made to the nutrition standards provided in paragraph (a) of this section in order to determine the degree of conformity. (4) Adjustments based on students' selections. The results obtained under paragraph (k)(2) of this section shall be used to adjust future menu cycles to accurately reflect production and student selections. Menus may require further analysis and comparison, depending on the results obtained in paragraph (k)(3) of this section when production and selection patterns change. The school food authority may need to consider modifications to the menu items and foods offered based on student selections as well as modifications to recipes and other specifications to ensure that the nutrition standards provided in paragraph (a) of this section are met. (5) Standardized recipes. Under Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, standardized recipes shall be developed and followed. A standardized recipe is one that was tested to provide an established yield and quantity through the use of ingredients that remain constant in both measurement and preparation methods. USDA/FNS standardized recipes are included in the National Nutrient Database for the Child Nutrition Programs. In addition, local standardized recipes used by school food authorities shall be analyzed for their calories, nutrients and dietary components and added to the local database by that school food authority in accordance with paragraph (k)(1)(ii) of this section. (6) Processed foods. Unless already included in the National Nutrient Database, the calorie amounts, nutrients and dietary components, in accordance with paragraph (k)(3) of this section, of purchased processed foods and menu items used by the school food authority shall be obtained by the school food authority or State agency and incorporated into the database at the local level in accordance with FNS guidance. (7) Substitutions. If the need for serving a substitute food(s) or menu item(s) occurs at least two weeks prior to serving the planned menu, the revised menu shall be reanalyzed based on the changes. If the need for serving a substitute food(s) or menu item(s) occurs two weeks or less prior to serving the planned menu, no reanalysis is required. However, to the extent possible, substitutions should be made using similar foods. (l) Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning. (1) For school food authorities without the capability to conduct Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, menu cycles developed by other sources may be used. Such sources may include but are not limited to the State agency, other school food authorities, consultants, or food service management companies. (2) Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning shall establish menu cycles that have been developed in accordance with paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(6) of this section as well as local food preferences and local food service operations. These menu cycles shall incorporate the nutrition standards in paragraph (a) of this section and the Minimum Nutrient Levels for School Lunches in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. In addition to the menu cycle, recipes, food product specifications and preparation techniques shall also be developed and provided by the entity furnishing Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning to ensure that the menu items and foods offered conform to the nutrient analysis determinations of the menu cycle. (3) If a school food authority requests Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, the State agency shall determine if it is warranted. At the inception of any approved use of Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, the State agency shall approve the initial menu cycle, recipes, and other specifications to determine that all required elements for correct nutrient analysis are incorporated. The State agency shall also, upon request, provide assistance with implementation of the chosen system. (4) After initial service under the Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning menu cycle, the nutrient analysis shall be reassessed in accordance with paragraph (k)(2) of this section and appropriate adjustments made. (5) Under Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, the school food authority retains final responsibility for ensuring that all nutrition standards established in paragraph (a) of this section are met. (m) Compliance with the nutrition standards. If the analysis conducted in accordance with paragraphs (k) or (l) of this section shows that the menus offered are not meeting the nutrition standards in paragraph (a) of this section, actions, including technical assistance and training, shall be taken by the State agency, school food authority, or school, as appropriate, to ensure that the lunches offered to children comply with the nutrition standards established by paragraph (a) of this section. (n) Nutrition disclosure. School food authorities are encouraged to make information available indicating efforts to meet the nutrition standards in paragraph (a) of this section, such as publicizing the results of the nutrient analysis of the school week menu cycle. (o) Supplemental food. Eligible schools operating after school care programs may be reimbursed for one meal supplement offered to an eligible child (as defined in ยง210.2) per day. Meal supplements shall conform to the provisions set forth in ยง210.10a(j).
