FR941103-0-00022 FR941103-0-00004 (e) Application procedures . Applications pursuant to this section shall be filed with the responsible Reserve Bank for the foreign bank. An application shall not be deemed complete until it contains all the information requested by the Reserve Bank and has been accepted. Approval of such an application may be conditioned on the applicant's agreement to conduct the activity subject to specific conditions or limitations. (f) Divestiture or cessation . (1) In the event that an applicant's application for permission to continue to conduct an activity is not approved by the Board or, if applicable, the FDIC, the applicant shall submit a detailed written plan of divestiture or cessation of the activity to the responsible Reserve Bank within 60 days of the disapproval. The divestiture or cessation plan shall describe in detail the manner in which the applicant will divest itself of or cease the activity and shall include a projected timetable describing how long the divestiture or cessation is expected to take. Divestitures or cessation shall be complete within one year from the date of the disapproval, or within such shorter period of time as the Board shall direct. (2) In the event that a foreign bank operating a state branch or agency chooses not to apply to the Board for permission to continue to conduct an activity that is not permissible for a federal branch or which is rendered impermissible due to a subsequent change in statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, written order or interpretation, or decision of a court of competent jurisdiction, the foreign bank shall submit a written plan of divestiture or cessation, in conformance with paragraph (f)(1), of this section within 60 days of January 1, 1995 or of such change or decision. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, October 27, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27121 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
