FR941222-1-00060 FR941222-1-00008 As shown in Table II&hyph;9, benzidine is present in this wastestream at concentrations that pose a substantial risk to human health and the environment ( i.e. , equal to or greater than 1E&hyph;5 for carcinogens) for the municipal landfill management scenario. Benzidine was found to be present in several wastestreams from the manufacture of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock, including wastewaters from both facilities that manufacture these pigments. The Agency believes that benzidine is either a raw material contaminant or a reaction by-product from the process. Large quantities of aniline, typically in excess, are used as a raw material to this process. As a result, this wastestream was found to contain over three percent aniline. The calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level for aniline is 8E&hyph;5 for the landfill scenario. In addition to benzidine and aniline, the waste was found to contain two other hazardous constituents that are believed to be by-products of the reaction and pose a significant risk at the concentrations detected for the municipal landfill management scenario. Two additional compounds presented in Table II&hyph;9, 1,2- diphenylhydrazine and azobenzene, coelute on the mass spectrum (see Section II.D, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, for a discussion on the Agency's approach to risk assessment for coeluting compounds). Both compounds are likely oxidation products of aniline, and may be present in the waste as reaction by-products. In addition to the uncertainty in establishing concentrations for each of the two compounds, the chemical pathway from aniline to these oxidation products suggests that either contaminant may be present at all or part of the concentration detected. The Agency conducted the risk assessment using the health-based levels for 1,2-diphenylhydrazine and azobenzene, independently. For disposal in a municipal landfill, the calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level for these coeluting compounds, based on the toxicity of 1,2-diphenylhydrazine, is 2E&hyph;5. In addition to assessing the risks associated with the individual constituents found in the waste, the Agency considers the combined risk of constituents that co-exist in the wastestream. In the case of this wastewater treatment sludge, all of the constituents discussed above ( i.e. , aniline, benzidine, and 1,2-diphenylhydrazine/azobenzene) are believed to co-exist in the wastestream. The processes that produce triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock are operated continuously all year. As a result, the constituents detected in the wastestream are likely to be present simultaneously in the waste. Therefore, the combined calculated risk of these individual constituents, for the municipal landfill scenario would be 2E&hyph;4 at the high end. However, the risks associated with the current and plausible management practice for this wastestream (blending with non-hazardous fuel for combustion) are insignificant. As discussed in Section II.D, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, the Agency believes that the fuel blending will continue. The relatively high organic content of the waste gives the material value as a fuel ingredient and, therefore, generators of this waste have an economic incentive to continue fuel blending. Therefore, the Agency is proposing not to list the wastestream as hazardous. If the NPDES program requirements were to change ( i.e. , become more stringent) then those triarylmethane pigment producers that currently do not generate a sludge could be forced to generate a sludge due to their efforts to meet new NPDES requirements. In that case, the plausible management scenario would change, and other practices, such as landfilling, would become possible. The Agency may reopen this listing decision should this occur, and will use the risk levels associated with this management scenario to make a revised listing determination. b. Wastewaters from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock. Summary The Agency is proposing not to list as hazardous wastewaters from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock. As shown in Table II&hyph;10, these wastewaters contain an average aniline concentration of 200 ppm. In addition, the wastewaters contain the same hazardous by-products found in the wastewater treatment sludge. Although this wastestream, if managed in surface impoundments, would meet the criteria set out in 40 CFR 261.11(a)(3) for listing a waste as hazardous and would be capable of posing a substantial present or potential risk to human health or the environment if released into the environment, the Agency has determined that management in surface impoundments is not plausible for this wastestream. The Agency believes this because 100% of this wastestream is managed in exempt tanks. The Agency has no reason to believe that this management practice will change. Risk associated with treatment in tanks is insignificant and, thus, the Agency is proposing not to list this waste as hazardous. However, for comparison purposes, the Agency has calculated the risks associated with disposal of this wastestream in a surface impoundment. If, based on comments, the Agency determines that it is not reasonable to assume that management in tanks is the correct plausible management scenario, the Agency probably would determine that management in a surface impoundment is the appropriate plausible management scenario. Discussion These wastewaters are generated from filtrations of process intermediates and products, flushing operations, equipment washdowns, floor washings, and process operations. Based on response data from the 1991 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire, a total of 757,080 metric tons, or 0.4 million gallons per day, of wastewater from the production of triarylmethane (TAM) pigments is generated. Information on generation relevant to this discussion is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. All of the wastewaters generated from TAM pigment production (using aniline as a feedstock) are treated in tanks prior to discharge to a POTW. The data presented in Table II&hyph;10 represent three samples collected from two TAM pigment-manufacturing facilities.
