FR940916-1-00141 FR940916-1-00016 (b) MU and control cab locomotives operated in road service shall be equipped with a means of applying the emergency brake that is accessible to a crew member, other than the engineer, located in the vestibule or passenger compartment. ยง232.109 Blended brake standards. (a) Blended train brake systems shall be designed so that the blending of friction and dynamic brake to obtain the correct retarding force is automatic. (b) Blended train brake systems shall be designed so that when power is lost or the dynamic portion of the brake system is disabled, the friction brake acting alone is adequate to safely stop the train under all operating conditions. ยง232.111 Dynamic brake standards. The following dynamic brake standards apply to all locomotives, including power cars, used only for conventional service built or rebuilt on or after January 1, 1996 that are equipped with dynamic brakes: (a) The design shall include a provision to test the electrical integrity of the dynamic brake at rest. (b) The design shall include provisions to display the available total train dynamic brake retarding force at each speed in 5-mph increments in the cab of the controlling locomotive. ยง232.113 Intermediate speed and high speed train standards. (a) This section applies to: (1) All equipment delivered for use in intermediate speed service after January 1, 1995 and (2) All equipment used in high speed service. (b) All intermediate speed freight trains shall be equipped with a two-way end-of-train device or an equivalent means for the train brake system to be applied from the rear of the train. (c) The following dynamic brake standards apply to locomotives and power cars used for intermediate speed or high speed service: (1) The locomotive or power car shall be equipped with dynamic or rheostatic brakes. (2) The train operator shall have a means to determine the present status or effectiveness of the dynamic or rheostatic portion of the train's brake system at all times. (d) The following requirements apply to train brake control systems: (1) Train brake systems shall be controlled by computer or an equivalent automated system. (2) Train brake control systems shall run diagnostic programs or software capable of performing self tests of the train brake system. (3) The train brake control system shall be equipped with separate stand-by or reserve power and have a manual override feature to protect against power loss or malfunction of the automatic features of the system. (4) The train brake control system shall be capable of detecting faults with the train brake system as they occur and either alerting the engineer or taking automatic corrective action. (5) The train brake control system shall be capable of logging a permanent record of detected train brake system faults. The fault log shall be protected against unauthorized access or changes. (6) A thorough fault tree analysis shall be conducted as part of train brake control system software design to determine the ways in which the software could possibly fail and produce unexpected results. (7) A thorough hazard analysis shall be conducted as part of train brake control system software design to determine the safety impacts of software failures. (8) A thorough validation and verification shall be conducted as part of train brake control system software design to ensure the software is fail-safe and will function reliably as intended. (9) Documentation of the train brake system control software design shall be maintained as long as the brake system is in use and shall be made available to the FRA upon request. (e) The following requirements apply to brake system sensors: (1) If inspection or test of the brake system in yards for application or release of the brakes requires the inspector to be placed in a dangerous position on, under, or between the equipment, the brake system shall be equipped with sensors that give a reliable indication of application and release of the brakes clearly visible to the inspector standing alongside the truck being inspected. (2) If the design of an intermediate speed or high speed train brake system includes effective and reliable piston travel sensors, brake shoe/pad thickness sensors, brake application force sensors, or wheel heating sensors, the railroad operating the equipment may propose simplified or automated Class 1 brake system test procedures based on the output of the sensors. (3) Brake system sensors shall be designed to remain accurately calibrated for a period of no less than one year. (4) Piston travel sensors shall be accurate to within # 1/8 inch. (5) Brake pad thickness sensors shall be accurate to within # 1/16 inch.
