FR940419-2-00123 FR940419-2-00070 Annual Meeting and Election Instead of holding one annual meeting, the amendment to Article IV, section 2 of the CHX's Constitution provides for two annual meetings to be held in April: An annual election meeting and an annual report meeting. The Board will have the flexibility to annually determine on which business days in April to hold the meetings. The annual election meeting will be held to vote for Governors and the Nominating Committee. The annual report meeting will be held to provide management, the Board, and members an opportunity to discuss the previous year's results and current issues facing the Exchange. The Board could determine to have these meetings on the same day or different days in April. Composition of the Executive and Finance Committees The amendment to Article V, Section 4 of the CHX's Constitution and Article IV, Rule 2 of its Rules provides that the specified number of Governors who may serve on the Executive and Finance Committees are minimums. Currently the Executive Committee is composed of 7 Board members plus the President and Chairman of the Board as ex-officio members. 8 The Finance Committee is composed of 5 Board members plus the two ex-officio members. The number of Committee members could be increased if the Vice Chairman and the Board so determine. 8 An ex-officio member is one who is the member of a board or committee by virtue of his or her title to a certain office. Voting Powers of the President and Chairman Article VI, Section 4 of the CHX's Constitution provides that the President is ``a member of the Board of Governors and an ex-officio member, without the right to vote, of all committees except the Nominating, Audit, and Compensation Committees.'' The rule change grants the president voting power on the Exchange's Committees of which he is an ex-officio member if so designated in the CHX's Constitution or Rules. The rule change to Article V, Section 4 of the CHS's Constitution grants the President full voting powers on the Executive Committee. In addition, the rule change adds Judiciary Committees and the Committee on Organization and Governance to the list of committees of which the president is not an ex-officio member. Article VI, Section 2 of the CHX's Constitution provides that the Chairman of the Board of Governors is ``an ex-officio member, without the right to vote except as otherwise designated in this Constitution, of all committees except the Nominating Committee.'' The rule change allows to Exchange to designate the Chairman's right to vote on committees in the Exchange's Rules as well as the Constitution. The rule change to Article IV, Rules 7 and 9 of the Exchange's Rules grants the Chairman of the Board full voting powers on the Committee on Organization and Governance and the Compensation Committee. In addition, the rule change to Article VI, Section 2 of the Constitution specifies that the Chairman is not a member of any Judiciary Committee. Miscellaneous Finally, the rule change replaces the term ``Public Governor'' with ``non-member Governor'' and provides the definition of the term in Article IV, Rule 7 of the CHX's Rules to state that ``the term non-member Governor shall mean a Governor who is unaffiliated with the Exchange or any broker or dealer in securities, as defined in Article III, Section 2 of the Exchange's Constitution.'' The rule change also adds the term ``non-member Governor'' to Article IV, Rule 8.
