FR940725-0-00177 FR940725-0-00019 (B) The designated competent person's name(s), and (C) The date the employee was trained as a competent person. (c) Criteria. The employer shall ensure that each designated competent person has the following skills and knowledge: (1) Ability to understand and carry out written or oral information or instructions left by Marine Chemist, Coast Guard authorized persons and Certified Industrial Hygienists; (2) Knowledge of Subparts B, C, D and H of this part; (3) Knowledge of the structure, location, and designation of spaces where work is done; (4) Ability to calibrate and use testing equipment including but not limited to, oxygen indicators, combustible gas indicators, carbon monoxide indicators, and carbon dioxide indicators, and to interpret accurately the test results of that equipment; (5) Ability to perform all required tests and inspections which are or may be performed by a competent person as set forth in Subparts B, C, D and H of this part. (6) Ability to inspect, test, and evaluate spaces to determine the need for further testing by a Marine Chemist or a Certified Industrial Hygienist; and (7) Ability to maintain records required by this section. (d) Recordkeeping. (1) When tests and inspections are performed by a competent person, Marine Chemist, or Certified Industrial Hygienist as required by any provisions of subparts B, C, D, or H of this part, the employer shall ensure that the person performing the test and inspection records the location, time, date, location of inspected spaces, and the operations performed, as well as the test results and any instructions. (2) The employer shall ensure that the records are posted in the immediate vicinity of the affected operations while work in the spaces is in progress. The records shall be kept on file for a period of at least three months from the completion date of the specific job for which they were generated. (3) The employer shall ensure that the records are available for inspection by the Assistant Secretary, Director, and employees and their representatives. 3. Subpart B of part 1915 is revised to read as follows: Subpart B_Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment Sec. 1915.11␣Scope, application, and definitions applicable to this subpart. 1915.12␣Precautions before entering confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres. 1915.13␣Cleaning and other cold work. 1915.14␣Hot work. 1915.15␣Maintenance of safe conditions. 1915.16␣Warning signs and labels. Appendix A to Subpart B_Compliance Assistance Guidelines for Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres Appendix B to Subpart B_Reprint of U.S. Coast Guard Regulations Referenced in Subpart B, for Determination of Coast Guard Authorized Persons §1915.11 Scope, application and definitions applicable to this Subpart. (a) Scope and application. This Subpart applies to work in confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres in shipyard employment, including vessels, vessel sections, and on land-side operations regardless of geographic location. (b) Definitions applicable to this Subpart. Adjacent spaces means those spaces bordering a subject space in all directions, including all points of contact, corners, diagonals, decks, tank tops, and bulkheads. Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, or designated representative. Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH) means an industrial hygienist who is certified by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene. Coast Guard authorized person means an individual who meets the requirement of Appendix B to subpart B of this part 1915 for tank vessels, for passenger vessels, and for cargo and miscellaneous vessels. Dangerous atmosphere means an atmosphere that may expose employees to the risk of death, incapacitation, impairment of ability to self-rescue (i.e., escape unaided from a confined or enclosed space), injury, or acute illness.
