FR940429-2-00133 FR940429-2-00089 G. Final Selection 1. General HUD recognizes that the Regional role stated herein may have to be modified later in the fiscal year, depending on the reorganization and the manner in which the transition to the Field organization takes place. If necessary there will be appropriate notification to the procedures stated in this Notice. All eligible applications, other than those noted as rejects, will be rank-ordered by score in either the FmHA Headquarters or each HUD Regional Office. 2. Final Reductions in Funding Within Applications HUD/FmHA reserves the right to additionally reduce the amount of funding requested in any application at time of selection to reduce the cost of the grant to meet the funding limits of section I.C(5). Reductions may also take place after selection and announcement of award, as part of final negotiations. 3. Ranking of Projects a. Ranking of FmHA Projects. FmHA Headquarters will select applicants by rank-order until all CHSP funds allocated have been exhausted. If there is more than one unfunded application at the next-highest score (in a tie) and there are insufficient funds to cover both, funding will be decided subject to section II.F.4, below. Further selections will be made until any residual funds are insufficient to fund another FmHA project. If there is a residual amount after all eligible applications in rank order are funded, the next application(s) on the list which contain funding requests above the level of the residual may be skipped over to reach a fundable project lower down on the list which is within the level of the residual amount. The first remaining fundable but unfunded project on the list which is within the residual limit must be funded, as well as any subsequent projects which are still within any remaining residual. If funds remain available after ranking all the approvable FmHA projects, these funds will be utilized by HUD Headquarters for reallocation to HUD projects which were approvable but unfunded (see subsection II.G(3)(b), below). The FmHA Headquarters reserves the right to reduce any proposed amount of CHSP funds requested. b. Ranking of HUD projects. HUD will select applicants in rank-order in each Region until the funds allotted to that Region are exhausted. If there is more than one unfunded application at the next-highest score (in a tie) and there are insufficient funds to cover both, funding will be decided subject to section II.G.4, below. Further selections will be made until any residual funds are insufficient to fund another HUD project. If there is a residual amount after most eligible applications are funded in rank order, the next application(s) on the list which contain funding requests above the level of the residual may be skipped over to reach a fundable project lower down on the list which is within the level of the residual amount. The first remaining fundable but unfunded project on the list which is within the residual limit must be funded, as well as any subsequent projects which are still within any remaining residual. Regions (and FmHA) will return any excess funds to Headquarters. Headquarters will integrate by score order all approvable but not funded applications sent in from Regions in which there were too many projects to fund from within the Regional allocation. Headquarters will then fund additional projects in rank order from this score ranking using residual funds, consistent with section II.G(4), below. If there are insufficient fundable applications, any excess funds will be made available to approvable but unfunded FmHA applicants. 4. Tie Scores In the event of a tie score among the last-to-be-considered applications in either FmHA Headquarters or in a HUD Regional allocation, the application that scores higher on Selection Criteria Numbers b, f, g, and i will be selected, if that application is within the limits of the remaining dollars or can be so modified. If there is still a tie score among two or more applications, one of the tied applications will be selected by lottery. 5. Multi-Project Grants HUD and FmHA reserve the right to aggregate into one grant award multiple applications from a single applicant in any jurisdiction. 6. Self-Monitoring HUD and FmHA reserve the right to require self-monitoring of those applications approved for States, Indian tribes and units of general local government (NOT PHA/IHAs). In such cases, HUD/FmHA will add an amount equal to one percent of the total HUD grant approved, for monitoring costs, under which certain responsibilities will be delegated to that agency subject to 24 CFR 700.325 or 7 CFR 1944.270. As this is a HUD or FmHA-directed add-on, it may bring the total award granted to more than the limit stated in section I.C(5). 7. Excess Funds In the event that funds still remain after completion of the selection process, such funds will be allotted to the HUD Headquarters Reserve Fund, subject to section 700.405 of the Joint Common Rule. H. Awarding of Grants Once selections are made, the HUD Field Office, or FmHA Headquarters, as appropriate, will negotiate the final amount of the grant with the selected applicant. Once agreement is reached on all issues, a grant award will be prepared and sent to the HUD or FmHA applicant for signature. Once the signed grant award is returned to HUD, it will be executed by an appropriate HUD Official. If an applicant cannot complete negotiations so that a grant can be executed before September 30, 1994, and the reserved dollars revert to the Treasury, the grant award may be canceled. III. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements The checklist specifies the required information that must be submitted as part of an application, and identifies those materials necessary to pass eligibility and threshold requirements. Other items including forms and certifications may be corrected during the technical deficiency correction period, subject to section II.F(4) of this Notice. The Checklist is the Table of Contents in the application package; the check is done by filling in the appropriate application page number in the blank space. IV. Other Matters A. Environmental Impact A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment has been made in accordance with HUD regulations at 24 CFR part 50, which implement section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332). The Finding is available for public inspection between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. weekdays in the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of the General Counsel, Department of Housing and Urban Development, room 10276, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410. B. Family Executive Order The General Counsel of HUD, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family , has determined that the policies contained in this NOFA will have some significant impact on the maintenance and general well-being of families. The revised CHSP can be expected to provide supportive services which can prevent or postpone unnecessary or premature institutionalization, and reduce unnecessary stress and financial burdens on participants' families by allowing them to remain in their apartments. Because the impact on family concerns is wholly beneficial, no further review under the executive order is considered necessary. C. Federalism Executive Order The General Counsel of HUD, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of the Executive Order 12612, Federalism , has determined that the policies contained in this NOFA do not have Federalism implications, and, thus, are not subject to review under the order. These guidelines are limited to providing the procedures under which HUD would make rental assistance available to applicants under a program designed to provide housing assistance and supportive services to frail elderly individuals. The program involves intergovernmental cooperation, but in no manner will involve federal incursion upon local or state decision making, or the administration of local or state law. D. Section 102 of the HUD Reform Act_Accountability in the Provision of HUD Assistance 1. Documentation and Public Access
