FR940505-1-00095 FR940505-1-00012 EPA will review and approve or disapprove these plans depending on whether they achieve the required emission reduction requirements. Given that these plans will encompass multiple emission sources with different emission measurement methods, EPA believes that the compliance plan review effort will be resource intensive. For those sources subject to Title V operating permit regulations, the provisions of the compliance plans would be federally enforceable permit conditions. For such sources, procedures used in reviewing and approving the compliance plans would not supersede public participation and other requirements found in the Part 70 Title V regulations. Compliance with the monthly caps established in the FIP cap program will be determined by two means. Routine inspections to determine whether or not monthly caps are met will be conducted. In addition, facilities subject to the FIP cap program will be required to certify that they met their monthly caps on an annual basis by submitting annual reports within 60 days of the close of each calendar year. Prior to the implementation of the FIP cap program, EPA will prepare a statistical showing that the aggregate effect of the specified averaging time is consistent with attaining the ozone NAAQS and satisfying applicable progress requirements on a typical summer day basis in accordance with the proposed economic incentive program rules and guidance (see 58 FR 11110, February 23, 1993). EPA seeks comment on the term of the emission caps (i.e., monthly as opposed to a shorter or longer timeframe) and the means by which to determine compliance at facilities subject to the FIP cap program. (b) EPA Resources. EPA believes that the compliance mechanisms outlined above require a significant resource investment by the Agency. These resources include staff to review the compliance plan submissions and evaluate the subject facilities' compliance status. EPA seeks comment on alternative designs to those outlined in the FIP cap regulations that may reduce this resource burden (including the delegation of these responsibilities to the State or local agencies discussed elsewhere in this NPRM). (c) Emission Quantification Mechanisms. EPA recognizes that in order to quantify mass emissions, the suggested emissions quantification mechanisms may need further development. EPA will be evaluating the methods outlined and alternatives for adequacy prior to implementation of the FIP cap program. 64 EPA may develop and propose additional methods to obtain the appropriate mass emission results required of the FIP cap program prior to its implementation. EPA seeks comment on the methods outlined in the proposed regulations and any alternative means for determining emissions from the affected source categories. 64 This issue may impact the structure of any emission reduction trading market established as a result of subsequent analysis. See discussion later in this section. b. Control Approach_ (1) Rule Structure. This overview explains the format used in the proposed FIP cap program rules. All of the proposed rules contain sections discussing definitions, applicability, specific provisions, reporting, recordkeeping, testing, and monitoring requirements. The definitions section of each rule contains the definitions which apply only to that rule. The applicability section specifies the area to which the rule applies, who is subject to the rule, and references the sections and/or paragraphs of the rule to which subject persons must comply. The specific provisions section of the rules specifies applicable VOC or NO X limitations and requires subject persons to submit baseline VOC or NO X emissions data to the EPA. Once implemented, the rules would require affected facilities to annually reduce VOC emissions by 4 to 9 percent and NO X emissions by 6 to 9 percent beginning in 2001 and ending in 2005 to achieve at least a 20 percent VOC reduction and at least a 30 percent NO X reduction overall. It is expected that subject facilities would continue to maintain VOC and NO X levels at 2005 levels after 2005. 65 EPA may reduce the annual percent reduction requirement during one or more years if rules adopted by the local, State, and EPA (through the promulgation of additional FIP or national measures) achieve the VOC and NO X reductions necessary to demonstrate progress toward attainment of the ozone standard. 65 Except in the case of the South Coast, where continued reductions may be necessary to achieve attainment. See the discussions elsewhere in this notice of EPA's use of section 182(e)(5) of Act. The purpose of the reporting, recordkeeping, testing, and monitoring requirements of the proposed rules is to complement the compliance plan and to ensure their enforceability. The reporting section specifies annual reporting requirements (subject to certification requirements) to demonstrate compliance with the monthly caps and the recordkeeping section requires subject persons to maintain, for at least three years, all information necessary to verify compliance with the VOC and NO X limitations. The testing and monitoring section of the rules require persons to test and/or install monitoring equipment to demonstrate compliance with the VOC and NO X limitations as requested by EPA. The VOC and NO X cap regulations incorporate the specific methods for reporting, recordkeeping, testing, and monitoring. EPA intends that facilities which use the incorporated test methods will have satisfied the requirements discussed in the proposed enhanced monitoring program 66 regarding the source-specific analysis otherwise required by the proposed enhanced monitoring program. 66 The proposed program was published on October 22, 1993_see 58 FR 54648. In addition to the proposed source category specific rules, EPA is proposing a general provisions section which will be applicable to all sources covered in each pollutant's cap program (i.e., one section for VOC sources and one for NO X sources). The general provisions section includes definitions applicable to all of the rules and test methods and procedures referenced in the testing and monitoring sections of most of the rules. (2) Applicability and Exemptions. The proposed rules are designed to regulate and limit VOC and NO X emissions at subject facilities (process sources and other sources). Examples of process sources include extraction, manufacturing, fabrication, and combustion operations. Other sources include the use of solvent and paints (not directly used in extraction, manufacturing, and fabrication processes), VOC waste disposal and storage sites, and smaller combustion processes (for example, smaller internal combustion engines). The FIP cap rules are proposed for the following source categories: For VOC: (a) facilities which emit greater than or equal to 4 tons per year from any of the following processes or combination of these processes: •Industrial and commercial solvents and coatings; •VOC emissions associated with the manufacturing of products; •Disposal of materials containing VOCs; •Commercial food preparation and/or baking; •Petroleum and natural gas extraction, processing, and storage; For NO X : (a) facilities which emit greater than or equal to 4 tons per year of NO X from any of the following processes or combination of these processes:
