FR940819-0-00048 FR940819-0-00016 A. MRO and Substance Abuse Professional Duties. In addition to the functions delineated in 49 CFR part 40, the MRO shall perform the duties listed hereunder. 1. During the MRO's interview with an employee or applicant who has had a confirmed positive drug test result, the MRO shall inquire, and the individual must disclose, whether the individual holds an airman medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter or, if an applicant, would be required to hold such certificate in order to perform the duties of the position for which the applicant is applying. 2. The MRO must process employee requests for testing of split specimens in accordance with section VI, paragraph C, of this appendix. 3. The MRO shall advise each employee who receives a verified positive drug test result on or refuses to submit to a drug test required under this appendix of the resources available to the employee in evaluating and resolving problems associated with illegal use of drugs, including the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of substance abuse professionals (SAP) and counseling and treatment programs. 4. The MRO shall ensure that each employee who receives a verified positive drug test result on or refuses to submit to a drug test required under this appendix is evaluated by a SAP to determine if the employee is in need of assistance in resolving problems associated with illegal use of drugs. The MRO may perform this evaluation if the MRO is qualified as a SAP. 5. Prior to recommending that an employee be returned to the performance of a safety-sensitive function after the employee has received a verified positive drug test result on or refused to submit to a drug test required by this appendix, the MRO shall_ a. Ensure that an employee returning to the performance of a safety-sensitive function has received a return to duty verified negative drug test result on a test conducted under section V., paragraph F of this appendix; b. Ensure that each employee has been evaluated in accordance with section VII, paragraph A.4 of this appendix; and c. Ensure that the employee demonstrates compliance with any rehabilitation program recommended following the evaluation required under section VII, paragraph A.4 of this appendix. 6. Prior to recommending that an individual be hired to perform a safety-sensitive function after such individual has received a verified positive drug test result on a pre-employment test or has refused to submit to a pre-employment drug test required by this appendix, the MRO shall_ a. Ensure that an individual has received a verified negative drug test result on a subsequent pre-employment test conducted under section V, paragraph A, of this appendix; b. Evaluate the individual (if the MRO is qualified to be a SAP), or have the individual evaluated by a SAP, for drug use or abuse; and c. Ensure that the individual has complied with the requirements of any rehabilitation program in which the individual participated following the verified positive pre-employment drug test result or the refusal to submit to a pre-employment test. 7. The MRO shall not recommend that a person who fails to satisfy the requirements in section VII, paragraph A.5 or A.6 of this appendix be hired to perform or returned to duty to perform a safety-sensitive function. B. MRO Determinations. In the case of an employee or applicant who holds an airman medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter, or who is or would be required to hold such certificate in order to perform a safety-sensitive function for an employer, the MRO shall take the following actions after verifying a positive drug test result. 1. In addition to the evaluation required in section VII, paragraph A.4 of this appendix, the MRO shall make a determination of probable drug dependence or nondependence as specified in part 67 of this chapter within 10 working days of verifying the test result. If the MRO is unable to make such a determination, he or she should so state in the individual's records. 2. If the MRO determines that an individual is nondependent, the MRO may recommend that the individual be returned to duty or hired to perform safety-sensitive functions subject to the requirements of section VII, paragraph A.5 of this appendix. If the MRO makes a determination of probable drug dependence or cannot make a dependency determination, the MRO shall not recommend that the individual be returned to duty unless and until such individual has been found nondependent by or has received a special issuance medical certificate from the Federal Air Surgeon. 3. After making the determinations in section VII, paragraphs B.1 and B.2 of this appendix, the MRO must forward the names of such individuals with identifying information, the determinations concerning dependence, SAP evaluation (if available), return to duty recommendations, and any supporting information to the Federal Air Surgeon within 12 working days after verifying the positive drug test result of such individuals. 4. All reports required under this section shall be forwarded to the Federal Air Surgeon, Federal Aviation Administration, Attn: Drug Abatement Division (AAM&hyph;800), 400 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. C. MRO Records. Each MRO shall maintain records concerning drug tests performed under this rule in accordance with the following provisions: 1. All records shall be maintained in confidence and shall be released only in accordance with the provisions of this rule and 49 CFR part 40. 2. Records concerning drug tests confirmed positive by the laboratory shall be maintained for 5 years. Such records include the MRO copies of the custody and control form, medical interviews, documentation of the basis for verifying as negative test results confirmed as positive by the laboratory, any other documentation concerning the MRO's verification process, and copies of dependency determinations where applicable. 3. Records of confirmed negative test results shall be maintained for 12 months. 4. All records maintained pursuant to this rule by each MRO are subject to examination by the Administrator or the Administrator's representative at any time. 5. Should the employer change MROs for any reason, the employer shall ensure that the former MRO forwards all records maintained pursuant to this rule to the new MRO within 10 working days of receiving notice from the employer of the new MRO's name and address. 6. Any employer obtaining MRO services by contract, including a contract through a consortium, shall ensure that the contract includes a recordkeeping provision that is consistent with this paragraph, including requirements for transferring records to a new MRO. D. Evaluations and Referrals. Each employer shall ensure that a substance abuse professional, including an MRO if he/she is qualified as a substance abuse professional, who determines that a covered employee requires assistance in resolving problems associated with illegal use of drugs does not refer the employee to the substance abuse professional's private practice or to a person or organization from which the substance abuse professional receives remuneration or in which the substance abuse professional has a financial interest. This paragraph does not prohibit a substance abuse professional from referring an employee for assistance provided through_ 1. A public agency, such as a State, county, or municipality; 2. The employer or a person under contract to provide treatment for drug problems on behalf of the employer; 3. The sole source of therapeutically appropriate treatment under the employee's health insurance program; or
