FR941007-2-00124 FR941007-2-00074 To qualify for priority treatment, combined trades and stock-option combinations must meet the existing requirements of Rule 6.45(d), i.e, one member must represent all legs of the transaction, each leg must cover the same number of options, and the trade must be executed against one other member. In those circumstances, the CBOE believes it is fair to give these transactions priority when priced net at a multiple of 1/16. Additionally, the CBOE represents that it will continue to disseminate the individual legs with a prefix to identify trades effected as part of a combined trade or stock-option combination. 8 8 See August 24, 1994 Letter. II. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). 9 In particular, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the Section 6(b)(5) requirement that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and not to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, and dealers. 9 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1982). The first change permits the quoting of combined trades and stock-option orders in either fractional or decimal prices. Because these trades involve separate transactions effected at a net price, the Commission believes that the ability to quote net prices in either fractional or decimal prices will provide the CBOE with greater flexibility to permit market participants to price these orders more precisely, which should result in greater efficiency and improved liquidity in their execution, and better prices for investors. The Commission notes that the individual legs of combined trades and stock-option combinations currently are, and will continue to be, reported separately with an ``S'' in the prefix field identifying it as part of a combination. Furthermore, the individual legs will continue to be input to the CBOE price reporting system and made available to vendors in the same manner as all other CBOE trades. 10 10 See August 24, 1994 Letter. The Commission notes this change will not affect the existing priority rules applicable to these transactions except that, as discussed below, an exchange member will not be able to better an existing price by an increment less than 1/16th and still attain priority. Therefore, the Commission is satisfied this change will not disadvantage existing orders on the book. The Commission notes that combined trades and stock-option combinations must be priced net at a multiple of 1/16th in order to qualify for priority. These transactions will continue to take priority over orders in the crowd when all legs of the combination trade at a price that is at least equivalent to quotes in the crowd, in accordance with the current rule. However, as amended, combined trades and stock-option combinations will only attain priority over the book when one leg of the transaction trades at a price that is better than the corresponding bid or offer in the book and the remaining legs of the transaction trades at a price that is at least equivalent to the established bids or offers in the crowd or book. The Commission notes that this change affords greater protection to the book since one leg of the combined trade or stock-option combination must now at least trade at a better price than the book (while all remaining legs must still at least touch the other bids or offers in the crowd or book) before the book loses priority. In addition, because the Rule currently requires that one member must represent all legs of the trade and that the trade may only be executed against one other member, public customers are still less likely to lose priority to combined trades and stock-option combinations. 11 Finally, the change to Rule 6.42 assures that orders in the book will not lose priority to these transactions unless the net price is quoted in increments of 1/16th. The Commission believes that the proposal is a reasonable effort by the CBOE to accommodate the ability to price combined trades and stock-option combinations more competitively while at the same time not disadvantaging the public customer limit order book. The Commission also notes that the priority principles applicable to the type of stock-option order as defined by Rule 1.1(ii)(a), remain unchanged, except to the extent that this type of order must be quoted in increments of 1/16th in order to attain priority over the crowd. 12 11 The Commission does not believe that investors with public orders in the limit order book will be disadvantaged by the granting of priority to combined trades or stock-option combination orders since Rule 6.45(d) provides that these transactions may only be executed ahead of the book if both parts of the combination order are executed with one other person at a net debit or credit. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 18458 (Jan. 29, 1982). 12 Under Rule 6.45, stock-option orders, as defined by Rule 1.1(ii)(a), consisting of an order to buy or sell a stated number of units of an underlying or a related security coupled with the purchase or sale of option contract(s) of the same series on the opposite side of the market representing the same number of units of the underlying or related security, may only attain priority over the trading crowd and not the limit order book, even if quoted in increments of 1/16.
