FR940317-2-00129 FR940317-2-00078 5. Financial Plan (15 points): Applicants should show the relevance and cost effectiveness of the financial plan for meeting the objectives of the project; the firmness and level of the applicant's total financial support for the project; and the plan to maintain the program after the cooperative agreement has expired. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Cost effectiveness of the budget. (b) Strength of commitment of proposer's cost share. (c) Effectiveness of management plans for control of budget. (d) Appropriateness of matching contribution. (e) Plan for maintaining the program after the cooperative agreement has expired. Eligibility Criteria Eligible applicants for these projects are state technology extension programs operated by state governments, or on behalf of state governments by private or public non-profit organizations. All states will be eligible, regardless of state size, industrial density/sparseness, or number of existing industrial assistance programs. States that have received previous planning grants remain eligible for additional Program Planning projects. Applicants will be able to propose conducting the planning activities themselves or arranging for some or all of the planning activities to be carried out by a second party. One proposal for Program Planning will be accepted per state. Matching Requirements A matching contribution from each applicant is required. NIST may provide financial support up to 50% of the total budget for the project, however, the federal share may not exceed $150,000. The applicant's share of the budget may include dollar contributions from state, county, industrial or other non-federal sources and in-kind contributions necessary and reasonable for proper accomplishment of project objectives. Required Letters A letter will be required from the Governor indicating that the eligible applicant is the lead organization in that state for Program Planning activities, and acknowledging that there is only one proposal from that state for a Program Planning project. Where more than one such otherwise qualified Program Planning proposal per state is submitted, all such proposals from that state may be disqualified. Program Implementation Projects
