FR940202-2-00172 FR940202-2-00074 Wednesday February 2, 1994 Part V Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities; Notice of Funding Availability Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 22␣/␣Wednesday, February 2, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3689; FR&hyph;3590&hyph;N&hyph;01] Notice of Fund Availability (NOFA) for Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities AGENCY: Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner, HUD. ACTION: Notice of fund availability for FY 94. SUMMARY: This NOFA announces HUD's funding for supportive housing for persons with disabilities. In the body of this document is information concerning the following: (a) the purpose of the NOFA and information regarding eligibility, submission requirements, available amounts, and selection criteria and (b) application processing, including how to apply and how selections will be made. APPLICATION PACKAGE: The application package can be obtained from the Multifamily Housing Clearinghouse, P.O. Box 6424, Rockville, MD 20850; telephone 1&hyph;800&hyph;955&hyph;2232. A checklist of steps and exhibits involved in the application process is included in the application package. DATES: The deadline date for receipt of applications in response to this NOFA is 4 p.m. local time on May 3, 1994. The application deadline is firm as to date and hour . In the interest of fairness to all applicants, HUD will not consider any application that is received after the deadline. Sponsors should take this into account and submit applications as early as possible to avoid risk brought about by unanticipated delays or delivery-related problems. In particular, Sponsors intending to mail applications must provide sufficient time to permit delivery on or before the deadline date and hour. Acceptance by a Post Office or private mailer does not constitute delivery. Facsimile (FAX), COD, and postage due applications will not be accepted. ADDRESSES: Applications must be delivered to the Director of the Housing Development Division in the HUD Field Office for your jurisdiction. A listing of HUD Field Offices, their addresses and telephone numbers (including TDD telephone numbers) is attached as appendix A to this NOFA. HUD will date and time stamp incoming applications to evidence timely receipt, and upon request, provide the applicant with an acknowledgement of receipt. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The HUD Field Office for your jurisdiction.
