FR940428-1-00037 FR940428-1-00008 (5) Requirements related to structural and nonstructural range improvements; and (6) Standards for cooperative management. ยง222.2 Definitions. The special terms used in this subpart are defined as follows: Affiliate(s) means a business concern(s) or individual(s) that is sufficiently closely related to a permittee through personal, professional, or other ties that it either controls, has the power to control, or can influence business decisions made by the permittee concerning authorized grazing use on National Forest System lands or other lands under Forest Service control. Allotment is a delineated area of land available for livestock grazing. Allotment management plan is a document that specifies the actions to be taken to manage and protect the rangeland resources and reach a given set of objectives. Authorized officer is a Forest Service line officer who has been delegated the authority to take certain actions related to rangeland management on National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control. Base property is land and improvements owned and used by a grazing permittee for a farm or ranch operation and specifically identified by a permittee, in order to qualify for a term grazing permit. Escrow waiver is a document by which a permittee, who has mortgaged permitted livestock or base property, waives all privileges associated with a grazing permit, except the privilege of continuing to graze livestock, to the United States to be held in escrow for the lender. Grazing permit is a document authorizing livestock use of National Forest System lands or other lands under Forest Service control. Livestock means foraging animals kept or raised for livestock production, pleasure, or other use. National Forest System lands means the National Forests, National Grasslands, Land Utilization Projects, and other lands, waters, or interests therein administered by the Forest Service or designated for administration through the Forest Service as a part of the System (16 U.S.C. 1609). National Forest System lands in the Eastern States refers to all National Forest System Lands in the Eastern and Southern administrative regions of the Forest Service (36 CFR 200.2), except the National Grasslands in Texas and Oklahoma. National Forest System lands in the Western States refers to all National Forest System lands in the states of Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming but only to the National Grasslands in the states of Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. This term does not include national forests in the states of Oklahoma and Texas. NEPA procedures are the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, (42 U.S.C. 4321 et. seq.) regulations at 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508, and Forest Service policies and procedures in the Forest Service Manual Chapter 1950 and Forest Service Handbook 1909.15. Other lands under Forest Service control are non-federal lands over which the Forest Service has been given control through lease, agreement, or other means. Permittee is any individual or entity who has been issued a grazing permit. Permitted livestock means livestock being grazed under a permit or those that were grazed under a permit during the preceding season, including offspring retained for herd replacement. Range Betterment Fund is the fund established by section 401(b)(1) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1751) which is used for on-the-ground range rehabilitation, protection, and improvement projects. Rangeland improvement is any permanent or temporary structure or any nonstructural land treatment designed to protect, improve or make use of rangeland ecosystems. Rangelands are a kind of land on which the native vegetation, climax or natural potential, is predominantly grasses, grass-like plants, forbs or shrubs. Rangelands include lands revegetated naturally or artificially to provide a plant cover which is managed like native vegetation. Rangelands include natural grasslands, savannas, shrublands, most deserts, tundra, alpine communities, coastal marshes, and wet meadows. When used in this rule, the term also includes other National Forest System lands (including forested lands, woodlands, and riparian areas) on which grazing by wild and domestic herbivores may occur.
