FR940913-2-00011 FR940913-2-00006 CIA&hyph;72 System Name: Inspector General Investigative Records. System Location: Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, D.C. 20505. Categories of Individuals Covered By the System: Agency employees, persons with a contractual or other relationship with the Agency, persons who are interviewed by or provide information to the Office of Inspector General, persons involved with or knowledgeable about a matter being investigated by the Office of Inspector General, and persons who have filed grievances with the Office of Inspector General or Agency components. Categories of Records in the System: Reports of interviews, signed statements, correspondence, reports of investigations, forms, cables, internal CIA memoranda, prior criminal or non-criminal records of individuals covered by the system, and other materials relating to employee grievances and matters of interest to or being investigated by the Office of Inspector General. Authority for Maintenance of the System: Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended_Pub. L. 81&hyph;110, 50 U.S.C. 403 et seq. Section 506(a), Federal Records Act of 1950 (44 U.S.C. 3101) National Security Act of 1947, as amended_Pub. L. 80&hyph;253 Executive Order 12333 Executive Order 12356 Intelligence Authorization Act of 1994 Routine Uses of Records Maintained in the System, Including Categories of Users and the Purposes of Such Uses: a. Records in the system are used and disclosed by members of the Office of Inspector General in the investigation of matters of interest or concern to the Director of Central Intelligence, Inspector General, and senior Agency officials, including grievances and allegations of misconduct by Agency employees, and to provide information to Agency management regarding personnel matters, and for evaluating current and proposed programs, policies and activities, selected assignments, and requests for awards or promotions. b. Records in the system that indicate a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program, or by rule, regulation or order pursuant thereto, or that indicate a violation or potential violation of a contractual obligation, may be disclosed to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, state, local, foreign, or international, charged with the responsibility for investigating or prosecuting such violation, enforcing or implementing such statute, rule, regulation, or order, or with enforcing such contract. c. Records in the system may be disclosed to a Federal, state, local, foreign, or international agency, or to an individual or organization, when necessary to elicit information relevant to an Office of Inspector General investigation, inquiry, decision, or recommendation. d. Records in the system may be disclosed to a Federal, state, local, foreign, or international agency when requested in connection with the assignment, hiring, or retention of an individual, the issuance or revocation of a security clearance, letting of a contract, or any authorized inquiry or investigation to the extent that the information is relevant to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. e. Records in the system may be disclosed to any Federal agency when documents, witness statements, or other information obtained from that agency are used in compiling the system record, or when the record is relevant to the official responsibilities of that agency. f. Unclassified records in the system, or unclassified portions thereof, including information identifying individuals covered by the system, may be disclosed to the public when the matter under investigation has become public knowledge or the Inspector General determines that such disclosure is necessary to preserve confidence in the integrity of the Inspector General process, or is necessary to demonstrate the accountability of CIA employees, officers, or individuals covered by the system, unless it is determined that release of the specific information in the context of a particular case would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. g. Records in the system pertaining to an employee grievance may be disclosed to any party to that grievance and the facilitator except for records that disclose the identity of a non-party who provided a statement during the grievance process. h. Records in the system may be disclosed in the course of presenting evidence to a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal, including disclosures in the course of settlement negotiations, or pursuant to statutes or regulations governing the conduct of such proceedings. i. Records in the system may be disclosed to representatives of the Department of Justice or of any other agency that is responsible for representing Agency interests in connection with a judicial, administrative, or other proceedings. Records may also be disclosed to the Department of Justice to the extent necessary to obtain its advice on any matter relevant to an Office of Inspector General investigation. j. Records in the system may be disclosed to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, or other congressional committees, or the staffs thereof, in connection with their oversight and legislative functions. k. Records in the system may be disclosed to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, and the Intelligence Oversight Board, and any successor organizations, when requested by those entities, or when the Inspector General determines that disclosure will assist in the performance of their oversight functions.
