FR940513-2-00255 FR940513-2-00097 (d) The provision of not more than 15 percent of the total cost of supportive services (which may be provided directly to eligible residents by the PHA or by contract or lease through other appropriate agencies or providers), but only if the PHA demonstrates that: (i) The supportive services are appropriate to improve the access of eligible residents for employment and educational opportunities; and (ii) The PHA has made diligent efforts to use or obtain other available resources to fund or provide such services; and (e) The employment of service coordinators. (3) Other Eligibility Related Requirements. (a) Grants used solely for the activities listed in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of Section I.E(2), ``Eligible Activities,'' of this NOFA, shall be completed within three years of the effective date of the grant. Other eligible activities may be funded over a maximum five-year period. (b) Each applicant should submit a description of the Supportive Services Activities and/or the renovation or conversion to be conducted, along with a budget and timetable for those activities. This description should include the PHA's plans to: (i) Ensure provision of employment, on-the-job training and work experience, education, childcare, transportation, and assistance in resolving personal or family crises; (ii) Encourage the active involvement of local labor unions, junior and senior high schools, two- and four-year post secondary institutions, and community agencies; and (iii) Ensure outreach and recruitment efforts and integrate service delivery, intake assessment, and case management. (c) Each applicant must submit a budget, timetable, and list of milestones for the five-year period (following initial receipt of funding), at least, covered by the applicant's description of supportive services. Milestones shall include the number of youth to be served, types of services, and dollar amounts to be allocated over the five-year period. (d) Each applicant must demonstrate a firm commitment of assistance from one or more sources ensuring that supportive services will be provided for not less than one year following the completion of activities funded under this NOFA. (e) When a grant application is approved, the PHA must receive approval from HUD to conduct renovation or conversions. Approval must be provided prior to drawing down funds. (f) If a renovation is done off-site, the PHA must provide documentation that it has control of the proposed property. Control can be evidenced through a lease agreement, ownership documentation, or other appropriate documentation (see Sections III.B(3) and III.C(14) of this NOFA). F. Other Program Requirements (1) Youth/Resident Involvement. The Department has a longstanding policy of encouraging PHAs to promote resident involvement, and to facilitate cooperative partnerships to achieve specific and mutual goals. Therefore, youth/residents must be included in the planning and implementation of this program. The PHA shall develop a process that assures that public housing youth, through their Resident Council if feasible, are active partners in the development of the content of the PHA's application in response to this NOFA. The PHA shall give full consideration to the comments and concerns of the youth representatives. The Department envisions that the youth representatives will work in concert with the duly elected Resident Council. The process shall include: (a) Informing youth of the selected developments regarding the preparation of the application, and providing for residents to become active partners in the development of the application. (b) Once a draft application has been prepared, the PHA shall make a copy available for reading in the management office; provide copies of the draft to the duly-elected resident organization representing the residents of the developments involved; and provide adequate opportunity for comment by all residents, including youth, of the development and their representative organizations prior to making the application final. A copy of all comments shall be kept on file for review, at their request, by the duly elected Resident Council and HUD. (c) After HUD approval of a grant, notify youth and other residents of the development, and any representative organizations, of approval of the grant; notify the youth of the availability of the HUD-approved implementation schedule in the management office for reading; and develop a system to facilitate a regular youth role in all aspects of program implementation. (2) Training/Employment of PHA Youth Residents. (a) Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u) (Section 3) requires that programs of direct financial assistance administered by HUD provide, to the greatest extent feasible, opportunities for job training and employment to lower income residents in connection with projects in their neighborhoods. For purposes of training and employment, the PHA may offer opportunities to Section 3 residents in the following priority: (i) Youth residents of the housing development for which the assistance is being provided; (ii) residents who reside within a project area as defined in 24 CFR 135.15 and who reside in developments managed by the PHA that is expending the assistance; and (iii) other residents of the Section 3 area. Therefore, at a minimum each PHA, and each of its contractors and subcontractors receiving funds under this program, shall to the greatest extent feasible, employ PHA residents to provide services and renovation or conversion work. (b) For purposes of the requirements under Section 3, to the greatest extent feasible means that the PHA shall:
