FR940822-1-00003 FR940822-1-00001 6. The additions and revisions read as follows: §301.6311&hyph;1 Payment by check or money order. (a) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (i) District directors, Service Center directors, and Compliance Center directors (director) may accept checks or drafts drawn on any financial institution incorporated under the laws of the United States or under the laws of any State, the District of Columbia, or any possession of the United States, or money orders in payment for internal revenue taxes, provided the checks, drafts, or money orders are collectible in United States currency at par, and subject to the further provisions contained in this section. The director may accept the checks, drafts, or money orders in payment for internal revenue stamps to the extent and under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. *␣*␣* However, the director may refuse to accept any personal check whenever he or she has good reason to believe that such check will not be honored upon presentment. * * * * * (2) Payment for internal revenue stamps . The director may accept checks, drafts, and money orders described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in payment for internal revenue stamps. However, the director may refuse to accept any personal check whenever he or she has good reason to believe that such check will not be honored upon presentment. (b) Checks or money orders not paid _(1) Ultimate liability . The person who tenders any check (whether certified or uncertified, cashier's, treasurer's, or other form of check or draft) or money order in payment for taxes or stamps is not released from liability until the check, draft, or money order is paid; and, if the check, draft, or money order is not duly paid, the person shall also be liable for all legal penalties and additions, to the same extent as if the check, draft, or money order had not been tendered. (2) Liability of financial institutions and others . If any certified, treasurer's, or cashier's check, or other guaranteed draft, or money order, is not duly paid, the United States shall have a lien for the amount of the check or draft upon all assets of the financial institution on which drawn, or for the amount of the money order upon the assets of the issuer thereof. The unpaid amount shall be paid out of such assets in preference to any other claims against such financial institution or issuer except the necessary costs and expenses of administration and the reimbursement of the United States for the amount expended in the redemption of the circulating notes of such financial institution. In addition, the Government has the right to exact payment from the person required to make the payment. * * * * * (d) Financial institution . For purposes of section 6311 and this section, financial institution includes but is not limited to_ (1) A bank or trust company (as defined in section 581); (2) A domestic building and loan association (as defined in section 7701(a)(19)); (3) A mutual savings bank (including but not limited to a mutual savings bank as defined in section 591(b)); (4) A credit union (including both state and federal credit unions, and including but not limited to a credit union as defined in section 501(c)(14)); and (5) A regulated investment company (as defined in section 851(a)). (e) Effective date . The rules in this section are [proposed to be effective on August 19, 1994]. Margaret Milner Richardson, Commissioner of Internal Revenue. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20221 Filed 8&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4830&hyph;01&hyph;U
