FR941202-0-00048 FR941202-0-00005 The FAA concurs that the compliance time can be extended somewhat. The FAA's intent was that the inspections be conducted during a regularly scheduled maintenance visit for the majority of the affected fleet, when the airplanes would be located at a base where special equipment and trained personnel would be readily available, if necessary. Based on the information supplied by the commenters, the FAA now recognizes that 18 months corresponds more closely to the interval representative of most of the affected operators' normal maintenance schedules. Paragraph (a) of the final rule has been revised to reflect a compliance time of 18 months. The FAA does not consider that this extension will adversely affect safety, since the mandatory repetitive inspections of the area, as required by AD 92&hyph;16&hyph;03 will ensure that any discrepancies will be identified and corrected in the interim. The FAA has recently reviewed the figures it has used over the past several years in calculating the economic impact of AD activity. In order to account for various inflationary costs in the airline industry, the FAA has determined that it is necessary to increase the labor rate used in these calculations from $55 per work hour to $60 per work hour. The economic impact information below has been revised to reflect this increase in the specified hourly labor rate. [ Note: As a result of recent communications with the Air Transport Association (ATA) of America, the FAA has learned that, in general, some operators may misunderstand the legal effect of AD's on airplanes that are identified in the applicability provision of the AD, but that have been altered or repaired in the area addressed by the AD. Under these circumstances, at least one operator appears to have incorrectly assumed that its airplane was not subject to an AD. On the contrary, all airplanes identified in the applicability provision of an AD are legally subject to the AD. If an airplane has been altered or repaired in the affected area in such a way as to affect compliance with the AD, the owner or operator is required to obtain FAA approval for an alternative method of compliance with the AD, in accordance with the paragraph of each AD that provides for such approvals. A note has been added to this final rule to clarify this requirement.] After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the changes previously described. The FAA has determined that these changes will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD. There are approximately 427 Model DC&hyph;10&hyph;10, &hyph;15, &hyph;30, and &hyph;40 series airplanes and KC&hyph;10A (military) airplanes of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 241 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this AD, that it will take approximately 3 work hours per airplane to accomplish the required actions, and that the average labor rate is $60 per work hour. Required parts will cost approximately $6,497 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $1,609,157, or $6,677 per airplane. There are approximately 114 Model MD&hyph;11 series airplanes of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 46 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this AD, that it would take approximately 3 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed actions, and that the average labor rate is $60 per work hour. Required parts would cost approximately $6,497 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators of Model MD&hyph;11 series airplanes is estimated to be $307,142, or $6,677 per airplane. Based on the figures discussed above, the total cost impact of this AD on U.S. operators is $1,916,299. This total cost impact figure is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted.
