FR940928-2-00067 FR940928-2-00049 6. If another approved Trustee is no longer permitted by GNMA to act as a Trustee or fails to perform in the Multiclass Securities Program, all other Trustees must be willing to assume the ongoing administration of any Trust formerly held by a Trustee which is no longer approved to participate in the program. 7. Cross Default Provision _GNMA shall have the right to terminate a Trustee's approved status for cause. If a Trustee fails to properly administer a trust, which results in a finding of cause by GNMA, all trusts administered by the Trustee may be transferred to another GNMA approved Trustee. C. For the strip securities, the Trustee will perform all of the services outlined in paragraphs A and B above, as necessary. The Trustee must also provide all services necessary for recombining the IO/PO securities into Platinum securities and must accurately track all securities through the recombination process. IV. Trustee Fee During the initial stage of the Multiclass Securities program, the Trustee fee was paid as a ``strip'' out of monthly interest collections, based on the aggregate remaining principal balance of the Multiclass Securities outstanding at the beginning of the month. However, this method created a general awkwardness of having security classes bearing interest at, for instance, 7.99%, which is not favorably received in the market place. In the full participation stage, the Trustee's fee will be paid initially through the creation of an interest bearing REMIC Class which would only be transferrable to a successor Trustee. This so-called ``T Class'' would be structured to receive a pro rata share of principal of the underlying MBS and interest at the certificate rate of the underlying MBS. The Class would be designated as a class of securities in the offering circular and the underlying documents; however it would not be tradeable and would not carry any voting rights or other substantive rights associated with the other regular interests in the REMIC trusts. The principal amount of the T Class would be negotiated between sponsors and Trustees with no involvement by GNMA. To pay a Trustee in the GNMA Strip program it is expected that IO and PO classes will be delivered and immobilized at the Trustee to replicate the REMIC fee structure. These fee arrangements may be changed at any time only at the option of GNMA. Such a change would only occur with extensive consultation with GNMA Trustees and Sponsors. V. Period of Performance The selections to be made under this CAP will be for an initial period of two years and will provide for three one-year extension periods at GNMA's option. Trustees will have an ongoing obligation to administer for the life of all trusts received during that time period. VI. Evaluation Factors The criteria for evaluation will be based on overall responsiveness to the CAP with respect to three broad categories_technical abilities, experience and knowledge, and personnel qualifications (as described below). Proposals shall not exceed 50 pages of 81/2 ’ ’ by 11 ’ ’ paper in total length (excluding resumes of proposed team members and financial statements). The Proposal shall not merely offer to perform work in accordance with the statement of work, but shall outline the actual work proposed as specifically as is practical. No monetary cost information is to be included in the Proposal. Those firms selected will negotiate their fees with the Sponsor. Sponsors will select their own Trustees without regard to a rotation. A. Technical Abilities (40%) 1. The extent to which the proposal shows an understanding of the services described in Section III and an ability to provide these required services. (10 points) 2. The degree to which knowledge of the systems and procedures necessary to perform this award are demonstrated. (10 points) 3. The extent to which the proposal includes a complete description and justification of the proposed approach and methodology. (10 points) 4. The extent to which adequacy of financial resources is demonstrated. Explain your firm's financial strength and staying power, taking into consideration the length of the obligations to be incurred hereunder. No firm will be regarded as being responsive to this CAP, despite its technical qualifications, if it does not demonstrate that its performance and assurances are backed by meaningful capital. In order to demonstrate this qualification, please provide copies of audited financial statements for the prior two years as well as evidence of your firm's credit rating or other institutional evaluations. (10 points)
