FR940627-0-00040 FR940627-0-00009 Columbia and Texas Gas contend that pipelines should be permitted to post the affiliate information in a manner consistent with their EBB formats and not be required to adhere to the Form No. 592 formats. Hadson contends the Commission should continue to require a hard copy filing of the Form No. 592 information with the Commission, because many pipelines' Order No. 497 boards are so poorly designed that shippers experience difficulty in accessing and abstracting useful information. Form No. 592 is not intended to dictate the mode of displaying information on EBBs, but to provide the requirements for providing information to the Commission electronically. The EBB regulations require the pipelines to display information in a user-friendly format and pipelines, therefore, are responsible for developing a user-friendly display for the affiliate information posted on their EBBs. Since the Commission has established EBBs as the mode of communication between pipelines and their customers and the EBBs are required to be user-friendly, the Commission will not require hard copy filings. Moreover, any possible benefits from hard copy filing are outweighed by the filing burden on the pipelines and the administrative burden on the Commission of collecting and maintaining the hard copy information. Panhandle Eastern Pipelines contend that integrating the Order No. 497 information into their EBB would be costly and if the Commission insists on merger of the boards, it suggests the Commission should provide 9 months within which to do so. The Commission concludes that integrating the marketing affiliate information required here into the pipelines' current EBB structure is necessary to ensure shippers can access the information easily without having to use an entirely different set of procedures and protocols to view the affiliate information. In fact, many pipelines already have integrated their affiliate information with their Order No. 636 EBBs. Pipelines that cannot accommodate such integration, may file a request for an extension of time, providing good cause for extending the compliance deadline. PG&E requests clarification about the pipelines' obligation to archive the information required to be posted and maintained under the rule. It contends the pipelines should be required to maintain the information for a reasonable period of time, suggesting they archive the data at least until their next rate case. The EBB posting of affiliate information must conform with the Commission's requirements for EBBs. The current regulations provide that data be maintained consistent with the §284.8(b)(4) requirements relating to EBBs, which includes a three year archiving requirement. 67 Thus, all information posted on EBBs must be archived for three years. Similarly, the three year maintenance requirement will apply to the information in the log of contract allocation data, §250.16(c), 68 and the discount data, §250.16(d). 67 18 CFR 284.8(b)(4)(ii). 68 Pipelines must maintain the log data for each contract as long as the data is used to allocate capacity and for three years after the data is no longer used for capacity allocation. For example, if a contract is terminated or revised, the historical data about that contract must be maintained for three years. X. Miscellaneous Issues A. Reporting of Affiliate Discounts Under Part 284 Current §250.16(d)(4)(ii) permitted pipelines filing affiliate discount reports to exclude those transactions from the discount reports required to be filed under §284.7(d)(5)(iv). The Commission proposed to remove this provision, because, under its proposed regulations, pipelines would no longer file affiliate reports with the Commission, but would post them on their EBBs. AER/MRT contend that if affiliate discounts are posted on the EBB within 15 days of the transaction, the Part 284 discount reports still should not be required. The Commission will require pipelines to file affiliate discounts under §284.7(d)(5)(iv), because the Commission is deleting the requirement to post affiliate discounts under §250.16. Under Standard H, pipelines must only post offers of affiliate discounts. Thus, pipelines must file the affiliate discount information for the completed transaction under the Part 284 regulations.
