FR941013-2-00160 FR941013-2-00107 (2) Promote Effective Policy. This means policymaking at all levels in government, schools, and business to ensure accessibility, availability, effective application, and consistent use of appropriate technology, media, and materials. (3) Foster Use Through Professional Development. This means training and supporting teachers, administrators, parents, and related service personnel on the benefits of instructional and assistive technologies so that they can increase productive use of instructional time, prepare students with disabilities for employment and citizenship, and promote their intellectual, ethical, cultural, emotional, and physical growth. (4) Create Innovative Tools. This means encouraging development of varied and integrated technologies, media, and materials which open up and expand the lives of those with disabilities. However, research is needed on how these interrelated commitments can be applied in the complex reality of educational practice. This priority addresses that need by supporting collaborative research, which means research based on a partnership between researchers and practitioners in which both are actively involved in all phases of the research_initial planning and design, collection of information or data, analysis of information or data, and reporting and dissemination. This research strategy is intended to produce methodologically sound research information that is relevant and applicable to practice and reduces the gap between research and practice. To further reduce the gap between research and practice, projects are encouraged to include input from family members and students with disabilities. Priority: The Assistant Secretary establishes an absolute priority for collaborative research projects that_ (a) Formulate a research topic and design based on commitments (1), (2), and (3), as described above, as they relate to improving education and/or related services at the local level for students with disabilities. This priority is not intended to support projects that are primarily engaged in product development; thus, commitment (4) may be included only as a supporting activity. In formulating the research topic, projects must develop a focus in terms of curriculum areas, grade/age levels, disabilities, types of services provided, and/or specific types of technology, media and materials. In formulating the research design, projects must apply the standards for conducting rigorous social science research. The following research topics are offered as illustrative examples and do not represent the full range of possible topics. These examples are broad, and projects may opt for more narrow focuses. However, projects must address all three program commitments_either as background, contextual factors, or as components of interventions or manipulations. Example 1 : Research on how local policies in schools and other agencies restrict or facilitate the acquisition and use of assistive devices, and how professional development within the context of these policies can yield improved assistive technology services to better enable students to access school, home, and community environments. Example 2 : Research on how local policies regarding curriculum and accountability can be revised to promote interdisciplinary professional collaboration in the effective use of technology, media and materials to enable students with disabilities to acquire high-level problem-solving strategies. Example 3 : Research on how policies and professional practices may contribute to inequitable access and use of technology, media and materials for some students with disabilities, and how the inequities can be reduced by means of policy and/or professional interventions to better enable students with disabilities to engage in beneficial educational experiences. (b) Conduct a program of collaborative research on the research topic. (c) Measure the effects of the intervention and relationships within and across the program commitments (1, 2, and 3). (d) Disseminate information on the findings of the collaborative research in a form conducive to use by other schools or service providers, as well as other researchers. (e) Coordinate their activities, as appropriate, with recipients of grants under the Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities Act (Pub. L. 100&hyph;407 as amended by Pub. L. 103&hyph;218). A project must budget for two trips annually to Washington, D.C., for (1) a two-day Research Project Directors' meeting; and (2) another meeting, to meet and collaborate with the project officer of the Office of Special Education Programs and the other projects funded under this priority, to share information and to discuss findings and joint methods of dissemination. For Further Information Contact : Ellen Schiller, U.S. Department of Education, Room 3523, Switzer Building, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2641. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8123. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. Applicable Program Regulations : 34 CFR part 333. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1461. Program for Children and Youth With Serious Emotional Disturbance Purpose of Program : This program supports projects designed to improve special education and related services to children and youth with serious emotional disturbance. Types of projects that may be supported under the program include, but are not limited to, research, development, and demonstration projects. Funds may also be used to develop and demonstrate approaches to assist and prevent children with emotional and behavioral problems from developing serious emotional disturbance.
