FR940627-0-00226 FR940627-0-00019 (iv) Personnel shall take necessary personal sanitation and health precautions designed to avoid contamination of test fuel and additive/base fuel mixtures, test and reference substances, and test systems. (v) Personnel engaged in a study shall wear clothing appropriate for the duties they perform. Such clothing shall be changed as often as necessary to prevent microbiological, radiological, or chemical contamination of test systems and test, control, and reference substances. (vi) Any individual found at any time to have an illness that may adversely affect the quality and integrity of the study shall be excluded from direct contact with test systems, fuel and fuel/additive mixtures, test and reference substances and any other operation or function that may adversely affect the study until the condition is corrected. All personnel shall be instructed to report to their immediate supervisors any health or medical conditions that may reasonably be considered to have an adverse effect on a study. (2) Testing facility management. For each study, testing facility management shall: (i) Designate a study director as described in ยง 79.60(b)(3) before the study is initiated. (ii) Replace the study director promptly if it becomes necessary to do so during the conduct of a study. (iii) Assure that there is a quality assurance unit as described in ยง79.60(b)(4). (iv) Assure that test fuels and fuel/additive mixtures and test and reference substances have been identified as to content, strength, purity, stability, and uniformity, as applicable. (v) Assure that personnel, resources, facilities, equipment, materials and methodologies are available as scheduled. (vi) Assure that personnel clearly understand the functions they are to perform. (vii) Assure that any deviations from these regulations reported by the quality assurance unit are communicated to the study director and corrective actions are taken and documented. (3) Study director. For each study, a scientist or other professional person with a doctorate degree or equivalent in toxicology or other appropriate discipline shall be identified as the study director. The study director has overall responsibility for the technical conduct of the study, as well as for the interpretation, analysis, documentation, and reporting of results, and represents the single point of study control. The study director shall assure that: (i) The protocol, including any changes, is approved as provided by ยง79.60(g)(1)(i) and is followed; (ii) All experimental data, including observations of unanticipated responses of the test system are accurately recorded and verified; (iii) Unforeseen circumstances that may affect the quality and integrity of the study are noted when they occur, and corrective action is taken and documented; (iv) Test systems are as specified in the protocol; (v) All applicable good laboratory practice regulations are followed; and (vi) All raw data, documentation, protocols, specimens, and final reports are archived properly during or at the close of the study. (4) Quality assurance unit. A testing facility shall have a quality assurance unit which shall be responsible for monitoring each study to assure management that the facilities, equipment, personnel, methods, practices, records, and controls are in conformance with the regulations in this section. For any given study, the quality assurance unit shall be entirely separate from and independent of the personnel engaged in the direction and conduct of that study. The quality assurance unit shall conduct inspections and maintain records appropriate to the study. (i) Quality assurance unit duties. (A) Maintain a copy of a master schedule sheet of all studies conducted at the testing facility indexed by test substance and containing the test system, nature of study, date study was initiated, current status of each study, identity of the sponsor, and name of the study director. (B) Maintain copies of all protocols pertaining to all studies for which the unit is responsible. (C) Inspect each study at intervals adequate to ensure the integrity of the study and maintain written and properly signed records of each periodic inspection showing the date of the inspection, the study inspected, the phase or segment of the study inspected, the person performing the inspection, findings and problems, action recommended and taken to resolve existing problems, and any scheduled date for re-inspection. Any problems which are likely to affect study integrity found during the course of an inspection shall be brought to the attention of the study director and management immediately.
