FR941221-1-00025 FR941221-1-00009 (b) Nomination and Supporting Information which affirms the nominee's wish to be considered for the scholarship; provides biographical information about the nominee's background, interests and plans; and provides a statement about the nominee's intent to enter an appropriate career in mathematics, the natural sciences, or an eligible engineering discipline and specifies how the student's educational plan will provide preparation for that career. (c) Nominee's essay of 600 words or less, which is written by the student and relates to the student's chosen career. (d) Three Independent Evaluation of Nominee forms. The nominee must secure a letter of recommendation from a faculty member who can discuss the nominee's potential for a career in mathematics, the natural sciences, or an eligible engineering discipline; a faculty member in the nominee's field of study; and another individual/faculty member who can attest to the nominees potential. (e) Requests for the nominee's high school and college transcripts. §2600.13 Nomination Deadline. Institutions must submit complete nominations for Goldwater Scholarships postmarked by the published deadline on the annual Bulletin of Information provided to all faculty representatives and nominees. Late or incomplete nominations will not be considered. The deadline will normally fall on a Friday in mid-December. Subpart C_Selection of Scholars §2600.20 Review Panel. An independent review panel of academicians in the appropriate fields of study is appointed annually by the Foundation to evaluate all valid nominations. The Panel identifies the most outstanding nominees from each state and recommends them for consideration by the Foundation Board of Trustees. The number of students recommended from each state will depend on the number and qualifications of the nominees from the 53 jurisdictions. §2600.21 Selection Criteria. Each nominee is evaluated on: (a) Demonstrated potential for and commitment to a career in mathematics, the natural sciences or eligible engineering disciplines; (b) Outstanding academic performance. §2600.22 Final Selection. The Foundation Trustees meet to consider the recommendations made by the Review Panel. The total number of Scholars to be selected is determined by the Trustees based on the amount of funds available each year. Due to the exceptional quality of nominees, the number of scholars recommended by the review panel generally exceeds the number of affordable scholarships. Scholars recommended by the review panel, but not selected as Goldwater Scholars, will be recognized as Goldwater Scholarship Finalists. §2600.23 Notification. Subsequent to the deliberations of the Board of Trustees, all nominees and faculty representatives will be notified in writing of the results of the scholarship competition. Subpart D_Payment of Scholarship Awards §2600.30 Requirements for Scholarship Payments. To be eligible to receive payments, a Goldwater Scholar must submit in writing: (a) An acceptance of the Scholarship Award; (b) Prior to the beginning of each academic term, a Payment Request Form, certified by the authorized financial officer of the institution listing eligible expenses, and all scholarships from sources other than the Foundation. This form must also be signed by an academic official of the institution certifying that the Scholar is: (1) A full-time student taking a course of study appropriate for a career in mathematics, science or engineering; (2) Not engaged in employment interfering with study; (3) In good academic standing and making satisfactory progress toward his or her chosen career. §2600.31 Amount of Scholarship Payments. The maximum amount of the scholarship is $7,000.00 per academic year and consists of the following costs: (a) The actual amount of tuition paid by the scholar; (b) The actual amount of required, non-refundable fees paid by the scholar;
