FR941006-1-00100 FR941006-1-00015 ยง9034.6 Expenditures for transportation and services made available to media personnel; Reimbursements. (a) General. (1) Expenditures by an authorized committee for transportation, ground services or facilities (including air travel, ground transportation, housing, meals, telephone service, typewriters) made available to media personnel, Secret Service personnel or national security staff will be considered qualified campaign expenses, and, except for costs relating to Secret Service personnel or national security staff, will be subject to the overall expenditure limitation of 11 CFR 9035.1(a). (2) Subject to the limitations in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, committees may seek reimbursement for these expenses and may deduct any amounts received as reimbursements from the amount of expenditures subject to the overall expenditure limitation of 11 CFR 9035.1(a). Expenses for which the committee receives no reimbursement will be considered qualified campaign expenses, and, with the exception of those expenses relating to Secret Service personnel and national security staff, will be subject to the overall expenditure limitation. (b) Reimbursement limits. (1) The committee may seek reimbursement of the expenses described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from the media representatives to whom those services were provided. The amount sought shall not exceed the media representative's pro rata share, or a reasonable estimate of the media representative's pro rata share, of the actual cost of the transportation and services made available by more than 10%. Any reimbursement received in excess of 110% of the actual pro rata cost of the transportation and services made available shall be disposed of in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. For the purposes of this section: (i) A media representative's pro rata share shall be calculated by dividing the total actual cost of the transportation and services by the total number of individuals to whom such transportation and services are made available. For purposes of this calculation, the total number of individuals shall include committee staff, media personnel, Secret Service personnel, national security staff and any other individuals to whom such transportation and services are made available; and (ii) ``Administrative costs'' shall include all costs incurred by the committee for making travel arrangements and for seeking reimbursement, whether performed by committee staff or independent contractors. (c) Deduction of reimbursements from expenditures subject to the overall expenditure limitation . The committee may deduct from the amount of expenditures subject to the overall expenditure limitation of 11 CFR 9035.1(a): (1) The amount of reimbursements received in payment for the transportation and services described in paragraph (a) of this section, up to the actual cost of transportation and services provided; and (2) An amount of reimbursements received representing the administrative costs incurred by the committee in providing these services and seeking reimbursement for them, equal to: (i) Three percent of the actual cost of transportation and services provided under this section; or (ii) An amount in excess of 3% representing the administrative costs actually incurred by the committee, provided that the committee is able to document that it incurred these higher administrative costs. (d) Disposal of excess reimbursements . If the committee receives reimbursements in excess of the amount deductible under paragraph (c) of this section, it shall dispose of the excess amount in the following manner: (1) Any reimbursement received in excess of 110% of the actual pro rata cost of the transportation and services made available to a media representative shall be returned to the media representative. (2) Any amount in excess of the amount deductible under paragraph (c) of this section that is not required to be returned to the media representative under paragraph (d)(1) shall be repaid to the Treasury.
