FR940207-2-00005 FR940207-2-00001 Kiowa National Grasslands Union County Leader, published weekly on Wednesday in Clayton, Union County, New Mexico. Rita Blanca National Grasslands Boise City News, published weekly on Wednesday in Boise City, Cimarron County, Oklahoma. National Grasslands in Dallam County, Texas. The Texan, published daily except Sunday, in Dalhart, Dallam County, Texas. Black Kettle National Grasslands National Grasslands, Roger Mills County, Oklahoma. Cheyenne Star, published weekly on Thursday in Cheyenne, Roger Mills County, Oklahoma. National Grasslands, Hemphill County, Texas. The Canadian Record, published weekly on Thursday in Canadian, Hemphill County, Texas. McClellan Creek National Grasslands National Grasslands in Gray County, Texas. The Pampa News, published daily except Saturday, in Pampa, Gray County, Texas. Notice by District Ranger of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Mt. Taylor District: Cibola County Beacon, published Wednesday and Friday in Grants, Cibola County, New Mexico. Newspapers providing additional notice of Availability for Comment and Decisions for the Mt. Taylor District Ranger: Gallup Independent, published Monday-Saturday in Gallup, McKinley County, New Mexico. Magdalena District: DeFensor-Chieftain, published weekly Wednesday and Saturday in Socorro, Socorro County, New Mexico. Mountainair District: Torrance County Citizen, published weekly on Thursday in Estancia, Torrence County, New Mexico. Sandia District: Albuquerque Journal, published daily in Albuquerque, Bernalillo County, New Mexico. Kiowa National Grassland: Union County Leader, published weekly on Wednesday in Clayton, Union County, New Mexico. Rita Blanca National Grasslands: National Grasslands in Cimarron County, Oklahoma. Boise City News, published weekly on Wednesday in Boise City, Cimarron County, Oklahoma. National Grasslands in Dallam County, Texas. The Texan, published daily except Sunday, in Dalhart, Dallam County Texas. Black Kettle National Grasslands: National Grasslands in Roger Mills County, Oklahoma. Cheyenne Star, published weekly on Thursday in Cheyenne, Roger Mills County, Oklahoma. National Grasslands in Hemphill County, Texas. The Canadian Record, published weekly on Thursday in Canadian, Hemphill County, Texas. McClellan Creek National Grasslands: National Grasslands in Gray County, Texas. The Pampa News, published daily except Saturday, in Pampa, Gray County, Texas. Gila National Forest Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Silver City Daily Press, published Monday-Saturday in Silver City, Grant County, New Mexico. Notice by District Ranger of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Black Range District: The Herald, published in Truth or Consequences Weekly on Thursday, Sierra County, New Mexico Luna District: Silver City Daily Press, published Monday-Saturday in Silver City, Grant County, New Mexico. Quemado District: Silver City Daily Press, published Monday-Saturday in Silver City, Grant County, New Mexico. Reserve District: Silver City Daily Press, published Monday-Saturday in Silver City, Grant County, New Mexico. Glenwood District: Silver City Daily Press, published Monday-Saturday in Silver City, Grant County, New Mexico. Mimbres District: Silver City Daily Press, published Monday-Saturday in Silver City, Grant County, New Mexico. Silver City District: Silver City Daily Press, pubished Monday-Saturday in Silver City, Grant County, New Mexico.
