FR940711-0-00002 FR940711-0-00001 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 5 CFR Part 179 RIN 3206&hyph;AF28 Claims Collection Standards; Debt Collection Act of 1982: Administrative Offset AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is issuing final regulations to govern the collection of debts owed to the United States which arose from transactions involving OPM's administrative accounts. These regulations implement the debt collection procedures provided under the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Act). The Act authorizes the Federal Government to collect debts by means of administrative offset from other payments due the debtor from the United States, without the debtor's consent, provided that the debtor is properly notified and given the opportunity to exercise certain administrative rights. OPM's collection of debts due the Retirement and Insurance Group for payment to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, Employees' Life Insurance Fund, the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Fund, or the Employees' Health Benefits Fund is governed by other regulatory provisions. DATES: These regulations are effective July 11, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Anna Wilson, Chief, Financial Policy Division, Office of the Chief Financial Officer, (CFO) (202) 606&hyph;5075. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 10 of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Act) (Pub. L. 97&hyph;365) codified at 31 U.S.C. 3701 et seq., makes several changes in the way Executive and Legislative agencies collect debts owed the Government. The purpose of the Act is to improve the ability of the Government to collect monies owed it. Under the Act, administrative offset may be initiated when the head of an agency determines that an individual or entity is indebted to the United States, or is notified by the head of another agency that a person or entity is indebted to the United States and that the debtor is owed monies by the United States as a result of transactions with a Federal agency. After the debtor has received certain due process rights, the debt may be collected by administratively offsetting the debt against the amount due. Under the Act, before the Government may collect a debt by administrative offset, a debtor must be provided with notice that a debt is owed, the opportunity to inspect and copy Government records relating to the debt, the option to enter into a written repayment agreement, and an opportunity for review of the agency's determination concerning the existence of the amount of the debt, or the repayment terms. The debtor must notify the agency of his or her intent to exercise these rights within time periods prescribed in these regulations. The Act permits the agency to initiate an administrative offset prior to the completion of the due process requirements if failure to do so would substantially jeopardize the agency's ability to collect the debt and if the time remaining before payment is to be made does not reasonably permit completion of the due process procedures. Such prior offset must be followed by completion of the due process procedures. The Act requires agencies to issue regulations for administrative offset. This final rule establishes the procedures the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) will follow in making an administrative offset from funds paid to a debtor from OPM's administrative accounts. These regulations apply to the collection of debts owed to the United States arising from transactions with OPM other than those involving payments made from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (the Fund) or where a request for an offset from OPM's administrative accounts_other than the Fund_is received by OPM from another Federal Agency. Regulations for other agencies to request OPM's Retirement and Insurance Group to recover a debt from the Fund are provided at subpart R of part 831 and subpart D of part 845 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations. These regulations are consistent with the Federal Claims Collection Standards on administrative offset issued jointly by the Department of Justice and the General Accounting Office as set forth in 4 CFR 102.3. OPM has determined that this document is interpretative because it implements a definitive statutory scheme and the requirements contained in regulations promulgated by the Department of Justice and the General Accounting Office. Accordingly, no Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is required pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(A). In addition, because this rule relates to agency management and personnel, no Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is required pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(a)(2). For these reasons, a delayed effective date is not required pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(2). Analysis and Comments The Interim Rule was published in the Federal Register on November 19, 1993 (58 FR 60991). The comment period closed on January 18, 1994. Two labor organizations responded with comments. OPM has fully considered all of their comments. Section 179.303␣General One commenter cited 28 U.S.C. 2415 to question the validity of the time allowed for commencing actions brought by the United States (6 years rather than 10 years). Section (i) of 28 U.S.C. 2415 states: ``The provisions of this section shall not prevent the United States or an officer or agency thereof from collecting any claim of the United States by means of administrative offset, in accordance with section 3716 of title 31.'' That provision precludes agencies from initiating offset to collect a debt more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, with certain exceptions explained in that section. Section 179.305␣Agency Review A commenter expressed concern that the discretion allowed to suspend transactions in an alleged debtor's account pending resolution of an appeal (179.305(c)) would have a ``chilling effect on such appeals by depriving appellants of funds that would otherwise be available to them.'' The intent of the regulations is to suspend transactions in the account(s) to the extent of the debt owed unless there is evidence of fraud. The language has been modified to clarify that intent. Another commenter requested that we add to the same section: ``Upon lifting the suspension *␣*␣* any payments, removals, or transfers, as well as lost interest or discounts due to the debtor that had been precluded due to temporary suspension of transactions in any of the debtor's accounts shall be applied retroactively to cover the period of suspension.'' This authority is not stated in the Debt Collection Act, and without specific authority, OPM is not authorized to take this action. Section 179.306␣Written Agreement for Repayment A commenter requested an increase in the amount of time allowed for submission of a financial statement from 10 business days to 30 business days (i.e., from 2 weeks to 6 weeks) ``to allow the debtor sufficient time to accurately prepare the financial statement.'' OPM feels that 10 business days is adequate for the average debtor to present a statement of his or her finances. An audited financial statement is not required. Exceptions will have to be considered on a case-by-case basis. Section 179.308␣Accelerated Procedure A commenter wished to add ``with interest'' at the end of the paragraph. The Debt Collection Act of 1982 requires the assessment of interest, penalty fees, and administrative costs on delinquent debts as a means of strengthening enforcement of collections; however, it makes no provision to pay interest to the debtor for erroneous collections. OPM is not authorized to make such payments in the absence of a specific statute or authority permitting such payments. Regulatory Flexibility Act No notice of proposed rulemaking is required for these regulations, and the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) do not apply. List of Subjects in 5 CFR Part 179 Claims. Office of Personnel Management. James B. King, Director.
