FR940602-1-00056 FR940602-1-00013 (c) Lifelines. When employees are working on log booms or cribs, lifelines shall be furnished and hung overside to the water's edge. (d) Jacob's ladder. When a log boom is being worked, a Jacob's ladder meeting the requirements of §1918.22 shall be provided for each gang working alongside unless other safe means of access are provided. However, no more than two Jacob's ladders are required for any single log boom being worked. (e) Life-ring. When working a log boom alongside a ship, a U.S. Coast Guard approved 30 inch (76.2 cm) life-ring, with no less than 90 feet (27.4 m) of line shall be provided either on the floating unit itself or aboard the ship in the immediate vicinity of each floating unit being worked. (f) Rescue boat. When employees are working on rafts or booms, a rescue boat shall be immediately available. §1918.89 Hazardous cargo. (See also §1918.2(j).) (a) Employer preparations. Before cargo handling operations begin, the employer shall ascertain whether any hazardous cargo is to be handled and shall determine the nature of the hazard. The employer shall inform employees of the nature of the hazard and any special procedures to be taken to prevent employee exposure, and shall instruct employees to stay clear of and to notify supervision of any leaks or spills. (b) Handling hazardous cargo. Hazardous cargo shall be slung and secured so that neither the draft nor individual packages can fall as a result of tipping the draft or slacking of the supporting gear. (c) Emergency procedures. If hazardous cargo is spilled or its packaging leaks, employees shall be removed from the affected area until the employer has ascertained the specific hazards; has provided any equipment, clothing and ventilation, and fire protection equipment necessary to eliminate or protect against the hazards; and has instructed cleanup employees in a safe method of cleaning up and disposing of a spill and disposing of leaking containers. Actual cleanup or disposal work shall be conducted under the supervision of a designated person. Subpart I_General Working Conditions §1918.90 Hazard communication. (See §1918.1(b)(6).) §1918.91 Housekeeping. (a) General. Active work areas shall be kept free of equipment and materials not in use, and clear of debris, projecting nails, strapping and other sharp objects not necessary to the work in progress. (b) Slippery surfaces. The employer shall eliminate conditions causing slippery walking and working surfaces in immediate areas used by employees. (c) Free movement of drafts. Dunnage shall not be placed at any location where it interferes with the free movement of drafts. (d) Dunnage height. Dunnage racked against sweat battens or bulkheads shall not be used when the levels of such racks are above the safe reach of employees. (e) Coaming clearance. Dunnage, hatch beams, tarpaulins or gear not in use shall be stowed no closer than 3 feet (.91 m) to the port and starboard sides of the weather deck hatch coaming. (f) Nails. (1) Nails which are protruding from shoring or fencing in the immediate work areas shall be rendered harmless. (2) Dunnage, lumber, or shoring material in which there are visibly protruding nails shall be removed from the immediate work area, or, if left in the area, the nails shall be rendered harmless. (g) Ice aloft. Employees shall be protected from ice which may fall from aloft. §1918.92 Illumination. (a) Walking and working areas. Walking, working, and climbing areas shall be illuminated. Unless conditions described in the regulations of the U.S. Coast Guard (33 CFR 154.570) exist in the case of specific operations, illumination for cargo transfer operations shall be of an average minimum light intensity of 5-foot-candles (54 lux). Where occasional work tasks require more light than that which is consistently and permanently provided, supplemental lighting shall be used. (b) Intensity measurement. The lighting intensity shall be measured at the task/working surface, in the plane in which the task/working surface is present.
