FR940630-0-00108 FR940630-0-00036 (b) Applicability of section 3 to entire project or activity funded with section 3 assistance. The requirements of this part apply to the entire project or activity that is funded with section 3 covered assistance, regardless of whether the section 3 activity is fully or partially funded with section 3 covered assistance. (c) Applicability to Indian housing authorities and Indian tribes. Indian housing authorities and tribes that receive HUD assistance described in paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with the procedures and requirements of this part to the maximum extent consistent with, but not in derogation of, compliance with section 7(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450e(b)). (See 24 CFR part 905.) (d) Other HUD assistance and other Federal assistance. Recipients, contractors and subcontractors that receive HUD assistance, not listed in paragraph (a) of this section, or other Federal assistance, are encouraged to provide, to the greatest extent feasible, training, employment, and contracting opportunities generated by the expenditure of this assistance to low- and very low-income persons, and business concerns owned by low- and very low-income persons, or which employ low- and very low-income persons. ยง135.5 Definitions. As used in this part: Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) means the contract under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (1937 Act) between HUD and the PHA, or between HUD and the IHA, that contains the terms and conditions under which HUD assists the PHA or the IHA in providing decent, safe, and sanitary housing for low income families. The ACC must be in a form prescribed by HUD under which HUD agrees to provide assistance in the development, modernization and/or operation of a low income housing project under the 1937 Act, and the PHA or IHA agrees to develop, modernize and operate the project in compliance with all provisions of the ACC and the 1937 Act, and all HUD regulations and implementing requirements and procedures. (The ACC is not a form of procurement contract.) Applicant means any entity which makes an application for section 3 covered assistance, and includes, but is not limited to, any State, unit of local government, public housing agency, Indian housing authority, Indian tribe, or other public body, public or private nonprofit organization, private agency or institution, mortgagor, developer, limited dividend sponsor, builder, property manager, community housing development organization (CHDO), resident management corporation, resident council, or cooperative association. Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. Business concern means a business entity formed in accordance with State law, and which is licensed under State, county or municipal law to engage in the type of business activity for which it was formed. Business concern that provides economic opportunities for low- and very low-income persons. See definition of ``section 3 business concern'' in this section. Contract. See the definition of ``section 3 covered contract'' in this section. Contractor means any entity which contracts to perform work generated by the expenditure of section 3 covered assistance, or for work in connection with a section 3 covered project. Department or HUD means the Department of Housing and Urban Development, including its Field Offices to which authority has been delegated to perform functions under this part. Employment opportunities generated by section 3 covered assistance means all employment opportunities generated by the expenditure of section 3 covered public and Indian housing assistance (i.e., operating assistance, development assistance and modernization assistance, as described in ยง135.3(a)(1)). With respect to section 3 covered housing and community development assistance, this term means all employment opportunities arising in connection with section 3 covered projects (as described in ยง135.3(a)(2)), including management and administrative jobs connected with the section 3 covered project. Management and administrative jobs include architectural, engineering or related professional services required to prepare plans, drawings, specifications, or work write-ups; and jobs directly related to administrative support of these activities, e.g., construction manager, relocation specialist, payroll clerk, etc. Housing authority (HA) means, collectively, public housing agency and Indian housing authority. Housing and community development assistance means any financial assistance provided or otherwise made available through a HUD housing or community development program through any grant, loan, loan guarantee, cooperative agreement, or contract, and includes community development funds in the form of community development block grants, and loans guaranteed under section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended. Housing and community development assistance does not include financial assistance provided through a contract of insurance or guaranty. Housing development means low-income housing owned, developed, or operated by public housing agencies or Indian housing authorities in accordance with HUD's public and Indian housing program regulations codified in 24 CFR Chapter IX. HUD Youthbuild programs mean programs that receive assistance under subtitle D of Title IV of the National Affordable Housing Act, as amended by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 12899), and provide disadvantaged youth with opportunities for employment, education, leadership development, and training in the construction or rehabilitation of housing for homeless individuals and members of low- and very low-income families. Indian housing authority (IHA) has the meaning given this term in 24 CFR part 905. Indian tribes shall have the meaning given this term in 24 CFR part 571. JTPA means the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1579(a)).
