FR940414-1-00078 FR940414-1-00010 The firm-level financial data used to calculate baseline ROA and to which adjustments were made for the post-compliance analysis were obtained from public financial reports for the public-reporting firms that own facilities in the PFPR Survey. For the multiple facility, non-public-reporting firms, baseline firm-level data were imputed using facility-level data from the Survey and aggregate ratios of sales-to-assets and pre-tax operating income as reported in the Robert Morris Associates publication Annual Statement Studies. 11 Data for single facility firms were taken from the PFPR industry Survey. 11 Robert Morris Associates, Annual Statement Studies, 1991, Philadelphia, PA. Calculations are based on a composite weighted average of values for chemical industry sectors. 1. Baseline Impacts The baseline ROA analysis evaluates the firm's financial operating condition before costs of complying with the proposed regulatory option are considered. This analysis identifies firms which are expected to be financially weak relative to the overall industry before the regulation is enacted. For the firm-level analysis, baseline costs for non-sample PFPR facilities were estimated and summed with the sample facility firms' costs. Baseline costs include the estimated costs associated with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Organic Chemicals, Plastics, and Synthetic Fibers (OCPSF) (40 CFR 414), Pesticide Manufacturing, and FIFRA regulations as previously described. The non-sample baseline costs were estimated based upon the portion of PFPR firm revenue which is not attributable to the sample facilities, and on the ratio of firm baseline costs to firm revenues from PFPR. Baseline costs for manufacturing facilities that do not perform PFPR activities owned by the firms being analyzed were also included in the analysis. 12 Firms that have a baseline ROA of less than the threshold value are not considered for compliance impacts because their financial weakness results from current circumstances. Of the 308 firms initially considered in the analysis, 66 firms (all of which are single entities) had a baseline ROA of less than the threshold level of 2.396 and were therefore not considered in the remainder of the analysis. Thus, 242 firms were considered for impacts from the proposed PFPR regulation. 12 Data are from EIA for Pesticides Manufacturing Industry, 1993. 2. Post-Compliance Impacts Post-compliance ROA was calculated by adjusting the baseline ROA components to reflect the costs of complying with the proposed options_Option 3/S for Subcategory C facilities and Option 1 for Subcategory E facilities 13 . Again, the costs of compliance for facilities not included in the sample were estimated based on the portion of PFPR firm revenue not attributable to the sample facilities, and the ratio of capital and operating costs of compliance to firm PFPR revenue. 13 Refilling establishments are expected to meet compliance with the proposed option at zero cost. Of the 242 firms considered for compliance impacts, 5 firms were found to have a post-compliance ROA of less than 2.396 percent and are therefore assessed as incurring adverse financial impacts as a result of regulatory compliance. Three of these five firms are private single entities and two are private multi-facility firms. No firm impacts are expected to occur among public-reporting firms. The Agency judges that these firm-level impacts should not pose a significant burden to the PFPR industry (see Table 12).
