FR941202-0-00083 FR941202-0-00010 (ii) Demonstrate that their solvent cleaning machine can achieve and maintain an idling emission limit of 0.10 kilograms per hour per square meter (0.021 pounds per hour per square foot) of solvent/air interface area as determined using the procedures in ยง63.465(a) and appendix A to this part. (d) Except as provided in ยง63.464, each owner or operator of an existing or new batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine shall meet all of the following required work and operational practices specified in paragraph (d)(1) through (d)(12) of this section as applicable. (1) Control air disturbances across the cleaning machine opening(s) by incorporating the control equipment or techniques in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section. (i) Cover(s) to each solvent cleaning machine shall be in place during the idling mode, and during the downtime mode unless either the solvent has been removed from the machine or maintenance or monitoring is being performed that requires the cover(s) to not be in place. (ii) A reduced room draft as described in ยง63.463(e)(2)(ii). (2) The parts baskets or the parts being cleaned in an open-top batch vapor cleaning machine shall not occupy more than 50 percent of the solvent/air interface area unless the parts baskets or parts are introduced at a speed of 0.9 meters per minute (3 feet per minute) or less. (3) Any spraying operations shall be done within the vapor zone or within a section of the solvent cleaning machine that is not directly exposed to the ambient air (i.e., a baffled or enclosed area of the solvent cleaning machine). (4) Parts shall be oriented so that the solvent drains from them freely. Parts having cavities or blind holes shall be tipped or rotated before being removed from any solvent cleaning machine unless an equally effective approach has been approved by the Administrator. (5) Parts baskets or parts shall not be removed from any solvent cleaning machine until dripping has stopped. (6) During startup of each vapor cleaning machine, the primary condenser shall be turned on before the sump heater. (7) During shutdown of each vapor cleaning machine, the sump heater shall be turned off and the solvent vapor layer allowed to collapse before the primary condenser is turned off. (8) When solvent is added or drained from any solvent cleaning machine, the solvent shall be transferred using threaded or other leakproof couplings and the end of the pipe in the solvent sump shall be located beneath the liquid solvent surface.
