FR940104-2-00078 FR940104-2-00050 Issuer Delisting; Application To Withdraw From Listing and Registration; (VISX, Inc., Common Stock, $.01 Par Value) File No. 1&hyph;10694 December 28, 1993. VISX, Inc. (``Company'') has filed an application with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission''), pursuant to section 12(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') and Rule 12d2&hyph;2(d) promulgated thereunder, to withdraw the above specified security from listing and registration on the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'') The reasons alleged in the application for withdrawing this security from listing and registration include the following: According to the Company, its Board of Directors (the ``Board'') unanimously approved resolutions on October 13, 1993, to withdraw the Company's Common Stock from listing on the Amex and, instead, list such Common Stock on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations/National Market System (``NASDAQ/NMS''). According to the Company, the decision of the Board followed a lengthy study of the matter, and was based upon the belief that listing of the Common Stock on NASDAQ/NMS will be more beneficial to its stockholders than the present listing on the Amex because: (1) The Company believes that the NASDAQ/NMS system of competing market-makers will result in increased visibility and sponsorship for the Common Stock than is presently the case with the single specialist assigned to the stock on the Amex; (2) The Company believes that the NASDAQ/NMS system will offer the Company's stockholders more liquidity than is presently available on the Amex and less volatility in quoted prices per share when trading volume is slight; (3) The Company believes that the NASDAQ/NMS system will offer the opportunity for the Company to secure its own group of market-makers and, in doing so, expand the capital base available for trading in its Common Stock; and (4) The Company believes that firms making a market in the Company's Common Stock on the NASDAQ/NMS system will be inclined to issue research reports concerning the Company, thereby increasing the number of firms providing institutional research and advisory reports. Any interested person may, on or before January 20, 1994, submit by letter to the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549, facts bearing upon whether the application has been made in accordance with the rules of the exchanges and what terms, if any, should be imposed by the Commission for the protection of investors. The Commission, based on the information submitted to it, will issue an order granting the application after the date mentioned above, unless the Commission determines to order a hearing on the matter. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;50 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
