FR940525-2-00101 FR940525-2-00064 Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The proposed changes do not involve an [significant hazards consideration] SHC because the changes would not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed change modifies SR 4.6.1.2.d. Currently this SR indicates the purge supply and exhaust valves have an exception from the 10CFR50 Appendix J, Type B and C tests. The proposed technical specification change is consistent with current surveillance procedures and the [Final Safety Analysis Report] FSAR. The second proposed change, which removes SR 4.6.1.2.f, reflects current containment leakage surveillance requirements. The present location of SR 4.6.1.2.f could imply that containment leakage surveillance requirements are met by performing SR 4.9.9. However, SR 4.9.9 is applicable only during core alterations or movement of irradiated fuel and not during the modes when Technical Specification 3.6.1.2 is applicable. These changes have no effect on actual Appendix J testing of valves or the current plant accident analysis. Therefore, the proposed changes cannot increase the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. The proposed changes do not introduce any new failure modes. The plant will continue to operate as designed and there will be no change to the testing of valves. The proposed changes will not modify the plant response to the point where it can be considered a new accident. Therefore, the proposed changes will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident form any previously evaluated. 3. Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes modify SR 4.6.1.2.d which, as presently written, indicates that the purge supply and exhaust valves are an exception to the 10CFR50 Appendix J, Type B and C test and therefore, no exception is required. This is supported by current surveillance procedures which include the purge supply and exhaust valves as part of the Type B and C tests. In addition, the proposed changes are consistent with the FSAR. FSAR Table 7.3&hyph;1 ``Containment Penetrations,'' lists the purge supply and exhaust valves as required to receive Type B and C tests. Therefore, these proposed changes revise SR 4.6.1.2.d to reflect actual surveillance procedures and offer no revisions or reductions to current surveillance testing. Therefore, these changes will not result in a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Russell Library, 123 Broad Street, Middletown, Connecticut 06457. Attorney for licensee: Gerald Garfield, Esquire, Day, Berry & Howard, Counselors at Law, City Place, Hartford, Connecticut 06103&hyph;3499. NRC Project Director: John F. Stolz. Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Docket No. 50&hyph;247, Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit No. 2, Westchester County, New York Date of amendment request: April 13, 1994 Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment request would revise the Technical Specifications to amend Sections 3.1.F and 4.13 to allow the repair of steam generator tubes by sleeving as an alternative to plugging. Additionally, a new tube acceptance criteria, F*, is proposed which would allow tubes that are degraded in a location not affecting structural integrity of the tube to remain in service. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: In accordance with the requirements of 10 CFR 50.92, the proposed Technical Specification change is deemed to involve no significant hazards considerations because operation of Indian Point Unit No. 2 would not:
