FR940217-1-00063 FR940217-1-00013 The effects of environmental contaminants on amphibians has not been well documented, and the toxic effects of most chemicals is unknown. However, current research indicates that amphibians, particularly their eggs and larvae, are sensitive to many of the pollutants that have been tested, such as heavy metals; certain insecticides, particularly cyclodienes (endosulfan, endrin, toxaphene, and dieldrin) and certain organophosphates (parathion, malathion); nitrite; salts; and oil (Harfenist et al. 1989). Regarding pesticides, Christine Bishop (Canadian Wildlife Service) states that ``the health of amphibians can suffer from exposure to pesticides (Harfenist et al. 1989). Because of their semipermeable skin, the development of their eggs and larvae in water, and their position in the food web, amphibians can be exposed to waterborne and airborne pollutants in their breeding and foraging habitats *␣*␣* [Furthermore] pesticides probably change the quality and quantity of amphibian food and habitat'' (Bishop and Pettit 1992). Toxic effects to amphibians from pollutants may include morphological and developmental aberrations, lowered reproduction and survival, and changes in behavior and certain biochemical processes. Available information on the effects of contaminants on central Texas Eurycea salamanders indicates that these species are very sensitive to changes in water quality. Captive Eurycea species, including the Barton Springs salamander, appear to be especially sensitive to changes in water quality and are ``quite delicate and difficult to keep alive'' (Sweet, in litt. , 1993). Sweet reported that captive individuals exhibit toxic reactions to plastic containers, aged tapwater, and detergent residues. The water in which these salamanders are kept also requires frequent changing. The lack of success in attempts at captive propagation of the Barton Springs salamander (Price, pers. comm., 1992) and the San Marcos salamander ( Eurycea nana ) (Janet Nelson, Southwest Texas State University, pers. comm., 1992) may be due to these species' sensitivity to environmental stress. As discussed under Factor A, the Barton Springs salamander also appears to be sensitive to chlorine (Chippindale et al. 1993, TPWD 1993). Recent contamination at Stillhouse Hollow Preserve also demonstrates the sensitivity of Eurycea salamanders to changes in water quality. This event appears to have resulted in the decline of a spring population of another species of Eurycea found north of the Colorado River (locally known as the ``Jollyville Plateau salamander''). The preserve contains two spring outlets, the larger of which has supported an abundant salamander population; a few individuals are typically found at the smaller spring (Hillis and Price, pers. comms., 1993). During a routine inspection of this property on November 19, 1992, a City of Austin employee reported ``large amounts of foam'' emanating from the larger spring outlet (Mike Kalender, City of Austin Parks and Recreation Department, pers. comm., 1993). The type and source of the contaminant is unknown (Chuck Lesniak, City of Austin Environmental and Conservation Services Department, pers. comm., 1993). Despite repeated search efforts following the incident, no salamanders were observed at or below this spring outlet until over three months later (February 24, 1993), when two individuals were observed (Hillis, Kalender, and Price, pers. comms., 1993). The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to propose this rule. The best scientific data indicate that the Barton Springs salamander faces multiple threats from declining water quality and quantity and therefore warrants listing. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list the Barton Springs salamander as endangered. A decision to take no action would constitute failure to properly classify this species pursuant to the Endangered Species Act and would exclude the salamander from protection provided by the Act. A decision to propose threatened status would not adequately reflect its restricted distribution, vulnerability of habitat, and multiplicity of threats that confront it. For the reason given below, critical habitat designation for the Barton Springs salamander is not being proposed. Critical Habitat
