FR940127-0-00026 FR940127-0-00005 FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION 12 CFR Part 615 RIN 3052&hyph;AB45 Funding and Fiscal Affairs, Loan Policies and Operations, and Funding Operations AGENCY: Farm Credit Administration. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Farm Credit Administration (FCA), by the Farm Credit Administration Board (Board), adopts a final rule amending its regulations to allow Farm Credit System (FCS) institutions to document the existence of a first lien on the security for long-term real estate mortgage loans by obtaining title insurance or an attorney's certification. The current regulation requires that an attorney's certification be obtained for every long-term mortgage loan in order for that loan to qualify as collateral for FCS debt obligations. The regulation is being amended because title insurance has become the prevailing method used by the mortgage lending industry to ensure clear title. Additionally, the revised regulation permits FCS institutions greater flexibility in determining which method for validating first lien position (an attorney's certification or title insurance) provides the institution the most cost-effective and efficient protection. EFFECTIVE DATE: The regulation shall become effective upon expiration of 30 days after publication in the Federal Register during which either or both Houses of Congress are in session. Notice of effective date will be published in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Laurie A. Rea, Policy Analyst, Regulation Development, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4498, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444, or James M. Morris, Senior Attorney, Regulatory Operations Division, Office of General Counsel, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4020, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Section 1.10(a)(2) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended (Act), requires that long-term mortgage loans made by Farm Credit Banks (FCBs) under section 1.7 of the Act, or by associations under sections 1.7 and 7.6 of the Act, ``be secured by first liens on interests in real estate of such classes as may be prescribed by regulations of the Farm Credit Administration.'' At present, ยง615.5060 requires that an attorney's certification be obtained for long-term mortgage loans if such loans are to qualify as collateral for FCS debt obligations. However, title insurance is the prevailing method for ensuring clear title in the mortgage lending industry and is becoming more commonplace in FCS lending. Title insurance can provide a lender with protection that is comparable to an attorney's certification and in some instances may be more timely and less expensive to obtain. Under the present ยง615.5060, even if FCS lenders obtain title insurance they must also obtain an attorney's certification, thus incurring unnecessary expense without providing any substantial additional protection. FCA reconsidered this requirement, and published a proposed rule on October 12, 1993 (58 FR 52701) to amend the regulation to permit institutions to obtain title insurance instead of an attorney's certificate to document the existence of a first lien, provided that the title insurance policy meets certain standards. The FCA recognizes that practices within the mortgage lending industry continually change and is amending ยง615.5060 to give FCS institutions additional flexibility while maintaining protection for them as well as for FCS investors and borrower-stockholders. The revised regulation allows FCS institutions to determine which method for validating first lien position (an attorney's certification or title insurance) provides them the best protection for the amount expended. II. Synopsis of Comments The comment period for the proposed amendments to ยง615.5060 closed November 12, 1993. FCA received four comment letters during the public comment period from: The Farm Credit Council (FCC), a Farm Credit Bank (FCB), an agricultural credit association (ACA), and a Texas law firm. In addition, an FCB and a Federal land credit association (FLCA) commented on this regulation as part of their responses to the FCA Board's Statement on Regulatory Burden, which appeared in the Federal Register on June 23, 1993 (58 FR 34003), seeking public comment on the appropriateness of regulatory requirements imposed on the FCS. All commenters strongly supported the amendments to the proposed regulation. In general, commenters believe that the revision would provide additional flexibility and allow FCS institutions to evaluate present practices and determine the best course of action. Further, commenters indicated that since many FCS institutions already require title insurance on real estate loans the proposed regulation would greatly simplify the closing process and reduce costs. One commenter stated that the FCA's existing requirement for long-term real estate loans is both antiquated and unduly burdensome, and it therefore fully endorsed the intent of FCA's proposed regulations.
