FR940620-1-00083 FR940620-1-00009 (1) General marking instructions. The contractor, or its subcontractors or suppliers, shall conspicuously and legibly mark the appropriate legend on all computer software that qualify for such markings. The authorized legends shall be placed on the storage container or the software and each page, or portions thereof, of printed materials containing computer software for which restrictions are asserted. Instructions that interfere with or delay the operation of computer software in order to display a restrictive rights legend or other license statement at any time prior to or during use of the computer software shall not be inserted in the software, or otherwise cause such interference or delay, unless the contracting officer's written permission to deliver such software has been obtained prior to delivery. Reproductions of computer software or any portions thereof subject to asserted restrictions, shall also reproduce the asserted restrictions. (2) Government purpose rights markings. Computer software delivered or otherwise furnished to the government with government purpose rights shall be marked as follows: ``GOVERNMENT PURPOSE RIGHTS Contract No. Contractor Name Contractor Address Expiration Date The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose this software are restricted by paragraph (b)(2) of the clause at 252.227&hyph;7014 contained in the above identified contract. No restrictions apply after the expiration date shown above. Any reproduction of the software or portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings.'' (End of Legend) (3) Restricted rights markings. Software delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government with restricted rights shall be marked with the following legend: ``RESTRICTED RIGHTS Contract No. Contractor Name Contractor Address The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose this software are restricted by paragraph (b)(3) of the clause at 252.277&hyph;7014 contained in the above identified contract. Any reproduction of computer software or portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings. Any person, other than the Government, who has been provided access to such software must promptly notify the above named contractor.'' (End of Legend) (4) Special license rights markings. (i) Computer software or computer software documentation in which the government's rights stem from a specifically negotiated license shall be marked with the following legend: ``Special License Rights The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose this software are restricted by contract no. XXX (Insert contract number) XXX , license no. XXX (Insert license identifier) XXX . Any reproduction of computer software, computer software documentation, or portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings.'' (End of Legend) (ii) For purposes of this clause, special licenses do not include government purpose license rights acquired under a prior contract (see subparagraph (b)(5) of this clause). (5) Pre-existing markings. If the terms of a prior contract or license permitted the contractor to restrict the government's rights to use, modify, release, perform, display, or disclose computer software or computer software documentation and those restrictions are still applicable, the contractor may mark such software or documentation with the appropriate restrictive legend for which the software qualified under the prior contract or license. The marking procedures in subparagraph (f)(1) of this clause shall be followed. (g) Contractor procedures and records. Throughout performance of this contract, the contractor and its subcontractors or suppliers that will deliver computer software or computer software documentation with other than unlimited rights, shall_ (1) Have, maintain, and follow written procedures sufficient to assure that restrictive markings are used only when authorized by the terms of this clause; and (2) Maintain records sufficient to justify the validity of any restrictive markings on computer software or computer software documentation delivered under this contract. (h) Removal of unjustified and nonconforming markings. (1) Unjustified computer software or computer software documentation markings. The rights and obligations of the parties regarding the validation of restrictive markings on computer software of computer software documentation furnished or to be furnished under this contract are contained in the clauses at 252.227&hyph;7019, ``Validation of Asserted Restrictions_Computer Software'' or 252.227&hyph;7037, ``Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data'', respectively. Notwithstanding any provision of this contract concerning inspection and acceptance, the Government may ignore or, at the Contractor's expense, correct or cancel a marking if, in accordance with the procedures of those clauses, a restrictive marking is determined to be unjustified.
