FR941116-0-00170 FR941116-0-00022 (3) Evidence of the disaster is still apparent on the affected acreage. (t) County committees shall limit approved failed acreages of a crop: (1) If the crop is enrolled in an ARP, failed acreages may be approved not to exceed the permitted acreage of the crop, plus other available flex acreage from other participating crops, in accordance with §1413.106; (2) If the acreage is on a farm enrolled in the ARP and the crop is not enrolled in an ARP, failed acreage of the crop that can be approved is unlimited; and (3) If the acreage is on a farm that is not enrolled in an ARP, the amount of failed acreage of the crop that can be approved is unlimited. (u) If form ASCS&hyph;574 is approved for a program crop as the first crop and it was not harvested because of prevented planted or failed conditions in paragraph (a) of this section, and the second crop is not an allotment or poundage quota crop, then the second crop shall not be considered planted for planted and considered planted credit, deficiency payments, or eligible for price support in accordance with parts 1421 and 1427 of this title. The producer may elect to receive planted acreage credit for the second crop, if the second crop is normally planted in a double cropping situation in the area after the first crop is harvested. The later crop acreage shall be considered planted to the second crop and is eligible for planted and considered planted credit, deficiency payments, and price support in accordance with parts 1421 and 1427 of this title. (v)(1) Except for established practices of doublecropping as provided in §1413.24, any later crop planted on such acreage shall not be considered to be planted for any purpose under the programs authorized by this part and parts 1421 and 1427 of this chapter regardless of the permitted acreage for such crop. (2) If the program crop that failed was planted to a second crop in a skip row pattern, the second crop may be planted in a solid pattern. (3) If skips in skip row cotton have been designated as conserving use for payment acreage in accordance with §1413.61, the second crop can be planted in a solid pattern. The conserving use for payment acreage must be redesignated as an equal acreage within the field or field subdivision that was reported as skip row cotton in accordance with part 718 of this title. §1413.122 Eligibility for regular prevented planting and reduced yield payments. (a) Prevented planting payments are authorized to be made to producers of wheat, feed grain, upland cotton, and rice only if such producers comply with the requirements of this part and if prevented planting crop insurance offered in accordance with the Federal Crop Insurance Act is not available with respect to the producer's acreage of such commodity. (b) Reduced yield payments are authorized to be made to producers of wheat, feed grain, upland cotton, and rice only if such producers comply with the requirements of this part and reduced yield crop insurance offered in accordance with the Federal Crop Insurance Act is not available with respect to the producer's acreage of such commodity. (c) Prevented planting payments and reduced yield payments are authorized to be made to producers of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice only if: (1) Such a producer has entered into a contract with CCC for the applicable crop of the commodity on a farm; (2) The operator and all producers have been determined to be in compliance with such contract; and (3) The operator of the farm submits a form ASCS&hyph;574 in accordance with §1413.121, and also submits a report of production and disposition in accordance with §1413.19. (d) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, the county committee must also determine that the operator and other producers were prevented from planting an eligible commodity or that the production of an eligible commodity on an acreage resulted in a reduced yield of such commodity because of a drought, flood, other natural disaster, or other condition beyond the control of the operator or other producer. (e) Prevented planting and failed acreage payments shall be computed in accordance with §1413.123.
