FR940607-2-00068 FR940607-2-00049 With regard to the likelihood of success, the Court does not believe that there can be an automatic knee jerk reaction in every case where the Department of Labor reverses the ALJ. The Court understand that, at this stage, its responsibility is to facially address the merits. However, the mere reversal of an Administrative Law Judge alone is not necessarily enough. Nonetheless, the Administrative Law judge has had the opportunity to see the witnesses, review documents, and measure credibility. In this particular case, Commonwealth has shown a likelihood of success because it has already won once in front of an Administrative Law Judge and in light of the other factors which the Court will address. The Court does not credit the concern of the plaintiffs that there has not been any allegation that the individual complainants would have been employed to do government contract work. The issue of irreparable harm is the most intriguing for the Court. The Court has done its own research in addition to the research furnished by the parties. There are no controlling cases. Several are persuasive, including Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. v. Marshall, 23 FEP Cases 527 (E.D. Tex 1980), that debarment constitutes irreparable harm. The Court disagrees with that conclusion. In the Court's opinion, the proper analysis is to examine the harm of compliance and not the harm of non-compliance. There are several reasons for the Court's conclusion. One reason is that there are cases that are persuasive and while not exactly on point, indicate that the courts in various factual settings were looking to the cost of compliance rather than the cost of non-compliance. Those cases are Ledbetter v. Baldwin, 479 U.S. 1309 (1986); Ruiz v. Estelle, 650 F.2d 555, at 573 (5th Cir. 1981); and Petroleum Exploration, Inc. v. Public Service Commission, 304 U.S. 209 (1938). In Petroleum Exploration, the petroleum company argued that it was being forced to choose between complying with an agency order on the one hand, which would require a high expenditure of money, or on the other hand non-compliance, which would subject it to harsh penalties. In that particular situation, the Supreme Court states ``the necessity to expend for the investigation or to take the risk for non-compliance does not justify the injunction. It is not the sort of irreparable injury against which equity protects.'' Id. at 221. Petroleum Exploration does not instruct courts to look at the cost of compliance, but it does begin to hint at that concept. Another case the Court found persuasive was Southern Ohio Coal Co. v. Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Dept. of the Interior, 831 F.Supp. 1324 (S.D. Oh. 1993), rev'd on other grounds, 1994. U.S. App., Lexis 6813, April 8, 1994. In that particular case, the district court assessed the threat of irreparable injury based on compliance rather than on non-compliance. The Court also finds persuasive the case that was cited on the day of the temporary restraining order hearing, Uniroyal, Inc. v. Marshall, 20 FEP cases 446 (D.C. Cir. 1979). While Uniroyal does not explicitly state the standard, the Court of Appeals clearly considered the cost of avoiding debarment and not the cost that would be due to the debarment itself. In this Court's opinion, explicit in the balancing test is the rule that you consider the cost of compliance. All of the foregoing cases are persuasive and are one reason the Court believes that the proper measure is the cost of compliance with the Department of Labor's ruling. The principal reason the Court is considering cost of compliance as the measure of harm is that this Court should not encourage non-compliance with the Department of Labor order. There cannot be an automatic reaction in every case where an order of debarment has issued or is about to issue. If debarment constituted irreparable harm, every debarment could be enjoined and the Court does not believe that is a good rationale. The Court notes that the meaning of the order is less than clear and this is reinforced by the footnotes addressing the meaning of the order which appear in the defendants' response and plaintiff's reply filed herein. In that connection, the Court found persuasive Wisconsin Gas Co. v. F.E.R.C., 758 F.2d 669, 674 (D.C. Cir. 1985), cited by both parties, which held that the proper focus is upon recoverable monetary loss. In this case, plaintiffs cannot sue the government or the individuals so in the Court's opinion, there would be no recoverable monetary loss. The Court noted to the parties that if OFCCP agreed that Commonwealth must only offer the next available job and if the Department of Labor or if OFCCP agreed that Commonwealth could withdraw those offers, or if they had already become full blown employment situations, if the OFCCP would agree that those employees could be let go if Commonwealth won here, then there would not be an irreparable harm because you would have the Uniroyal situation. In Uniroyal the D.C. Circuit ruled that once the documents requested were produced, if Uniroyal won on the appeal, the documents would be returned and stricken from the record. In that connection, the Court is attempting to create a Uniroyal situation here, if it exists, so that in this particular situation there would not be any irreparable harm.
