FR941013-1-00084 FR941013-1-00010 VI. Rule Implementation A. Effective Date for Compliance In accordance with CAA section 112(i)(3), owners and operators of existing sources would be required to comply with the requirements of this NESHAP within 3 years after promulgation of the rule unless a compliance extension is granted to a particular source. Owners and operators of sources that begin operation on or after October 13, 1994 would be required to comply with all provisions of the NESHAP upon startup. B. Modifications and Reconstruction Owners and operators of newly constructed or reconstructed off-site waste and recovery operations must comply with the requirements specified in the Part 63 general provisions (40 CFR 63.5). For modified sources, the EPA has proposed guidance under the authority of CAA section 112(g) (refer to 59 FR 15504, April 1, 1994). The EPA anticipates that the final promulgated guidance will apply to off-site waste and recovery operations. C. Relationship to Title V Operating Permit Program Under title V of the CAA, the EPA has established a program the requires all owners and operators of HAP-emitting sources to obtain an operating permit (57 FR 32251, July 21, 1992). The EPA's operating permit program establishes a single document that includes all of the requirements which pertain to a single source. Each permit will contain federally enforceable conditions with which the source owner and operator must comply. Under this program, all applicable requirements of the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP would ultimately be included in a source's title V operating permit. State operating permit programs must be approved by the EPA. Once a State's permit program has been approved, each off-site waste and recovery operations facility within that State must apply for and obtain an operating permit. If the State where the facility is located does not have an approved permitting program, the owner or operator of a facility must submit the application to the EPA Regional office in accordance with the requirements of the Part 63 general provisions (40 CFR 63 subpart A). VII. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing A public hearing will be held, if requested, to discuss the proposed rule in accordance with CAA section 307(d)(5). Persons wishing to make an oral presentation regarding the proposed off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP should contact the EPA contact person listed in the FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT section at the beginning of this notice. Oral presentations will be limited to 15 minutes each. Any member of the public may file a written statement before, during, or within 30 days after the hearing. Written statements should be sent the attention of Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;16 at EPA's Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center (see ADDRESSES section of this notice). A verbatim transcript of the hearing and written comments received by the EPA regarding the proposed off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP will be placed in Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;16. B. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file of information considered by the EPA in the development of a rulemaking. The docket pertaining to the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP is Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;16. This docket contains a copy of the regulatory text of the proposed rule, the BID, and copies of all BID references and other information related to the development of this proposed rule. The public may review all materials in this docket at the EPA's Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center (see the ADDRESSES section at the beginning of this notice). C. Executive Order 12866 Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993) imposes procedural requirements on the development of significant regulatory actions. The EPA must therefore determine whether a regulatory action is significant. The Executive Order defines a significant regulatory action as one that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, users fees, or loan programs, or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order.
