FR940916-0-00035 FR940916-0-00014 SMAQMD's submitted rules include the following significant changes from the current SIP: Rule 442, Architectural Coatings •Removed the Air Pollution Control Officer's (APCO) discretion in approving alternate test methods, •Added statement that results by any listed test method showing non-compliance with any provision of the rule shall constitute a violation of the rule, •Added new category for low solids stains. Rule 443, Leaks from Synthetic Organic Chemical and Polymer Manufacturing •Removed the APCO's discretion in approving alternate test methods, •Added statement that results by any listed test method showing non-compliance with any provision of the rule shall constitute a violation of the rule, •Added clear reference to EPA's capture efficiency guidance in 55 FR 26865, June 29, 1990. Rule 446, Storage of Petroleum Products •Removed the APCO's discretion in approving alternate test methods, •Added clear reference to EPA's capture efficiency guidance in 55 FR 26865, June 29, 1990. Rule 447, Organic Liquid Loading •Removed the APCO's discretion in approving alternate test methods, •Added definition of exempt compounds. Rule 452, Can Coating •Removed APCO's discretion in approving alternate test methods, •Added statement that results by any listed test method showing non-compliance with any provision of the rule shall constitute a violation of the rule, •Added recordkeeping requirement when using an emission control system. EPA has evaluated the submitted rules and has determined that they are consistent with the CAA, EPA regulations, and EPA policy. Therefore, SMAQMD's Rule 442, Architectural Coatings; Rule 443, Leaks from Synthetic Organic Chemical and Polymer Manufacturing; Rule 446, Storage of Petroleum Products; Rule 447, Organic Liquid Loadings; and Rule 452, Can Coating are being approved under section 110(k)(3) of the CAA as meeting the requirements of section 110(a) and part D. The final action on these rules serves as a final determination that the deficiencies in these rules have been corrected. Therefore, if this direct final action is not withdrawn, on November 15, 1994, any sanction or Federal Implementation Plan Clock is stopped. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future implementation plan. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. EPA is publishing this document without prior proposal because the Agency views this as a noncontroversial amendment and anticipates no adverse comments. However, in a separate document in this Federal Register publication, the EPA is proposing to approve the SIP revision should adverse or critical comments be filed. This action will be effective November 15, 1994, unless, by October 17, 1994, adverse or critical comments are received. If the EPA receives such comments, this action will be withdrawn before the effective date by publishing a subsequent document that will withdraw the final action. All public comments received will then be addressed in a subsequent final rule based on this action serving as a proposed rule. The EPA will not institute a second comment period on this action. Any parties interested in commenting on this action should do so at this time. If no such comments are received, the public is advised that this action will be effective November 15, 1994.
