FR940124-0-00007 FR940124-0-00001 Under 43 CFR 4.1294(b), the corresponding Federal regulation, a person is eligible for an award of costs and expenses from the regulatory authority if that person ``made a substantial contribution to a full and fair determination of the issues'' and ``prevails in whole or in part, achieving at least some degree of success on the merits.'' While the preamble to 43 CFR 4.1294(a)(1) states that meeting a requirement for a finding that a violation of the Act, regulations or permit has occurred is comparable to a showing of some degree of success on the merits (50 FR 47223, November 15, 1985), the reverse of this statement is not true. For example, a person involved in an administrative hearing on a permit decision can achieve at least some degree of success on the merits (imposition of a permit condition or issuance of a revision order) without establishing the existence of a specific violation of statute or rule. The same situation exists with respect to administrative proceedings that end in settlement agreements. Furthermore, the proposed amendment is in direct conflict with the legislative history of section 525(e) of SMCRA: Section 525(e) provides for the award of costs, including attorneys' and expert witness fees, in the discretion of the Secretary. This section gives the Secretary authority to award attorneys' fees to compensate participants in the administrative process. The subsection does not require that the proceedings result in the finding of a violation nor does the fact that the Government was a party in an adjudicatory proceeding, or had caused the proceeding to be initiated, prevent an award under the terms of the subsection. It is the committee's intention that this subsection not be interpreted or applied in a manner that would discourage good faith actions on the part of interested citizens. H.R. Rep. No. 218, 95th Cong., 1st Sess. 131 (1977). The provision of H.R. 2 to which this passage applies was subsequently adopted by the conference committee as part of SMCRA with only minor changes. The accompanying committee report (H.R. Rep. No. 493, 95th Cong., 1st Sess. 111 (1977)) contains no language repudiating or modifying the portion of H.R. Rep. No. 218 quoted above. Therefore, the Secretary finds that W.S. 35&hyph;11&hyph;437(f)(iii), which contains the provision in question, is inconsistent with section 525(e) of SMCRA and the Federal regulations at 43 CFR 4.1294(b), and is not approving it. 6. Award of Costs and Expenses: Applicability to Judicial Proceedings and Administrative Proceedings Under EQA Sections Other Than W.S. 35&hyph;11&hyph;437 Wyoming Enrolled Act No. 60 revises W.S. 35&hyph;11&hyph;437(f), the State counterpart to section 525(e) of SMCRA, by providing in part that costs and expenses (including attorney's fees) incurred by parties in connection with a proceeding under the Act may be assessed against one or more of those parties only if the proceeding is an administrative proceeding. In relevant part, the revised statute reads as follows: Whenever an order is issued under this section, at the request of any person, a sum equal to the aggregate amount of all costs and expenses (including attorney's fees) as determined by the director to have been reasonably incurred by the person for or in connection with his participation in the proceeding, including any judicial review of agency actions, may be assessed against either party as the court or the director deems proper. This subsection shall apply only to administrative contested case proceedings under the provisions of this act relating to the regulation of surface coal mining and reclamation operations in accordance with P.L. 95&hyph;87, as that law is worded on August 3, 1977.*␣*␣* Although the first sentence of subsection (f), which is essentially unchanged, would appear to allow assessments in connection with judicial review proceedings, this provision is now negated by the second sentence, which has been revised to specify that ``[t]his subsection shall apply only to administrative contested case proceedings *␣*␣*'' (emphasis added). Therefore, the Secretary finds that W.S. 35&hyph;11&hyph;437(f) as revised is inconsistent with section 525(e) of SMCRA, which allows costs and expenses to be assessed in connection with both administrative and judicial proceedings.
