FR940630-2-00039 FR940630-2-00038 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION Mass Media Regulatory Fees June 20, 1994. The Federal Communications Commission issues this Public Notice in order to provide information concerning the payment of regulatory fees in 1994. If you are a licensee in any of the mass media services, you should carefully review this Public Notice. Who Must Pay Regulatory Fees In 1994 Most licensees and other entities regulated by the Commission must pay regulatory fees in 1994. This Public Notice concerns the following Mass Media licensees: commercial AM & FM radio stations, commercial television stations. Low Power Television and television translator and booster licensees, broadcast auxiliary and international (short wave) broadcast station licensees. Non-commercial educational licensees are exempt from regulatory fees as are licensees of auxiliary broadcast services such as low power auxiliary stations, television auxiliary service stations, remote pickup stations and aural broadcast auxiliary stations where such licenses are used in conjunction with commonly owned non-commercial educational stations. Emergency broadcast service (EBS) licenses for auxiliary service facilities are also exempt as are Instructional Television Fixed Service (ITFS) licensees. Also, no regulatory fees are required in Fiscal Year 1994 for FM translators and FM boosters. Why the Commission Must Collect New Fees The new requirement to collect annual regulatory fees was contained in Public Law 103&hyph;66, ``The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993''. These new regulatory fees, which are likely to change each fiscal year, will be used to offset costs associated with the Commission's enforcement, public service, international and policy and rulemaking activities. The new fees are in addition to any application processing fees associated with obtaining a license or other authorization from the Commission. When Fees Will Be Due Fee payment dates vary by service. Payments must be received by the Commission by the dates shown below in order to avoid a 25% late penalty. When paying multiple fees, the consolidated fee payment is due on the date the latest individual fee payment would be due. AM Radio (including associated broadcast auxiliary fees): September 2, 1994 FM Radio (including associated broadcast auxiliary fees): August 10, 1994 Television (including associated broadcast auxiliary fees, low power television, TV translators & boosters): July 29, 1994 (except, if authorized, a second installment payment which must be received by August 26, 1994) International (HF) Broadcast Station fees: September 2, 1994 FCC Form 159 Regulatory fee payments must be accompanied by FCC Form 159 (``FCC Remittance Advice''). A copy of this form, with specific instructions, is attached to this Public Notice. Please see ``Special Instructions for Completing FCC Forms 159 & 159&hyph;C'' for detailed information on how to correctly complete these Forms. Where To Send Regulatory Fee Payments All regulatory fee payments must be sent to the following address: Federal Communications Commission, Regulatory Fees, P.O. Box 358835, Pittsburgh, PA 15251&hyph;5835. Method of Payment Regulatory fee payments may be made by check, money order or by credit card (Visa or Mastercard only). When paying by credit card, please make sure you sign the appropriate block of Form 159. Payments may also be made electronically provided prior approval has been obtained from the Commission. Contact Thomas M. Holleran at (202) 418&hyph;1925 for prior approval. Note: We encourage arrangements to consolidate regulatory fee payments for different entities into a single payment instrument by a single payee. We recognize the benefits to be gained by all the parties involved. Notwithstanding the scheduled payment due dates specified in this Public Notice, consolidation of 100 or more regulatory fees due from different entities by a single payee will be due on September 2, 1994 . Entities participating in such consolidated payment arrangements that are eligible, and choose, to pay by installment, should pay one-half of the regulatory fee eligible for installment payment by September 2, 1994. The second installment payment will then be due September 30, 1994 . Multiple fee payments may be made with one check, money order, credit card or electronic payment. Payors who will be making a single payment for a significant number of entities and wish to submit automated data submissions in lieu of a large number of FCC Forms 159&hyph;C (``Advice Continuation Sheets'') should contact Thomas M. Holleran at (202) 418&hyph;1925 at least four weeks prior to the payment due date. Installment Payments Only commercial television station licensees are permitted to make installment payments and then only if their total regulatory fee exceeds $12,000. Please note that fee payments for other than television station licenses cannot be counted toward the $12,000 installment threshold. Nor can licensees or permittees of any LPTV, TV translators & boosters, broadcast auxiliaries service stations or holders of construction permits pay their fees by installment. Eligible licensees choosing to make installment payments must pay one-half of their total fee by July 29, 1994 . The second installment payment is due no later than August 26, 1994 . Entities participating in consolidated payment arrangements that are eligible, and elect, to pay by installment should note the different due dates for their installment payments (see ``Method of Payment'' above).
