FR940314-2-00123 FR940314-2-00065 B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition ICC does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Comments were not and are not intended to be solicited with respect to the proposed rule change, and none were received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action For the reasons set forth in the previous Commission order approving ICC's revised standards for letters of credit deposited as margin, the Commission believes that the proposal is consistent with ICC's obligations under section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act. 6 Among other things, the revised standards: (1) Should make the letters of credit ICC will accept as margin deposits more liquid than under the previous standards and, consequently, should permit ICC to more safely rely upon such letters of credit; (2) should result in more frequent assessments of the financial conditions of clearing members depositing letters of credit and thereby should facilitate the discovery of any adverse developments in a more timely manner: and (3) should make letters of credit a more reliable form of margin deposit than previously because issuers will no longer be able to revoke letters of credit at times when clearing members most need credit facilities ( e.g. , when a clearing member is experiencing financial difficulties or during times of market volatility). 7 By approving the proposed rule change on a temporary basis through December 31, 1994, ICC, the Commission, and other interested parties will be able to assess further any effects these revised standards have on letter of credit issuance and on margin deposited at ICC. 8 615 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F) (1988). Among other things, section 17A(b)(3)(F) requires that the rules of a clearing agency be designed to assure the safeguarding of securities and funds which are in the custody or control of the clearing agency or for which the clearing agency is responsible. 7 For a detailed discussion of the Commission's basis for approving ICC's revised standards, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 32003, supra note 2. 8 The Commission and ICC currently are studying concentration limits on letters of credit deposited as margin. The Division believes that clearing agencies that accept letters of credit as margin deposits or clearing fund contributions should limit their exposure by imposing concentration limits on the use of letters of credit. Generally, clearing agencies impose limitations on the percentage of an individual member's required deposit or contribution that may be satisfied with letters of credit, limitations on the percentage of the total required deposits or contributions that may be satisfied with letters of credit by any one issuer, or some combination of both. ICC has no concentration limits on the use of letters of credit issued by U.S. institutions. ICC has requested that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing. The Commission finds good cause for so approving because the Commission believes it is desirable that the revised standards that were implemented under the previous temporary approval order remain in place pending permanent approval. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of ICC. All submissions should refer to the file number SR&hyph;ICC&hyph;94&hyph;04 and should be submitted by April 4, 1994. V. Conclusion On the basis of the foregoing, the Commission finds that ICC's proposed rule change is consistent with the Act and in particular with Section 17A of the Act. It is therefore ordered , under section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposal (File No. SR&hyph;ICC&hyph;94&hyph;03) be, and hereby is, approved through December 31, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5807 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
