FR940630-0-00116 FR940630-0-00036 (2) A section 3 joint venture means an association of business concerns, one of which qualifies as a section 3 business concern, formed by written joint venture agreement to engage in and carry out a specific business venture for which purpose the business concerns combine their efforts, resources, and skills for joint profit, but not necessarily on a continuing or permanent basis for conducting business generally, and for which the section 3 business concern: (i) Is responsible for a clearly defined portion of the work to be performed and holds management responsibilities in the joint venture; and (ii) Performs at least 25 percent of the work and is contractually entitled to compensation proportionate to its work. Subpart C_[Reserved] Subpart D_Complaint and Compliance Review §135.70 General. (a) Purpose. The purpose of this subpart is to establish the procedures for handling complaints alleging noncompliance with the regulations of this part, and the procedures governing the Assistant Secretary's review of a recipient's or contractor's compliance with the regulations in this part. (b) Definitions. For purposes of this subpart: (1) Complaint means an allegation of noncompliance with regulations of this part made in the form described in §135.76(d). (2) Complainant means the party which files a complaint with the Assistant Secretary alleging that a recipient or contractor has failed or refused to comply with the regulations in this part. (3) Noncompliance with section 3 means failure by a recipient or contractor to comply with the requirements of this part. (4) Respondent means the recipient or contractor against which a complaint of noncompliance has been filed. The term ``recipient'' shall have the meaning set forth in §135.7, which includes PHA and IHA. §135.72 Cooperation in achieving compliance. (a) The Assistant Secretary recognizes that the success of ensuring that section 3 residents and section 3 business concerns have the opportunity to apply for jobs and to bid for contracts generated by covered HUD financial assistance depends upon the cooperation and assistance of HUD recipients and their contractors and subcontractors. All recipients shall cooperate fully and promptly with the Assistant Secretary in section 3 compliance reviews, in investigations of allegations of noncompliance made under §135.76, and with the distribution and collection of data and information that the Assistant Secretary may require in connection with achieving the economic objectives of section 3. (b) The recipient shall refrain from entering into a contract with any contractor after notification to the recipient by HUD that the contractor has been found in violation of the regulations in this part. The provisions of 24 CFR part 24 apply to the employment, engagement of services, awarding of contracts or funding of any contractors or subcontractors during any period of debarment, suspension or otherwise ineligible status. §135.74 Section 3 compliance review procedures. (a) Compliance reviews by Assistant Secretary. The Assistant Secretary shall periodically conduct section 3 compliance reviews of selected recipients and contractors to determine whether these recipients are in compliance with the regulations in this part. (b) Form of compliance review. A section 3 compliance review shall consist of a comprehensive analysis and evaluation of the recipient's or contractor's compliance with the requirements and obligations imposed by the regulations of this part, including an analysis of the extent to which section 3 residents have been hired and section 3 business concerns have been awarded contracts as a result of the methods undertaken by the recipient to achieve the employment, contracting and other economic objectives of section 3. (c) Where compliance review reveals noncompliance with section 3 by recipient or contractor. Where the section 3 compliance review reveals that a recipient or contractor has not complied with section 3, the Assistant Secretary shall notify the recipient or contractor of its specific deficiencies in compliance with the regulations of this part, and shall advise the recipient or contractor of the means by which these deficiencies may be corrected. HUD shall conduct a follow-up review with the recipient or contractor to ensure that action is being taken to correct the deficiencies. (d) Continuing noncompliance by recipient or contractor. A continuing failure or refusal by the recipient or contractor to comply with the regulations in this part may result in the application of sanctions specified in the contract through which HUD assistance is provided, or the application of sanctions specified in the regulations governing the HUD program under which HUD financial assistance is provided. HUD will notify the recipient of any continuing failure or refusal by the contractor to comply with the regulations in this part for possible action under any procurement contract between the recipient and the contractor. Debarment, suspension and limited denial of participation pursuant to HUD's regulations in 24 CFR part 24, where appropriate, may be applied to the recipient or the contractor. (e) Conducting compliance review before the award of assistance. Section 3 compliance reviews may be conducted before the award of contracts, and especially where the Assistant Secretary has reasonable grounds to believe that the recipient or contractor will be unable or unwilling to comply with the regulations in this part. (f) Consideration of complaints during compliance review. Complaints alleging noncompliance with section 3, as provided in §135.76, may also be considered during any compliance review conducted to determine the recipient's conformance with regulations in this part.
