FR940523-1-00007 FR940523-1-00002 (a) The tentative marketing agreement and the order, as hereby proposed to be amended, and all of the terms and conditions thereof, will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act; (b) The parity prices of milk as determined pursuant to section 2 of the Act are not reasonable in view of the price of feeds, available supplies of feeds, and other economic conditions which affect market supply and demand for milk in the marketing area, and the minimum prices specified in the tentative marketing agreement and the order, as hereby proposed to be amended, are such prices as will reflect the aforesaid factors, insure a sufficient quantity of pure and wholesome milk, and be in the public interest; and (c) The tentative marketing agreement and the order, as hereby proposed to be amended, will regulate the handling of milk in the same manner as, and will be applicable only to persons in the respective classes of industrial and commercial activity specified in, a marketing agreement upon which a hearing has been held. Marketing Agreement and Order Annexed hereto and made a part hereof are two documents, a Marketing Agreement regulating the handling of milk, and an Order amending the order regulating the handling of milk in the Southern Michigan marketing area, which have been decided upon as the detailed and appropriate means of effectuating the foregoing conclusions. It is hereby ordered, That this entire decision and the two documents annexed hereto be published in the Federal Register . Determination of Producer Approval and Representative Period January 1994 is hereby determined to be the representative period for the purpose of ascertaining whether the issuance of the order, as amended and as hereby proposed to be amended, regulating the handling of milk in the Southern Michigan marketing area is approved or favored by producers, as defined under the terms of the order (as amended and as hereby proposed to be amended), who during such representative period were engaged in the production of milk for sale within the aforesaid marketing area. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1040 Milk marketing orders. Dated: May 12, 1994. Patricia Jensen, Acting Assistant Secretary, Marketing and Inspection Services. Order Amending the Order Regulating the Handling of Milk in the Southern Michigan Marketing Area This order shall not become effective unless and until the requirements of ยง900.14 of the rules of practice and procedure governing proceedings to formulate marketing agreements and marketing orders have been met. Findings and Determinations The findings and determinations hereinafter set forth supplement those that were made when the order was first issued and when it has been amended. The previous findings and determinations are hereby ratified and confirmed, except where they may conflict with those set forth herein. (a) Findings. A public hearing was held upon certain proposed amendments to the tentative marketing agreement and to the order regulating the handling of milk in the Southern Michigan marketing area. The hearing was held pursuant to the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674), and the applicable rules of practice and procedure (7 CFR part 900). Upon the basis of the evidence introduced at such hearing and the record thereof, it is found that: (1) The said order as hereby amended, and all of the terms and conditions thereof, will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act; (2) The parity prices of milk, as determined pursuant to section 2 of the Act, are not reasonable in view of the price of feeds, available supplies of feeds, and other economic conditions which affect market supply and demand for milk in the aforesaid marketing area; and the minimum prices specified in the order as hereby amended are such prices as will reflect the aforesaid factors, insure a sufficient quantity of pure and wholesome milk, and be in the public interest; and (3) The said order as hereby amended regulates the handling of milk in the same manner as, and is applicable only to persons in the respective classes of industrial or commercial activity specified in, a marketing agreement upon which a hearing has been held. Order Relative to Handling It is therefore ordered, That on and after the effective date hereof, the handling of milk in the Southern Michigan marketing area shall be in conformity to and in compliance with the terms and conditions of the order, as amended, and as hereby amended, as follows: PART 1040_MILK IN THE SOUTHERN MICHIGAN MARKETING AREA 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 1040 continues to read as follows: Authority: Secs. 1&hyph;19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674.
