FR941122-2-00077 FR941122-2-00061 Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore Advisory Commission Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act that a meeting of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore Advisory Commission will be held at 7:30 p.m. (PST) on Wednesday, December 7, 1994 at GGNRA Park Headquarters, Building 201, Fort Mason, Bay and Franklin Streets, San Francisco, California to hear presentations on issues related to management of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore. The Advisory Commission was established by Public Law 92&hyph;589 to provide for the free exchange of ideas between the National Park Service and the public and to facilitate the solicitation of advice or other counsel from members of the public on problems pertinent to the National Park Service systems in Marin, San Francisco and San Mateo Counties. Members of the Commission are as follows: Mr. Richard Bartke, Chairman Ms. Amy Meyer, Vice Chair Mr. Michael Alexander Ms. Sonia Bolaos Dr. Howard Cogswell Mr. Jerry Friedman Ms. Naomi Gray Mr. Redmond F. Kernan Mr. Mel Lane Ms. Yvonne Lee Mr. Trent Orr Ms. Lennie Roberts Mr. Merritt Robinson Mr. R. H. Sciaroni Mr. John J. Spring Dr. Edgar Wayburn Mr. Joseph Williams Ms. Jacqueline Young The main agenda item at this meeting will be a presentation of a status report on the proposed mushroom collection policy of the National Park Service and the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. Also on the agenda will be an annual report to the Advisory Commission from the Golden Gate National Park Association and a swearing-in of newly appointed advisory commissioners. The meeting will also contain a Superintendent's Report from GGNRA Superintendent Brian O'Neill. This meeting is open to the public. It will be recorded for documentation and transcribed for dissemination. Minutes of the meeting will be available to the public after approval of the full Advisory Commission. A transcript will be available after December 30, 1994. For copies of the minutes contact the Office of the Staff Assistant, Golden Gate National Recreation Area, Building 201, Fort Mason, San Francisco, California 94123. Dated: November 15, 1994. Patricia L. Neubacher, Associate Regional Director for Administration, Western Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28791 Filed 11&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;P
