FR940324-2-00092 FR940324-2-00044 Single State Agency Coordination: Coordination with the Single State Agency (SSA) for alcohol and other drug abuse is encouraged to ensure communication, reduce duplication, and facilitate continuity. Therefore, a copy of a letter sent by the applicant to the SSA that briefly describes the application should be included in an appendix to the application entitled ``Letters to/from SSAs.'' A list of SSAs can be found in the grant application kit. If the target population falls within the jurisdiction of more than one State, all representative SSAs should be involved. Evidence of support for the proposed project from the SSA will be considered in making funding decisions. Intergovernmental Review (Executive Order 12372): Applications submitted in response to this Announcement are subject to the intergovernmental review requirements of Executive Order 12372, as implemented through DHHS regulations at 45 CFR part 100. Executive Order 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of applications for Federal financial assistance. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact the State's Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective application and to receive any necessary instructions on the State review process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC of each affected State. A current listing of SPOCs is included in the application kit. The SPOC should send the recommendations from the State review process to the following office at CSAP (not to the Division of Research Grants, NIH, which is the central receipt point for applications): Office of Review, Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, Rockwall II Building, room 630, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, ATTN: SPOC. The due date for the State review process recommendations is no later than 60 days after the deadline date for the receipt of applications. CSAP does not guarantee to accommodate or explain SPOC comments that are received after the 60-day cutoff. Public Health System Reporting Requirements: The Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS) is intended to keep State and local health officials apprised of proposed health services grant applications submitted by community-based, non-governmental organizations within their jurisdictions. Community-based, non-governmental service providers who are not transmitting their applications through the State must submit a PHSIS to the head(s) of the appropriate State and local health agencies in the area(s) to be affected no later than the pertinent receipt date for applications. The PHSIS consists of the following information: a. A copy of the face page of the application (Standard Form 424). b. A summary of the project (PHSIS), not to exceed one page, which provides: (1) A description of the population to be served. (2) A summary of the services to be provided. (3) A description of the coordination planned with the appropriate State or local health agencies. State and local governments and Indian Tribal Authority applicants are not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Application Submission Procedures: All applicants must use application form PHS 5161&hyph;1 (Rev. 7/92), which contains Standard Form 424 (face page). Grant application kits (including form PHS 5161&hyph;1 with Standard Form 424, complete application procedures, and accompanying guidance materials for the narrative approved under OMB No. 0937&hyph;0189) may be obtained from: National Clearinghouse on Alcohol and Drug Information (NCADI), Post Office Box 2345, Rockville, Maryland 20852, 1&hyph;800&hyph;729&hyph;6686. An audio-cassette of the Announcement is also available from the above address. Applicants must submit: a. An original copy of the application signed by the authorized official of the applicant organization, with a complete set of the appropriate appendices; and b. Two additional, legible copies of the application and all appendices. Faxes are not permissible. The above materials should be sent to the following address: Center for Substance Abuse Prevention Programs, Division of Research Grants, NIH, Westwood Building, room 240, 5333 Westbard Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.* *If an overnight carrier or express mail is used, the correct ZIP Code is 20816.
