FR941005-1-00016 FR941005-1-00004 For example, among the risks identified in section 7(b) are those attributable to ``different categories and concentrations of liabilities, both insured and uninsured *␣*␣*.'' 12 U.S.C. 1817(b)(1)(C)(i)(II). One area of risk taken into account in the existing assessment base is that involving deposit liabilities. Potentially, the assessment base could be modified to take into account other ``categories'' of liabilities, such as non-deposit, secured liabilities. This example is discussed more fully in paragraph C of section IV, below. B. Assessment Avoidance Whatever assessment base is applied, the FDIC believes that, in order to avoid imposing any additional regulatory burden on insured institutions, it is desirable to continue to collect assessment data from institutions in their quarterly Reports of Condition. If the assessment-base definition is changed, the information collected for assessment purposes by the Reports of Condition might also need to be changed. At present, the data collected in these reports reflect amounts ``as of'' the report date. This has caused some institutions purposefully to reduce their assessment expenses by temporarily reducing the amount of the deposits held on the report date. It has been suggested that defining the assessment base in terms of a daily average over the quarter (that is, total dollars for the quarter divided by the number of days in the quarter), rather than actual ``as of'' report-date data, would mitigate this assessment-avoidance problem. An averaging approach would also help to smooth out the effects of unusual occurrences such as misdirected wire transfers and the receipt, on or just before the report date, of abnormally large deposits to be held only briefly by an institution. C. Failure-Resolution Policies In past years, governmental policies for resolving failed or failing depository institutions frequently provided protection for liabilities not specifically covered by federal deposit insurance. First, through the use of all-deposit purchase-and-assumption (P&A) transactions, all depositors_insured and uninsured alike_often received full protection for their deposit balances. Unlike a deposit payoff or an insured-deposit transfer, in which only insured deposits were covered (and which were used only when there was no acceptable bid for an all-deposit P&A), the all-deposit P&A allowed for de facto 100-percent insurance protection. The protection of all depositors in the resolution of several large bank failures contributed to the perception that some banks were ``too big to fail'' and thus eligible for de facto 100-percent insurance protection for all deposits, both domestic and foreign. While the use of all-deposit P&As and application of the so-called ``too big to fail'' doctrine often resulted in protection for liabilities beyond the statutory limit for deposit insurance coverage, in all such cases it did so in satisfaction of a cost test or for clear policy objectives such as maintaining the stability of, and public confidence in, the banking system. Specifically, the FDI Act required that, subject to an ``essentiality'' exception, the resolution of an institution be no more costly to the FDIC than its liquidation. Hence, the FDIC could normally effect an all- deposit P&A only if the purchase premium paid by the acquirer for the transaction offset the additional cost to the FDIC of protecting uninsured liabilities, in comparison with the cost of a liquidation. In the handful of ``too big to fail'' cases where this cost test was not met, the FDIC acted under a statutory exception to the cost test based on the ``essentiality'' of the failing institution to the marketplace. That exception was used only in a small minority of the total number of resolutions the FDIC effected.
