FR940413-0-00087 FR940413-0-00026 PART 945_DESIGNATED HOUSING_PUBLIC HOUSING DESIGNATED FOR OCCUPANCY BY DISABLED, ELDERLY, OR DISABLED AND ELDERLY FAMILIES Subpart A_General Sec. 945.101␣Purpose. 945.103␣General policies. 945.105␣Definitions. Subpart B_Application and Approval Procedures 945.201␣Approval to designate housing. 945.203␣Allocation plan. 945.205␣Designated housing for disabled families. Subpart C_Operating Designated Housing 945.301␣General requirements. 945.303␣Requirements governing occupancy in designated housing. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1473e; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Subpart A_General §945.101 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to provide for designated housing as authorized by section 7 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437e). Section 7 provides public housing agencies with the option, subject to the requirements and procedures of this part, to designate public housing projects, or portions of public housing projects, for occupancy by disabled families, elderly families, or mixed populations of disabled families and elderly families. §945.103 General policies. (a) Agency participation. Participation in this program is limited to public housing agencies (PHAs) (as this term is defined in 24 CFR 913.102) that elect to designate public housing projects for occupancy by disabled families, elderly families, or disabled families and elderly families, as provided by this part. (b) Eligible housing_ (1) Designation of public housing. Projects eligible for designation under this part are public housing projects as described in the definition of ``project'' in §945.105. (2) Additional housing resources. To meet the housing and supportive service needs of elderly families, and disabled families, including non-elderly disabled families, who will not be housed in a designated project, PHAs shall utilize housing resources that they own, control, or have received preliminary notification that they will obtain (e.g., section 8 certificates and vouchers). They also may utilize housing resources for which they plan to apply during the period covered by the allocation plan, and that they have a reasonable expectation of obtaining. PHAs also may utilize, to the extent practicable, any housing facilities that they own or control in which supportive services are already provided, facilitated or coordinated, such as mixed housing, shared housing, family housing, group homes, and congregate housing. (3) Exemption of mixed population projects. A PHA with a public housing project with a mixed population of elderly families and disabled families that plans to house them in such project in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 960, subpart D, is not required to meet the designation requirements of this part. (c) Family Participation in designated housing_ (1) Voluntary participation. The election to reside in designated housing is voluntary on the part of a family. No disabled family or elderly family may be required to reside in designated housing, nor shall a decision not to reside in designated housing adversely affect the family with respect to occupancy of another appropriate project. (2) Meeting stated eligibility requirements. Nothing in this part shall be construed to require or permit a PHA to accept for admission to a designated project a disabled family or elderly family who does not meet the stated eligibility requirements for occupancy in the project (for example, income), as set forth in HUD's regulations in 24 CFR parts 912 and 913, and in the PHA's admission policies. §945.105 Definitions. As used in this part: Act means the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437&hyph;1440). Accessible units means units that meet the requirement of accessibility with respect to dwellings as set forth in the second definition of ``accessible'' in 24 CFR 8.3. Allocation plan. See §945.201. CHAS means the comprehensive housing affordability strategy required by section 105 of the National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12705) or any successor plan prescribed by HUD. Designated family means the category of family for whom the project is designated (e. g., elderly family in a project designated for elderly families). Designated housing or designated project means a project (or projects), or a portion of a project (or projects) (as these terms are defined in this section), that has been designated in accordance with the requirements of this part. Disabled family means a family whose head or spouse or sole member is a person with disabilities. The term ``disabled family'' may include two or more persons with disabilities living together, and one or more persons with disabilities living with one or more persons who are determined to be essential to the care or well-being of the person or persons with disabilities. A disabled family may include persons with disabilities who are elderly. Elderly family means a family whose head, spouse, or sole member is an elderly person. The term ``elderly family'' includes an elderly person, two or more elderly persons living together, and one or more elderly persons living with one or more persons who are determined to be essential to the care or well-being of the elderly person or persons. An elderly family may include elderly persons with disabilities and other family members who are not elderly. Elderly person means a person who is at least 62 years of age. Family includes but is not limited to a single person as defined in this part, a displaced person (as defined in 24 CFR part 912), a remaining member of a tenant family, a disabled family, an elderly family, a near-elderly family, and a family with children. It also includes an elderly family or a disabled family composed of one or more elderly persons living with one or more disabled persons. Housing has the same meaning as ``project,'' which is defined in this section. HUD or Department means the Department of Housing and Urban Development including any Field Offices to which authority has been delegated to perform functions under this part. Mixed population project means a public housing project reserved for elderly families and disabled families. This is the project type referred to in NAHA as being designated for elderly and disabled families. A PHA that has a mixed population project or intends to develop one need not submit an allocation plan or request a designation. However, the project must meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 960 subpart D. NAHA means the National Affordable Housing Act (Pub.L. 101&hyph;625, approved November 28, 1990). Near-elderly family means a family whose head, spouse, or sole member is a near-elderly person. The term ``near-elderly family'' includes two or more near-elderly persons living together, and one or more near-elderly persons living with one or more persons who are determined to be essential to the care or well-being of the near-elderly person or persons. A near-elderly family may include other family members who are not near-elderly. Near-elderly person means a person who is at least 50 years of age but below the age of 62, who may be a person with a disability.
