FR940425-2-00077 FR940425-2-00053 Phosphono(difluromethyl)phenylalanine (F2Pmp) is a chemically and enzymatically stable mimetic of phosphotyrosine. The molecule is suitably protected for use in solid-phase peptide synthesis and could be the reagent of choice for synthesis of peptides containing stable phosphotyrosyl mimetics. Three Highly Informative Microsatellite DNA Markers for Use In Human Individualization Merril, C.R., Polymeropoulos, M.H. (NIMH) Filed 9 Jun 93 Serial No. 08/074,275 Licensing Specialist: Carl C. Floyd, Ph.D. The present invention relates to genetic testing with polymorphic DNA markers. The repeat sequences of the markers provide a rapid and convenient high resolution process for distinguishing target nucleic acid segments on the basis of nucleotide differences according to human individualization wherein the nucleic acid segments differ in size. The invention has several applications in the areas of forensic screening, paternity and prenatal screening, as well as genetic mapping. The First Immortalized Kaposi's Sarcoma Cell Line Iskandar-Lunardi, Y.L., Gallo, R.C. (NCI) Filed 20 Aug 93 Serial No. 08/110,175 Licensing Specialist: Carl C. Floyd, Ph.D. Kaposi's Sarcoma (KS) is the most common malignancy in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in the U.S. The present invention makes available cell lines that provide a means for testing anti-Kaposi's Sarcoma therapies in vitro, or a model animal system. The invention allows therapies to be tested and dosages to be optimized prior to testing in humans. The cell line also provides a means of developing novel antitumor therapies and facilitates studies of factors that influence the development and metastasis of malignancies. The Cloning Of Perilipin Proteins Londos, C., Greenberg, A.S., Kimmel, A.R., Egan, J.J. (NIDDK) Filed 4 Oct 93 Serial No. 08/132,649 Licensing Specialist: Carl C. Floyd, Ph.D. Perilipins are found at the surface of lipid storage droplets of adipocytes. Little is known about the molecules on the surface of lipid droplets that may be involved in lipid metabolism and trafficking. The present invention provides isolated nucleic acid sequences which encode a family of perilipin proteins as well as isolated, purified perilipin proteins. These are useful as markers for differentiation of true adipocyte cells from non-adipocyte cells which, as a result of pathophysiological conditions, assume adipocyte characteristics. Dated: April 11, 1994. Donald P. Christoferson, Acting Director, Office of Technology Transfer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9932 Filed 4&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;M
