FR940930-2-00157 FR940930-2-00051 September 23, 1994 BY FACSIMILE AND U.S. MAIL Ann Elaine Castro, Esquire Griffin Professional Building 1455 Court Street Clearwater, Florida 34616 Re: Public Comment on Proposed Consent Decree in United States and State of Florida v. Morton Plant Health System, Inc., et al., No. 94&hyph;748&hyph;CIV&hyph;T&hyph;23E (M.D. Fla., filed May 5, 1994) Dear Ms. Castro: This letter responds to your September 12, 1994 letter regarding the potential impact of the proposed consent decree on competition in the provision of temporary nursing services to Tampa Bay area hospitals. As I understand your concerns, your client is an employment agency that supplies temporary nurses to hospitals in the Tampa Bay area, including Mease. Apparently, your client has had difficulty competing in the provision of nursing services because Morton Plant and 19 other area hospitals, acting through a trade association, Bay Area Hospital Association, actively recruit foreign-born nurses, who, you say, are willing to work at temporary positions at much cheaper rates than the nurses your client employs. You believe that if Morton Plant and Mease combine their purchases of nursing services, as they are permitted to do under the proposed consent decree, their joint venture may elect to purchase the services of foreign-born nurses, rather than continue doing business with your client. In our view, the concerns you have expressed provide no justification for reconsidering the merits of the proposed decree. First, the factual premise of your argument_that Morton Plant favors the use of foreign-born temporary nurses_is suspect. There is no evidence that Morton Plant, in fact, routinely fills temporary nursing positions at its hospitals with lower-paid foreign-born nationals. The materials you submitted to the Florida Attorney General's Office in support of your complaint indicate that, as recently as 1992, Morton Plant did not hire a single foreign national as a temporary nurse. Second, neither hospital is today precluded from hiring foreign-born nurses to fill temporary positions, and there is no proper basis for restricting the joint venture's hiring of foreign-born nurses. Indeed, such employment discrimination is likely unlawful. Finally, even if Morton Plant routinely fills temporary nursing positions with lower-paid foreign nationals, and the hospital joint venture organized pursuant to the decree adopts that practice and expands it to Mease, paying less expensive rates for nursing services is likely to have significant procompetitive effects. This practice promises to reduce the cost of nursing care at these hospitals, and it has not been suggested that that will lead to any diminution in the quality of care. The reduction in nursing costs will likely lead to a reduction in prices paid for hospital-related services, precisely the pro-consumer result the parties anticipated when they agreed to the settlement now pending before the Court. I trust this information will help you to understand the basis for the Department's action and the proposed settlement in this matter. Thank you for sharing your views with us. Sincerely yours, Anthony E. Harris, Attorney, Professions & Intellectual Property Section. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24213 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
