FR940106-2-00115 FR940106-2-00064 [Docket No. 50&hyph;003] Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc., (Indian Point Station, Unit 1); Exemption I The Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., (the licensee), is the holder of Provisional Operating License No. DPR&hyph;5 which authorizes possession and maintenance of the Indian Point Station, Unit 1 (IP&hyph;1). The license provides, among other things, that the plant is subject to all rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission now or hereafter in effect. The plant is a permanently shutdown light water reactor located at the licensee site in Westchester County, New York. II IP&hyph;1 has been shut down since October 31, 1974. There is presently no fuel in the reactor and, under the terms of an April 14, 1977 amendment to License No. DPR&hyph;5 (Appendix A, Technical Specification 3.2.1), no fuel may be loaded into the reactor core or moved into the reactor containment building without prior review and authorization by the Commission. In addition, the Commission revoked authority to operate IP&hyph;1 by order dated June 19, 1980. In order to reflect the permanently shutdown and defueled status of the plant, the NRC is granting an exemption from the requirements of 10 CFR 50.120. This rule states the following: *␣*␣* each nuclear power plant licensee, by November 22, 1993, shall establish, implement, and maintain a training program derived from a systems approach to training as defined in 10 CFR 55.4. This exemption will relieve the licensee from all training program requirements of 10 CFR 50.120. However, it does not relieve the licensee from previous requirements or commitments to train and qualify facility personnel. III The NRC may grant exemptions from the requirements of the regulations which, pursuant to 10 CFR 50.12(a), are (1) authorized by law, will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety, and are consistent with the common defense and security; and (2) present special circumstances. Section 50.12(a)(2)(ii) of 10 CFR part 50 provides that special circumstances exist when application of the regulations in the particular circumstances would not serve the underlying purpose of the rule or is not necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of the rule. The purpose of 10 CFR 50.120 is to ensure that civilian nuclear power plant operating personnel are trained and qualified to safely operate and maintain the facility commensurate with the safety status of the facility. The licensee in its letter dated July 31, 1993, addressed the special circumstances related to the NRC requiring the Indian Point training programs to comply with 10 CFR 50.120. The reactor is permanently shut down, defueled, and the fuel moved to the spent fuel pool. The licensee has stated that the training requirements necessary to assure adequate protection of the public health and safety in a permanently shutdown and defueled facility are significantly less than the training requirements necessary to assure the public health and safety at an operating facility. The current Indian Point training programs for the personnel categories required by 10 CFR 50.120 are as follows: Non-licensed Operators At Indian Point, non-licensed operators are known as ``Nuclear Plant Operators'' and are trained as part of the IP&hyph;2 staff. Their training specifically address the IP&hyph;1 systems that are required to remain in service and also those that support IP&hyph;2 operations. Shift Supervisor The Indian Point shift supervisors are known as ``Senior Watch Supervisors.'' Individuals in this category are part of the IP&hyph;2 staff and receive ongoing training under the IP&hyph;2 program, which includes training on IP&hyph;1 activities. Shift Technical Advisor (STA) The Indian Point shift technical advisor is known as ``Watch Engineer.'' Individuals in this category are part of the IP&hyph;2 staff and receive ongoing training under the Indian Point IP&hyph;2 program, which includes training on IP&hyph;1 activities. Instrumentation and Control, Electrical, and Mechanical Maintenance These individuals are part of the Unit 2 staff and receive training under the IP&hyph;2 training program. The IP&hyph;2 program contains training in IP&hyph;1 activities. Radiation Protection and Chemistry Technician These individuals are part of the IP&hyph;2 staff and receive training under the IP&hyph;2 training program. The IP&hyph;2 program contains training in IP&hyph;1 activities. Engineering Support These individuals are part of the IP&hyph;2 staff and receive training under the IP&hyph;2 training program. The IP&hyph;2 program contains training in IP&hyph;1 activities. The tasks and activities associated with maintaining the fuel are relatively simple compared to the tasks and activities required to maintain an operating nuclear power plant. Therefore, requiring IP&hyph;1 to comply with the literal training requirements specified in 10 CFR 50.120 is not necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of the rule. The licensee contends that the regulation was established for power operation conditions because such conditions could result in the potential for an accident with significant offsite consequences. In an NRC Show Cause Order to Consolidated Edison dated February 11, 1980, the NRC stated that the NRC and the licensee had performed calculations that showed that the spent fuel fission products had decayed such that, in the event of a loss of water from the spent fuel pool, the fuel would adequately cool in air. Since February 11, 1980, the spent fuel radionuclides have decayed an additional 13 years which further reduces the heat load in the event of a loss of water. The staff has also determined that the tasks that remain to be performed by the IP&hyph;1 staff are fewer in number and significantly less complicated than the tasks performed by the staff of an operating nuclear plant. Thus, the NRC staff concludes the licensee justification for exemption is reasonable based on (1) the significantly reduced risk to the public health and safety due to IP&hyph;1 being permanently shut down, and (2) the reduced number and complexity of tasks to be performed by the IP&hyph;1 site staff. IV Based on the analyses presented in Section III above, the staff concludes that sufficient bases exits for approval of this exemption. In addition, the staff finds that the special circumstance present satisfies the requirement of 10 CFR 50.12(a)(2)(ii) in that requiring compliance with 10 CFR 50.120 is not necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of the rule. V Based on the above evaluation, the Commission has determined that, pursuant to 10 CFR 50.12(a)(1), this exemption is authorized by law, will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety, and is consistent with the common defense and security. Accordingly, the Commission hereby grants Indian Point Station Unit 1 and exemption to 10 CFR 50.120. This exemption does not relieve the licensee of any other training requirements or commitments which they have made to the NRC. Pursuant to 10 CFR 51.32, the Commission has determined that the granting of this exemption will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment (58 FR 67871, dated December 22, 1993). This exemption is effective as of its date of issuance. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 28th day of December 1993. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Brian K. Grimes, Director, Division of Operating Reactor Support, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;255 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
