FR940602-2-00040 FR940602-2-00034 FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION Delegations of Authority With Respect to Undercapitalized Institutions AGENCY: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: FDIC has delegated limited authority to its Executive Director for Supervision and Resolutions and/or its Director, Division of Supervision (DOS), to determine that action other than appointing a receiver would better achieve the statutory purpose of minimizing long-term loss to the deposit insurance fund from resolving the problems of insured depository institutions and to make certain other determinations relating to prompt corrective action. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Jesse G. Snyder, (202) 898&hyph;6915, Assistant Director, Operations Branch, Office of Supervision and Applications, Division of Supervision, FDIC, 550 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20429. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Effective December 19, 1992, section 38(h)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o(h)(3)) mandates appointment of a receiver not later than 90 days after an institution becomes critically undercapitalized unless the appropriate regulator, with FDIC concurrence, determines that an alternative course of action ``would better achieve the purpose of [section 38 to resolve the problems of insured depository institutions at the least possible long-term loss to the deposit insurance fund]''. Such a determination is valid for up to 90 days and may be reinstated for additional periods of up to 90 days by new determinations properly documented. After one year a receiver must be appointed unless the head of the appropriate regulatory agency and the Chairperson of the FDIC certify that ``the institution is viable and not expected to fail'' and the institution also meets four other specific criteria. Section 38 also permits the appropriate federal banking agency of an undercapitalized institution to determine not to take certain otherwise mandated corrective actions under subsection (f) if to do so would not further the purpose of section 38. II. Delegation of Authority A. Deferring Appointment of Receiver In connection with the resolution of critically undercapitalized institutions, there are certain cases where it is appropriate to extend the 90-day receivership deadline, such as where the chartering authority or appropriate federal banking agency sets a resolution date beyond the deadline in order to accommodate the information gathering needs required to facilitate an orderly resolution. Another example might be an institution with a promising recapitalization in progress which will not be fully effected prior to the deadline but has a good chance of being successful. It is appropriate that such matters be acted on at the staff level, under delegated authority, with respect to the first determination to defer the appointment of a receiver for up to 90 days for a particular institution. Accordingly, the Board has delegated authority to the Executive Director for Supervision and Resolutions, the Director, DOS, and where confirmed in writing by the Director, to an associate director, to make determinations under section 38(h)(3)(A)(ii) with respect to institutions for which the FDIC is the appropriate federal banking agency, and to affirmatively concur with actions thereunder by other appropriate federal banking agencies, as to any action in lieu of appointing a receiver for a critically undercapitalized institution.
