FR941212-0-00118 FR941212-0-00019 §536.149 Presentation of claims. A claim may not be allowed under this subpart unless it is presented within 2 years after it accrues. Such presentation may be made to United States authorities or to a foreign government in accordance with Article VIII, NATO&hyph;SOFA or other applicable treaty or agreement. §536.150 Form of claims. (a) A claim normally will be presented in writing. A report of the incident to the authorities stated in §536.149 by the claimant or agent requesting compensation is an adequate presentation. Under unusual circumstances, a claim presented orally by the claimant to U.S. authorities may be considered acceptable. An oral claim must be reduced to writing, however, not more than 3 years after the date on which it accrues. The written claim must state the time, place, and nature of the incident; the nature and extent of damage, loss, or injury; and the amount of compensation claimed. (b) A claim will be stated in the currency of the country where the incident occurred, or the country where the claimant was an inhabitant at the time of the incident. The U.S. dollar equivalent of a foreign currency, computed at the time the claim is filed and based on the annual Foreign Currency Fluctuation Account exchange rate (where applicable), will determine whether a foreign claims commission has monetary jurisdiction to settle the claim. (See §536.149.) (c) Claims commissions and command claims service will coordinate informally with the Chief, Special Claims Branch, USARCS to determine whether it is necessary to comply with the mirror file requirements of §536.21 (c) and (d), for any claim cognizable under this subpart in which the amount claimed is greater than $50,000 and a foreign government is not responsible for adjudication under a SOFA or other agreement. §536.151 Claimants. (a) General. (1) In personal injury or property damage cases, a claimant must have been an inhabitant of a foreign country at the time of the incident and not otherwise excluded as a claimant. In a wrongful death case, the proper claimants are those who are entitled by the law of the country where the incident occurred to bring a claim for the decedent's death, and the decedent must have been an inhabitant of a foreign country at the time of the incident and not otherwise excluded as a claimant. However, it is not necessary that the claimant in personal injury and property damage cases, or the decedent in a death case, be a citizen of, or have legal domicile in the foreign country, to establish that he or she is an inhabitant thereof. (2) A corporation or other organization doing business in a foreign country on a permanent basis may qualify as a proper claimant although organized under U.S. law. (3) United States citizens residing overseas may be proper claimants provided it is established that they actually are inhabitants of a foreign country (see paragraph 7&hyph;4c(1)(a), DA Pam 27&hyph;162) and are not otherwise excluded. (4) The government of a foreign country and political subdivisions thereof are proper claimants unless waiver provisions of applicable international agreements exclude such claims. (b) Claimants excluded. (1) A national, or a corporation controlled by a national, of a country at war or engaged in armed conflict with the United States or of any country allied with such enemy country, is excluded as a claimant, unless the appropriate foreign claims commission considering the claim or the responsible military commander, determines that the claimant is, and at the time of the incident was, friendly to the United States.
