FR940711-2-00129 FR940711-2-00052 To further address SG tube burst probability, the following qualitative discussion of limited TSP displacement is provided. As part of ComEd's technical support for the implementation of IPC at Braidwood Unit 1, numerous quantitative analyses were completed to assure the structural integrity of the SG tubing. These quantitative determinations were provided as part of WCAP&hyph;14046. These analyses focused on the quantifiable elements of the IPC to evaluate the impact of crack length on steam generator tube leakage and burst, and were completed consistent with the guidance provided in draft RG 1.121. The bases for these calculations are the analyses completed by the utility industry and reported to the NRC in the EPRI draft report TR&hyph;100407. As explained in this document, the analyses have been completed to assure that the general design criteria and the requirements of RG 1.121 are met during plant operation. In the preparation of these industry documents and the Braidwood Unit 1 specific WCAP&hyph;14046, all analyses for leakage and burst potential were completed using the extremely conservative assumption that all ODSCC indications occur on the tubing freespan. In fact, as indicated in both WCAP&hyph;14046 and EPRI Draft Report TR&hyph;100407, ODSCC degradation is confined to the region of the tube/TSP intersection. The burst capability of a section of tube containing ODSCC indications and located within the tube/TSP intersection substantially exceeds the burst capability of a freespan tube section without ODSCC indications. Therefore, tubing left in service by Braidwood's Unit 1 IPC amendment will not burst when confined by the tube support plates. In fact, it is highly unlikely that a section of tubing within the tube support plate will leak, even with through wall cracks. To assure structural integrity of the tubing, even during a MSLB accident, ComEd undertook extensive analyses, presented as part of WCAP&hyph;14046, to show analytically that the TSPs do not move far enough during a MSLB to allow degraded tubes to uncover, and subsequently, result in increase leakage. A Generic Model D&hyph;4 SG Limited Support Plate Motion Analysis is also being conducted and should be submitted to the NRC by the end of August, 1994. This analysis is being performed using the following assumptions: 1. The TSP crevices are clean, 2. The TSPs are free to move, depending on applied loads, along the length of the SG tube, and 3. Movement of the TSPs along the length of the tube is not restricted by bending or distortion of the SG tube hole. Each of these base assumptions is extremely conservative in its own right: 1. For assumption 1, visual inspections of the secondary side of the tube bundles of Braidwood Unit 1 SGs show some quantity of deposits in the tube to TSP crevice, and along the length of the tube. Since these deposits are considered to be a possible factor in causing ODSCC, it is likely that any tube having ODSCC indications has deposits in the tube/TSP intersection. These deposits would tend to close the tube to TSP crevice, restricting by friction the ability of the TSP to move along the tubes as loads are applied to the TSP during a MSLB. 2. With regards to assumptions 2 and 3, the TSPs tend to flex and in some locations, are constrained by tie-rods and wedges attached to the tube bundle shroud. These constraints tend to cause the TSPs to ripple under the applied loads as indicated in WCAP&hyph;14046. This effect tends to distort the shape of the tube holes, which are fitted to a tight tolerance around the tubes. Therefore, any distortion of these tube holes caused by motion of the TSP will tend to cause the TSP to bind against the outside diameter of the tube, further constraining its movement away from the degraded area of the tubing. The impact of these facts will lessen the ability of the TSP to move, thereby significantly reducing the possibility that a degraded section of tubing would become uncovered during a MSLB. This evidence, in conjunction with the probability of occurrence of a MSLB, and the probabilistic assessment of the consequences of a MSLB, results in the substantially increased assurance that the consequences of a MSLB will be significantly less severe than those assessed in WCAP&hyph;14046 and the generic Model D&hyph;4 SG Limited Support Plate Motion Analyses. Thus, this proposed change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety.
