FR941117-0-00187 FR941117-0-00013 a. The Starting Point_Definition of Final Official Statement_ (1) Information Concerning Persons Material to an Evaluation of the Offering. The Proposed Amendments would have revised the definition of final official statement to require that financial and operating information, including audited annual financial statements, regarding the issuer and any significant obligor be included in order to provide a fair presentation of the issuer's and significant obligor's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. Commenters objected to various aspects of the proposed definition, including the general requirement that financial and operating information be presented in the final official statement. 32 Commenters also objected that the use of the term ``the issuer,'' in specifying whose financial information should be included in the final official statement, failed to take into account a variety of situations in which the governmental issuer does not have any repayment obligations on the municipal securities (as with conduit issuers), as well as other situations (such as revenue bonds) in which the payments will be derived from entities, enterprises, funds and accounts that do not prepare separate financial statements. Some commenters took the position that in certain instances, inclusion of the financial statements of the general municipal issuer of which the enterprise is a part may be misleading. 33 32 See, e.g., Letter of Indiana Bond Bank; Letter of Kutak Rock; Letter of NABL; Letter of Texas Public Finance Authority; Letter of Goldman Sachs & Co. (``Goldman Sachs''). 33 See, e.g., Letter of Department of Community Trade and Economic Development, State of Washington; Letter of American Public Power Association (``APPA''); Letter of Municipal Treasurer's Association; Letter of Orrick Herrington. In view of these comments, the definition of final official statement has been revised to require that financial information and operating data be provided for those persons, entities, enterprises, funds, and accounts that are material to an evaluation of the offering. 34 Thus, the definition eliminates the reference to ``the'' issuer. In addition, the definition no longer requires that the official statement provide information about specific ``significant obligors.'' It leaves to the parties (including the issuer and Participating Underwriters) the determination of whose financial information is material to the offering (including, without limitation, the credit supporting the securities being offered). 34 See Rule 15c2&hyph;12(f)(3). The definition does not set its own form and content requirements on the financial information and operating data to be included; in particular, the proposed requirement for audited financial statements has not been adopted. Instead, it provides the flexibility that many commenters asserted is necessary in determining the content and scope of the disclosed financial information and operating data, given the diversity among types of issuers, types of issues, and sources of repayment. 35 35 See, e.g., Letter of Association of Local Housing Financing Agencies (``ALHFA''); Letter of Treasurer, State of Connecticut Office of the Treasurer (``Treasurer of the State of Connecticut''); Letter of Council of Development Finance Agencies (``CDFA''); Joint Response; Letter of Securities Industry Association (``SIA''); Letter of Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc. (``Morgan Stanley''). The fact that the amendments rely on the final official statement to set the standard for ongoing disclosure should not serve as an incentive for issuers to reduce existing disclosure practices in the preparation of the final official statement. Market discipline and regulatory requirements should ensure that those practices continue at current or improved levels. While issuers remain primarily responsible for the content and accuracy of their disclosures, 36 as noted, Participating Underwriters must review the DFOS in a manner consistent with their obligations. 36 See 1989 Release. As the Commission recognized in the Interpretive Release, 37 the extensive voluntary guidelines issued by the Government Finance Officers' Association, and the industry specific guidelines published by industry groups such as the National Federation of Municipal Analysts, are followed widely in the preparation of official statements. 38 The Commission anticipates that such sound practices will continue and develop beyond that mandated by the amendments. Although those guidelines are not mandatory, the Commission encourages market participants to continue to refer to those voluntary guidelines and the Commission's Interpretive Release in preparing disclosure documents. In addition, as noted in the Interpretive Release, 39 final official statements are subject to the prohibition against false or misleading statements of material facts, including the omission of material facts necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances in which they are made, not misleading. 37 Interpretive Release at Section III.B. The Interpretive Release is cited in the Preliminary Note to Rule 15c2&hyph;12 as a source of guidance as to the disclosure obligations of issuers of municipal securities, as well as the role of brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers. 38 See note 31, supra. 39 See Interpretive Release at Section III.A.
