FR940727-2-00042 FR940727-2-00025 Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Dennis A. Yao In HealthTrust/Holy Cross, File No. 941 0020 I voted against acceptance of the proposed consent agreement in this matter, as well as against a previous motion to seek a preliminary injunction to enjoin HealthTrust from acquiring three Holy Cross hospitals in the Salt Lake City, Utah, area. The three hospitals to be acquired were: Jordan Valley, a 50-bed hospital located in the Salt Lake City metropolitan area; St. Benedict's, a 239-bed tertiary level hospital 1 located approximately 34 miles north of Salt Lake City in Ogden; and a 200-bed tertiary facility located in downtown Salt Lake City. In analyzing the original proposed transaction, I concluded that the merger of these two hospital systems would generate significant net efficiencies that would outweigh any potential anticompetitive effects of the merger in the Salt Lake City Metropolitan area and throughout the Wasatch Front. Specifically, the Holy Cross hospitals offered HealthTrust the opportunity to expand its geographic coverage by including hospitals located throughout the Wasatch Front, and broaden the services it provided by including a downtown Salt Lake City tertiary care facility. 1 Medical services are generally divided into primary, secondary, tertiary and now quaternary levels. Primary services are provided by generalists, including family practitioners, pediatricians, obstetricians, and internists. Secondary services are provided by specialists, such as cardiologists, oncologists, and orthopedic specialists. Tertiary services are those provided by sub-specialists, such as invasive cardiology or neurosurgery. Quaternary level services are those offered by only a few highly specialized facilities, like high level burn units or organ transplants. The demarcation between the various levels of service is not precise, but these levels are all included as part of the ``acute care inpatient hospital services'' market alleged in the complaint here. The proposed consent allows HealthTrust to acquire two of the Holy Cross hospitals, Jordan Valley and St. Benedict's, while requiring divestiture of the downtown Holy Cross hospital. Allowing HealthTrust to acquire the two Holy Cross hospitals will give HealthTrust better geographic coverage across the Wasatch Front. However, requiring the divestiture of the downtown Holy Cross facility means that the newly formed hospital network will not include a tertiary care facility in the Salt Lake City Metropolitan area. It was argued in this case (as it has been argued in several recent hospital mergers) that the merging hospital systems can achieve network and operational efficiencies through acquisition that are not possible through alternative arrangements such as contracting or joint venturing. Parties have sought to show that contracting and joint venturing is inefficient as an alternative to outright merger, among other reasons, because of the need to deter ``gaming'' on patient referrals as each hospital attempts to shift costly patients to other hospitals. This argument seems plausible in this industry because of contracting problems involved in establishing ``capitation'' regimes. In this particular case, it was argued that purchasing a downtown Salt Lake City tertiary care facility was essential to achieve network efficiencies and that contracting or joint venturing was an inferior alternative. I find this argument persuasive. 2 Therefore, because I believe that the bulk of the network and operational efficiencies that are possible from this merger will be lost if the downtown facility is divested, and because I believe that the potential anticompetitive effects that may have resulted from allowing HealthTrust to acquire the downtown facility are outweighed by those efficiencies, I have dissented from the issuance of this consent. 2 The relative effectiveness of different organizational forms such as mergers, joint ventures or contracting relationships deserves further study in light of the current restructuring of the health care industry. While I agree that network efficiency claims may be more credible if they are endorsed by health plans (see Remarks of Mary Lou Steptoe before the Practicing Law Institute, June 17&hyph;20, 1994) we are often presented with situations of ``dueling'' affidavits, in which case other evidence must be present to support such claims. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18258 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
