FR940817-1-00030 FR940817-1-00011 Please note that each individual or organization affected by a final rule need not have its own representative on the Committee. Rather, each interest must be adequately represented, and the Committee should be fairly balanced. Individuals who are not part of the Committee may attend sessions and confer with or provide their views to Committee members. The following interests have been tentatively identified as those that are likely to be significantly affected by the rule: (1) Railroad labor organizations; (2) Railroads, including classes 1 through 3, the short lines, public transit operations, and their associations; (3) Contractors to railroads who perform roadway work; and (4) The Federal government. FRA proposes that persons selected by the various interests be named to the Committee. The following interests have been tentatively identified as those that would supply Committee members: (1) The Brotherhood of Maintenance-of-Way Employes; (2) The Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen; (3) The American Train Dispatchers Association; (4) The Association of American Railroads; (5) The American Short Line Railroad Association; (6) American Public Transit Association; and (7) FRA. As indicated in paragraph F of this notice, FRA invites applications for representation from any interests that will be affected by a rule, but are not named in this list. FRA is committed to an open and comprehensive negotiation, and therefore strongly encourages any such party to file an application for membership. These applications may come from railroads, labor organizations, associations, or other interests, must be filed within thirty days, and must meet the requirements set forth in this notice. Also, the interests listed above and those who apply for representation on the Committee should provide the name(s) of the individual(s) they propose to represent their interests. The Committee should not exceed twenty-five members. (D) Good Faith: Participants must be committed to negotiate in good faith. It is therefore important that senior individuals within each interest group be designated to represent that interest. No individual will be required to ``bind'' the interests he or she represents, but the individual should be at a high enough level to represent the interest with confidence. For this process to be successful, the interests represented should be willing to accept the final Committee product. (E) Notice of Intent to Establish Advisory Committee and Request for Comment: In accordance with the requirements of FACA, an agency of the Federal government cannot establish or utilize a group of people in the interest of obtaining consensus advice or recommendations unless that group is chartered as a Federal advisory committee. It is the purpose of this Notice to indicate our intent to create a Federal advisory committee, to identify the issues involved in the rulemaking, to identify the interests affected by the rulemaking, to identify potential participants who will adequately represent those interests, and to ask for comment on the use of regulatory negotiation and on the identification of the issues, interests, procedures, and participants. (F) Requests for Representation: One purpose of this Notice is to determine whether interests exist that may be substantially affected by a rule, but have not been represented in the list of prospective Committee members. Please identify such interests if they exist. Each application for membership or nomination to the Committee should include: (i) the name of the applicant or nominee and the interests such person would represent; (ii) evidence that the applicant or nominee is authorized to represent parties related to the interests the person proposes to represent; (iii) a written commitment that the applicant or nominee would participate in good faith; and (iv) the reasons any representative identified in the Notice does not represent the interests the nominee is alleged to represent. If an additional person or interest requests membership or representation on the Committee, FRA shall determine (i) whether that interest will be substantially affected by the rule, (ii) if such interest would be adequately represented by an individual already on the Committee, and (iii) whether the requester should be added to the group or whether interests can be consolidated to provide adequate representation. (G) Final Notice: After evaluating comments received as a result of this notice, FRA will issue a final notice announcing the establishment of the Federal advisory committee, unless it determines that such action is inappropriate in light of comments received, and the composition of the Committee. After the Committee is chartered the negotiations would begin. (H) Administrative Support and Meetings: Staff support would be provided by FRA and meetings would take place in Washington, D.C., unless agreed otherwise by the Committee. (I) Tentative Schedule: If the Committee is established and selected, FRA will publish a schedule for the first meeting in the Federal Register . The first meeting will focus on procedural matters, including dates, times, and locations of future meetings. Notice of subsequent meetings would also be published in the Federal Register before being held. FRA expects that the Committee would reach consensus and prepare a report recommending a proposed rule within six months of the first meeting. However, if unforeseen delays occur, the Administrator may agree to an extension of that time if a consensus of the Committee believes that additional time will result in agreement. The process may end earlier if the facilitator so recommends. (J) Committee Procedures: Under the general guidance of the facilitator, and subject to legal requirements, the Committee would establish the detailed procedures for meetings which it considers appropriate.
