FR940720-1-00042 FR940720-1-00014 Wednesday July 20, 1994 Part II Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 32 Refuge-Specific Hunting and Fishing Regulations; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 138␣/␣Wednesday, July 20, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 32 RIN 1018&hyph;AC59 Refuge-Specific Hunting and Fishing Regulations AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposes to amend certain regulations that pertain to migratory game bird hunting, upland game hunting, big game hunting and sport fishing on individual national wildlife refuges. Refuge hunting and fishing programs are reviewed annually to determine whether the individual refuge regulations governing these programs should be modified, deleted or have additions made to them. Changing environmental conditions, State and Federal regulations, and other factors affecting wildlife populations and habitat may warrant modifications to ensure the continued compatibility of hunting and fishing with the purposes for which the individual refuges were established. Modifications are designed, to the extent practical, to make refuge hunting and fishing programs consistent with State regulations. DATES: Comments on this proposed rule will be accepted on or before September 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Address comments to: Assistant Director_Refuges and Wildlife, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1849 C Street, NW, MS 670 ARLSQ, Washington, DC 20240. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Duncan L. Brown, Esq. at the above address; Telephone (703) 358&hyph;1744. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 50 CFR part 32 contains provisions governing hunting and fishing on national wildlife refuges. Hunting and fishing are regulated on refuges to (1) ensure compatibility with refuge purposes, (2) properly manage the wildlife resource, (3) protect other refuge values, and (4) ensure refuge user safety. On many refuges, the Service policy of adopting State hunting regulations is adequate in meeting these objectives. On other refuges, it is necessary to supplement State regulations with more restrictive Federal regulations to ensure that the Service meets its management responsibilities, as outlined under the section entitled ``Conformance with Statutory and Regulatory Authorities.'' Refuge-specific hunting and fishing regulations may be issued only after a wildlife refuge is opened to migratory game bird hunting, upland game hunting, big game hunting or sport fishing through publication in the Federal Register . These regulations may list the wildlife species that may be hunted or are subject to sport fishing, seasons, bag limits, methods of hunting or fishing, descriptions of open areas, and other provisions as appropriate. Previously issued refuge-specific regulations for hunting and fishing are contained in 50 CFR part 32. Many of the proposed amendments to these sections are being promulgated to standardize and clarify the existing language of these regulations. Request for Comments Department of the Interior policy is, whenever practicable, to afford the public a meaningful opportunity to participate in the rulemaking process. A 60-day comment period is specified in order to facilitate public input. Accordingly, interested persons may submit written comments concerning this proposed rule to the person listed above under the heading ADDRESSES. All substantive comments will be reviewed and considered. Statutory Authority The National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act (NWRSAA) of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 668dd), and the Refuge Recreation Act of 1962 (16 U.S.C. 460k) govern the administration and public use of national wildlife refuges. Specifically, Section 4(d)(1)(A) of the NWRSAA authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to permit the use of any area within the Refuge System for any purpose, including but not limited to, hunting, fishing and public recreation, accommodations and access, when he determines that such uses are compatible with the major purpose(s) for which the area was established.
