FR940203-2-00123 FR940203-2-00068 Discussion: The definition of the term ``All students'' in this notice includes a number of population groups with special needs. Among these are disadvantaged students, students with disabilities, students with limited-English proficiency, and former students who have dropped out of school. Moreover, under the ``Student Participation'' selection criterion, reviewers will assess the extent to which States propose realistic strategies and programs to demonstrate that ``all students,'' including young women, minorities, and low achieving students, have the opportunity to participate in the State's School-to-Work Opportunities program. The notice also requires that State plans address how States will provide opportunities for all students to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs. The Secretaries agree, however, that an additional question in the selection criteria would help evaluators assess the extent to which States have also addressed the needs of students from communities with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth. Similarly, the Secretaries have concluded that the priority should include a specific reference to communities with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth. Thus, the Secretaries have revised the notice to require States to indicate specifically in their plans how all students, including women, minorities, low achieving students, and students from communities with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth, will have an opportunity to participate in each State's proposed School-to-Work Opportunities program. The Secretaries have also revised the selection criterion to consider whether States propose feasible plans to include communities with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth in the system. Changes: Paragraph (b)(13) of the priority and the ``Comprehensive Statewide System'' selection criterion have been modified to require States to describe in their plans how the States' proposed School-to-Work Opportunities systems will address the needs of students from communities with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth. Comment: One commenter expressed the view that the current School-to-Work Opportunities initiative deals only with students who are not likely to enroll in college. The commenter suggested that, in order to avoid tracking, clearly articulated 2+1, 2+2, and 2+2+2 programs would be preferable in that they would allow students to exercise a variety of options in both employment and educational environments. Discussion: The School-to-Work Opportunities program is not intended to be limited to only certain categories of students. The definition of ``all students'' specifically includes students from a broad range of backgrounds and circumstances, including academically talented students. The notice establishes that career majors would typically include two years of secondary school as well as one or two years of postsecondary education. And, as part of their participation in a School-to-Work Opportunities program, students who are completing their first or second years at the postsecondary level would be prepared to take advantage of options in employment and education, including enrollment in a college or university bestowing a four-year degree. However, the Secretaries agree with the commenter that the definition should be revised to clarify that admission into such a college or university is just one of the options available to participating students to which a career major may lead. Changes: Paragraph (e) of the definition of ``Career major'' has been revised by adding the clause ``or admission into a degree-granting college or university.'' Definitions_All Aspects of an Industry (Previously ``Elements of the Industry'') Comment: Two commenters raised questions relative to the definition of ``Elements of the industry,'' as used in the proposed priority notice. One commenter thought that the proposed definition of ``Elements of the industry'' did not promote the kind of thorough and challenging understanding of all aspects of an industry that are necessary for the School-to-Work Opportunities initiative to be successful in transforming the future American labor force. Instead, the commenter stated a preference for the language in the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act that requires students to be provided with an understanding of ``all aspects of an industry.'' The second commenter believed that the term ``industry'' would be poorly understood and that the term should be defined as a collection of employers who share common requirements for human and physical capital, such as the aerospace industry, etc.
