FR940114-1-00031 FR940114-1-00008 B. School Programs Student programs, including kindergarten through college and trade school, play a critical role in preventing impaired driving. States should: Implement K&hyph;12 traffic safety education, with appropriate emphasis on impaired driving, as part of a comprehensive health education program; Establish and support student safety clubs and activities and create a statewide network linking these groups; Establish liaisons with higher education institutions to encourage policies to reduce alcohol, other drug, and traffic safety problems on college campuses; Promote alcohol- and drug-free events throughout the school year, with particular emphasis on high-risk times such as prom, spring break, and graduation; Coordinate closely with anti-drug education efforts and programs; Develop working relationships with school health personnel as a means of providing information to students about a variety of traffic safety and health behaviors; and Make effective use of criminal justice, medical, or other professionals through presentations in the classroom or assembly programs. C. Employer Programs States should provide information and technical assistance to all employers, encouraging them to offer programs to reduce impaired driving by employees and their families. These programs should include: Model policies for impaired driving and other traffic safety issues, including safety belt use and speeding; Management training to recognize and address alcohol and drug impairment; Education and treatment programs for employees; and Employee awareness activities. States should especially encourage companies and businesses to provide impaired driving programs to their youthful employees. The States should also be familiar with FHWA's drug and alcohol requirements for employers of CMV drivers. D. Responsible Alcohol Service States should promote responsible alcohol service policies and practices in the retail alcohol service industry, including package stores, restaurants, and taverns, through well-publicized and enforced laws, regulations, and policies. States should: Implement and enforce programs to eliminate the sale of alcoholic beverages to those under 21 years of age; Promote alcohol server and service programs, including assessments, written policies, and training; Ensure adequate alcohol control regulations dealing with issues such as service to visibly intoxicated patrons, elimination of ``happy hours'', and availability of food and non-alcoholic beverages; Provide adequate resources (including budget, staff, and training) to enforce alcohol beverage control regulations; Promote the display of responsible alcohol use and drinking and driving information in alcohol sales and service establishments; Promote establishment participation in designated driver, safe rides, and other alternative transportation programs; and Provide that commercial establishments may be held responsible for damages caused by any patron who was served alcohol when visibly intoxicated.
