FR940916-1-00138 FR940916-1-00016 (3) 12.5 percent less than the total possible piston travel for that brake cylinder. (g) The emergency application feature of the train brake system shall be available at all times. (h) Each railroad shall develop, implement, and make available to FRA upon request a written program to train and qualify all personnel, including contract personnel, responsible for the inspection, testing, and maintenance of train brake systems pursuant to the requirements contained in subpart C of this part. (i) Each railroad shall develop, implement, and make available to FRA upon request a written program to have qualified train brake system supervisors perform random spot checks of inspection and maintenance of train brake systems. As part of this program, each railroad shall_ (1) Conduct spot checks daily at each location and during each shift where a qualified train brake system supervisor is regularly scheduled to work. (2) Conduct spot checks weekly at locations or on shifts where a qualified train brake system supervisor is not normally scheduled to work. (3) Conduct the spot checks randomly. (4) Establish a means to document to FRA that spot checks are being performed as required. This documentation shall include a record of_ (i) The qualified supervisor's name. (ii) The supervisor's current qualification status. (iii) The date, place, and time of the spot check. (iv) What was spot checked. (v) The findings of the spot check. (j) The following requirements apply to cold weather operations: (1) After January 1, 1996, all new and rebuilt locomotives operating under cold weather conditions that do not meet any of the conditions contained in ยง232.103(e) (1) and (2) shall be equipped with brake air system air dryers capable of a 30 degrees F. air dew point depression at a 100 cfm air flow rate. (2) No chemicals shall be placed in the train air brake system. (k) A single car or single passenger-train-set test shall be performed whenever any part of the train brake system has been removed, repaired, or replaced. (l) Except cars equipped with nominal 12-inch stroke (81/2 and 10-inch diameters) brake cylinders, all cars shall be stencilled or shall be equipped with a badge plate with the permissible brake cylinder piston travel range for that car. The badge plate shall be located so that it may be easily read and understood by a person positioned safely beside the car or locomotive. (m) Train brake system brake shoes and disc pads shall have at least the minimum thickness necessary to safely travel the maximum distance the train is allowed to travel between Class 1 brake system tests. The following shall be the minimum thicknesses measured at any location on the shoe: (1) For 500-mile trains, 1/2 inch for cast metal and 3/8 inch for composition shoes/pads. (2) For 1,500-mile trains, 1/2 inch for cast metal and 3/8 inch for composition shoes/pads. (3) For 2,500-mile trains, 9/16 inch for cast metal and 7/16 inch for composition shoes/pads. (4) For 3,500-mile trains, 5/8 inch for cast metal and 1/2 inch for composition shoes/pads. (n) Railroad or contractor supervisors shall be held jointly responsible with inspectors and train crew members for the condition and proper functioning of train brake systems. ยง232.17 Movement of cars or locomotives with defective brakes for repairs. (a) General provision. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a railroad car or locomotive with one or more conditions not in compliance with this part may be used or hauled without civil penalty liability under this part only if all of the following conditions are met: (1) The defective car or locomotive is properly equipped in accordance with the Safety Appliance Acts and the requirements of this part. (2) The car or locomotive becomes defective while it is being used by the railroad on its line or becomes defective on the line of a connecting railroad and is properly accepted in interchange for repairs in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section. (3) The railroad first discovers the defective condition of the car or locomotive prior to moving it for repairs. (4) The movement of the defective car or locomotive for repairs is from the location where the car or locomotive is first discovered defective by the railroad. (5) The defective car or locomotive could not be repaired at the place where the railroad first discovers it to be defective. (6) The movement of the car or locomotive is necessary to make repairs to the defective condition. (7) The repair point to which the car or locomotive is being taken is the nearest available repair point on the line of the railroad where the car or locomotive was first found to be defective or is the nearest available repair point on the line of a connecting railroad if: (i) The connecting railroad elects to accept the defective car or locomotive for such repair; and
