FR940930-1-00053 FR940930-1-00016 (2) Regulations to define the term ``make inoperative'' in Section 30122(b) as it applies to EVs converted after the first sale to a consumer. These regulations would most likely be design oriented, since it may not be practical for a converter to crash test, and thereby destroy, the converted vehicle. Such regulations would help vehicle converters understand what constitutes ``make inoperative'' in converting a vehicle to electric power. An example of such regulations could be where to locate or how to protect the EV batteries so as to minimize battery damage and therefore minimize electrolyte spillage in a crash. (3) Vehicle safety inspection standards to serve as guidelines for those States which conduct motor vehicle safety inspection programs. The agency could issue such inspection standards for EVs, which a State could voluntarily use if it chooses to conduct vehicle inspections of EVs, both original equipment and conversions. III. Potential Problem Areas and Possible Solutions In this section of the notice NHTSA requests comments on the potential safety hazards due to EV battery electrolyte spillage in a crash or rollover, and due to electric shock in a crash or rollover and during repair and maintenance. Information is also sought on possible means to address such hazards through performance and design requirements for original equipment EVs and EV conversions. Information is requested separately for (1) EVs with a GVWR of 4536 kg or less and all school buses, which is the population of vehicles NHTSA traditionally has regulated for fuel system integrity, and for (2) EVs with a GVWR greater than 4536 kg, excluding EV school buses, since there may be potential safety hazards and possible approaches which are unique to vehicles of this size and type. Finally, other information on EVs is requested, including current and projected EV populations and production, industry and State or local guidelines on EV safety, hybrid EVs, charging, batteries, and starter interlock performance. This section of the notice is organized as follows: A. Battery Electrolyte Spillage _Potential Safety Problem _Possible FMVSS Performance Requirements _Possible Requirements for Conversions After First Sale to Consumers _EVs With GVWR Greater Than 4536 Kilograms B. Electric Shock Hazard _Potential Safety Problem _Possible FMVSS Performance Requirements _Possible Requirements for Conversions After First Sale to Consumers _EVs With GVWR Greater Than 4536 Kilograms C. Other A. Battery Electrolyte Spillage Potential Safety Problem
