FR940511-0-00048 FR940511-0-00015 Response: NOAA recognizes that, given the standard for abrogating treaty rights enunciated by the Supreme Court in United States v. Dion, 476 U.S. 734 (1985), the provisions of the MPRSA do not abrogate the coastal Tribes' treaty fishing and hunting rights. However, it is unclear whether Congress intended the MMPA and the Endangered Species Act (ESA) to abrogate these rights. Recently, the Makah Tribe has pursued clarification regarding the applicability of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) and ESA to its treaty rights to hunt whales and seals. The issue is currently being examined by the tribes and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS). Given the concerns raised by the coastal tribes, §925.5(a)(6) has been revised to read as follows: Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or seabird in or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the National Marine Fisheries Service or the United States Fish and Wildlife Service under the authority of the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq., the Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq., and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703 et seq., or pursuant to any treaty with an Indian Tribe to which the United States is a party, provided that the treaty right is exercised in accordance with the MMPA, ESA, and MBTA, to the extent that they apply. In addition, §925.5(a)(8) has been modified similarly. The revised language recognizes the coastal Tribe's treaty right to hunt whales and seals. However, the regulation also requires that the right be exercised in accordance with the provisions of the MMPA, ESA, and MBTA. If the MMPA, ESA or MBTA is determined to abrogate or otherwise restrict the Tribe's exercise of its right to hunt whales and seals, then that determination shall apply to the Tribe's exercise of those rights within the boundary of the Sanctuary. Comment: The regulations fail to preserve tribal control of their cultural heritage. NOAA should amend §925.5(a)(8) to read as follows: Removal or attempted removal of any Indian cultural resource or artifact, or entry onto a significant cultural site designated by a Tribal governing body with the concurrence of the Director, except with the express written consent of the governing body of the Tribe or Tribes to which such resource, artifact, or cultural site pertains. Response: The MPRSA provides NOAA with the authority to control access to cultural or historical artifacts within the Sanctuary thereby helping to ensure their preservation. Accordingly, anyone proposing to remove a cultural or historical resource must apply for and obtain a Sanctuary permit from NOAA. NOAA also acknowledges the coastal Tribes' desire to preserve their cultural heritage and, in particular, those cultural artifacts of tribal significance found within the Sanctuary. NOAA considers its objective of preserving the historical and cultural resources of the Sanctuary to be compatible with the coastal Tribes' desire to preserve their cultural heritage. Accordingly, §925.9(j) has been modified and §925.9(k) has been added to address the coastal tribe's concerns. Comment: The regulation prohibiting overflights under 1,000 ft. except for valid law enforcement purposes conflicts with the treaty secured rights to access certain reservation lands such as Tatoosh Island and Ozette, which are only accessible by helicopter in the winter months, and to conduct aerial timber cruises and engage in helicopter logging on portions of the reservation abutting the Sanctuary. Therefore the following amendment to §925.5(7) is proposed: Flying motorized aircraft at less than 1,000 feet above the Sanctuary within one nautical mile of the coastal boundary of the Sanctuary and the Flattery Rocks, Quilleute Needles, and Copalis National Wildlife Refuges, except for valid law enforcement purposes or where authorized by a governing body of an Indian Tribe to provide access to reservation lands. Response: NOAA acknowledges the Tribes' concerns and does not intend to interfere with tribal rights to access reservation lands. Also, for the reasons discussed below, the minimum altitude has been changed to 2000 ft. In order not to interfere with Tribal access to reservation lands, the prohibition on flying has been changed to read: Flying motorized aircraft at less than 2,000 feet above the Sanctuary within one nautical mile of the Flattery Rocks, Quillayute Needles, or Copalis National Wildlife Refuge, and within one nautical mile seaward from the coastal boundary of the Sanctuary, except as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes, for activities related to tribal timber operations conducted on reservation lands, or to transport persons or supplies to or from reservation lands as authorized by a governing body of an Indian Tribe. Comment: NOAA should apply the management plan equally to tribal and non-tribal governmental entities within the adopted boundary equally. Response: NOAA is legally bound to recognize treaty secured rights and has no intention to interfere with these rights. As such, there will be circumstances in which Sanctuary regulations will apply to tribal and non-tribal members differently. Issue: Vessel Traffic Comment: Route tankers and barges as far away from near-shore reefs and islands as possible. Clarify what types of vessels can transit close to shore. Response: There exists a Cooperative Vessel Traffic Management System (CVTMS) established and jointly managed by the United States and Canada. The CVTMS is a mandatory regime and consists of all navigable waters of the Strait of Juan de Fuca and its offshore approaches, southern Georgia Strait, the Gulf and San Juan Archipelagos, Rosario Strait, Boundary Pass, Haro Strait, and Puget Sound, bounded on the west by longitude 147 ○W. latitude 48 ○N., and on the northeast by a line along 49 ○N. from Vancouver Island to Semiamoo Bay.
