FR941026-2-00035 FR941026-2-00022 In the CBD in 2010 with the NHCH built, 4.5 miles of traffic congestion (LOS F ’, F, & E) would result. Under the no build condition, 8.9 miles of congestion would remain (LOS F ’, F, & E). However, the proposed NHCH does not provide substantial traffic relief for the entire study area. Using DOT's data and models, any traffic measurement_ADT, LOS for intersections, LOS for road segments_shows modest traffic improvements for the NHCH. In the study area in 2010, 27.3 miles of congestion (LOS E, F, and F ’) would remain. Under a no build alternative 39.7 miles of congestion would result. When one examines the vehicle hours of travel (VHT), it appears that the partial build option supplies a substantial portion of traffic relief that the NHCH would provide. The percent of free-flow traffic would be 69% for the NHCH verses 66% for the partial build from Route 102 north to the Turnpike. The following table summarizes the congested and free-flow hours of travel: ␣ 1Alternative 1Free-flow VHT 1Congested VHT No-Build (2010) 169,172 (50.1%) 168,416 Full Build (2010) 162,461 (68.5%) 74,727 Partial Build (2010) 164,646 (65.7%) 86,140 DOT's models may also overestimate traffic benefits from a full build highway. For example, the model assumes the same future traffic growth in the study area, with or without the highway. EPA's experience with other highways in New England suggests that they do alter land use and development patterns. We have no reason to believe that this highway would be any different. If the highway generates more development, the corresponding increase in traffic could increase levels beyond current projections for the full build (or reduce projections for the no build option). We request comment from the public on whether the highway will likely spur additional development and traffic growth. Increased traffic in the study area resulting from the NHCH could place additional burdens on the two North-South roads in the region, I&hyph;93 and especially the F.E. Everett Turnpike. Both of these roads are proposed for widening in the near future, and major portions of the Turnpike will be at LOS F conditions even after expansion. Even with the EIS assuming no increased growth in traffic caused by the highway, the EIS shows that parts of the Turnpike already experiencing LOS F conditions will receive greater traffic volumes once the NHCH is in place. This condition would worsen if the NHCH generates additional traffic to the area. The current analysis gives little weight to toll avoidance. However, this is a factor that could cause the full build to reduce congestion less than projected in the CBD because the Taylor's Falls Bridge, the primary focal point of traffic in the CBD, would be the only non-toll road remaining in New Hampshire to cross the Merrimack River south of Manchester. (The Sagamore Bridge, currently free, would require a toll once it is part of the NHCH.) Some percentage of vehicles currently using the Sagamore Bridge would avoid paying the toll by using either the Taylor's Falls Bridge, or the Tyngsborough Bridge, five miles south in Massachusetts. The EIS did not discuss the issue of tolls and toll avoidance, and EPA requests comment on these issues. In summary, the proposed highway would only provide partial traffic relief for the overall traffic patterns in the greater Nashua area. Other measures of reducing traffic volumes, which cause much less impact to the environment, may also provide some portion of the relief that the NHCH would provide. Such measures and combinations of measures could include partial build options, traffic demand management measures (TDM), traffic systems management (TSM), and local improvements. Partial Build Options Partial build alternatives would involve constructing one or more segments of the NHCH but something short of the full highway proposed by DOT. All the partial build alternatives discussed below have substantially less impact to wildlife because the partial build options would not fragment the 10,000 acre habitat block, would not destroy several valuable vernal pools, and it would avoid nine streams and other valuable wetlands. Partial build alternatives include: •Southern Bridge. This option would be an expansion of the Sagamore bridge in the south from the F.E. Everett Turnpike in Nashua to Route 3A in Hudson, allowing direct access from the Turnpike across the Merrimack River to Hudson. •Two Bridges. This option would include expansion of the Sagamore bridge in the south from the F.E. Everett Turnpike in Nashua to Route 3A in Hudson and construction of a new bridge in the north also from the F.E. Everett Turnpike in Merrimack to Route 3A in Litchfield. Thus, it would provide a new crossing of the Merrimack River between Nashua and Manchester. •Partial Build to Route 102. Identical to the above alternative, this option would also extend the northern section two miles east to Route 102 in Litchfield. •Partial Build to Route 111. This alternative is the same as above, plus an extension of the northern section another four miles southeast to Route 111. Partial build alternatives, as measured by LOS of segments, appear to do relatively little to improve traffic in the CBD. However, as measured by average daily traffic, the partial build option from Route 102 north to the F.E. Everett Turnpike, for example, would provide over 50% of the traffic benefits of the full build in the CBD and over 75% of the traffic benefits of the full build for the entire traffic network. DOT states in several documents that a bridge to the north would provide traffic benefits to the study area. However, DOT has also stated that the partial build options will not provide traffic relief or could even make the traffic situation worse, including adding more traffic on local roads, such as Route 3A. We understand that local roads in the area will be busier with more cars in the future, but that may be true if the NHCH is built as well. EPA seeks comment on this issue as well. TDM/TSM Measures Traffic demand measures (TDM) reduce the number of vehicles on roadways especially during peak travel times when the worst congestion occurs. Traffic system management (TSM) refers to infrastructure improvements to enhance the efficiency of vehicle movement. DOT and the Nashua Regional Planning Commission have already made important strides in acquiring funds in recent years to pursue some TDM/TSM measures. Some of the projects which have been funded or for which they are pursuing funding include: 1. improving traffic circulation at Taylor's Falls Bridge 2. constructing an intermodal transit facility (downtown Nashua) 3. expanding existing and building new park and ride facilities 4. completing a statewide plan for TDM, mass transit, and high occupancy vehicle lanes (HOV)
