FR941216-1-00077 FR941216-1-00012 (f) Training. Operator training shall cover approved safety procedures, hazardous materials information, safety and warning devices, personal protective clothing and equipment, and emergency equipment. §184.22 Storage in operating buildings. (a) Only those quantities of hazardous materials (excluding explosives, propellant and pyrotechnic materials) essential for current operations shall be stored within an operating building. Explosive materials exceeding work requirements shall be stored in a separate service storage magazine area located at the appropriate intraline distance from the operating building or area, based on the quantity of explosives stored in the service magazine. (b) If storage is required by operational necessity, and intraline distance is not available for a separate storage magazine, contractors may designate in-process holding containers or structures within the operating building, provided the following apply: (1) Those containers or structures would preclude propagation from the operational location to the holding site if an explosives mishap should occur at the operational site. (2) Consideration is given to the structural containment afforded, venting, and the use of non-propagating packaging within the temporary holding site. (3) Quantities of A&E in these holding sites are kept as low as possible, not exceeding amounts required for one half of a work shift. (4) Procedures have been developed to minimize exposure during transfer operations. (5) Plant managers acquire and approve documented test results that confirm non-propagation characteristics. (c) If operationally required, A&E that are a part of the work in process within the building may be stored in operating buildings non-operational hours, providing the following requirements are strictly observed: (1) Explosives limits are not exceeded. (2) Containers of bulk explosives or propellants are secured and covered. (3) Processing equipment, such as powder hoppers and pipelines, is empty. (d) Before an operation in a building shuts down for longer than a weekend or normal holiday period, all hazardous materials should be processed through the facility. If this is not possible, as much of the in-process material as possible should be processed and transferred to an approved storage area before shutdown; no new material should be introduced. The additional precautions listed in §184.22(c), shall apply, and responsible personnel shall be informed of the above storage conditions. §184.23 Housekeeping in hazardous areas. (a) Structures containing explosives shall be kept clean and orderly. (b) Explosives and explosives dusts shall not accumulate on structural members, radiators, heating coils, steam, gas, air, water supply pipes, or electrical fixtures. (c) Spillage of explosives and other hazardous materials shall be prevented by proper design of equipment, training of employees, provision for catch pans, and so forth. For example, hoppers should be large enough to comfortably accommodate the size of charges used. A painted stripe on the inside of the hopper shall serve as a reminder of the proper filling height. Catch pans or splash pans should be provided beneath drawoff pipes and TNT flakers, around transfer piping, beneath powder bags on small arms ammunition charging machines, and so forth. Spillage shall be promptly removed. (d) A regular program of cleaning shall be conducted to maintain safe conditions. General cleaning shall not be conducted while hazardous operations are being performed. (e) Hot water or steam should be used for cleaning floors in buildings containing explosives. When neither is practical, sweeping compounds that are nonabrasive and compatible with the explosives involved may be used. Such compounds may be combustible, but not volatile (closed cup flash point shall not be less than 230 ○F). Sweeping compounds containing wax shall not be used on conductive flooring. Because nitrated organic explosives can form sensitive explosive compounds with caustic alkalies, cleaning agents containing such alkalies shall not be used around them. (f) Nonferrous wire brushes may be used in cleaning explosives-processing equipment only when other methods of cleaning are ineffective; a thorough inspection should follow such cleaning to ensure that no wire bristles remain in the equipment. This applies also to cleaning magnesium ingot molds and molds for any other metal used in an explosive. Substituting fiber brushes for hair brushes is recommended to reduce generation of static. (g) All loose explosives swept up from floors of operating buildings shall be destroyed. Explosives recovered from sources other than ammunition breakdown operations and equipment shall be thoroughly inspected to determine disposition. It may be reused, screened, reprocessed, or destroyed, as the situation warrants. §184.24 Explosives waste in operating areas. (a) At this writing, the Environmental Protection Agency is developing rules which shall apply to each contractor beyond the scope of this part. Explosive safety should not be compromised while meeting environmental considerations. (b) Each waste material generated in an explosives area shall require analysis to determine appropriate methods for safe handling and disposition. All explosives waste and contaminated materials shall be kept in covered containers marked to indicate their contents, preferably located in isolated bays or outside the buildings. (c) Containers for scrap black powder and smokeless powders shall contain water. Certain pyrotechnic, tracer, flare and similar compositions shall be totally immersed in mineral oil or fuel oil in the waste containers. Waste initiating explosives shall be kept to a minimum, usually under water or other selected media, and shall be handled with great care. Explosives waste materials should not be left in operating buildings overnight during normal periods of shutdown or over weekends and holidays. (d) Workers shall be trained to transport explosives wastes in designated vehicles (see §184.38) to storage locations specifically assigned for that purpose. Explosives waste shall not be stored with serviceable explosives. A minimum of magazine distance shall be maintained between locations where explosives wastes are stored, and those used for serviceable ammunition and explosives. §184.25 Procedure before electrical storms. (a) When an electrical storm approaches, all personnel shall evacuate locations where lightning could initiate explosions. Such locations include: (1) Operating buildings or facilities containing explosives or explosives-loaded ammunition, not equipped with lightning protection systems, and locations within unbarricaded intraline distance of such facilities; (2) Buildings containing explosives dust or vapors, whether or not equipped with lightning protection systems, and locations within unbarricaded intraline distance of such buildings; (3) Magazines, open storage sites, or loading docks, not equipped with lightning protection systems; and
