FR940506-1-00020 FR940506-1-00010 (f) A prototype of a proposed COO form is reproduced in appendix A. The Coast Guard proposes issuing a COO template to all boat manufactures and importers which they could copy to make COO forms for each boat. The Coast Guard would partially complete the COO templates with each manufacturer (or importer) name and address and the first five characters of the HIN as a means for minimizing information collection burdens. However, the Coast Guard is seeking comments on whether the proposed COO contains sufficient security features and information to make it an effective document. The NASBLA Numbering and Titling Committee has recommended, through a mailing to the Coast Guard, that the COO form be machine readable utilizing the OCR&hyph;A font which provides the criteria for character set and print quality for optical character recognition; be uniform in all jurisdictions; and conform to the following format, standards, security, and specifications: (1) Have an engraved border produced from banknote engraved artwork; (2) Feature a prismatic, i.e., rainbow printing which is used as a deterrent to color copying, and/or a copy void pantograph, i.e., the word ``void'' appears when the document is copied; (3) Be printed using erasable fluorescent background inks which fluoresce under ultraviolet light and react to any attempt to erase information; (4) Include a background security design consisting of a repetitious pattern which hinders counterfeiting efforts; (5) Be printed on sensitized security paper that is reactive to chemicals commonly used to alter documents; (6) Be printed on non optical brightener paper without added optical brighteners which will not fluoresce under ultraviolet light; (7) Include a microline_a line of small alpha characters in capital letters which requires a magnifying glass to read; (8) Bear a pre-printed consecutive number for control purposes; (9) Consist of complex colors which are developed by using a mixture of two or more of the primary colors (red, yellow and blue) and black if required; and (10) Contain a security thread with or without a watermark, and/or an intaglio print with or without a latent image, and/or a security laminate. The Coast Guard's preliminary investigations indicate that due to the high cost of creating forms meeting the NASBLA suggested requirements, the Coast Guard could not absorb the cost of printing COO forms meeting the NASBLA security features. The Coast Guard does not have the authority to charge manufacturers to reimburse the Coast Guard for its expenditures on COO forms. Therefore, if the Coast Guard were to adopt the NASBLA recommended security features, manufacturers would be responsible for creating or purchasing the forms on their own. Are there interested parties who believe the NASBLA recommended security features would be appropriate for a State issued certificate of title, but are excessive for a manufacturer issued certificate of origin? Some manufacturers build thousands of vessels annually, while others may build as few as a single vessel annually. What do printers estimate would be the costs to various volume boat manufacturers for creating and printing forms meeting the NASBLA recommended security features? If the Coast Guard were able to obtain authorized funding, what would be the cost to the Coast Guard for creating, printing, partially completing, and distributing forms meeting the NASBLA recommended security features to various volume boat manufacturers? Once the contents and security features of a finalized COO form are developed, based upon comments received, what are the most equitable and cost-efficient methods for creating, printing, and distributing COO forms to boat manufacturers? (g) The proposed ยง181.47 addresses the subject of duplicate COO forms. (1) Who should be able to apply for a duplicate COO form from a boat manufacturer? (2) What information should a duplicate COO contain? (3) Should an affidavit or other type of proof be required as a condition to obtaining a duplicate COO form? (4) If a duplicate COO must contain the same information as an original, should the regulations require the manufacturer to retain a copy of each original COO form? For how long? Regulatory Assessment This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866, and has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. It is also not significant under the ``Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures'' (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a Regulatory Assessment is unnecessary. This project would benefit law enforcement officers by aiding in deterrence and detection of vessel fraud and theft. An estimated 2,000,000 recreational vessels are manufactured or imported annual. Issuing authorities in the States issue an estimated 17,000 HINs to individuals building their own vessels annually. This means an estimated 2,017,000 HINs are affixed annually. The estimated average cost for the affixing the existing 12 character HIN is $.50 per vessel. The estimated cost of expansion to a 19 character format is an additional $.25 per vessel, for a total cost of approximately $.75 per vessel. The Coast Guard is soliciting specific comments on the estimated costs for COOs. The Coast Guard considered three alternatives in developing the proposed rulemaking.
