FR940822-0-00011 FR940822-0-00005 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;106&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;9004; AD 94&hyph;17&hyph;09] Airworthiness Directives; Boeing Model 747&hyph;100, &hyph;200, &hyph;300, and &hyph;400 Series Airplanes Equipped with BFGoodrich Evacuation Ramp/Slides AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Boeing Model 747&hyph;100, &hyph;200, &hyph;300, and &hyph;400 series airplanes, that requires various modifications of certain evacuation ramp/slides. This amendment is prompted by reports of several evacuation ramp/slide malfunctions. The actions specified by this AD are intended to prevent delayed inflation of evacuation ramp/slides, which could delay or impede the evacuation of passengers during an emergency. DATES: Effective September 21, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of September 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from the BFGoodrich Company, Aircraft Evacuation Systems, Sustaining Engineering, D/7916, Phoenix, Arizona 85040. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Andrew Gfrerer, Aerospace Engineer, Systems and Equipment Branch, ANM&hyph;131L, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California 90806&hyph;2425; telephone (310) 988&hyph;5338; fax (310) 988&hyph;5210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Boeing Model 747&hyph;100, &hyph;200, &hyph;300, and &hyph;400 series airplanes was published as a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) in the Federal Register on March 15, 1994 (59 FR 11940). That action proposed to require various modifications of certain evacuation ramp/slides. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. One commenter supports the proposed rule. Another commenter requests that the proposed 24-month compliance time for modification of the ramp/slides be extended to 36 months so that it will coincide with affected operators' scheduled overhauls. The commenter points out that the manufacturer of the subject ramp/slides recommends a compliance time of 36 months. The commenter believes that safety will not be compromised if an extension is allowed. The FAA does not concur with the commenter's request. In developing an appropriate compliance time for this action, the FAA considered not only the degree of urgency associated with addressing the subject unsafe condition, but the availability of required parts, the average utilization of the affected fleet, and normal maintenance schedules for timely accomplishment of the modification. The FAA finds that the proposed 24-month compliance time represents the maximum interval of time allowable wherein the modifications can reasonably be accomplished and an acceptable level of safety can be maintained. Further, the FAA took into account the 36-month compliance time recommended by the manufacturer, as well as the number of days required for the rulemaking process; in consideration of these factors, the FAA finds that 24 months after the effective date of this final rule will fall approximately at the same time for compliance as recommended by the manufacturer. Another commenter requests that the proposed 24-month compliance time for modification be shortened to 6 months. This commenter believes that a shorter compliance time is necessary for continued safe operation of airplanes equipped with the affected ramp/slides. The FAA does not concur with the commenter's request. As explained above, the FAA considered many factors, including the safety implications, when developing an appropriate compliance time for this AD. After consideration of all the available information, the FAA cannot conclude that a reduction of the proposed compliance time, without prior notice and opportunity for public comment, is warranted. To reduce the compliance time of the AD would necessitate (under the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act) reissuing the notice, reopening the period for public comment, considering additional comments received, and eventually issuing a final rule; the time required for that process may be as long as four additional months. In comparing the actual compliance date of the final rule after completing such a process to the compliance date of this final rule as issued, the increment in time is minimal. In light of this, and in consideration of the amount of time that has already elapsed since issuance of the original proposal, the FAA has determined that further delay of this final rule action is not appropriate. Two commenters request that paragraph (a) of the proposed rule be revised to require accomplishment of the modifications specified only in paragraphs 2.C., 2.D.(2), 2.E., and 2.F. of the BFGoodrich service bulletin cited in the AD. The commenters believe that accomplishment of paragraph 2.G. of the service bulletin should be optional, since the modifications included in that paragraph are considered to be product improvements that are not associated with the addressed unsafe condition. One of these commenters, BFGoodrich, states that approximately 40 percent of the slide modification kits were shipped to operators prior to the issuance of the supplemental NPRM, and some operators may not have accomplished the modifications specified in paragraph 2.G. of the service bulletin. The commenter expresses a concern that a requirement to accomplish that paragraph would result in additional costs and unscheduled removal and maintenance actions for operators. The FAA concurs with the commenters' request, and has revised paragraph (a) of the final rule to specify that accomplishment of the product improvement modifications specified in paragraph 2.G. of the Accomplishment Instructions of the service bulletin is not required by this AD. Two commenters request that the proposal be revised to cite the latest revision to the BFGoodrich service bulletin specified in the AD and to reference Boeing Service Bulletin 747&hyph;25&hyph;3028. The FAA concurs. Since the issuance of the supplemental NPRM, the FAA has reviewed and approved Revision 2 of BFGoodrich Service Bulletin 7A1418&hyph;25&hyph;253, dated April 15, 1994, which corrects certain typographical errors that appeared in Revision 1 of that service bulletin and references the Boeing service bulletin. The Boeing service bulletin describes procedures for an alternative method of modifying of the packboard and girt. Paragraph (a) of the final rule has been revised to cite the latest revision of the service bulletin as an additional source of service information. Further, ``NOTE 2'' has been added to paragraph (a) of the final rule to reference Boeing Service Bulletin 747&hyph;25&hyph;3028 as an additional source of service information for modifying the packboard and girt. After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the changes previously described. The FAA has determined that these changes will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD.
