FR941128-2-00177 FR941128-2-00093 Environmental Impact Statement; Greene County, Pennsylvania AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an Environmental Impact Statement will be prepared for a proposed highway project in Greene County, Pennsylvania. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kevin Mahoney, P.E., District Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, 228 Walnut Street, P.O. Box 1086, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17108&hyph;1086, Telephone: (717) 782&hyph;3411, or George W. Tanner, P.E., District Liaison Engineer, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, P.O. Box 459, North Gallatin Avenue Extension, Uniontown, PA 15401, Telephone: (412) 439&hyph;7315. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PADOT), will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for improvement of a portion of U.S. Route 19 (U.S. 19). This section of U.S. 19 is located in the community of Morrisville in Franklin Township, Greene County, Pennsylvania. Generally, U.S. 19 is a north-south roadway, but through the project area travels east-west. The limits of the proposed project will be from the Waynesburg borough line eastward to the intersection of U.S. 19 and S.R. 0021, having a total length of approximately 3244 feet. The project area is bordered by the south fork of Tenmile Creek to the north and Morris Street (T&hyph;541) to the south. Improvements in the study area are considered necessary to adequately provide for a safe and efficient transportation system to serve the existing and future transportation needs of the project area. A phased approach will be utilized to complete the preliminary design studies for this proposed highway project. Included in the first phase of the preliminary engineering and environmental studies will be a detailed needs analysis, an environmental overview, and a preliminary alternatives analysis. The second and final phase will include a detailed environmental analysis of alternatives which are recommended for further study as a result of the first phase studies. Alternatives under consideration will include but are not limited to: (1) Taking no action; (2) Transportation System Management (TSM) improvements to the existing U.S. 19, (3) upgrading existing U.S. 19; (4) two-lane relocation to the northern side of U.S. 19; and (5) two-lane relocation to the southern side of U.S. 19. Additional alternatives may be evaluated based on the findings and recommendations of the Phase 1 studies and public agency involvement process. Design variations of grade and alignment will be incorporated and studied with the various build alternatives. During the preparation of the EIS, the following subject areas will be investigated: traffic, air quality; noise and vibration; surface water resources; aquatic environments; floodplains, groundwater; soils and geology; wetlands; vegetation and wildlife; endangered species; agricultural lands assessment; visual; socioeconomics and land use; construction impacts; energy; municipal, industrial, and hazardous waste facilities; historic and archaeological structures and sites; Section 4(f) evaluation; wild and scenic rivers; natural and wild areas and national natural landmarks. Information describing the proposed action and study process (EIS Plan of Study) will be sent to appropriate federal, state, and local agencies and to private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed or are known to have interest in this project to solicit comments. A series of public meetings will be held in the area. Public notices of the time and place of these meetings and any required public hearings will be given in a timely fashion. The Draft EIS will be available for agency and public review and comment prior to the public hearing. Public involvement and interagency coordination will be maintained throughout both phases of the study process. A formal scoping meeting will be held upon request. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning the proposed action should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 20.205, Highway Research Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Bradley D. Keazer, Acting Assistant Division Administrator, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29141 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
