FR940325-0-00099 FR940325-0-00016 The Department believes that it is unnecessary to add a requirement that trustee officials use their ``best efforts'' to prepare the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan along with the rest of the Assessment Plan. Nevertheless, the Department emphasizes that trustee officials should only delay development of the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan when existing data are insufficient to develop even a rough estimate of the extent of the injuries. Further, if trustee officials do delay development of the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan, they should complete the Plan as soon as they obtain sufficient information. National Environmental Policy Act, Regulatory Flexibility Act, Paperwork Reduction Act, and Executive Orders 12866, 12630, 12778, and 12612 The Department has determined that this rule does not constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment. Therefore, no further analysis pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act (43 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)) has been prepared. The Department certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq .). The rule provides technical procedural guidance for the assessment of damages to natural resources. It does not directly impose any additional cost. As the rule applies to natural resource trustees, it is not expected to have an effect on a substantial number of small entities. It has been determined that this rule does not contain information collection requirements that require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .). This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866 and has been determined to constitute a significant regulatory action. However, because of the difficulty of evaluating the effects of alternatives to this rule, the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs within the Office of Management and Budget has waived preparation of the assessments described in sections 6(a)(3)(B) and 6(a)(3)(C) of Executive Order 12866 for the final rule. It has been determined that this rule does not have takings implications under Executive Order 12630. The Department has certified to the Office of Management and Budget that this rule meets the applicable standards provided in sections 2(a) and 2(b)(2) of Executive Order 12778. It has been determined that this rule does not have federalism implications under Executive Order 12612. List of Subjects in 43 CFR Part 11 Continental shelf, Environmental protection, Fish, Forests and forest products, Grazing land, Indian lands, Hazardous substances, Mineral resources, National forests, National parks, Natural resources, Oil pollution, Public lands, Wildlife, Wildlife refuges. For the reasons set out in the preamble, title 43, subtitle A of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 11_NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS 1. The authority citation for part 11 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 9651(c), as amended. Subpart A_Introduction 2. Section 11.13 is amended by revising paragraph (e)(3) to read as follows: §11.13 Overview. * * * * * (e)␣*␣*␣* (3) Damage Determination phase. The purpose of this phase is to establish the appropriate compensation expressed as a dollar amount for the injuries established in the Injury Determination phase and measured in the Quantification phase. The sections of subpart E of this part comprising the Damage Determination phase include guidance on acceptable cost estimating and valuation methodologies for determining compensation based on the costs of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources, plus, at the discretion of the authorized official, compensable value, as defined in §11.83(c) of this part. * * * * * 3. Section 11.14 is amended by revising paragraph (qq) to read as follows: §11.14 Definitions. * * * * * (qq) Technical feasibility or technically feasible means that the technology and management skills necessary to implement an Assessment Plan or Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan are well known and that each element of the plan has a reasonable chance of successful completion in an acceptable period of time. * * * * * 4. Section 11.15 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(3)(ii) to read as follows:
