FR940627-2-00155 FR940627-2-00066 (b) The criteria. _ (1) Meeting the purposes of the authorizing statute. (35 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine how well the project will meet the purpose of the Demonstration Grants for Critical Language and Area Studies program, including consideration of_ (i) The objectives of the project; and (ii) How the objectives of the project further the purposes of the Demonstration Grants for Critical Language and Area Studies program. (2) Extent of need for the project. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the project meets specific needs recognized in the statute that authorized the program, including consideration of_ (i) The needs addressed by the project; (ii) How the applicant identified those needs; (iii) How those needs will be met by the project; and (iv) The benefits to be gained by meeting those needs. (3) Plan of operation. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan of operation for the project, including_ (i) The quality of the design of the project; (ii) The extent to which the plan of management is effective and ensures proper and efficient administration of the project; (iii) How well the objectives of the project relate to the purpose of the program; (iv) The quality of the applicant's plan to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective; (v) How the applicant will ensure that project participants who are otherwise eligible to participate are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or handicapping condition; and (4) Quality of key personnel. (7 points) (i) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project, including_ (A) The qualifications of the project director (if one is to be used); (B) The qualifications of each of the other key personnel to be used in the project; (C) The time that each person referred to in paragraphs (b) (4) (i) (A) and (B) will commit to the project; and (D) How the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, will ensure that its personnel are selected for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or handicapping condition. (ii) To determine personnel qualifications under paragraphs (b) (4) (i) (A) and (B), the Secretary considers_ (A) Experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the project; and (B) Any other qualifications that pertain to the quality of the project. (5) Budget and cost effectiveness. (5 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which_ (i) The budget is adequate to support the project; and (ii) Costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives of the project. (6) Evaluation plan. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the evaluation plan for the project, including the extent to which the applicant's methods of evaluation_ (i) Are appropriate to the project; and (ii) To the extent possible, are objective and produce data that are quantifiable. (Cross-reference: See 34 CFR 75.590 Evaluation by the grantee). (7) Adequacy of resources. (3 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the adequacy of the resources that the applicant plans to devote to the project, including facilities, equipment, and supplies. Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs: This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs) and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and to strengthen federalism by relying on State and local processes for State and local government coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. Applicants must contact the appropriate State Single Point of Contact to find out about, and to comply with, the State's process under Executive Order 12372. Applicants proposing to perform activities in more than one State should immediately contact the Single Point of Contact for each of those States and follow the procedure established in each State under the Executive order. For the name and address of any State Single Point of Contact see the list published in the Federal Register on September 24, 1993 (58 FR 50162&hyph;50164). In States that have not established a process or chosen a program for review, State, area wide, regional, and local entities may submit comments directly to the Department.
