FR941012-2-00071 FR941012-2-00050 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Public Law 102&hyph;375 requires that the Policy Committee (which oversees the 1995 White House Conference on Aging) formulate and approve a proposed agenda for the Conference and that this proposed agenda be published in the Federal Register for public comment. The statutory language urges the 1995 White House Conference on Aging (WHCoA) to work jointly with States, individuals, and public and private organizations to develop a proposed agenda which reflects the major issues facing older Americans and their communities. The collection of public comments began immediately after President Clinton formally called for the 1995 WHCoA in February 1994. Special emphasis has been placed on soliciting suggestions and ideas from a wide range of sources_especially from the grassroots. Input received from a variety of local, state, regional and national events conducted on behalf of the WHCoA over the past several months points toward an agenda which goes beyond traditional boundaries and paints a broader picture of aging_an agenda that looks at the present and the future. This Conference should examine a wide range of issues, including the needs and contributions of today's and tomorrow's older citizens. This far-reaching examination is evident in the broad support which has emerged for a theme and issues which incorporate the generational aspects of aging. Congress also included the generational issue in the statute by mandating that the Conference look at the interdependence of generations, the contributions of older individuals to societal well-being and the commonality of problems facing both older and younger individuals. Initial suggestions from the grassroots for Conference themes and agenda issues have been used by the Policy Committee to develop the proposed agenda for the 1995 WHCoA. Over 400 pre-conference events have been held around the country to develop policy recommendations for building the agenda for the Conference. Part I. Themes Below is a listing of proposed themes from which we expect the final theme for the Conference to emerge based primarily on the public comments received. These four proposed themes are: • Aging into the 21st Century: Generations Working Together for a Better Community. •Investing in an Aging Society into the 21st Century: Independence, Opportunity and Dignity for All Americans. •Investing Now in America's Future: A Lifetime of Productivity and Opportunity. •America Now and into the 21st Century: Growing Older with Independence, Opportunity and Dignity. The public is invited to indicate a preferred theme from among these alternatives or to suggest additional themes for consideration by the Policy Committee. Part II. Issues This part of the proposed agenda is a listing of major issues and subissues derived from a variety of sources, including: (1) Recommendations from past White House Conferences on Aging; (2) Recommendations produced by events preceding the 1995 WHCoA; and (3) Input from national aging organizations, professionals and advocates. We are eliciting comments on the relative importance of these issues and subissues. We are also seeking suggestions on ways to link the various issues and subissues. The major issues and subissues identified by the Policy Committee are listed below in alphabetical order: Arts and Humanities •Access •Contributions by Elderly •Continuing Eduation •Therapy
