FR940412-1-00094 FR940412-1-00012 (i) The temperature of the ferrous metal in each hold is less than 65 ○C (150 ○F) and, if the temperature of the ferrous metal in a hold has been more than 65 ○C (150 ○F) during loading, the temperature of ferrous metal has shown a downward trend for at least eight hours after completion of loading of the hold; or (ii) The vessel intends to sail directly to another port that is no farther than 12 hours sailing time for the vessel concerned, for the purpose of loading more ferrous metal in bulk or to completely off-load the ferrous metal, and the temperature of the ferrous metal is less than 88 ○C (190 ○F) and has shown a downward trend for at least eight hours after the completion of loading. (c) The master of a vessel that is loading or transporting a ferrous metal shall ensure that the temperature of the ferrous metal is taken_ (1) Before loading; (2) During loading, in each hold and pile being loaded at least every twenty-four hours and, if the temperature is rising, as often as is necessary to ensure that the requirements of this section are met; and (3) After loading, in each hold, at least every twenty-four hours. (d) During loading, if the temperature of the ferrous metal in a hold is 93 ○C (200 ○F) or higher, the master or person in charge of the vessel shall notify the Coast Guard Captain of the Port and suspend loading until the Captain of the Port is satisfied that the temperature of the ferrous metal is 88 ○C (190 ○F) or less. (e) After loading ferrous metal_ (1) If the temperature of the ferrous metal is 65 ○C (150 ○F) or above, the master shall notify the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, and ensure that the vessel remains in the port area until the Captain of the Port is satisfied that the conditions of paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section are met; or (2) In the case of a short duration voyage to which paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section applies, where the temperature of the ferrous metal in a hold is 88 ○C (190 ○F) or above, the master of the vessel or person in charge of the barge shall notify the Captain of the Port, and ensure that the vessel remains in the port area until the Captain of the Port is satisfied that the conditions of paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section are met. (f) Except for shipments of ferrous metal in bulk which leave the port of loading under the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, if after the vessel leaves the port, the temperature of the ferrous metal in the hold rises above 65 ○C (150 ○F), the master shall notify the nearest Coast Guard Captain of the Port as soon as possible of_ (1) The name, nationality, and position of the vessel; (2) The most recent temperature taken; (3) The length of time that the temperature has been above 65 ○C (150 ○F) and the rate of rise, if any; (4) The port where the ferrous metal was loaded and the destination of the ferrous metal; (5) The last port of call of the vessel and its next port of call; (6) What action has been taken; and (7) Whether any other cargo is endangered. §148.265 Fish meal or fish scrap. (a) This part does not apply to fish meal or fish scrap that contains less than 5% moisture by weight. (b) Fish meal or fish scrap may contain not more than 12% moisture by weight and not more than 15% fat by weight. (c) At the time of production, fish meal or fish scrap must be treated with an effective antioxidant (at least 400 mg/kg (ppm) ethoxyquin or at least 1000 mg/kg (ppm) butylated hydroxytoluene). (d) Shipment of the fish meal or fish scrap must take place not more than 12 months after the treatment prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. (e) Fish meal or fish scrap must contain at least 100 mg/kg (ppm) antioxidant at the time of shipment. (f) At the time of loading, the temperature of the fish meal or fish scrap to be loaded may not exceed 35 ○C (95 ○F), or 5 ○C (8 ○F) above the ambient temperature, whichever is higher. (g) For each shipment of fish meal or fish scrap, the shipper shall provide the master with a written certification that states_ (1) Total weight of the shipment; (2) The moisture content of the material; (3) The fat content of the material; (4) The concentration of the antioxidant (ethoxyquin or butylated hydroxytoluene) at the time of shipment; (5) The date of production of the material; and (6) The temperature of the material at the time of shipment. (h) During a voyage, temperature readings must be taken of fish meal or fish scrap three times a day and recorded. If the temperature of the material exceeds 55 ○C (131 ○F) and continues to increase, ventilation to the hold must be restricted. §148.270 Hazardous substances. (a) Each bulk shipment of a hazardous substance must_ (1) Be assigned a shipping name in accordance with 49 CFR 172.203(c); and (2) If the hazardous substance is also listed as a hazardous solid waste in 40 CFR part 261, be in compliance with the applicable requirements of 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter I. (b) Each release of a quantity of a hazardous substance in excess of its RQ must be reported as required in subpart B of 33 CFR part 153. (c) A hazardous substance must be stowed in a hold or barge which is effectively closed or covered to prevent dispersal of the material during transportation. (d) During cargo transfer operations, dispersal of a hazardous substance into the surrounding environment, including the water, must be minimized to the maximum extent possible. Each spill must be reported as required in paragraph (b) of this section. (e) After a hazardous substance is unloaded, the hold in which it was carried must be cleaned thoroughly and the residue of the substance must be disposed of in accordance with the applicable regulations of 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter I.
