FR940303-2-00155 FR940303-2-00084 OCC and ICC will replace the existing Mutual Agency Agreement between OCC and ICC with a proposed Agreement for Cross-Netting Foreign Currency Settlements (``Cross-Netting Agreement''). The proposed Cross-Netting Agreement, which is based on the Mutual Agency Agreement, has been drafted by OCC and ICC to implement the above-described rule changes. Specifically, the Cross-Netting Agreement provides: (1) That OCC and ICC will furnish a form notice by which a joint clearing member may elect to cross-net its OCC and ICC obligations and which will provide that only OCC will effect the cross-netted settlements; (2) that OCC agrees to act as agent for ICC in effecting cross-netted settlements with a joint clearing member; (3) that neither OCC nor ICC will change its rules relating to the margining and settling of foreign currency obligations without the consent of the other; and (4) the settlement, default, indemnity, and termination procedures. Under the Cross-Netting Agreement, the settlement and default procedures will remain unchanged except that only OCC will be authorized to effect the cross-netting settlements. Likewise, the terms of indemnity between OCC and ICC will remain unchanged except for the fact that OCC will no longer indemnify ICC for actions taken by ICC as agent for OCC in effecting cross-netting settlements. Finally, the terms for terminating the Cross-Netting Agreement will remain unchanged except that the notice requirement between the two parties will be shortened from ninety days to thirty days. OCC and ICC state the proposed rule changes are consistent with the Act and in particular with section 17A of the Act 3 in that the rule changes neither adversely affect the safeguarding of securities or funds in the custody or control of OCC or ICC or for which they are responsible nor significantly affect the rights or obligations of OCC, ICC, or those joint clearing members that have elected cross-netting. 3 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1 (1988). B. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement on Burden on Competition OCC and ICC believe that the proposed rule changes will not impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Changes Received From Members, Participants or Others OCC and ICC have not solicited or received any comments on the proposed rule changes. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Changes and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period: (i) As the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to such period that the SROs consent, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule changes or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule changes should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule changes that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule changes between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal offices of OCC and ICC. All submissions should refer to File Nos. SR&hyph;OCC&hyph;94&hyph;01 and SR&hyph;ICC&hyph;94&hyph;01 and should be submitted by March 24, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4871 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
