FR940224-2-00149 FR940224-2-00093 7. Materials development. Proposals may contain costs to purchase, develop, and translate materials for participants. 8. One working meal per project. Per capita costs may not exceed $5&hyph;$8 for a lunch and $14&hyph;$20 for a dinner; this amount includes room rental if applicable. The number of invited guests may not exceed participants by more than a factor of two to one. 9. A return travel allowance of $70 for each participant. This allowance is for incidental expenditures incurred during international travel. 10. Costs for an audit. The proposal MUST include the cost of an audit that: a. Complies with the requirements of OMB circular No. 1&hyph;133, Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions; b. Complies with the requirements of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 92&hyph;9; and c. Includes review by the recipient's independent auditor of a recipient-prepared supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation, if such a rate is being proposed. The audit costs shall be identified separately for: a. Preparation of basic financial statements, and other accounting services; and b. Preparation of the supplemental reports and schedules required by OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, AICPA SOP 92&hyph;9, and the review of the supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation. 11. Cost-sharing. Cost-sharing in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs is encouraged. The recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the U.S. government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110, Attachment E, ``Cost-sharing and Matching'' and should be described in the proposal. In the event the recipient does not provide the minimum amount of cost sharing as stipulated in the recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the recipient's contribution. Application Requirements Proposals must be structured in accordance with the instructions contained in the application package. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. Proposals are reviewed by USIS posts and by USIA's Office of American Republics. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of General Counsel or other Agency offices. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. The award of any grant is subject to availability of funds. The U.S. Government reserves the right to reject any or all applications received. USIA will not pay for design and development costs associated with submitting a proposal. Applications are submitted at the risk of the applicant; should circumstances prevent award of a grant all preparation and submission costs are at the applicant's expense. USIA will not award funds for activities conducted prior to the actual grant award. Review Criteria USIA will consider proposals based on the objectives stated in this RFP, as well as the following criteria: 1. Quality of Program Idea: Proposals should exhibit originality and relevance to USIA's mission, and demonstrate a clearly defined need. 2. Institutional Ability/Capacity/Record: Applicants should demonstrate the potential for program excellence by documenting previous successful programs. If an organization is a former USIA grant recipient, responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past USIA grants is essential. 3. Project Personnel: Thematic and logistical expertise should be relevant to the proposed program. Resumes included with the proposal should reflect this relevance. 4. Program Planning: A detailed work plan should provide time-lines for the accomplishment of each phase of the project and clearly demonstrate how the grantee institution will meet these deadlines. In addition, the work plan should indicate how it will accomplish project goals. 5. Thematic Expertise: Proposals should demonstrate the organization's expertise in the subject area.
