FR940610-2-00138 FR940610-2-00068 Retroactive Relief 26. NatWest represents that it has engaged in one transaction related to mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities (see rep 1, above), based on the assumption that retroactive relief would not be granted. NatWest represents that the transaction was entered into in conformance with the exception contained in the Department's regulation relating to the definition of plan assets (29 CFR 2510.3&hyph;101) which applies where equity participation by benefit plan investors is not ``significant''. However, it is difficult to monitor whether the percentage interest of plans in a trust is at all times not ``significant'' for purposes of that regulation. Accordingly, relief is requested for transactions which have occurred on or after December 22, 1993. Summary 27. In summary, the applicant represents that the transactions for which exemptive relief is requested satisfy the statutory criteria of section 408(a) of the Act due to the following: (a) The trusts contain ``fixed pools'' of assets. There is little discretion on the part of the trust sponsor to substitute receivables contained in the trust once the trust has been formed; (b) Certificates in which plans invest will have been rated in one of the three highest rating categories by S&P's, Moody's, D&P or Fitch. Credit support will be obtained to the extent necessary to attain the desired rating; (c) All transactions for which NatWest seeks exemptive relief will be governed by the pooling and servicing agreement, which is made available to plan fiduciaries for their review prior to the plan's investment in certificates; (d) Exemptive relief from sections 406(b) and 407 for sales to plans is substantially limited; and (e) NatWest anticipates that it will make a secondary market in certificates with respect to which it acts as an underwriter in the future. Discussion of Proposed Exemption I. Differences Between Proposed Exemption and Class Exemption PTE 83&hyph;1 The exemptive relief proposed herein is similar to that provided in PTE 81&hyph;7 (46 FR 7520, January 23, 1981), Class Exemption for Certain Transactions Involving Mortgage Pool Investment Trusts, amended and restated as PTE 83&hyph;1 (48 FR 895, January 7, 1983). PTE 83&hyph;1 applies to mortgage pool investment trusts consisting of interest-bearing obligations secured by first or second mortgages or deeds of trust on single-family residential property. The exemption provides relief from sections 406(a) and 407 for the sale, exchange or transfer in the initial issuance of mortgage pool certificates between the trust sponsor and a plan, when the sponsor, trustee or insurer of the trust is a party-in-interest with respect to the plan, and the continued holding of such certificates, provided that the conditions set forth in the exemption are met. PTE 83&hyph;1 also provides exemptive relief from section 406 (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act for the above-described transactions when the sponsor, trustee or insurer of the trust is a fiduciary with respect to the plan assets invested in such certificates, provided that additional conditions set forth in the exemption are met. In particular, section 406(b) relief is conditioned upon the approval of the transaction by an independent fiduciary. Moreover, the total value of certificates purchased by a plan must not exceed 25 percent of the amount of the issue, and at least 50 percent of the aggregate amount of the issue must be acquired by persons independent of the trust sponsor, trustee or insurer. Finally, PTE 83&hyph;1 provides conditional exemptive relief from section 406 (a) and (b) of the Act for transactions in connection with the servicing and operation of the mortgage trust. Under PTE 83&hyph;1, exemptive relief for the above transactions is conditioned upon the sponsor and the trustee of the mortgage trust maintaining a system for insuring or otherwise protecting the pooled mortgage loans and the property securing such loans, and for indemnifying certificate holders against reductions in pass-through payments due to defaults in loan payments or property damage. This system must provide such protection and indemnification up to an amount not less than the greater of one percent of the aggregate principal balance of all trust mortgages or the principal balance of the largest mortgage. The exemptive relief proposed herein differs from that provided by PTE 83&hyph;1 in the following major respects: (1) The proposed exemption provides individual exemptive relief rather than class relief; (2) The proposed exemption covers transactions involving trusts containing a broader range of assets than single-family residential mortgages; (3) Instead of requiring a system for insuring the pooled receivables, the proposed exemption conditions relief upon the certificates having received one of the three highest ratings available from S&P's, Moody's, D&P or Fitch (insurance or other credit support would be obtained only to the extent necessary for the certificates to attain the desired rating); and (4) The proposed exemption provides more limited section 406(b) and section 407 relief for sales transactions. II. Rating of Certificates After consideration of the representations of the applicant and information provided by S&P's, Moody's, D&P and Fitch, the Department has decided to condition exemptive relief upon the certificates having attained a rating in one of the three highest generic rating categories from S&P's, Moody's, D&P or Fitch. The Department believes that the rating condition will permit the applicant flexibility in structuring trusts containing a variety of mortgages and other receivables while ensuring that the interests of plans investing in certificates are protected. The Department also believes that the ratings are indicative of the relative safety of investments in trusts containing secured receivables. The Department is conditioning the proposed excemptive relief upon each particular type of asset-backed security having been rated in one of the three highest rating categories for at least one year and having been sold to investors other than plans for at least one year. 11 11 In referring to different ``types'' of asset-backed securities, the Department means certificates representing interests in trusts containing different ``types'' of receivables, such as single family residential mortgages, multi-family residential mortgages, commercial mortgages, home equity loans, auto loan receivables, installment obligations for consumer durable secured by purchase money security interests, etc. The Department intends this condition to require that certificates in which a plan invests are of the type that have been rated (in one of the three highest generic rating categories by S&P's, D&P, Fitch or Moody's) and purchased by investors other than plans for at least one year prior to the plan's investment pursuant to the proposed exemption. In this regard, the Department does not intend to require that the particular assets contained in a trust must have been ``seasoned'' (e.g., originated at least one year prior to the plan's investment in the trust).
