FR940203-1-00044 FR940203-1-00008 (n) Frail elderly persons means an elderly person who is unable to perform at least three activities of daily living. Activity of daily living means an activity necessary on a regular basis for personal care and includes bathing, dressing, eating, getting in and out of beds and chairs, walking, going outdoors and using the toilet. (o) Substantial rehabilitation consists of repairs, replacements and improvements: (1) The cost of which exceeds the greater of fifteen percent (15%) of the Project's value after completion of all repairs, replacements, and improvements; or (2) That involve the replacement of two or more major building components. For purposes of this definition, the term major building component includes: (i) Roof structures; (ii) Ceiling, wall, or floor structures; (iii) Foundations; (iv) Plumbing systems; (v) Heating and air conditioning systems; and (vi) Electrical systems. 4. A new §232.7 would be added to the end of the undesignated center heading, ``APPLICATION AND CERTIFICATION'', in subpart A, to read as follows: Subpart A_Eligibility Requirements * * * * * Application and Certification * * * * * §232.7 Additional requirements for assisted living facilities. In the case of an assisted living facility, or any such facility combined with any other home or facility, the Secretary shall not insure any mortgage under this part unless: (a) The Secretary determines that the level of financing acquired by the mortgagor and any other resources available for the facility will be sufficient to ensure that the facility contains the dwelling units and facilities for the provision of supportive services in accordance with §232.1(m); (b) The mortgagor provides assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that no dwelling unit in the facility will be occupied by more than one person without the consent of all such occupants; and (c) The appropriate state licensing agency for the state, municipality or other political subdivision in which the facility is or is to be located provides such assurances as the Secretary considers necessary that the facility will comply with any applicable standards and requirements for such facilities. 5. Section 232.30 would be revised to read as follows: §232.30 Maximum mortgage amounts for new construction and substantial rehabilitation. The mortgage for a project involving proposed new construction or substantial rehabilitation by a profit motivated mortgagor shall involve a principal obligation not in excess of 90 percent of the Commissioner's estimate of the value of the project, including equipment to be used in the operation, when the proposed improvements are completed and the equipment is installed. The mortgage for a project involving proposed new construction or substantial rehabilitation by a private nonprofit mortgagor shall involve a principal obligation not in excess of 95 percent of such value, including equipment. 6. Section 232.32 would be amended by revising the section heading, the introductory paragraph, and paragraphs (b) and (c) to read as follows: §232.32 Adjusted mortgage amount_substantial rehabilitation projects. In addition to the limitations of §232.30, a mortgage having a principal amount computed in compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart, and which involves a project to be substantially rehabilitated, shall be subject to the following additional limitations: * * * * * (b) Property subject to existing mortgage. If the mortgagor owns the project subject to an outstanding indebtedness, which is to be refinanced with part of the insured mortgage, the maximum mortgage amount shall not exceed: (1) The Commissioner's estimate of the cost of the repair or rehabilitation; plus
