FR940513-0-00168 FR940513-0-00034 The Commission is amending this section to add a third subsection specifying that, if in such promotional materials any energy operating cost claims are made for any covered lamp product, the representation must in connection therewith clearly and conspicuously disclose the assumptions ( e.g. , purchase price, unit cost of electricity, hours of use, patterns of use) upon which they are based. This new subsection is designated (b) and the former subsection (b), which concerns plumbing products, is redesignated (c). I. Section 305.14_Catalogs This section has four subsections, the first two of which concern required disclosures in catalogs from which any covered product (other than fluorescent lamp ballasts, showerheads, faucets, water closets and urinals) may be purchased, the third of which concerns such required disclosures for fluorescent lamp ballasts, and the fourth of which concerns such required disclosures for showerheads, faucets, water closets and urinals. The Commission is amending this section to add a fifth subsection requiring all such catalog advertising for covered lamps to bear the same disclosures that ยง305.11(e) of the Rule requires in the lamps' labeling, except for the number of items contained in the package, and specifying that, if in such catalog advertising any energy operating cost claims are made for any covered lamp product, the representation must in connection therewith clearly and conspicuously disclose the assumptions ( e.g. , purchase price, unit cost of electricity, hours of use, patterns of use) upon which they are based. This subsection provides that, for catalogs not distributed to consumers for making purchases for personal use or consumption by individuals, the light output, energy usage and life disclosures need not comply with the format provisions of ยง305.11(e)(1)(B), but must only be disclosed clearly and conspicuously. This new subsection is designated (d) and the former subsection (d) pertaining to plumbing products is redesignated (e). J. Section 305.15_Test Data Records This section requires manufacturers and private labelers, upon notification by the Commission or its designated representative to provide, within 30 days notice, the underlying test data from which the estimated annual energy cost or energy efficiency rating for each basic model was derived. The Commission is amending this section to require that manufacturers and private labelers of lamps provide the Commission upon request with the underlying test data from which the light output, energy usage and life ratings and, for fluorescent lamps, the color rendering index, for each basic model or lamp type, was derived. List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 305 Advertising, Consumer protection, Energy conservation, Household appliances, Labeling, Lamp products, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Text of Amendments For the reasons set out in the preamble, 16 CFR part 305 is amended as follows: PART 305_RULE CONCERNING DISCLOSURES OF INFORMATION ABOUT ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND WATER USE FOR CERTAIN HOME APPLIANCES AND OTHER PRODUCTS REQUIRED UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT 1. The authority citation for part 305 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 6294. 2. Section 305.2 is amended by revising paragraphs (n) through (v) and by adding paragraphs (w) through (hh) to read as follows: ยง305.2 Definitions. * * * * * (n) Consumer product means any article (other than an automobile, as ``automobile'' is defined in section 2001(1) of Title 15 (section 501(1) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act) of a type_ (1) Which in operation consumes, or is designed to consume, energy or, with respect to showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals, water; and (2) Which, to any significant extent, is distributed in commerce for personal use or consumption by individuals; without regard to whether such article or such type is in fact distributed in commerce for personal use or consumption by an individual, except that such term includes fluorescent lamp ballasts, general service fluorescent lamps, medium base compact fluorescent lamps, general service incandescent lamps (including incandescent reflector lamps), showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals distributed in commerce for personal or commercial use or consumption. (o) Consumer appliance product means any of the following consumer products, excluding those products designed solely for use in recreational vehicles and other mobile equipment: (1) Refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and freezers which can be operated by alternating current electricity, excluding_ (i) Any type designed to be used without doors; and (ii) Any type which does not include a compressor and condenser unit as an integral part of the cabinet assembly. (2) Dishwashers. (3) Water heaters. (4) Room air conditioners. (5) Clothes washers. (6) Clothes dryers. (7) Central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps. (8) Furnaces.
