FR940812-1-00005 FR940812-1-00002 An agenda showing the scheduling of the speakers will be prepared after the deadline for receiving outlines has passed. Copies of the agenda will be available free of charge at the hearing. Drafting Information The principal author of these proposed regulations is Michael L. Gompertz, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel (Income Tax and Accounting). However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Proposed Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, the proposed amendments to 26 CFR part 1 are as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 * * * Par. 2. Section 1.274&hyph;2 is amended as follows: 1. Paragraph (a)(2)(ii) is revised. 2. Paragraph (a)(2)(iii) is added. 3. Paragraph (a)(3)(iii) is revised. 4. Paragraph (e)(1) is revised. 5. Paragraph (e)(3)(ii) is revised. 6. The revised and added provisions read as follows: §1.274&hyph;2 Disallowance of deductions for certain expenses for entertainment, amusement, or recreation. (a) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (ii) Expenditures paid or incurred before January 1, 1979, with respect to entertainment facilities, or paid or incurred before January 1, 1994, with respect to clubs _( a ) Requirements for deduction. Except as provided in this section, no deduction otherwise allowable under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code shall be allowed for any expenditure paid or incurred before January 1, 1979, with respect to a facility used in connection with entertainment, or for any expenditure paid or incurred before January 1, 1994, with respect to a club used in connection with entertainment, unless the taxpayer establishes_ ( 1 ) That the facility or club was used primarily for the furtherance of the taxpayer's trade or business; and ( 2 ) That the expenditure was directly related to the active conduct of that trade or business. (b) Amount of deduction. The deduction allowable under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)( a ) of this section shall not exceed the portion of the expenditure directly related to the active conduct of the taxpayer's trade or business. (iii) Expenditures paid or incurred after December 31, 1993, with respect to a club _( a ) In general. No deduction otherwise allowable under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code shall be allowed for amounts paid or incurred after December 31, 1993, for membership in any club organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose. The purposes and activities of a club, and not its name, determine whether it is organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose. Clubs organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose include any membership organization if a principal purpose of the organization is to conduct entertainment activities for members of the organization or their guests or to provide members or their guests with access to entertainment facilities within the meaning of paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Clubs organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose include, but are not limited to, country clubs, golf and athletic clubs, airline clubs, hotel clubs, and clubs operated to provide meals under circumstances generally considered to be conducive to business discussion. ( b ) Exceptions. Absent a showing that a principal purpose of the organization is to conduct entertainment activities for members or their guests or to provide members or their guests with access to entertainment facilities, business leagues, trade associations, chambers of commerce, boards of trade, real estate boards, professional organizations (such as bar associations and medical associations), and civic or public service organizations will not be treated as clubs organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose.
