FR940922-0-00042 FR940922-0-00017 In section 290.202(b) of the proposed rule, HUD stated that: ``Delinquent mortgages will not be sold if: (1) HUD believes that foreclosure is unavoidable; and (2) the project securing the mortgage is occupied by low-income tenants who are not receiving housing assistance, but who would receive assistance [under section 203 of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978] if HUD foreclosed upon the mortgage.'' The NHLP recommended that HUD not sell delinquent unsubsidized mortgages ``if it believes that foreclosure is unavoidable, and the project *␣*␣* is occupied by low-income tenants who are not receiving housing assistance but could do so if HUD foreclosed upon the mortgage.'' HUD has changed this section in the final rule to conform with the new Multifamily Property Disposition Act. Under section 203(a) of the prior law, HUD was directed to preserve as affordable all units in unsubsidized projects that were occupied by low-income families. This statutory requirement was generally met at foreclosure or sale by placing project-based Section 8 assistance on units that were occupied by low-income families. Thus, under the prior law the import of §290.202(b) would have been that, in general, HUD would not sell unsubsidized projects where foreclosure was unavoidable and there were unassisted low-income tenants in occupancy. Under the new law, however, HUD is under no obligation when foreclosing or selling an unsubsidized project to provide Section 8 assistance to low-income tenants if those tenants were not already receiving some form of tenant-based assistance (see section 203(e)(1)(D)). HUD's only obligation upon foreclosure or sale in this regard (and it applies only to very low-income families that would have to pay more than 30 percent of their adjusted monthly income for rent, not to all low-income families) is to ensure that their rent is not increased for two years (see section 203(g)). These low-income tenants would receive Section 8 assistance only if HUD makes an administrative decision to provide more Section 8 assistance than is required by statute. Thus, the import of §290.202(b) in the final rule is that HUD generally will sell unsubsidized projects where foreclosure was unavoidable and there are unassisted low-income tenants in occupancy. HUD intends to foreclose delinquent unsubsidized mortgages only if it makes a determination that unassisted tenants would receive assistance (including assistance available on a discretionary basis) if HUD were to foreclose. Finally, the NHLP recommended that HUD not sell delinquent, partially assisted, unsubsidized mortgages facing foreclosure. As noted above, HUD acknowledges that these mortgages require special treatment, and they will be sold only under conditions that preserve the rental housing for economically integrated rental use. Negotiated Sales to State and Local Agencies The National Council of State Housing Agencies (NCSHA) and the Illinois Housing Development Authority (IHDA) responded to HUD's request for comments on the negotiated sale of mortgages to State and local agencies authorized by section 203(k)(3) of the Housing and Community Development Act Amendments of 1978. Both strongly supported such sales and described the unique qualifications that State housing finance agencies (HFAs) have to assist HUD in preserving the availability and affordability of the projects securing the loans for low- and moderate-income rental use. Specific comments and HUD's responses are summarized below. Subsidy Contracts NCSHA recommended that HUD assign Section 8 subsidy contract administration to HFAs. HUD is willing to consider this recommendation, subject to agreement on fees and the concern raised in conjunction with regulatory agreements. Regulatory Agreements NCSHA recommended that HUD assign broad regulatory authority to HFAs, including allowing HFAs to set rents and require owners to enter into HFA management contracts. HUD is concerned that there is no mechanism for restraining costs if the HFA performs financing and regulatory functions and also administers the Section 8 contract. HUD would like to explore how to combine regulatory authority with incentives to contain costs. Otherwise it is HUD's view that States may either administer Section 8 subsidy contracts or regulate rents, but not both, in order to preserve the checks and balances vital to a sound subsidy system. Windfall Profits NCSHA recommended and HUD concurs that mortgage insurance should be limited to the purchase price of a mortgage or the unpaid principal balance, whichever is lower. In addition, HUD would not permit resale of mortgages for capital gains, even if the gains are passed through to HUD. Servicing NCSHA recommended that ``[w]hen an HFA requests it, HUD should turn over servicing functions to it upon its purchase of the loan.'' HUD intends to turn over mortgage servicing functions upon the sale of a loan in every case. Delinquent Loans NCSHA recommended splitting mortgages into financially viable and inviable portions, with HUD retaining the inviable portion. HUD does not wish to use this method for restoring a mortgage to financial soundness, because it is inconsistent with the overall objective of reducing the HUD-held inventory and HUD servicing responsibility. In addition, strategies that involve owner consent, such as creating new mortgage documents, may add a party to the negotiations and complicate the transaction. HUD would consider other approaches that meet mutual goals. Long-Term Affordability NCSHA recommended that HUD extend the mortgage insurance period when purchasers negotiate an extension of the affordability period, so the insurance would be coterminous with the financing. HUD would need more information on what is being proposed in order to assess this recommendation, e.g. what ``financing'' is being proposed? FHA insurance runs with the mortgage; any additional insurance period would require careful consideration and review.
