FR940426-2-00011 FR940426-2-00004 Project proposals must be compatible with U.S. trade and commercial policy. Award Period Funds may be expended over the period of time required to complete the scope of work, but not to exceed three (3) years from the date of the award. Indirect Costs The total dollar amount of the indirect costs proposed in an application under this program must not exceed the indirect cost rate negotiated and approved by a cognizant Federal agency prior to the proposed effective date of the award or 100 percent of the total proposed direct costs dollar amount in the application, whichever is less. Application Forms and Kit Standard Forms 424 (Rev. 4&hyph;92), 424A (Rev. 4&hyph;92), and 424B (Rev. 4&hyph;92), which are required as part of the application, are available from the contact person indicated above. Applicants must submit a signed original and three (3) copies of the application and supporting materials. Project Funding Priorities Applications may be targeted for any market in the world. In ITA's view, projects in the following sectors and countries present opportunities to develop, maintain and expand overseas markets and enhance jobs through U.S. exports: (a) Sectors: Environmental technologies, transportation technologies, energy technologies, information technologies, health technologies, and financial services; (b) Geographic Markets: Argentina, Brazil, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Korea, Mexico, Poland, Russia and the other Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union, South Africa, Taiwan, and Turkey. While the proposed projects may entail an overseas presence, activities may take place in the United States if it is necessary to the project's success. Developing a project plan requires solid background research. Applicants should study, and applications should reflect such study of, the following: 1. The market potential of the good(s) or service(s) to be promoted in a particular market(s), 2. The competition from host-country and third-country suppliers, and 3. The economic situation and prospects that bear upon the ability of a country to import the good(s) or service(s). Applicants should present in their applications an assessment of industry resources that can be brought to bear on developing a market; the industry's ability to meet potential market demand expeditiously; and the industry's after-sales service capability in a particular foreign market(s). After describing their completed basic research, applicants should develop marketing plans that set forth the overall objectives of the projects and the specific activities applicants will undertake as part of these projects. Applications should display the imagination and innovation of the private sector working in partnership with the Government to obtain the maximum market development impact. Evaluation Criteria The Department of Commerce is interested in projects that demonstrate the possibility of both significant results during the project period and lasting benefits extending beyond the project period. To that end, consideration for financial assistance under the Market Development Cooperator Program will be based upon the following evaluation criteria: (1) Anticipated (a) Increase in U.S. exports generated (per dollar of cooperator program funds spent) by the proposed expenditure of funds; and
