FR941221-2-00059 FR941221-2-00049 The Endangered Species Act requires the Services to identify species of wildlife and plants that are endangered or threatened based on the best available scientific and commercial data. To fulfill this responsibility, the Services must have an effective program to identify species as candidates for listing and to assess and monitor their status. A credible, up-to-date list of candidate species provides a foundation for the Services' candidate conservation efforts. Regular assessment to determine and monitor trends in species' status helps to ensure that conservation efforts, as well as species listings, are appropriately directed and in accordance with established priorities. An emphasis on early conservation efforts for candidate species allows the Services to seek opportunities for Federal and non-Federal entities to stabilize and recover these species and their ecosystems before listing becomes a high priority. By addressing the conversation of candidate species, the Services and other Federal and non-Federal entities can retain management flexibility, reduce conflict with development, minimize the costs of recovery if listing is pursued, and sometimes alleviate the potential need for restrictive land use policies in the future. Principal components of the draft guidance include: 1. Standard procedures for addressing taxonomic questions regarding candidates; 2. Standards for acceptance of candidates to administrative categories and documenting changes in the status of candidates; 3. An explanation of monitoring requirements and means for carrying them out, as well as a sample format for a monitoring plan; 4. An explanation of comprehensive notices of review; 5. A description of the overall purposes of candidate conservation actions and a discussion of the authorities and opportunities available to carry out candidate conservation; 6. Principles upon which to set priorities among species and projects; 7. General rules for the development and implementation of Conservation Agreements intended to promote conservation of candidate species; and 8. An explanation of how implementation of Conservation Agreements might serve to eliminate or reduce the need to list some candidate species. The draft guidance being made available through publication of this notice would supersede the Fish and Wildlife Service's 1983 policy entitled ``Conservation Agreements for Candidate Species_Final Policy and Guidelines.'' The 1983 policy has a much narrower scope than the draft guidance. The draft guidance expands upon the 1983 policy by: 1. Providing information on how to identify species as candidates for listing, and 2. Providing direction to ensure that the Service complies with the 1988 amendments to the Act, which require that the status of petitioned candidates be monitored to ensure that they do not become extinct while awaiting listing. Although the procedures and definitions in the Handbook are supported by both Services, not all are applicable to the National Marine Fisheries Service due to organizational differences between the two Services, as well as differences in the special character of species under the jurisdiction of each Service. Further guidance clarifying National Marine Fisheries Service specific organizational requirements will be included in the final guidance. Public Comments Solicited The Services intend that a final decision on the draft guidance for candidate species take advantage of information and recommendations from all interested parties. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this draft guidance are hereby solicited. All comments and materials received will be considered prior to the approval of a final document. Author/Editor: The editors of this document are Sandra L. MacPherson and Uvetta Dozier, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of Endangered Species (see ADDRESSES section). Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.). Dated: September 20, 1994. Bruce Blanchard, Acting Director, Fish and Wildlife Service. Dated: November 9, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31369 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
