FR940721-0-00020 FR940721-0-00009 Adjustment Position (S5.1.1(a)) The test procedure proposed in the SNPRM specified that, if the height of the seat were adjustable, the loads were to be applied when the seat was in its highest adjustment position. Volvo stated that, since the seat belts of many heavy trucks are mounted on the seat, the compliance tests for Standard No. 207 and Standard No. 210, Seat Belt Assembly Anchorages , are regularly conducted simultaneously. Volvo stated that the requirement that the seat be adjusted to its highest adjustment position conflicted with Standard No. 210, which requires some loading conditions to be applied with the seat in the rearmost position and some of the belt anchors in the midpoint of any adjustment range. The Administration has previously interpreted NHTSA TP 210 for suspension seats to be in the vertical mid ride position. The Recreation Vehicle Industry Association (RVIA), stated that the Standard No. 207 ``test procedures have long stated that such a seat is to be tested at its midpoint adjustment.'' Neither the current Standard No. 207 nor Standard No. 210 have height adjustment requirements for testing adjustable seats. However, the current version of the Laboratory Test Procedure for Standard No. 207 specifies the highest point adjustment (P. 25, Figure 6, ``Forward and Aft Loads on Seat Frame with Seat Belts Attached to Seat,'' TP&hyph;207&hyph;09, January 18, 1992.) NHTSA would like to emphasize that the Laboratory Test Procedures are provided to contracted laboratories as guidelines for conducting compliance tests, and do not limit the requirements of the applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards. Since Standard No. 207 does not limit the adjustment position, the seat is required to meet the current requirement in all adjustment positions, and the fact that a test procedure specifies a specific adjustment position does not limit this requirement. Section S4.3.2 of Standard No. 210 specifies that the seat is to be adjusted ``to its full rearward and downward position *␣*␣*'' However, this section is related to the seat belt angle location requirements, and does not necessarily apply to load testing. None of the commenters offered a convincing argument as to why NHTSA should not specify the adjustment position. Since NHTSA believes that having to meet Standard No. 207 in the proposed highest adjustment position would necessitate designing a stronger, safer seat than having to meet the standard in another adjustment position, NHTSA has retained the procedure as proposed. Horizontal Plane (S5.1.1(a)(1)) Chrysler commented that the language of S5.1.1(a)(1), ``*␣*␣* horizontal plane tangent to the lowest surface of the seat adjuster *␣*␣*,'' did not reflect some of the seat adjuster designs on its vehicles. Chrysler stated that the lowest mounting surface on some designs did not lie in a horizontal plane, and the forward/rearward motion of some designs was not linear. For this reason, Chrysler suggested that the word ``horizontal'' be deleted from this section. NHTSA agrees with Chrysler it is not possible to specify the horizontal plane tangent to the lowest surface of the seat as the tangent to the lowest surface of some seat adjusters will not be horizontal. The purpose of S5.1.1(a)(1) is to define whether the load is in (or above) any part of the seat adjuster, which will allow manufacturers the option of using either test procedure. Since the applied test load is horizontal and the tangent plane to the lowest surface of the adjuster may not be horizontal for all possible cases, the word ``tangent'' is deleted. As explained above, NHTSA is amending Standard No. 207 because the application of a single load imposes an unnatural load on the seat adjuster if the cg is at or above the adjuster. Therefore, NHTSA is amending S5.1.1(a)(1) to allow manufacturers the option of applying either one or two loads whenever the horizontal plane containing the cg either contacts any portion of the seat adjuster or is above the seat adjuster. Section S5.1.1(a)(3) has also changed to reflect the change in S5.1.1(a)(1). Not Physically Possible NHTSA proposed to allow manufacturers a choice between the current test procedure and the new test procedure whenever the cg of the seat was above the adjuster unless it was ``not physically possible'' to use the dual load test procedure. Volvo objected to the language in proposed S5.1.1(a)(2) requiring manufacturers to use the single load test procedure when it is ``not physically possible'' to use the dual load test procedure since this limited a manufacturer's choice. Based on the testing done by the agency, the pedestal must be approximately 4 inches high for it to be physically possible to use the test device. Since the agency no longer defines a pedestal seat in relation to the height of the pedestal, NHTSA believes that this limitation is necessary. If NHTSA did not include this limitation, the agency might be precluded from conducting a compliance test in the case of a pedestal seat whose pedestal is too short to accommodate the test device. Specification of Dual Load Procedure for Some Pedestal Seats The SNPRM proposed S5.1.1(a)(3) specified the use of the new dual load test procedure whenever the cg of the seat ``is located below the horizontal plane tangent to the lowest surface of the seat adjuster.'' Ford Motor Co. (Ford) stated that it believed that this section should specify the use of the single load test procedure instead of the dual load test procedure. It provided no explanation for its belief. Ford's suggestion is inappropriate. Specifying the use of the dual load test procedure when the cg is below the seat adjuster ensures that test loads will be applied to both the pedestal and the seat. If a single load were applied, only the strength of the attachment of the pedestal to the vehicle, and not the strength of the attachment of the seat to the pedestal, would be tested. Clarification of S5.1.1(a) NHTSA has made various minor changes to S5.1.1(a) for the purpose of clarifying and simplifying the language. Effective Date The SNPRM proposed that the effective date for the option to use either the single or dual load test procedure be 90 days after publication of the final rule. RVIA urged NHTSA to adopt an effective date at least one year following publication of the final rule. RVIA stated that the proposed effective date ``does not provide sufficient lead time for manufacturers to deplete existing stock, conduct additional tests under either procedure, and make any necessary design or structural modifications. NHTSA disagrees with RVIA's reasoning. The only type of seat for which modifications might be necessary are seats whose cg is below their seat adjuster. All other seats either will continue to be required to be certified to the current test procedure or will have the option of certifying to the current test procedure, and therefore, will not require modification. NHTSA is not aware of any current seat designs whose cgs are below their adjusters. Therefore, NHTSA continues to believe the 90 day leadtime is sufficient. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices EXECUTIVE ORDER 12866 AND DOT REGULATORY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES: NHTSA has considered the impact of this rulemaking action under E.O. 12866 and the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. This rulemaking document was not reviewed under E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review.'' This action has been determined to be not ``significant'' under the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures.
