FR940527-0-00159 FR940527-0-00028 (iii) The dollar value of the technical assistance program broken out per year. (4) A program participation term for the protege firm which shall not exceed nine years. (5) Procedures for the mentor firm to notify the protege firm in writing at least 30 days in advance of the mentor firm's intent to voluntarily withdraw its participation in the Program. Mentor firms may only voluntarily terminate the mentor-protege agreement(s) if they no longer want to be a participant in the Program as a mentor firm. Otherwise, a mentor firm must terminate a mentor-protege agreement for cause. (6) Procedures for a protege firm to notify the mentor firm in writing at least 30 days in advance of the protege firm's intent to voluntarily terminate the mentor-protege agreement. (7) Procedures for the mentor firm to terminate the mentor-protege agreement for cause which provide_ (i) The protege firm shall be furnished a written notice of the proposed termination, stating the specific reasons for such action, at least 30 days in advance of the effective date of such proposed termination. (ii) The protege firm shall have 30 days to respond to such notice of proposed termination, and may rebut any findings believed to be erroneous and offer a remedial program. (iii) Upon prompt consideration of the protege firm's response, the mentor firm shall either withdraw the notice of proposed termination and continue the protege firm's participation, or issue the notice of termination. (iv) The decision of the mentor firm regarding termination for cause, conforming with the requirements of this section, shall be final and is not reviewable by DoD. (8) Additional terms and conditions as may be agreed upon by both parties. (c) Mentor firms shall send a copy of any termination notices to the DoD, OUSD(A&T)SADBU, and where funding is made available through a DoD program manager, also provide a copy to the program manager and to the appropriate PCO of ACO. (d) Termination of a mentor-protege agreement shall not impair the obligations of the mentor firm to perform pursuant to its contractual obligations under Government contracts and subcontracts. Termination of all or part of the mentor-protege agreement shall not impair the obligations of the protege firm to perform pursuant to its contractual obligations under any contract awarded to the protege firm by the mentor firm. (e) Only developmental assistance provided after the DoD approval of the mentor-protege agreement may be reimbursed. (f) The mentor-protege agreement may provide for the mentor firm to furnish any or all of the types of developmental assistance as follows:
