FR941007-1-00160 FR941007-1-00009 (c) Indirect activities . The OTS shall, if the wholesale or limited purpose savings association elects, consider in its community development performance assessment: (1) Qualified investments or community development services provided by an affiliate of the savings association, provided the investment or services are not claimed by any other institution; and (2) Community development lending by affiliates, consortia and third parties, subject to the requirements and limitations in ยง563e.22(c)(3) and (d) of this part. (d) Benefit to service area(s)_ (1) Benefit inside service area(s) . For purposes of assessing a wholesale or limited purpose savings association's community development performance under this section, the OTS shall consider all qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, and community development services that benefit areas within the savings association's service area(s). (2) Benefit outside service area(s). The OTS shall consider the qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, and community development services provided by a wholesale or limited purpose savings association that benefit areas outside the savings association's service area(s) only up to an amount equivalent to the amount of investments, loans, and services considered under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If a savings association demonstrates a limited need or opportunity for these investments, lending, and services, in its service area(s), the OTS may exempt the savings association from all or part of this limitation. (e) Community development performance rating. The OTS shall rate a savings association's community development performance as provided in Appendix A of this part. ยง563e.26 Small savings association assessment standards. (a) Scope of assessment. The OTS shall assess the degree to which a small savings association is helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) under the assessment standards described in this section. (b) Assessment criteria. The OTS shall evaluate a small savings association's CRA performance pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The savings association's loan-to-deposit ratio, adjusted for seasonal variation and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities, such as loan originations for sale to the secondary markets or community development lending or investment; (2) The percentage of loans and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities located in the savings association's service area(s); (3) The savings association's record of lending to and, as appropriate, engaging in other lending-related activities for, borrowers of different income levels and businesses and farms of different sizes; (4) The geographic distribution of the savings association's loans given its service area(s); and (5) The savings association's record of taking action, if warranted, in response to written complaints about its performance in meeting the credit needs of its service area(s). (c) Small savings association performance rating. The OTS shall rate a small savings association's performance as provided in Appendix A of this part.
