FR941019-0-00007 FR941019-0-00003 FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION 12 CFR Parts 303 and 338 Applications, Requests, Submittals, Delegations of Authority, and Notices Required To Be Filed by Statute or Regulation; Fair Housing AGENCY: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The FDIC has adopted final amendments concerning delegations of authority and other technical amendments to its regulations in order to reflect the name, duties and powers of the FDIC's new Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs, which was established under a recent internal reorganization. The Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs was created by abolishing the FDIC's Office of Consumer Affairs and transferring its functions, as well as those of the FDIC's Division of Supervision relating to compliance with consumer protection, fair lending, community reinvestment, civil rights, and other laws not directly affecting the safety and soundness of depository institutions, to the new division. The intended effect of these amendments is to provide officials in the new division with appropriate delegated authority and to make other technical and conforming amendments. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation becomes effective on October 19, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Claude A. Rollin, Senior Counsel, Legal Division (202&hyph;898&hyph;3985), Grovetta N. Gardineer, Senior Attorney, Legal Division (202&hyph;898&hyph;3905), or Lori J. Sommerfeld, Law Clerk, Legal Division (202&hyph;898&hyph;8515). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On August 29, 1994, the Acting Chairman of the Board of the FDIC approved a reorganization of the Corporation resulting in the establishment of a new Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs. This was accomplished by abolishing the Office of Consumer Affairs and transferring its functions and duties to the new division. The functions and duties of the Division of Supervision relating to compliance with consumer protection, fair lending, community reinvestment, civil rights, and other laws not directly affecting the safety and soundness of depository institutions were also transferred to the new division. The Board adopted a resolution on August 30, 1994 approving the restructuring in order to reaffirm and strengthen its commitment to enforcing consumer protection, fair lending, community reinvestment, and civil rights laws and to better utilize FDIC resources. Discussion
