FR940110-1-00011 FR940110-1-00001 (b) The program is not applicable to: (1) Noncropland owned by the United States which was acquired or reserved for conservation purposes, or which is to be retained permanently under Government ownership, including, but not limited to, grazing lands administered by the FS, or by the Bureau of Land Management, DOI (including lands administered under the Taylor Grazing Act), or the Fish and Wildlife Service, DOI, except as indicated in paragraph (a)(7) of this section. (2) Nonprivate persons for performance of practices on any land owned by the United States or a corporation wholly owned by it. A nonprivate person is anyone except an individual, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or other business enterprise, or other legal entity (excluding districts which have taxing authority, Federal agencies, States and State agencies, including political subdivisions of a State). ยง701.106 Conservation practices. Conservation practices as specified by the Deputy Administrator are made available nationally under the ACP and may be included in the State and county programs. Practices shall not be primarily production-oriented and shall have primarily conservation, environmental, or pollution abatement benefits. The practices are designed to be consistent with the agricultural conservation policy stated in section 7 of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act, as amended, and national program policy, and are developed primarily to meet a definite need to accomplish one or more of the following: (a) Establish long-lasting protective cover. (b) Improve or sustain existing protective cover. (c) Conserve or safely dispose of water. (d) Benefit wildlife. (e) Establish or improve stands of forest trees. (f) Give protection against soil erosion. (g) Prevent or abate agricultural-related pollution of water, land, and air. (h) Meet special State or county conservation needs. (i) Encourage energy conservation practices. (j) Improve water quality. ยง701.107 County programs. (a) ACP shall be developed in each county by the COC, in consultation with the CCRG in accordance with the National and State development guidelines and policies provided. Subject to the availability of funds, at least one public meeting per year shall be held for this purpose. (b) The county ACP shall be effective after approval by the STC. ยง701.108 State programs. (a) The SCRG shall develop recommendations for the State ACP. The chairperson of the SCRG may also invite others with conservation or water quality interests to participate in such deliberations. Subject to the availability of funds, at least one public meeting per year shall be held for this purpose. (b) The State ACP shall consist of the guidelines and practices authorized by the STC and approved by the Deputy Administrator after considering the recommendations submitted by COC's.
