FR940805-2-00124 FR940805-2-00064 [Rel. No. IA&hyph;1430; 803&hyph;92] Valmora Partners, L.P.; Notice of Application July 29, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the ``Advisers Act''). APPLICANT: Valmora Partners, L.P. Relevant Act Section: Sections 206A and 205(a)(1). Summary of Application: Applicant is a limited partnership that a family formed to facilitate investments of family trusts and custodianships, and it requests an order to permit registered investment advisers to charge it performance-based advisory fees. Filing Date: The application was filed on April 29, 1994 and amended on July 29, 1994. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the applicant will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicant with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on August 23, 1994 and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicant, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicant, c/o Marsh Operating Company, Suite 3400, 1999 Bryan Street, Dallas, Texas 75201. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Deepak T. Pai, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0574, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. Applicant is a Texas limited partnership that a particular family formed to facilitate and simplify investments of multiple family trusts and custodianships. Applicant is excepted from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940, under section 3(c)(1). Applicant requests an order under section 206A of the Advisers Act that would grant an exemption from section 205(a)(1) of that Act to permit registered investment advisers to charge it performance-based advisory fees. 2. Applicant's general partners, Tom F. Marsh, is responsible for making investment decisions for applicant. Mr. Marsh is the chief executive officer and the sole owner of March Operating Company (``MOC''), an oil and gas exploration and production company. Mr. Marsh's wife, his mother, one of his brothers, MOC, two long-term family employees, fifteen trusts established under Texas law, and four custodianships established under the Texas Uniform Gifts to Minor's Act (the ``UGMA'') are the limited partners of applicant. Thus, each of the limited partners is either: (a) A Marsh family member; 1 (b) an entity wholly-owned by Mr. Marsh; (c) a long-term family employee; 2 or (d) a trust or custodianship having Marsh family members as beneficiaries and a Marsh family member or a long-term family employee as trustee or custodian. The trustee or custodian makes the decision for each of the relevant entities to invest in applicant. 1 The term ``family member,'' as used herein, means: (i) Mr. Marsh; (ii) Mr. Marsh's mother; (iii) Mr. Marsh's brothers; (iv) Mr. Marsh's children; (v) any and all of the spouses and issue (lineal and adopted) of individuals in categories (i), (iii), and (iv); and (vi) siblings of spouses referred to in (v). 2 The term ``long-term family employee,'' as used herein, means: a senior-level manager with five or more years' employment by one or more (a) Marsh family members, and/or (b) entities in which Marsh family members own beneficially more than 25%. 3. Applicant is essentially a family investment vehicle, and no management, performance, or other fee is charged to the limited partners. Mr. Marsh acts as applicant's general partner without any compensation. Applicant reimburses MOC for direct costs it incurs in providing certain administrative and support services to applicant, such as preparing applicant's financial statement and making and keeping its books and records. 4. Virtually all of applicant's assets consist of limited partnership interests of privately placed investment limited partnerships. These limited partnerships are not registered as investment companies in reliance on section 3(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act, and they are charged performance-based advisory fees by investment advisers. Neither applicant, nor any Marsh family member or long-term family employee who acts as trustee or custodian of any of the trusts or custodianships that are limited partners of applicant is an affiliated person of any adviser. Legal Analysis 1. Section 205(a)(1) of the Advisers Act generally prohibits a registered investment adviser from receiving compensation on the basis of a share of capital gains in or capital appreciation of a client's account. Section 206A of the Advisers Act provides that the SEC may exempt any person or transaction from any provision of the Advisers Act ``if and to the extent that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of [the Advisers Act].'' 2. Rule 205&hyph;3 provides an exemption from the prohibition against performance-based compensation in section 205(a)(1) provided that the conditions of the rule are satisfied. Paragraph (b)(1) of the rule requires each client entering into an investment advisory contract that provides for such compensation to be: (a) a natural person or a company who immediately after entering into the contract has at least $500,000 under management of the investment adviser; or (b) a person who the registered investment adviser reasonably believes prior to entering into the contract, is a natural person or a company whose net worth at the time the contract is entered into exceeds $1,000,000. Paragraph (b)(2) of the rule provides that the term ``company'' does not include a private investment company such as applicant unless each of its equity owners is a natural person or a company as defined therein that meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of the rule. A trust is expressly included within the definition of ``company.'' Applicant believes that a custodianship should be viewed as a type of trust for this purpose because, under UGMA, a custodian is a fiduciary whose duties and powers are similar to those of a trustee. 3. Mr. Marsh, his wife, his mother, his brother, MOC, the long-term family employees, and five of the fifteen trusts qualify under the client eligibility requirements of rule 205&hyph;3(b). The remaining ten trusts and the four custodianships (the ``non-qualifying trusts'') do not individually satisfy the requirements of the rule. Thus, applicant requests an exemption under section 206A from section 205(a)(1) to let it invest in privately placed limited partnerships that are managed by registered investment advisers that charge performance fees. Applicant requests that the relief also cover applicant in the event that trusts and custodianships formed in the future having family members or long-term family employees as trustee or custodian may become limited partners of applicant. Such future trusts and custodianships will comply with the representations set forth in the application.
