FR940603-1-00204 FR940603-1-00009 ␣ 1List of owner's materials on hand 2Item1 2Description of material 2Catalog No. 2Quantity 2Unit price 2Extended price ␣ Above materials are located at: Notes: 1. Item corresponds with item in list of materials in construction drawings. Under Article I, Section 3, the value of these materials will be deducted from payments to the Bidder for completed Construction Units. ␣ 1List of materials ordered by owner but not delivered 2Item1 2Supplier name and address 2Scheduled delivery date 2Description of material 2Catalog No. 2Quantity 2Unit price 2Extended price ␣ Above material to be delivered to: Notes: 1. Item corresponds with item in list of materials in construction drawings. Under Article I, Section 3, the value of these materials will be deducted from payments to the Bidder for completed Construction Units. ARTICLE II_CONSTRUCTION Section 1. Time and Manner of Construction a. The Bidder agrees to commence construction of the Project on a date (hereinafter called the ``Commencement Date'') which shall be determined by the Engineer after notice in writing of approval of the Contract by the Administrator and notice in writing from the Bidder that the Bidder has sufficient materials to warrant commencement and continuation of construction, but in no event will the Commencement Date be later than XXXX calendar days after date of approval of the Contract by the Administrator. The Bidder further agrees to prosecute diligently and to complete construction in strict accordance with the Plans, Specifications and Construction Drawings within XXXX ( XXXX ) calendar days (excluding Sundays) after Commencement Date: Provided, however, that the Bidder will not be required to dig holes, set poles or install anchors if there are more than six (6) inches of frost in the ground nor to perform any construction on such days when in the judgment of the Engineer snow, rain, or wind, or the results of snow, rain, or frost make it impracticable to perform any operation of construction and to the extent of the time lost due to the conditions described herein and approved in writing by the Engineer, the time of completion set out above will be extended if the Bidder makes a written request therefor to the Owner as provided in subsection b of this section 1. b. The time for Completion of Construction shall be extended for the period of any reasonable delay which is due exclusively to causes beyond the control and without the fault of the Bidder, including Acts of God, fires, floods, inability to obtain materials and acts or omissions of the Owner with respect to matters for which the Owner is solely responsible: Provided, however, that no such extension of time for completion shall be granted the Bidder unless within ten (10) days after the happening of any event relied upon by the Bidder for such an extension of time the Bidder shall have made a request therefor in writing to the Owner, and provided further that no delay in such time of completion or in the progress of the work which results from any of the above causes except acts or omissions of the Owner, shall result in any liability on the part of the Owner. c. The sequence of construction shall be as set forth below, the numbers or names being the designations of extensions or areas (hereinafter called the ``Sections'') corresponding to the numbers or names shown on the maps attached hereto, or if no Sections are set forth below, the sequence of construction shall be as determined by the Bidder, subject to the approval of the Engineer. XXXX
