FR940927-1-00007 FR940927-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;137&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Raytheon Corporate Jets Model Hawker 800 and 1000 and Model DH/BH/HS/BAe 125 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Raytheon Corporate Jets Model Hawker 800 and 1000 and Model DH/BH/HS/BAe 125 series airplanes. This proposal would require inspections to detect cracking of the sidestay jack pivots of the main landing gear, and replacement of the sidestay jack pivot assemblies with new assemblies. This proposal is prompted by a report of fracturing of a jack pivot, which resulted in the inability of the main landing gear to deploy. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent a wheels-up landing. DATES: Comments must be received by November 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;137&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Manager Product Support, Customer Support Department, Raytheon Corporate Jets, Inc., Adams Field, P. O. Box 3356, Little Rock, Arkansas 72203. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William Schroeder, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2141; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;137&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;137&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), which is the airworthiness authority for the United Kingdom, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Raytheon Corporate Jets Model Hawker 800 and 1000 and Model DH/BH/HS/BAe 125 series airplanes. The CAA advises that it has received a report of fracturing of a jack pivot, which resulted in the inability of the main landing gear (MLG) to deploy. The cracks are apparently caused by metal fatigue. This condition, if not corrected, could result in a wheels-up landing. Raytheon Corporate Jets has issued Service Bulletin SB 32&hyph;233, dated June 24, 1994, which describes procedures for repetitive inspections to detect cracking of the sidestay jack pivots of the MLG, and replacement of the sidestay jack pivot assemblies with new assemblies. The CAA classified this service bulletin as mandatory in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in the United Kingdom. This airplane model is manufactured in the United Kingdom and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of ยง21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.29) and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, the CAA has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of the CAA, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, the proposed AD would require inspections to detect cracking of the sidestay jack pivots of the MLG, and replacement of the sidestay jack pivot assemblies with new assemblies. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. The referenced service bulletin recommends completion of the initial inspection within 28 days after the issuance date of the service bulletin. However, the manufacturer has notified the FAA that there is a delay in the availability of replacement parts for the sidestay jack pivot assemblies. The FAA has determined that a compliance time for the initial inspection within 28 days after the effective date of the final rule for this action will allow adequate time for the manufacturer to provide the replacement parts and for operators to comply with the requirements of this AD. The FAA estimates that 550 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would take approximately 6 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed actions, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. The FAA has been advised that the manufacturer plans to provide the required parts at no cost to the operators. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $181,500, or $330 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the proposed requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
