FR941202-0-00005 FR941202-0-00001 Response. The Commission's statutory mandate in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, includes all uses of byproduct, source, and special nuclear material. Specifically, section 81 of the Act prohibits, without Commission authorization, the manufacture, production, transfer, receipt in interstate commerce, acquisition, ownership, possession, import, or export of byproduct material (42 U.S.C. 2111). Also, section 161 of the Act states (in part): The Commission is authorized to establish by rule, regulation, or order, such standards and instructions to govern the possession and use of special nuclear material, source material, and byproduct material as the Commission may deem necessary or desirable to promote the common defense and security or to protect health or to minimize danger to life or property (emphasis added). Therefore, the Commission has broad statutory responsibility to regulate all uses of byproduct material, including medical use. Section 104(a) of the Atomic Energy Act states: The Commission is authorized to issue licenses to persons applying therefor for utilization facilities for use in medical therapy. In issuing such licenses the Commission is directed to permit the widest amount of effective medical therapy possible with the amount of special nuclear material available for such purpose and to impose the minimum amount of regulation consistent with its obligations under this Act to promote the common defense and security and to protect the health and safety of the public (42 U.S.C. 2134(a)) (emphasis added). Section 104(a) on its face applies only to medical therapy licensees for using ``utilization facilities'' (i.e., nuclear reactors) and ``special nuclear material.'' No ``minimum regulation'' directive governs the Commission's regulation of byproduct material. This section does not even apply to the medical use of byproduct material, which falls within the NRC's broad standard-setting authority in sections 81 and 161 of the Act. Even if the commenter were correct that the NRC had a statutory obligation to minimize regulation, this rule eliminates certain restrictions in the regulation of the medical use of byproduct material, furthering that purpose. The Commission is, in fact, imposing the minimum amount of regulation commensurate with the need for protection of the public health and safety. Regarding the NRC's competence, ``[t]he substantive area in which an agency is deemed to be expert is determined by statute.'' Massachusetts v. United States, 856 F.2d 378, 382 (1st Cir. 1988). See also Commonwealth of Massachusetts v. NRC, 924 F.2d 311, 324 (D.C. Cir.), cert. denied, 112 S.Ct. 275 (1991). The Atomic Energy Act commits to the NRC the duty of regulating the use of byproduct materials, including radioactive drugs, to protect public health and safety and as a matter of law the NRC is deemed ``expert'' in making technical and policy judgements in this field. The NRC has long experience in regulating nuclear medicine and ``[i]n recent years has increased its recruitment of personnel who have experience and knowledge either in nuclear medicine or in radiation therapy'' (56 FR 34104; July 25, 1991). Since the Commission's inception, it has been accountable for the regulation of medical uses of byproduct material. It has licensed, inspected, collected and analyzed data in this field for many years, and has issued and administered various forms of regulations. Furthermore, this rulemaking is not about what dosage of a radioactive drug should be prescribed to treat or diagnose a patient. It is about the qualifications of individuals performing NRC-licensed activities (e.g., authorized nuclear pharmacists) that are necessary to protect the health and safety of patients and workers from radiological hazards. This rule, in other words, does not intrude on medical judgment. Moreover, the NRC has highly qualified staff and extensive experience in determining radiation safety qualifications. In addition, the NRC has an advisory committee (the Advisory Committee on the Medical Uses of Isotopes or ``ACMUI''), which, since its establishment many years ago, has advised the NRC on rulemakings and other initiatives related to the medical uses of byproduct material. The membership of the ACMUI includes a broad spectrum of expertise, such as physicians (i.e., in nuclear medicine, cardiology, and radiation oncology), medical physicists, pharmacists, medical researchers, practicing technologists, hospital administrators, state medical regulators, Food and Drug Administration representatives, and a patient rights representative. The NRC also has a visiting medical fellows program that allows selected physicians or pharmacists to work for NRC for a period of 1 to 2 years. Both ACMUI and the visiting medical fellows provided advice to the NRC during the development of this rule. (2) Comment. The NRC is attempting to duplicate regulation by other federal, state, and national entities which already have appropriate responsibility in the areas of medicine and pharmacy. Response. This final rule is not duplicating regulation by other federal or state agencies. In fact, this rule is designed to avoid duplication of the regulations of other federal agencies (e.g., see response to comments on ยง35.6). In the area of medical use of byproduct material, the NRC and FDA signed a Memorandum of Understanding (58 FR 47300; September 8, 1993) to coordinate existing NRC and FDA regulatory programs. Generally speaking, FDA regulates the manufacture and distribution of radioactive drugs and medical devices for safety and efficacy, while the NRC regulates radiation safety associated with the actual use of these products.
