FR941121-0-00120 FR941121-0-00011 (6) There are no applications entitled to comparative consideration with the application being granted; and (7) Operation of the proposed station would not cause interference to any authorized station(s). (b) Grant of petitioned applications . The Commission may grant, without a formal hearing, applications against which petitions to deny have been filed. If any petition(s) to deny are pending ( i.e., have not been dismissed pursuant to ยง90.161 or withdrawn by the petitioner) when an application is granted, the Commission shall deny the petition(s) and issue a concise statement of the reason(s) for the denial, disposing of all substantive issues raised in the petitions. (c) Partial and conditional grants. The Commission may grant applications in part, and/or subject to conditions other than those normally applied to authorizations of the same type. When the Commission does this, it will inform the applicant of the reasons therefor. Such partial or conditional grants are final unless the Commission revises its action in response to a petition for reconsideration. Such petitions for reconsideration must be filed by the applicant within thirty days after the date of the letter or order stating the reasons for the partial or conditional grant, and must reject the partial or conditional grant and return the instrument of authorization. (d) Designation for hearing. The Commission may designate applications for a hearing, specifying with particularity the matters in issue, if, after consideration of the application, any petitions or other pleadings, and other matters which it may officially notice, the Commission is unable to make one or more of the findings listed in paragraph (a) of this section. The Commission may grant, deny, or take other action with respect to applications designated for a hearing. ยง90.167 Time in which a station must commence service. (a) Unless otherwise specified in this part, all 220&hyph;222 MHz, private carrier paging, Business Radio, and SMR licensees must commence service within twelve (12) months from the date of grant or the authorization cancels automatically and must be returned to the Commission. (b) For purposes of this section, a station licensed to provide commercial mobile radio service is not considered to have commenced service unless it provides service to at least one unaffiliated party. (c) Application for extension of time to commence service may be made on Commission Form 600. Extensions of time must be filed prior to the expiration of the construction period. Extensions will be granted only if the licensee shows that the failure to commence service is due to causes beyond his or her control. No extensions will be granted for delays caused by lack of financing, lack of site availability, for the assignment or transfer of control of an authorization, or for failure to timely order equipment. If the licensee orders equipment within 90 days of the license grant, a presumption of due diligence is created. (d) An application for modification of an authorization (under construction) at the existing location does not extend the initial construction period. If additional time to commence service is required, a request for such additional time must be submitted on Commission Form 600, either separately or in conjunction with the submission of the Commission Form 600 requesting modification. ยง90.168 Equal employment opportunities. Commercial Mobile Radio Services licensees shall afford equal opportunity in employment to all qualified persons, and personnel must not be discriminated against in employment because of sex, race, color, religion, or national origin. (a) Equal employment opportunity program. Each licensee shall establish, maintain, and carry out a positive continuing program of specific practices designed to assure equal opportunity in every aspect of employment policy and practice. (1) Under the terms of its program, each licensee shall: (i) Define the responsibility of each level of management to insure a positive application and vigorous enforcement of the policy of equal opportunity, and establish a procedure to review and control managerial and supervisory performance. (ii) Inform its employees and recognized employee organizations of the positive equal employment opportunity policy and program and enlist their cooperation. (iii) Communicate its equal employment opportunity policy and program and its employment needs to sources of qualified applicants without regard to sex, race, color, religion or national origin, and solicit their recruitment assistance on a continuing basis. (iv) Conduct a continuing campaign to exclude every form of prejudice or discrimination based upon sex, race, color, religion, or national origin, from the licensee's personnel policies and practices and working conditions. (v) Conduct a continuing review of job structure and employment practices and adopt positive recruitment, training, job design and other measures needed in order to insure genuine equality of opportunity to participate fully in all organizational units, occupations and levels of responsibility. (2) The program must reasonably address specific concerns through policies and actions as set forth in this paragraph, to the extent that they are appropriate in consideration of licensee size, location and other factors. (i) To assure nondiscrimination in recruiting. (A) Posting notices in the licensee's offices informing applicants for employment of their equal employment rights and their right to notify the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the Federal Communications Commission (Commission), or other appropriate agency. Where a substantial number of applicants are Spanish-surnamed Americans, such notice should be posted in both Spanish and English.
