FR940721-0-00055 FR940721-0-00014 The agency believes that a similar problem could occur under the proposed definitions for final assembly and final assembly point. As suggested by BMW's comment, manufacturers could tailor the assembly process to take advantage of the definition. This could also reduce the costs of final assembly to a value close to a nullity. NHTSA notes that the cost of painting the vehicle body is considered to be part of the cost of final assembly under the definitions being adopted for the final rule, assuming that it occurs at the final assembly plant. While this is a different result than under the proposed definitions, the agency believes it is appropriate since painting is an operation that occurs at essentially all final assembly plants. The agency also notes that the fact that final assembly labor and other costs are not included in parts content percentages does not mean that they are not reflected on the label. The origin of these costs is reflected in the portion of the label which states the final assembly point by city, state and country. c. Passenger motor vehicle equipment. Section 210(f)(4) provides that the term passenger motor vehicle equipment means ``any system, subassembly, or component received at the final vehicle assembly point for installation on, or attachment to, such vehicle at the time of its initial shipment by the manufacturer to a dealer for sale to an ultimate purchaser.'' That section also provides that the term does not include ``minor parts, such as attachment hardware (nuts, bolts, clips, screws, pins, braces, etc.) and such other similar items'' as may be prescribed by rule. Dealer- and port-installed equipment. NHTSA tentatively concluded in the NPRM that dealer- or port-installed optional equipment should be excluded from content calculations. The agency noted that the definition of passenger motor vehicle equipment in section 210(f)(4) is limited to equipment delivered to the manufacturer's final assembly point for installation on, or attachment to, a vehicle at the time of its initial shipment by the manufacturer to a dealer. NHTSA noted further that equipment sent directly to dealers or ports is never sent to the manufacturer's final assembly point. Ford stated that it agrees that dealer- and port-installed items of equipment should be excluded from content calculations since they do not come within the statutory definition of passenger motor vehicle equipment. That company added, however, that the agency should reserve the option to address this issue if it appears that any manufacturer is, to a significant degree, installing options beyond the final assembly point. AIADA stated that it strongly supports the tentative conclusion that dealer- or port-installed optional equipment should be excluded from content calculations. That organization stated, however, that the definition of passenger motor vehicle equipment should be clarified. AIADA argued that while the authors of the Labeling Act may have attempted to exclude port-installed and dealer-installed parts such as air conditioners, wheels and stereo systems, the words ``for installation on, or attachment to, such vehicle at the time of its initial shipment by the manufacturer to a dealer'' may not be interpreted to exclude these parts. AIADA suggested adding the words ``and installed on'' to the definition, i.e., components received at final assembly point for installation on, or attachment to, and installed on such vehicle. After considering the comments, NHTSA continues to believe that dealer- or port-installed optional equipment should generally be excluded from content calculations since such equipment is ordinarily not received at the final assembly point. However, the agency does not agree with AIADA's suggested clarification. That organization appears to be referring to equipment which is received at the final assembly point and travels with the vehicle to the dealer, where the final installation is made. NHTSA believes that such equipment does fall within the definition of motor vehicle equipment, i.e., it is received at the final vehicle assembly point for installation on, or attachment to, such vehicle at the time of its initial shipment by the manufacturer to a dealer for sale to an ultimate purchaser. The agency views the fact that the equipment travels with the vehicle as a form of attachment to the vehicle. Exclusion of minor parts. The agency tentatively concluded in the NPRM that all parts received at the final assembly point, including paint, sealers and solvents, are to be included as ``equipment'' for purposes of the Labeling Act, with the exception of the minor parts specified in the statute. However, NHTSA encouraged commenters to suggest other specific minor parts that should be excluded, and to comment on whether paint, sealers and solvents should be included as equipment. AAMA argued that the exclusions should be broadened. That organization stated that it would prefer the agency to exclude all items not covered under NAFTA Annex 403.1. AAMA stated that since the agency had elected not to parallel that aspect of NAFTA, it recommended the following additional exclusions: lubricants, grease, gasoline, oil, blackout, phosphate rinse, sealers, windshield washer fluid, auto transmission fluid, anti-freeze, tape, straps, hinge covers, valve stems, labels, owners manuals, hinges, bulbs, power steering fluid, knobs, bushings, fasteners, decals, isolators, tire assembly fluid, spacers, clamps, rivets, retainers, deadeners, adhesives, links, springs (except springs for suspension systems), grommets, wheel weights, fuses, plugs, paint, clear coat, and primer.
