FR940106-0-00152 FR940106-0-00022 (C) The job search program requirement shall not apply to an individual, as a qualifying requirement for TRA, with respect to any week ending after November 20, 1988, but cooperating State agencies are encouraged to continue to utilize job search programs after November 20, 1988, as an effective tool to assist adversely affected workers in finding suitable employment, particularly unemployed workers who have completed training or for whom the training requirement has been waived under ยง617.19. (2) On and after November 21, 1988. To qualify for TRA for any week of unemployment that begins on or after November 21, 1988, an individual must meet each of the following requirements of paragraphs (a)(2) (i) through (vii) of this section: (i) Certification. The individual must be an adversely affected worker covered under a certification. (ii) Separation. The individual's first qualifying separation (as defined in paragraph (t)(3)(i) of ยง617.3) before application for TRA must occur: (A) On or after the impact date of such certification; and (B) Before the expiration of the two-year period beginning on the date of such certification, or, if earlier, before the termination date, if any, of such certification. (iii) Wages and employment. (A) In the 52-week period (i.e., 52 consecutive calendar weeks) ending with the week of the individual's first qualifying separation, or any subsequent total qualifying separation under the same certification, the individual must have had at least 26 weeks of employment at wages of $30 or more a week in adversely affected employment with a single firm or subdivision of a firm. Evidence that an individual meets this requirement shall be obtained as provided in ยง617.12. Employment and wages covered under more than one certification may not be combined to qualify for TRA. (B)( 1 ) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, any week in which such individual_ ( i ) Is on employer-authorized leave from such adversely affected employment for purposes of vacation, sickness, injury, maternity, or inactive duty or active duty military service for training, or ( ii ) Does not work in such adversely affected employment because of a disability compensable under a workers' compensation law or plan of a State or the United States, or ( iii ) Had adversely affected employment interrupted to serve as a full-time representative of a labor organization in such firm or subdivision, or ( iv ) Is on call-up for the purpose of active duty in a reserve status in the Armed Forces of the United States (if such week began after August 1, 1990), provided such active duty is ``Federal service'' as defined in part 614 of this chapter, shall be treated as a week of employment at wages of $30 or more; ( 2 ) Provided, that_ ( i ) Not more than 7 weeks in the case of weeks described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(B)( 1 ) ( i ) or ( iii ) of this section, or both, and ( ii ) Not more than 26 weeks described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(B)( 1 ) ( ii ) or ( iv ) of this section, may be treated as weeks of employment for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. (C) Wages and employment creditable under paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section shall not include employment or wages earned or paid for employment which is contrary to or prohibited by any Federal law.
