FR940429-0-00089 FR940429-0-00011 The Secretary amends part 668 of title 34 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: The authority citation for part 668 continues to read as follows: Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1085, 1088, 1091, 1092, 1094, 1099c and 1141, unless otherwise noted. 1. Section 668.17 is amended by adding paragraphs (f), (g) and (h) as follows: ยง668.17 Default reduction measures. * * * * * (f) Appeal based on allegations of improper loan servicing or collection_ (1) General. An institution that is subject to loss of participation in the FFEL programs under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or has been notified by the Secretary that its cohort default rate equals or exceeds 20 percent for the most recent year for which data are available may include in its appeal of that loss or rate a challenge based on allegations of improper loan servicing or collection. This challenge may be raised in addition to other challenges permitted under this section. (2) Standard of review. An appeal based on allegations of improper loan servicing or collection must be submitted to the Secretary in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph. The Secretary excludes any loans from the cohort default rate calculation which, due to improper servicing or collection, would, as demonstrated by the evidence submitted in support of the institution's complete and timely appeal to the Secretary, result in an inaccurate or incomplete calculation of the cohort default rate. (3) Procedures. (i) The following procedures apply to appeals from cohort default rates issued by the Secretary during Federal fiscal year 1994 and subsequent years. Upon receiving notice from the Secretary that the institution's cohort default rate exceeds the thresholds specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section or that its most recent cohort default rate equals or exceeds 20 percent, the institution may appeal the calculation of the cohort default rate based on allegations of improper loan servicing or collection. The Secretary's notice includes a list of all borrowers included in the calculation of the institution's cohort default rate. (ii) To initiate an appeal under this paragraph, the institution must notify, in writing, each guaranty agency that guaranteed loans included in the institution's cohort default rate that it is appealing the calculation of the cohort default rate. The notification must be received by the guaranty agency within 10 working days of the date the institution received the Secretary's notification. The institution's notification to the guaranty agency must include a copy of the list of students provided by the Secretary to the institution. (iii) Within 15 working days of receiving the notification from the institution, the guaranty agency must provide the institution with a representative sample of the loan servicing and collection records relating to borrowers whose loans were guaranteed by the guaranty agency and that were included as defaulted loans in the calculation of the institution's cohort default rate. In selecting the representative sample of records, the guaranty agency must use the following procedures: (A) The guaranty agency shall list in social security number order all loans made to borrowers for attendance at the institution and guaranteed by the guaranty agency and included as defaulted loans in the calculation of the cohort default rate which is being challenged by the institution. (B) From the population of loans identified by the guaranty agency, the guaranty agency shall identify a sample of the loans. The sample must be of a size such that the universe estimate derived from the sample is acceptable at a 95 percent confidence level with a plus or minus 5 percent confidence interval. The sampling procedure must result in a determination of the number of loans that should be excluded from the calculation of the cohort default rate under this paragraph. (C) Once the sample of loans has been established, the guaranty agency shall provide a copy of all servicing and collection records relating to each loan in the sample to the institution in hard copy format unless the guaranty agency and institution agree that all or some of the records can be provided in another format. (D) The guaranty agency may charge the institution a reasonable fee for copying and providing the documents, not to exceed $10 per borrower file. (E) After compiling the servicing and collection records for the loans in the sample, the guaranty agency shall send the records, a list of the loans included in the sample, and a description of how the sample was chosen to the institution. The guaranty agency shall also send a copy of the list of the loans included in the sample and the description of how the sample was chosen to the Secretary at the same time the material is sent to the institution. The list of loans included in the sample must include the following information: ( 1 ) The loans included in the sample listed in order by social security number; ( 2 ) For each loan listed, the last date of attendance, the date entered repayment, the date of the first payment missed by the borrower and the default date listed in the guaranty agency's records. (iv) After receiving the relevant loan servicing and collection records from all of the guaranty agencies that insured loans which are included in the cohort default rate calculation, the institution has 30 calendar days to file its appeal with the Secretary. An appeal is considered filed when it is received by the Secretary. If the institution is also filing an appeal under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the institution may delay submitting its appeal under this paragraph until the appeal under paragraph (d)(1)(i) is submitted to the Secretary. As part of the appeal, the institution must submit the following information to the Secretary:
