FR940616-0-00098 FR940616-0-00011 (i) An individual who is currently engaging in the illegal use of drugs, when the agency acts on the basis of such use. This exclusion, however, does not exclude an individual with disabilities who_ (A) Has successfully completed a supervised drug rehabilitation program, and is no longer engaging in the illegal use of drugs, or has otherwise been rehabilitated successfully, and is no longer engaging in such use; (B) Is participating in a supervised rehabilitation program, and is no longer engaging in such use; or (C) Is erroneously regarded as engaging in such use, but is not engaging in such use. (ii) Except that it shall not violate this part for the agency to adopt or administer reasonable policies and procedures, including but not limited to drug testing, designed to ensure than an individual described in paragraphs (2)(i) (A) and (B) of this definition is no longer engaging in the illegal use of drugs. (iii) Nothing in paragraph (2) of this definition shall be construed to encourage, prohibit, restrict or authorize the conduct of testing for illegal use of drugs. (iv) The agency shall not deny health services provided under titles I, II and III of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 through 777f) to an individual with disabilities on the basis of that individual's current illegal use of drugs, if the individual is otherwise entitled to such services. (3) For purposes of employment, the term ``individual with disabilities'' does not include: (i) An individual who has a currently contagious disease or infection and who, by reason of such disease or infection_ (A) Has been determined, in accordance with the provisions of ยง9.131, to pose a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals, which threat cannot be eliminated or reduced by reasonable accommodation, or (B) Is unable to perform the essential duties of the job, with or without reasonable accommodation; or (ii) An individual who is an alcoholic and whose current use of alcohol prevents him or her from performing the duties of the job in question or whose employment would constitute a direct threat to the property or the safety of others by reason of his or her current alcohol abuse. (4) ``Major life activities'' means functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working. (5) ``Has a record of such an impairment'' means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities. (6) ``Is regarded as having an impairment'' means_ (i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation; (ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or (iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment. Multifamily housing project means a project containing five or more dwelling units. Official or Responsible Official means the Assistant Secretary of HUD for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. PDP housing facility means a housing facility administered under HUD's Property Disposition Program. Project means the whole of one or more residential structures and appurtenant structures, equipment, roads, walks, and parking lots which are covered by a single mortgage or contract or otherwise treated as a whole by the agency for processing purposes, whether or not located on a common site. Property Disposition Program (PDP) means the HUD program which administers the housing facilities that are either owned by the Secretary or where, even though the Secretary has not obtained title, the Secretary is mortgagee-in-possession. Such properties are deemed to be in the possession or control of the agency. Qualified individual with disabilities means: (1) With respect to any agency non-employment program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with disabilities who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature; or (2) With respect to any other agency non-employment program or activity, an individual with disabilities who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity. (3) ``Essential eligibility requirements'' include stated eligibility requirements such as income, as well as other explicit or implicit requirements inherent in the nature of the program or activity, such as requirements that an occupant of a PDP multifamily housing facility be capable of meeting selection criteria and be capable of complying with all obligations of occupancy with or without supportive services provided by persons other than the agency. (4) ``Qualified person with disabilities'' as that term is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by ยง9.140. Replacement cost of the completed facility means the current cost of construction and equipment for a newly constructed housing facility of the size and type being altered. Construction and equipment costs do not include the cost of land, demolition, site improvements, non-dwelling facilities and administrative costs for project development activities. Secretary means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Section 504 means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by the agency and not to federally assisted programs. Substantial impairment means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration. UFAS means the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards, which implement the accessibility standards required by the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151 through 4157), and which are established at 24 CFR part 40, Appendix A for residential structures, and 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.600 through 101&hyph;19.607, and Appendix A to these sections, for non-residential structures. ยง9.110 Self-evaluation. (a) The agency shall, within one year of the effective date of this part, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects of those policies and practices, including regulations, handbooks, notices and other written guidance, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part. To the extent modification of any such policies is required, the agency shall take the necessary corrective actions. (b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with disabilities or organizations representing individuals with disabilities, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written). (c) The agency shall, for at least three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
