FR941206-1-00118 FR941206-1-00009 (r) The existing text in ยง201&hyph;20.001(d) referenced the specific subjects of requirements analysis and analysis of alternatives in the GSA Acquisition Guide series. The reference to the guide series is unnecessary and is being deleted. (s) Subpart 201&hyph;20.1 is revised to clarify GSA's intent regarding the preparation of requirements analyses. Currently, the FIRMR requires agencies to document their requirements for FIP resources ``by conducting a requirements analysis commensurate with the size and complexity of the need.'' Some agencies have questioned the necessity of conducting a requirements analysis and preparing the required documentation when a similar document has already been prepared in conformance with agency programmatic needs. The FIRMR is being revised to allow agencies to use such similar documents if they address the basic information required in a requirements analysis. Other agencies have misinterpreted the intent of the phrase ``commensurate with the size and complexity of the need,'' and, in some cases, are over documenting requirements for small dollar acquisitions. These small dollar acquisitions are usually for commercial items readily available in the competitive marketplace. FAR planning provisions and agencies' local procurement practices provide sufficient information for requirements to justify small dollar value acquisitions. To ensure more expeditious and efficient acquisitions, this rule establishes a threshold for when agencies must conduct requirements analyses and analyses of alternatives. Sections 201&hyph;20.102 and 201&hyph;20.202 are revised to eliminate the requirement to perform requirements analyses and analyses of alternatives for acquisitions of FIP resources when the total estimated system life costs are less than $100,000. Additionally, ยง201&hyph;20.103 is revised to require that agencies only consider the factors in this section if it is appropriate to do so. This allows agencies to exercise discretion regarding whether or not to include the factors in their requirements analyses.
