FR941019-0-00008 FR941019-0-00003 The FDIC has identified portions of its regulations that will be directly affected by the aforementioned corporate reorganization and thus require modification. These amendments include delegations of authority and other technical amendments to part 303 as well as a technical amendment to part 338. A. Amendments to Part 303 Part 303 of the FDIC's regulations generally sets forth the procedures to be followed by both the FDIC and applicants with respect to applications, requests, or notices required to be filed by statute or regulation. Part 303 also currently sets forth delegations of authority from the FDIC's Board of Directors to the Director of the Division of Supervision, associate directors, regional directors and deputy regional directors of that division to act on certain applications and other matters. These amendments primarily provide delegations of authority, where appropriate, to the Director and the regional managers of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs to act on certain matters within the purview of the new division. The amendments also replace certain obsolete terminology and legal citations with current nomenclature and accurate citations where applicable. Specific changes are described below. 1. Scope and Definitions (§303.0) The description of the scope of part 303 has been revised to reflect the delegations of authority added to part 303 for the new Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs as well as to reflect that part 303 prescribes where applications, requests and notices required to be filed by statute or regulation should be filed. Definitions of ``Director (DCA)'' and ``regional manager'' have been added to reflect the management of the new Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs. The new term ``DCA'' has been added and defined to mean the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs or any successor thereto. The term ``Director'' has been revised to ``Director (DOS)''. The term ``Associate Director'' has been redefined to include any associate director of the Division of Supervision or the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs. The revisions clarify that the terms ``associate director,'' ``regional director,'' ``deputy regional director,'' ``Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement,'' and ``regional counsel'' include officials of equivalent authority. A definition of ``institution-affiliated party'' has replaced the term ``individual'' throughout, incorporating by reference the meaning provided in 12 U.S.C. 1813(u). The term ``order of correction'' relating to actions terminating deposit insurance has been replaced with the term ``notification to primary regulator,'' which is the nomenclature currently found in 12 U.S.C. 1818(a). The definition of ``notice of assessment of civil penalties'' has been revised to conform with current law. The term ``final order to pay'' relating to the assessment of civil money penalties has been deleted as unnecessary, and the term ``amended order to pay'' added to provide for orders which change the amount originally assessed in civil money penalty actions. The definition of ``total assets'' has been revised and a definition of ``Tier 1 capital'' added, incorporating by reference the definitions found at 12 CFR 325.2(n) and (m), respectively. The term ``protest'' has been revised to reflect the appropriate regional manager's duties with respect to Community Reinvestment Act protests. Section 303.0(c)(1) has been added to explain that any authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Supervision or the Director of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs may be exercised by the Executive Director, Divisions of Compliance, Resolutions and Supervision. Similarly, §303.0(c)(2) explains that any authority delegated to the regional manager may, where confirmed in writing, be exercised by his or her principal assistant. Finally, §303.0(d) is added to clarify that, if appropriate, any use of the singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular and that any use of the masculine, feminine or neuter gender encompasses all three. 2. Application Procedures (§303.6) a. Investigations and examinations (§303.6(b)). This section has been amended to provide delegations of authority to the Director and the regional manager of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs to authorize investigations and examinations pursuant to this section as deemed appropriate. Upon receipt of any report of investigation or examination, authority is delegated to the Director or regional manager of the new division to take any action determined necessary or appropriate under the circumstances. b. Opportunity to petition for reconsideration of a denied application, petition, or other request (§303.6(e)). This section has been amended to indicate that a petition or request relating to compliance with consumer protection, fair lending, community reinvestment or civil rights laws should be filed with the appropriate regional manager. This section has also been amended to include the Director of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs and, where confirmed in writing, the associate director or the appropriate regional manager, in the exercise of authority under this section. c. Delegation of authority to act on certain enforcement matters (§303.9). References throughout the section have been revised to include the authority of the Director of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs or designee to act on certain enforcement matters involving consumer compliance issues. With respect to enforcement matters involving both safety and soundness and consumer compliance matters, authority to act is delegated to the Director of the Division of Supervision and the Director of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs, or their designees, jointly.
