FR940524-2-00080 FR940524-2-00050 The proposal permits an approved person to popularize 6 a specialty stock provided it makes adequate disclosure about the existence of possible conflicts of interest. 6 ``Popularizing'' generally refers to the practice by specialists, their member organizations and their corporate parents, of making recommendations and providing research coverage regarding their specialty securities. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 23768, (November 3, 1986) 51 FR 41183 (November 13, 1986) (``NYSE/Amex Order''). In addition, the proposal provides specific procedures that will apply if a specialist becomes privy to material non-public information. In such a case, the specialist must promptly inform his firm's compliance officer, or other designated official, of such communication and seek guidance from such officer or official as to what procedures he should subsequently follow. Such officer or official must maintain appropriate records, including the action taken and a summary of the information received by the specialist. If the specialist is required to give up the ``book,'' then such transfer must be done in a neutral fashion to ensure that the transfer itself does not disclose the information, and the Exchange must be informed. 7 7 The compliance officer is also required to keep a record of the time the specialist reacquired the book, reflecting acknowledgement by the compliance officer that the reacquisition was appropriate. Finally, with respect to compliance, the Exchange will periodically examine the Chinese Wall procedures established hereunder and will conduct surveillance of proprietary trades effected by an approved person and its affiliated specialist member organization. The Exchange will monitor specifically the trading activities of approved persons and affiliated specialists in the specialist firm's specialty stock in order to monitor the possible trading while in possession of material, non-public information through the periodic review of trade and comparison reports generated by the Exchange. III. Discussion The Commission recognizes that significant conflicts of interest can arise between an approved person and the affiliated specialist unit which, if not addressed by appropriate Chinese Wall procedures and the monitoring and surveillance of the continuing adequacy of such procedures, could result in potential manipulative market activity and informational advantages benefitting the approved person, specialist unit, or the customers of either, all in contravention of section 6(b) of the Act. 8 The Commission further believes that the procedures the Exchange intends to implement with respect to approving and monitoring the Chinese Wall address these concerns, and therefore are consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange. In particular, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public, in that the Chinese Wall is designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information by specialist units affiliated with an approved person. Further, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the section 11A(a)(1)(C)(ii) Congressional finding 9 in that it aids in assuring fair competition among brokers and dealers. 8 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). 9 15 U.S.C. 78k&hyph;1(a)(1)(C)(ii) (1988). The Commission initially addressed the necessity and viability of Chinese Walls in approving the amendments to New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') and American Stock Exchange (``Amex'') Rules 98 and 193 respectively, which created the present Chinese Wall scheme in effect today on those exchanges. 10 At that time, the Commission expressed its belief that it is also desirable for the regional exchanges to consider requiring specialists affiliated with integrated firms to establish an adequate Chinese Wall and generally to review the efficacy of their surveillance and compliance procedures regarding those specialists. The Commission previously had recognized the use of Chinese Walls in a number of instances regarding the establishment of an organizational separation between different departments of a broker-dealer as one of several means of preventing the interdepartmental communication of material, non-public information. 11 10 See NYSE/Amex Order. 11 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 23768, (November 3, 1986) 51 FR 41183 (November 13, 1986), citing SEC Institutional Investor Study, H.R. Doc No. 9264, 92d Cong., 1st Sess. 2539 (1971). The Study urged financial institutions to ``consider the necessity of segregating information flows arising from a business relationship with a company as distinct from information received in an investor or shareholder capacity.''
