FR940916-1-00039 FR940916-1-00015 601.603&hyph;3 Appointment. (a) There is no contracting officer authority conferred upon any DOS employee by virtue of position. The Procurement Executive appoints all DOS contracting officers, in conformance with FAR 1.603&hyph;3. The contracting officer shall retain the original copy of the Standard Form 1402, Certificate of Appointment, signed by the Procurement Executive. Only qualified employees shall be appointed as contracting officers. A/OPE is responsible for providing guidance and oversight in managing such appointments. (b) Contracting officers shall be appointed in accordance with the Procurement Career Management Guidebook, available from A/OPE. (c) Non-Federal employees. Only United States Government direct-hire employees who are U.S. citizens shall be appointed as contracting officers. Personal services contractors, Foreign Service Nationals, and Third Country Nationals are not eligible for appointment as DOS contracting officers. 20. Section 601.602&hyph;70 is revised to read as follows: 601.603&hyph;70 Delegations of authority. (a) Delegations. As stated in 601.603&hyph;3(a), there is no contracting officer authority conferred by virtue of position. Pursuant to 601.602&hyph;1(b), the Procurement Executive has designated the following as contracting activities as defined in FAR 2.101. These authorities are not redelegable. In addition, specific individuals are designated as heads of contracting activities (HCAs) (see FAR 2.101): (1) Overseas posts. Each overseas post shall be regarded as a contracting activity to enter into and administer contracts for the expenditure of funds involved in the acquisition of supplies, equipment, publications, and services; to sell personal property; and to lease real property. The Principal Officer, the Administrative Officer, or the Supervisory General Services Officer are designated as HCAs; provided, that he/she has a contracting officer's warrant issued by the Procurement Executive. (i) No authority is delegated to enter into cost-reimbursement, fixed-price incentive, or fixed-price redeterminable contracts. (ii) When expressly authorized by a U.S. Government agency which does not have a contracting officer at the post, the officers named in paragraph (a)(1) introductory text may enter into contracts for that agency. Use of this authority is subject to the statutory authority of that agency and any special contract terms or other requirements necessary for compliance with any conditions or limitations applicable to the funds of that agency. The agency's authorization shall cite the statute(s) and state any special contract terms or other requirements with which the acquisition so authorized must comply. In view of the contracting officer's responsibility for the legal, technical, and administrative sufficiency of contracts, questions regarding the propriety of contracting actions that the post is required to take pursuant to this authority may be referred to the Department for resolution with the headquarters of the agency concerned. (2) Office of Foreign Buildings. The authority to enter into and administer contracts pursuant to the Foreign Service Buildings Act of 1926, as amended (22 U.S.C. 292 et seq.), is delegated to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Foreign Buildings and to the Director for Acquisitions as the HCA. (3) Office of Acquisition. The authority to enter into and administer contracts for the expenditure of funds involved in the acquisition of supplies and nonpersonal services is delegated to the Director and Deputy Director as the HCA. (4) Foreign Service Institute. The authority to enter into and administer contracts pursuant to Chapter 7, Title I, of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (22 U.S.C. 4021 et seq.), is delegated to the Director of the Foreign Service Institute, the Executive Director, the Deputy Executive Director, and the Supervisory Contracting Officer as the HCA. (5) Office of Foreign Missions. The authority to enter into and administer contracts pursuant to Title II of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended (22 U.S.C. 4301 et seq.), is delegated to the Director, Office of Foreign Missions, and the Administrative Officer as the HCA. (6) U.S. Mission to the United Nations. The authority to enter into and administer contracts pursuant to the United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287), is delegated to the Counselor for Administration as the HCA. (7) Moscow Embassy Building Control Office. The authority to enter into and administer contracts for the planning, design, and construction of the embassy office building in Moscow is delegated to the Director, Moscow Embassy Building Control Office as the HCA. (8) Diplomatic Telecommunications Service_Program Office. The authority to enter into and administer contracts for the leasing or purchase of telecommunications services, circuits, subsystems, and associated professional services is delegated to the Chief, Acquisition Branch. (9) Regional Procurement Support Offices. (i) The authority to enter into and administer contracts for the expenditure of funds involved in the acquisition of supplies, equipment, publications, services, execute leases for real property, and to sell personal property on behalf of overseas posts is delegated to each Director, Regional Procurement Support Office (RPSO) as the HCA at the following locations: (A) RPSO Bonn in conjunction with Embassy Bonn; (B) RPSO Tokyo in conjunction with Embassy Tokyo; (C) RPSO Singapore in conjunction with Embassy Singapore; and, (D) RPSO Miami in conjunction with the Miami Regional Center. (ii) The RPSOs are under the purview and guidance of A/OPE. (b) Other delegations. Several DOS offices have been delegated limited procurement authority, although they have not been designated as HCAs. Matters requiring HCA resolution are referred to the Office of Acquisition. These delegations are provided only to warranted contracting officers in the respective offices. They are as follows:
