FR940819-0-00117 FR940819-0-00020 The vast majority of tests of primary specimens have negative results. Of those that test positive, a portion are verified negative by MROs. Of those verified positive by MROs, not all will result in a timely request by the employee for a test of the split specimen. In view of these facts, it would be counterproductive for the laboratory to reject an otherwise testable primary specimen because the split specimen was unavailable, inadequate, or untestable. Nor would it be cost-effective for the laboratory to notify the MRO of the problem with the split specimen at an earlier stage of the process, which could result in the cancellation of tests that may otherwise stand up. There is no loss of protection to the employee, who will be in no worse position than if there was a testable split specimen. As a general matter, employers using split sample collection should not, as a matter of prudence, take irrevocable action (e.g., terminate, as opposed to suspend) against an employee until the result of the split specimen is available. Split specimens may become unavailable for testing at other stages of the process (e.g., the receiving laboratory mishandles or loses the split specimen in storage, the split specimen is lost in transit between the receiving laboratory and the second laboratory which would analyze the split). In all these cases, the same rule applies. The MRO is not notified of the unavailability, inadequacy, or untestability of the split specimen unless and until there is a verified positive test and the employee has made a timely request for a test of the split specimen. Reduction of Marijuana Initial Test Level In its June 9, 1994, revision to its drug testing guidelines, DHHS reduced the initial test level for marijuana metabolites from 100 ng/ml to 50 ng/ml. This rule changes the initial test level for marijuana in Part 40 to conform with the revised DHHS guidelines. This change is consistent with the existing language of §40.29(e)(2), which states that the initial test levels for drugs are subject to change by DHHS. Since the new DHHS guidelines go into effect September 1, 1994, this provision will be effective on that date, so that DHHS and DOT testing level requirements remain consistent with one another. Methamphetamine Levels The Department is also adding to the chart in this section showing confirmation test levels a new footnote 3, stating that, to be confirmed positive, a specimen containing methamphetamine must also contain amphetamine at a concentration equal to or greater than 200 ng/ml. This footnote is also added to be consistent with the revised DHHS guidelines. Reports to Employers and Consortia Section 40.29(g)(6), concerning monthly statistical summary reports from laboratories to employers, has been the subject of some confusion since it does not specify the role of consortia in the reporting chain. Laboratories had expressed concern that they were not authorized, by the present language of the paragraph, to provide these reports to a consortium instead of to individual employers. The Department is revising this paragraph to clarify this matter. Suppose a laboratory tests specimens originating with employers 1&hyph;100, all of whom are part of Consortium X. The laboratory may send its report summary only to Consortium X, rather than sending 100 single reports to each of the employers. However, the data provided to Consortium X must include employer-specific information for each of the employers and, within 14 days of receiving the laboratory report, Consortium X is responsible for sending the employer-specific data to each of the 100 employers. When, as provided in the last sentence of §40.29(g)(6), employer-specific data is withheld because no testing pertinent to the employer was held, or because release of the data would permit inferences about individual employees' identity, the written reports concerning the withholding of the data may also be provided to the employer via the consortium, through the mechanism described above. MRO Conflicts of Interest In its revised guidelines, DHHS has added a new provision prohibiting relationships between laboratories and medical review officers (MROs) that could have the reality or create the appearance of a conflict of interest. DHHS added this provision in the belief, with which DOT concurs, that any such relationship that could be construed as a conflict of interest may be sufficient to undermine the integrity of the program. For this reason and to remain consistent with DHHS guidelines on this important issue, the Department is adding the DHHS language to §40.29(n). Removal of Requirement for Second Air Blank The alcohol testing procedures in Subpart C, as originally issued, contained a requirement that the breath alcohol technician conduct an ``air blank'' (i.e., an internal check of calibration) both before and after every confirmation test. Failure to do so, or a result for an air blank that exceeded 0.00, is a ``fatal flaw'' that automatically invalidates a test. We have decided, on further reflection, that the air blank after the confirmation test is unnecessary. The main point of an air blank is to ensure that each employee has a testing device that is a ``clean slate,'' unaffected by any alcohol from previous tests or other sources. The pre-test air blank accomplishes this objective fully; the post-test air blank is not necessary for this purpose. Moreover, on some breath testing devices, particularly where a test has shown a high alcohol concentration, it may take several minutes for all alcohol to clear from the device. Under the existing rule, if the breath alcohol technician were to do a post-test air blank under these circumstances too soon, it could result in a reading above 0.00, invalidating an otherwise valid test. Because it is unnecessary, and to avoid problems of this kind, we are deleting the provision requiring a post-test air blank and the provision making the failure to conduct such a test a ``fatal flaw.'' Display of Sequential Test Numbers Section 40.53(b)(2) requires that EBTs used for confirmation tests be capable of assigning a unique sequential number to each test, which can be read by the BAT and the employee before the test and printed out on each copy of the test result. Section 40.79(a)(7) makes it a ``fatal flaw'' if the sequential number displayed on the EBT before the test is not the same as the sequential number printed on the test result. However, the existing regulation leaves a gap between these two points, since the procedures for conducting alcohol tests (§§40.63 and 40.65) do not specify the handling of sequential numbers in the testing process. The Department is adding language to fill this gap. Section 40.65(e) is being revised to require the BAT to ensure that the BAT and the employee read the displayed sequential number before the confirmation test, and §40.65(h)(3) is revised to direct the BAT to enter in the ``Remarks'' section of the form any disparity between that number and the sequential test number on the printed result. Such a disparity, per §40.79, is a fatal flaw. We have made parallel changes to §40.63 (d)(1) and (e)(2), which apply to situations in which a screening test is conducted with an EBT that has the features specified in §40.53(b) for EBTs that can be used for confirmation tests. Record Retention Requirement for BAT Training
