FR940503-1-00028 FR940503-1-00010 It is important to note that there are circumstances under which EPA might conclude that a field citation is not the most appropriate enforcement response. For example, if a person or source is the subject of an ongoing EPA investigation or if a person or source has an aggregation of many minor violations, each of which, if considered individually, would be suitable for a field citation, EPA may appropriately decide to address those violations through its section 113(d) administrative penalty authority or through its section 113(b) civil judicial authority. A more detailed description of the process for determining whether a violation is minor will be presented in the guidance document to be developed for implementing this rule. B. Maximum Penalty Under section 113(d)(3), civil penalties assessed in a field citation may not exceed ``$5,000 per day of violation.'' EPA proposes to interpret this provision such that the maximum $5,000 penalty applies for each day, for each separate violation cited in the field citation. This interpretation is consistent with the statutory text and structure of section 113, and is supported by its legislative history. EPA's proposed interpretation of the phrase ``per day of violation'' as used in section 113(d)(3) is quite reasonable, given EPA's long history of interpreting an identical penalty provision in this manner, the civil penalty provision of section 113(b) as it stood prior to enactment of the 1990 amendments. 3 That prior interpretation has found support in several judicial decisions. 4 By using the same language as previously found in section 113(b), Congress clearly authorized EPA to continue this interpretation for purposes of the new field citation program. 3 Prior to revision in 1990, section 113(b) stated that ``[t]he Administrator shall [for owners or operators of major stationary sources], and may, in the case of any other person, commence a civil action *␣*␣* to assess and recover a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 per day of violation␣*␣*␣*'' 4 U.S. v. SCM Corp. , 667 F. Supp. 110 (D. Md. 1987); United States v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. , 639 F. Supp. 770 (W.D. Tex. 1985). This interpretation is also consistent with Congress' apparent objectives for the field citation program as indicated by various provisions in section 113 relating to field citations. Congress limited the field citation program to ``appropriate minor violations,'' established a maximum penalty amount of ``$5,000 per day of violation,'' provided a right to a non-APA hearing, and required that penalties in this program be assessed after consideration of the penalty assessment criteria of section 113(e). These provisions indicate that Congress wanted to provide EPA with a flexible enforcement tool that would focus on the less significant, presumably simpler and less complex violations, with assessment of significantly lower penalties than expected through two other civil penalty provisions of section 113, administrative penalty orders (section 113(d)(1)) and judicial civil penalty actions (section 113(b)). EPA's proposed interpretation of the maximum penalty amount for the field citation program, $5,000 per day for each violation, will lead to significantly lower penalty assessments in comparison to these other two programs, primarily because of the large reduction in the maximum penalty from $25,000 to $5,000, the minor nature of the violations, and the penalty assessment criteria in section 113(e). Interpreting ``per day of violation'' to mean per day for each violation allows EPA to fairly and flexibly implement a field citation program in a manner consistent with Congress' apparent objectives for this program. While a more restrictive interpretation, such as $5,000 per day of violation no matter how many different violations on a specific day, might lead to even lower penalty assessments in certain cases, Congress' apparent objectives for the field citation program can be met without adopting this approach. In fact, a more restrictive interpretation might hinder implementation of these goals. First, an interpretation that ``per day of violation'' in section 113(d)(3) imposes a maximum penalty of $5,000 not withstanding the number of violations in a day would in certain cases minimize if not remove the Agency's ability to fully account for important differences between violators when assessing penalties under this program. Two violators with different numbers of minor violations on the same day would both face the same maximum penalty, possibly removing EPA's ability to reflect this difference in the amount of penalty imposed. This would appear to run counter to the requirement in section 113(e) that EPA consider such differences when assessing penalties under section 113(d)(3). Second, in that situation there would be an incentive for EPA to issue an administrative penalty order in lieu of a field citation, to avoid the apparent unfairness resulting from the limitation in discretion embodied in the more restrictive interpretation.
