FR940325-2-00045 FR940325-2-00020 [Docket No. CP94&hyph;59&hyph;001, et al.] Cove Point LNG Company, L.P., et al. Natural Gas Certificate Filings March 16, 1994. Take notice that the following filings have been made with the Commission: 1. Cove Point LNG Company, L.P. and Columbia LNG Corporation [Docket No. CP94&hyph;59&hyph;001 and Docket No. CP94&hyph;57&hyph;001] (Not Consolidated) Take notice that on March 8, 1994, Cove Point LNG Limited Partnership (Cove Point LNG) filed, in Docket No. CP94&hyph;59&hyph;001, a notice of name change and an amendment to its certificate application; and Columbia LNG Corporation (``Columbia LNG'') filed, in Docket No. CP94&hyph;57&hyph;001, an amendment to its abandonment application. Cove Point LNG is amending its application to inform the Commission that effective February 1, 1994, the name of Cove Point LNG Company, L.P., has been changed to Cove Point LNG Limited Partnership and its principal place of business has been changed to 2100 Cove Point Road, Lusby, Maryland 20657. Additionally, in response to the interventions filed in this proceeding and discussions with this customers and with the Commission's Staff at the February 15, 1994 technical conference held in this proceeding, Cove Point LNG is further amending its application as follows: (i) to modify pro forma Rate Schedules FPS&hyph;1, FPS&hyph;2, and FPS&hyph;3 to provide each customer with an option to subscribe to an amount of firm transportation service (``Elected FTS Service'') up to the customer's Maximum Daily Peaking Quantity with any demand charges paid for the Elected FTS Service credited toward the customer's firm peaking service charges' (ii) to modify the pro forma General Terms and Conditions to permit bids for released firm capacity on a volumetric basis, to provide for direct contracting between Cove Point LNG and assignees when capacity is released for periods of less than one month, to provide for continued service upon the expiration of any initial term of service under defined circumstances and to clarify that penalties will apply only to those volumes in excess of the stated tolerance level; and (iii) to withdraw Cove Point LNG's request for waiver of the blanket construction certificate regulations as such request applied to the Cove Point Terminal and in its stead to request the phasing of recommissioning activities. Columbia LNG is amending its abandonment application to provide that it will relinquish its abandonment and cost recovery rights against Columbia Transmission upon acceptance by Cove Point LNG of a certificate issued in Docket No. CP94&hyph;59&hyph;000. Cove Point LNG and Columbia LNG state that the applications are being amended in order to resolve certain issues raised by the intervenors and the Commission Staff. Cove Point LNG and Columbia LNG further state that in order to meet the needs of their potential customers, certificate authorization is required by June 1994, and accordingly, request that the Commission process their applications, as amended by the current filing, expeditiously. The amendments to the proposed services are discussed more fully in the filing and the revised a pro forma tariff sheets included therewith. Comment date: April 6, 1994, in accordance with the first paragraph of Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice.
