FR941021-0-00193 FR941021-0-00022 (1) The licensee intends to launch a space station that is technically identical to those authorized in its system authorization, and (2) Launch of this space station will not cause the licensee to exceed the total number of operating space stations authorized by the Commission. (d) In-Orbit Spares. Licensees need not file separate applications to operate technically identical in-orbit spares authorized as part of the blanket license pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. However, the licensee shall certify to the Commission, within 10 days of bringing the in-orbit spare into operation, that operation of this space station did not cause the licensee to exceed the total number of operating space stations authorized by the Commission. (e) Reporting requirements. (1) All operators of 1.6/2.4 GHz mobile-satellite systems shall, on June 30 of each year, file with the International Bureau and the Field Office in Laurel, Maryland a report containing the following information: (i) Status of satellite construction and anticipated launch dates, including any major problems or delays encountered; (ii) A listing of any non-scheduled space station outages for more than 30 minutes and the cause or causes of the outage; (iii) A detailed description of the utilization made of the in-orbit satellite system. That description should identify the percentage of time that the system is actually used for U.S. domestic or transborder transmission, the amount of capacity (if any) sold but not in service within U.S. territorial geographic areas, and the amount of unused system capacity; and (iv) Identification of any space stations not available for service or otherwise not performing to specifications, the cause or causes of these difficulties, and the date any space station was taken out of service or the malfunction identified. (2) All operators of 1.6/2.4 GHz mobile-satellite systems shall, within 10 days after a required implementation milestone as specified in the system authorization, certify to the Commission by affidavit that the milestone has been met or notify the Commission by letter that it has not been met. At its discretion, the Commission may require the submission of additional information (supported by affidavit of a person or persons with knowledge thereof) to demonstrate that the milestone has been met. (f) Safety and distress communications. (1) Stations operating in the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service that are voluntarily installed on a U.S. ship or are used to comply with any statute or regulatory equipment carriage requirements may also be subject to the requirements of sections 321(b) and 359 of the Communications Act of 1934. Licensees are advised that these provisions give priority to radio communications or signals relating to ships in distress and prohibits a charge for the transmission of maritime distress calls and related traffic. (2) Licensees offering distress and safety services should coordinate with the appropriate search and rescue organizations responsible for the licensees service area. (g) Considerations involving transfer or assignment applications. (1) ``Trafficking'' in bare licenses issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited, except with respect to licenses obtained through a competitive bidding procedure. (2) The Commission will review a proposed transaction to determine if the circumstances indicate trafficking in licenses whenever applications (except those involving pro forma assignment or transfer of control) for consent to assignment of a license, or for transfer of control of a licensee, involve facilities licensed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. At its discretion, the Commission may require the submission of an affirmative, factual showing (supported by affidavits of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof) to demonstrate that no trafficking has occurred. (3) If a proposed transfer of radio facilities is incidental to a sale of other facilities or merger of interests, any showing requested under paragraph (g)(2) of this section shall include an additional exhibit which: (i) Discloses complete details as to the sale of facilities or merger of interests; (ii) Segregates clearly by an itemized accounting, the amount of consideration involved in the sale of facilities or merger of interest; and (iii) Demonstrates that the amount of consideration assignable to the facilities or business interests involved represents their fair market value at the time of the transaction.
