FR940426-1-00056 FR940426-1-00006 §6.65 General. Extension of credit by an industry member to a retailer for a period of time in excess of 30 days from the date of delivery constitutes a means to induce within the meaning of the Act. Par. 19. The text of §6.67 is added to read as follows: §6.67 Sales to retailer whose account is in arrears. An extension of credit by an industry member to a retailer does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of the Act so long as a current order from a retailer whose account is in arrears is accompanied with a payment equal to or greater than the value of such current order, regardless of the manner in which the industry member applies the payment in its records. Par. 20. Section 6.71 is revised to read as follows: §6.71 Quota sales. The act by an industry member of requiring a retailer to take and dispose of any quota of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages constitutes a means to induce within the meaning of the Act. Par. 21. Section 6.72 is revised to read as follows: §6.72 ``Tie-in'' sales. The act by an industry member of requiring that a retailer purchase one product in order to obtain another constitutes a means to induce within the meaning of the Act. This includes the requirement to take a minimum quantity of a product in standard packaging in order to obtain the same product in some type of premium package, i.e., a distinctive decanter, or wooden or tin box. This also includes combination sales if one or more products may be purchased only in combination with other products and not individually. However, an industry member is not precluded from selling two or more kinds or brands of products to a retailer at a special combination price, provided (a) the retailer has the option of purchasing either product at the usual price, and (b) the retailer is not required to purchase any product it does not want. Par. 22. Section 6.81 is amended by revising paragraph (a), by removing the references to §§6.85, 6.89, 6.90 in the first sentence of paragraph (b), and by adding concluding text to the end of paragraph (b), to read as follows: §6.81 General. (a) Application. Section 105(b)(3) of the Act enumerates means to induce that may be unlawful under the subsection, subject to such exceptions as are prescribed in regulations, having due regard for public health, the quantity and value of articles involved, established trade customs not contrary to the public interest, and the purposes of that section. This subpart implements section 105(b)(3) and identifies the practices that are exceptions to section 105(b)(3). An industry member may furnish a retailer equipment, inside signs, supplies, services, or other things of value, under the conditions and within the limitations prescribed in this subpart. (b) *␣*␣* Failure to keep such records may result in loss of the exception claimed. No separate recordkeeping violation is present. * * * * * §6.82 [Removed] Par. 23. Section 6.82 is removed and reserved. Par. 24. Section 6.83 is revised to read as follows: §6.83 Product displays. (a) General. The act by an industry member of giving or selling product displays to a retailer does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act provided that the conditions prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section are met. (b) Definition. ``Product display'' means any wine racks, bins, barrels, casks, shelving, and similar items the primary function of which is to hold and display consumer products. (c) Conditions and limitations. (1) The total value of all product displays furnished by an industry member under paragraph (a) of this section may not exceed $500 per brand at any one time in any one retail establishment. Industry members may not pool or combine dollar limitations in order to provide a retailer a product display valued in excess of $500 per brand. The value of a product display is the actual cost to the industry member who initially purchased it. Transportation and installation costs are excluded. (2) All product displays must bear conspicuous and substantial advertising matter on the product or the industry member which is permanently inscribed or permanently affixed. The name and address of the retailer may appear on the product displays. (3) The giving or selling of such product displays may be conditioned upon the purchase of the distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverage product advertised on those displays in a quantity necessary for the completion of such display or the use of such materials. No other condition can be imposed by the industry member on the retailer in order for the retailer to receive or obtain the product display.
