FR940128-1-00111 FR940128-1-00006 2. Sampling and examination. The first processor, as described in section 3.a.1. of this Appendix, should subject a representative sample of fish in each lot from the vessel to an external organoleptic examination for decomposition and should record the results of the examination. A representative sample should provide at least 95 percent confidence that decomposition does not exist in more than 2.5 percent of the fish in the lot. If the number of fish from a vessel is small enough to permit an examination of each fish, e.g., because the weight of each fish is typically greater than 10 pounds, the processor is encouraged to examine each fish. i. Any fish that exhibits decomposition should either be rejected and not used for food, or reconditioned according to the processor's established procedures. Reconditioning should include, at a minimum, removal of all parts of the fish that exhibit any decomposition, organoleptic reexamination of the remaining fish flesh, and the performance of a histamine analysis on the remaining fish flesh. ii. If no decomposition in any fish in a lot is detected through organoleptic examination, the following should apply: A. If the time/temperature log as described in section 3.a.1. of this Appendix indicates that the conditions on the vessel were unlikely to cause, or significantly contribute to, the formation of histamine in the fish, all the fish from that lot may be further processed or enter commerce. B. If the time/temperature log as described in section 3.a.1. of this Appendix indicates that the conditions on the vessel were likely to cause, or significantly contribute to, the formation of histamine in the fish in a lot, or if no adequate time/temperature log is available, a histamine analysis should be made on a representative sample of fish from that lot. iii. If decomposition is detected in less than 2.5 percent of the fish from a lot, the following should apply: A. If the time/temperature log as described in section 3.a.1. of this Appendix indicates that the conditions on the vessel were unlikely to cause, or significantly contribute to, the formation of histamine in the fish in a particular lot, those fish from that lot found to have decomposition should be treated in accordance with section 3.a.2.i. of this Appendix. Other fish from that lot may be further processed or enter commerce. B. If the time/temperature log as described in section 3.a.1. of this Appendix indicates that the conditions on the vessel were likely to cause, or significantly contribute to, the formation of histamine in the fish in a particular lot, or if no adequate time/temperature log is available, the processor should perform a histamine analysis on a representative sample of organoleptically acceptable fish from that lot. (However, if the processor elects to perform a histamine analysis on a representative sample of each lot of fish from the vessel before conducting an organoleptic analysis for decomposition because, for example, the processor received the fish in a frozen state, the histamine analysis does not have to be repeated based on results of subsequent organoleptic analysis.) iv. If decomposition is detected in more than 2.5 percent of the fish from a particular lot, the processor should perform a histamine analysis on a representative sample of organoleptically acceptable fish from that lot. 3. Histamine Findings. i. If any fish from a particular lot is found to have histamine above a defect action level or other regulatory level or limit for histamine established by FDA, the fish in that lot may not be used for food. ii. If any fish from a particular lot is found to have histamine below the defect action level or other regulatory level or limit for histamine established by FDA but above levels expected of fresh fish, the fish from that lot should enter commerce only if first immediately cooked to prevent histamine from increasing to unacceptable levels. b. Subsequent Processors 1. Processor evaluations . All subsequent processors who take ownership of fish and fish products of scombroid toxin forming species and who engage in processing other than, or in addition to, storage, should subject a representative sample each lot of such fish and fishery products to organoleptic evaluation for decomposition to determine whether decomposition occurred during transfer from the previous processor. Any fish that exhibits decomposition should be treated in accordance with section 3.a.2.i. of this Appendix.
