FR941006-2-00171 FR941006-2-00113 •Respond to the needs of the culturally, demographically, economically and physically diverse public the courts serve; •Address court-community problems resulting from the influx of legal and illegal immigrants, including projects to define the impact of immigration on State courts; design and assess procedures for use in custody, visitation, and other domestic relations cases when key family members or property are outside the United States; facilitate communication with Federal authorities when illegal aliens are involved in State court proceedings; and develop protocols to facilitate service of process, the enforcement of orders of judgment, and the disposition of criminal and juvenile cases when a non-U.S. citizen or corporation is involved; •Handle cases involving pro se litigants fairly and effectively; and •Increase public understanding of jury decisions and the juror selection and service process; foster positive attitudes toward jury service; and enhance the attractiveness of juror service through, e.g., incentives to participate, modifications of terms of service, and/or juror orientation and education programs. Institute funds may not be used to directly or indirectly support legal representation of individuals in specific cases. In addition, it is unlikely that the Institute will support development or testing of additional automated kiosks such as those being used by the courts in Arizona, California, and Florida. ii. National Town Hall Meeting. The Institute recently awarded a grant to the National Center for State Courts (NCSC) and the American Judicature Society (AJS) to convene a National Town Hall Meeting on Improving Public Confidence in the Courts in October 1995. The Meeting will be broadcast by satellite up to ten downlink (receiving) sites across the country. The sponsors of the Meeting are seeking proposals from (a) State and local courts or (b) community groups, other non-profit organizations, universities, and other applicants collaborating with courts, that are interested in conducting a local, State, or regional meeting at a downlink site in conjunction with the National Meeting. Each site will receive several hours of programming from the uplink (originating) site, prepare its own program, and report back to the uplink site about its plans for future collaboration between courts and communities to enhance public confidence in the courts. Objectives. As approved by the Institute's Board of Directors, the objectives of the project are to: •Raise the level of awareness of both the court community and the public about the need to work together to improve public trust and confidence in the courts; •Identify strategies for improving court and community collaboration at the local and State level; •Promote a diverse group of effective local approaches to improve the relationship between courts and the communities they serve; and •Develop national goals rooted in local experience that will encourage courts and communities to work together more effectively.
