FR940920-2-00100 FR940920-2-00051 The existing Crystal River Unit 3 RCP motor lube oil system is a non-seismic system. The new RCP lube oil system and lube oil collection systems would be seismically qualified to withstand an SSE. Therefore, if an SSE were to occur, the system is not expected to fail. Based on the design features of the new RCP motors and the fact that their lube oil system and associated lube oil collection systems are seismically designed to withstand an SSE, there is reasonable assurance that the RCP lube oil system will not present a major fire hazard. The staff concludes, based on its evaluation, that potential oil leakage from the specific four sites in the RCP lube oil system will not present a major fire hazard and that the current level of fire protection is sufficient to mitigate the consequences of a fire in the area of these potential leakage sites. In addition, the staff concludes that it is not expected that these potential leakage sites will fail during an SSE. On that basis, the staff finds that the licensee's proposed design of the RCP motor lube oil collection system provides an equivalent level of fire safety to that required by the provisions of Appendix R, section III.0, and, therefore, is acceptable. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that this proposed action would result in no significant radiological environmental impact. With regard to potential non-radiological impacts, the proposed change does not affect non-radiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant non-radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternative to the Proposed Action As an alternative to the proposed action, the staff considered denial of the proposed action. Denial of the application would result in no change in current environmental impacts. The environmental impacts of the proposed action and the alternative action are similar. Alternative Use of Resources This action did not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statement, dated May 1973, related to operation of Crystal River Unit 3. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the State of Florida regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For further details with respect to this action, see the request for exemption dated June 7, 1993, and March 28, 1994, which are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC and at the local public document room located at Coastal Region Library, 8619 W. Crystal Street, Crystal River, Florida 32629. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 6th day of September 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Victor M. McCree, Acting Director, Project Directorate II&hyph;2, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23203 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
