FR941220-1-00045 FR941220-1-00009 •Occurrence data to determine the number of systems exceeding the MCL; •Treatment and waste disposal cost data and corresponding selection probabilities to estimate the system level and aggregate costs of achieving the proposed MCL; and •Monitoring costs to estimate aggregate costs of the monitoring requirements. Occurrence data adequate to determine the number of systems exceeding the proposed MCL are available for sulfate. Table 7 indicates the number of systems in several system size categories expected to be out of compliance with the proposed MCL of 500 mg/L. Table 7._Number of Systems Expected to Exceed 500 mg/L Sulfate1 1Water system type 1Serving less than 500 people 1Serving less than 3300 people 1Total of all systems Community Water Systems 350␣(356) 500␣(477) 500␣(511) Non-Transient, Non-Community Systems 250␣(235) 250␣(264) 250␣(266) Transient, Non-Community Systems 1150␣(1144) 1200␣(1187) 1200␣(1189) Total Number of Systems 1750␣(1735) 1950␣(1929) 1950␣(1966) 1Numbers are rounded; actual numbers are in parentheses. B. National Costs of the Proposed Rule Under Option 1, annualized national treatment and waste disposal cost is projected to total $86 million for the proposed MCL of 500 mg/L, of which $8 million is estimated for monitoring and State implementation. With State authorization, the 1,500 systems assumed to choose public notification/education and Alternative Water account for $7 million of the total, or about $5,000 per system. The Agency assumes that, despite the availability of Option 1, 25% of the systems (approximately 500) exceeding the sulfate MCL would choose either central treatment or regionalization, for a total cost of $71 million. Possible reasons for choosing central treatment would be to avoid a permanent requirement for public notification/Alternative Water provision and its associated administrative and logistical costs and activities, or to comply with other existing or future regulations on other contaminants. The difference in cost to large systems choosing central treatment rather than Option 1 is a factor of approximately 3 to 5. EPA assumes that this additional cost would not dissuade large systems from choosing central treatment. For costing purposes, it was assumed that all transient systems not choosing central treatment would install a POE device, and all CWS and NTNC systems not choosing central treatment would use bottled water or POU devices. In reality, the Agency recognizes that there would be a mixture of choices among system types, and that the choice of a POE by a small system constitutes ``central treatment'' for that system, since all water is treated and the technology used for the POE would be a BAT technology such as RO. Small transient systems could legally choose a POE device under any of the proposed options, and since their cost cannot be counted under both centralized treatment and Option 1, their costs have been included under the heading ``non-centralized treatment''. Under Options 2 and 3, the total cost of the rule is approximately $16 million, which also includes $8 million for State implementation and monitoring costs. The implementation of Options 2/3 would be much less costly than Option 1, but would involve all 2,000 systems, compared to the 1,500 systems which would choose public notification/education and Alternative Water in Option 1. Consequently, the cost of implementation would be $8 million rather than the $7 million for Option 1. The target population would be reduced to infants and the water allocated reduced to 1 liter per day. Although more infants would be included by large systems choosing this option, infants comprise less than 2% of the population at any given time. The difference in cost to large systems choosing central treatment rather than Options 2/3 would be at least an order of magnitude. EPA assumes that this additional cost would dissuade large systems from choosing central treatment, and therefore that all systems would choose Option 1. Implementation of Options 2 and 3 would be identical, except for the content of the public education/notification. Under Option 4, the total national cost of the rule is $147 million. For costing purposes, it was assumed that all systems would install central treatment, rather than request a variance. For some of the smallest systems, the central treatment installed consists of a POE device, which functions on the same principles as a treatment plant (e.g., reverse osmosis). Since some percentage of systems would, in reality, request a variance and comply by public notification/education and Alternative Water provision, the cost for Option 4 is somewhat of an overestimate. At the same time the cost for Option 4 is an accurate estimate of what the cost would be for central treatment for all affected systems. Under all options, approximately 2,000 systems, most serving populations less than 500, are expected to exceed the sulfate MCL. 1. Assumptions Used To Estimate Costs For each system size category, for both ground and surface water systems, the projected number of systems with contamination above the sulfate proposed MCL was determined from the occurrence data. The number of systems exceeding the MCL was then merged with a compliance decision matrix, which gave the relative likelihood that a given system would choose various treatment, compliance and waste disposal options. For systems choosing central treatment, the resulting estimates were then multiplied by the unit engineering costs, which include both capital and O&M costs. Although pre-treatment costs were included in the estimates, the operation of reverse osmosis by some systems with very high influent sulfate levels may contribute to the need for additional post-treatment corrosion control to comply with the lead and copper rule. This would likely affect only systems with influent sulfate concentrations above 750 mg/L because more than one-third of the influent stream would be treated. These costs would be added to the costs of the BAT, but would not affect EPA's conclusions on affordability because they would be insignificant compared to the overall costs of the central treatment technology. For the purposes of cost estimation, the Agency assumed that the cost of either POU or POE is the same. Each system is assumed to install POE, since the cost of one POE is generally less than the cost of multiple POU units. For example, in a gas station, a POU unit would be needed at the men's restroom, the women's restroom and the water fountain in the public area. In this scenario, it might be cost-effective to install one POE unit versus three POU devices. Several sources were used to estimate the capital and O&M costs for POU/POE units, including (1) ``Point-Of-Use Treatment of Drinking Water in San Ysidro, New Mexico;'' March, 1990; (2) National Network for Environmental Management Studies Research Report on Affordable Drinking Water Treatment for PWSs Contaminated by Excess Levels of Natural Fluoride;'' December, 1991; and (3) ``Very Small Systems Best Available Technology Document;'' First Draft; September, 1993. The calculations included some of the following assumptions: (1) Laboratory costs including four bacteriological analyses and two sulfate analyses per year. (2) The replacement frequency for both the particulate filter and the carbon post filter is assumed to be twice per year. (3) The purchase price for the POU devices ranges from $329 to $665 depending on the number purchased at one time. (4) The cost for installation is assumed to be $79. (5) The cost for a one year maintenance service contract is assumed to be $508 per unit. Bottled water costs are based on data provided by the International Bottled Water Association. The cost includes cost of water, delivery, and labor. Water is estimated at $1.06 per gallon. People are assumed to consume 0.53 gallons per day. The Agency estimated 1 delivery per week with a round trip distance of 25 miles costing $0.28 cents per mile. The Agency also estimated one hour for each delivery at a labor rate of $14.70 per hour. For Options 2 and 3, where bottled water is provided only to infants, the water allocation is one liter per day.
