FR941202-2-00164 FR941202-2-00098 Standards used for calibration must be traceable. 1.6.1.7␣Calibration and Test Methods The organization must document instructions on the use and operation of all relevant equipment. 1.6.1.8␣Handling of Calibration and Test Items The organization must document a system used to identify the items to be calibrated or tested. 1.6.1.9␣Records The organization shall maintain a record system to suit its particular circumstances and comply with any applicable regulations. 1.6.1.10␣Certificates and Reports The organization certifies and reports the calibration and/or test results. 1.6.1.11␣Sub-Contracting of Calibration or Testing The organization shall sub-contract work only to organizations that are accredited by a NELAC accrediting authority. Subcontractors must be clearly identified. 1.6.1.12␣Outside Support Services and Supplies The organization must use only those outside support services and supplies that are of adequate quality. 1.6.1.13␣Complaints The organization shall have documented policy and procedures for the resolution of complaints received from clients or other parties about the organization's activities with records maintained of all complaints and of the actions taken by the organization; where a complaint, or any other circumstance, raised doubt concerning the procedures, or other requirements or otherwise concerning the quality of the organization's calibrations or tests, the organization involved is promptly audited in accordance with pre-established procedures. 1.6.2␣Specific Requirements Linkage Additional tiers of requirements can be linked to the general requirements. To illustrate the tiered approach, a schematic representing the accreditation scope and structure by field of testing is given in Figure 1&hyph;3. It indicates that all NELAP applicants must meet the basic requirements. Additional specific tiers of requirements are linked to the basic requirements for a particular test or activity. An organization seeking accreditation in hazardous waste organic testing must meet all the requirements listed in basic requirements, general laboratory, organic, and hazardous waste. The specific and detailed requirements under this scheme have not been developed at this time. The appropriate and necessary requirements of the various tiers and fields of testing will be developed by the Program Structure Committee. 1.6.3␣Discussion The field of testing structure proposed for the national environmental laboratory accreditation program provides flexibility. This allows for the incorporation of new methods or new instrumentation without the applicants repeatedly demonstrating the basic requirements that the accreditation applicants have previously satisfied. Redundancy of qualification assessment is avoided. Avoidance of redundant reviews and assessments shall significantly expedite the processing of applications which cover different fields of testing. Such a scheme provides a structure whereby appropriate and specific accreditation requirements can be established to meet the prevailing needs of environmental laws and regulations. Regulators are thus provided with environmental sample testing results generated by laboratories according to specified or equivalent methods and quality assurance protocols. Additionally, the adoption of parameter, method specific and supplemental classifications allows for the design of accreditation to suit needs of individual laboratories and states. This flexibility shall promote reciprocity among all the participating States. The field of testing approach proposed shall also allow for the future incorporation of performance based methods (PBM) by substituting an approved PBM for the specified analytical methods. Any supplemental requirements essential to meet state needs would be added at the parameter or method specific level. 1.7␣Funding of the Program Funding shall be needed to cover the costs arising from at least three areas: the administration and functions of NELAC; expenses incurred by EPA through its oversight and related administrative duties; and expenses incurred by the States because of accreditation functions including on-site visits, performance evaluation samples, processing applications, and other duties. Funding mechanisms for each of these cost areas is proposed below:
