FR940105-1-00019 FR940105-1-00008 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 97 [PR Docket No. 93&hyph;305; FCC 93&hyph;545] Vanity Call Sign System AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Proposed rules. SUMMARY: This action proposes to authorize the use of vanity call signs in the amateur service. The proposed rules are necessary so that amateur operators can request specific call signs with letters that signify something of importance to them such as their initials or their nicknames. This proposal would give better service to members of the amateur community because it would allow them to choose their own calls signs provided the call sign chosen is unassigned and within the framework of the license class held. DATES: Comments are due on or before March 7, 1994. Reply comments are due on or before April 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Maurice J. DePont, Federal Communications Commission, Private Radio Bureau, Washington, DC 20554, (202) 632&hyph;4964. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a summary of the Commission's Notice of Proposed Rule Making, adopted December 13, 1993, and released December 29, 1993. The complete text of this Commission action, including the proposed rule amendments, is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference center (room 230), 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC. The complete text of this Notice of Proposed Rule Making, including the proposed rule amendments, may also be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Services, Inc., (ITS, Inc.), 2100 M Street, NW., suite 140, Washington, DC 20037. Summary of Notice of Proposed Rule Making 1. The Licensing Division of the Private Radio Bureau is installing a new automated licensing process that will give it the capability to administer a vanity call sign system. The Commission, therefore, on its own motion, is proposing to amend the amateur service rules to implement a system wherein amateur station licensees can select call signs of their own choice, provided they are not already assigned and are within the framework of the operator license class held by the applicant. 2. The vanity call sign system would be in addition to the current sequential call sign system that would be continued to be used for those applicants who do not want a vanity call sign. 3. The proposed rules would allow the licensee of an existing primary station to request a modification of the licensee to show a call sign selected by the licensee. This privilege would also be extended to the license trustee of an existing club station. 4. It is also proposed to administer a club and military recreation station sequential call sign system under our new automated licensing process. 5. An applicant could list ten call signs on the application form in order of preference. The first available call sign from the applicant's list would be assigned. If none of the call signs listed are available, the automated process would reassign the call sign that the applicant had vacated. 6. The proposed vanity call sign system is designed to be practicable to administer and simple for the amateur community to use. Comments are invited on the entire proposal and specifically on the following matters. Could other means, such as magnetic computer disks, be used to apply directly to the Commission for a vanity call sign in lieu of the traditional paper application form? Could some type of access be made available to the public to check with the Commission for call sign availability? What options are available so that the public could apply for a license electronically and receive authorization to begin operation by the same means? 7. In addition, commenters may wish to submit alternatives suggesting ways that military recreation and RACES stations might be able to be brought into a system that would afford them call signs of choice. 8. The proposed rules are set forth at the end of this document. 9. This is a non-restricted notice and comment rule making proceeding. Ex parte presentations are permitted, except during the Sunshine Agenda period, provided they are disclosed as specified in the Commission's Rules. See generally 47 CFR 1.1202, 12.1203, and 1.1206(a). 10. In accordance with section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Commission certifies that the proposed rules would not, if promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small business entities because the amateur stations that are the subject of this proceeding would not be authorized to transmit any communications where the station licensee or control operator has a pecuniary interest. See ยง97.113(a)(3). 11. This Notice of Proposed Rule Making and the proposed rule amendments are issued under the authority of sections 4(i) and 303(r) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 154(i) and 303(r). 12. A copy of this Notice of Proposed Rule Making will be forwarded to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 97 Club stations, Radio, Vanity call signs.
