FR940627-0-00138 FR940627-0-00019 B. Combustion Emission Generation 1. For Emission Characterization Manufacturers are required under Tier 1 to characterize the combustion emissions of their F/FAs. Depending on the fuel family in question, vapor-phase, semi-volatile, and particulate emissions may be required to be characterized. 26 As discussed in Section VII.B., the emission characterization requirements include the measurement of hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, particulates, aldehydes, ketones, alcohols, ethers, polycyclic aromatic compounds, and atypical products, as applicable. 26 Examples of general sampling procedures for vehicle emissions are discussed in Schuetzle, D., ``Sampling of Vehicle Emissions for Chemical Analysis and Biological Testing,'' Environmental Health Perspectives, Volume 47, pp. 65&hyph;80, 1983. Both untreated (non-catalyzed) and treated (tailpipe) 27 emissions generated using FTP conditions are to be characterized. Characterization of the tailpipe emissions will allow comparison of emissions from the test F/FA product with results from other studies. Characterization of the non-catalyzed emissions will be used to identify the emissions to which animals will be exposed in the biological tests. 27 Tailpipe emissions are emissions downstream from all normally present emission aftertreatment devices, i.e., catalytic converters and/or particulate traps. Applicable FTP procedures to be used in generating emissions are specified in 40 CFR part 86. The Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule (UDDS) 28 and the Engine Dynamometer Driving Schedule (EDS) 29 cycles of the FTP shall be used in the emission generation for light-duty vehicles and heavy-duty vehicles, respectively. The motoring portion of the heavy-duty test cycle can be eliminated, at the manufacturer's option, for the generation of emissions. This will allow the use of relatively inexpensive dynamometer equipment without compromising the value of the test. 28 UDDS is a 1372 second transient speed driving sequence used by EPA to simulate typical urban driving. The UDDS for light-duty vehicles is described in 40 CFR part 86, Appendix I(a). 29 EDS is the transient engine speed versus torque time sequence commonly used in heavy-duty engine evaluation. The EDS for heavy-duty diesel engines is described in 40 CFR part 86, Appendix I(f)(2). As discussed earlier, this final rule allows the use of a vehicle or engine for emission generation using FTP procedures. In the case of F/FAs normally used in light-duty vehicle applications, if an engine is to be used, the appropriate speed versus torque trace for the UDDS must be determined in a vehicle on a chassis dynamometer prior to emission generation. The engine used for emission generation in this testing program must then be operated under specific speed and torque conditions that simulate the UDDS. In light-duty vehicle testing, vapor phase emission samples are to be collected for each segment of the FTP cycle (i.e., Bag 1, Bag 2, and Bag 3). In addition, a semi-volatile sample and a particulate sample are to be collected during the driving cycle for light-duty vehicles. The heavy-duty testing procedure includes two tests: a cold-start test and a hot-start test. All three emission phases (i.e., vapor, semi-volatile, and particulate) are to be collected for each heavy-duty test. Some modifications to the standard FTP may be required for collection of semi-volatile and particulate emissions, which are required for emission characterization and in-vitro biological testing (see next section). Special procedures may also be necessary in order to characterize emissions from F/FAs containing atypical elements. Good engineering and analytical chemistry practices should be followed while modifying the applicable test cycle for the collection of fractions not specified in 40 CFR part 86. Such modifications must be described in detail in the discussion of emission generation procedures to be included in the report provided to EPA, as discussed in Section XII.B. Vapor-phase emissions are to be collected and stored in Tedlar bags for subsequent chemical analysis. These emissions can be stored for only a limited period of time before chemical changes may occur. The critical time period is a function of the composition of the emissions, storage temperature and pressure, type of storage container, exposure to ultraviolet light, and the amount of deterioration that is considered acceptable. The maximum allowable storage times for emissions which are to be subjected to chemical analysis will vary depending on the speciation protocol, and are identified in relevant parts of the regulatory text.
