FR940602-1-00041 FR940602-1-00013 (e) Synthetic web slings exhibiting any of the conditions specified in §1918.62(g)(2) (i) through (v) shall not be used. (f) Chains, including slings, exhibiting any of the conditions specified in §1918.62(h)(3)(iii), (iv), and (h)(6) shall not be used. §1918.52 Specific requirements. (a) Preventers. (1) When preventers are used they shall be of sufficient strength for the intended purpose and secured to the head of the boom independent of working guys except when, in the case of cast fittings, the strength of the fitting exceeds the total strength of all lines secured to it. Any tails, fittings, or other means of making the preventers fast on deck shall provide strength equal to that of the preventer itself. (2) Wire rope clips or knots shall not be used to form eyes in, nor to join sections of, preventer guys. (b) Stoppers. (1) When used, chain topping lift stoppers shall be in good condition, equipped with fibre tails, and of a length to allow not fewer than three half-hitches in the chain. (2) When used, chain stoppers shall be shackled or otherwise secured in such a manner that their links are not bent by being passed around fittings. The point of attachment shall be of sufficient strength and so located that the stoppers are in line with the normal topping lift lead at the time the stopper is applied. (3) When used, patent stoppers of the clamp type shall be suited to the size of the rope used. Clamps shall be in good condition and free of paint and dirt which would prevent their being drawn tight. (c) Falls. (1) The end of the winch fall shall be secured to the drum by clamps, U-bolts, shackles, or some other equally strong method. Fibre rope fastenings shall not be used. (2) Winch falls shall not be used with fewer than three turns on the winch drum. (3) Eyes in the ends of wire rope cargo falls shall not be formed by knots and, in single part falls, shall not be formed by wire rope clips. (4) When the design of the winch permits, the fall shall be so wound on the drum so that the cargo hook rises when the winch control lever is pulled back and lowers when the lever is pushed forward. (d) Heel blocks. (1) When an employee works in the bight formed by the heel block, a preventer of at least three quarter inch (1.9 cm) diameter wire rope shall be securely rigged, or equally effective means shall be taken, to hold the block and fall in the event that the heel block attachments fail. Where physical limitations prohibit the fitting of a wire rope preventer of the required size, two turns of one-half inch (1.3 cm) diameter wire rope shall be sufficient. (2) If the heel block is not so rigged as to prevent its falling when not under strain, it shall be secured to prevent alternate raising and dropping of the block. Except that: This requirement shall not apply when the heel block is so located as to be at least 10 feet (3.0 m) above the deck when at its lowest point. (e) Coaming rollers. Portable coaming rollers shall be secured by wire preventers in addition to the regular coaming clamps. (f) Cargo hooks. Cargo hooks shall be as close to the junction of the falls as the assembly permits, but in no case farther than 2 feet (.61 m) from it. Except, that this provision shall not apply when the construction of the vessel and the operation in progress are such that fall angles in excess of 120 degrees do not normally occur. Overhaul chains shall not be shortened by bolting or knotting. §1918.53 Cargo winches. (a) Moving parts of winches or other deck machinery shall be guarded. (b) Winches shall not be used if control levers operate with excessive friction or excessive play. (c) Double gear winches or other winches equipped with a clutch shall not be used unless a positive means of locking the gear shift is provided. (d) There shall be no load other than the fall and cargo hook assembly on the winch when changing gears on a two gear winch. (e) Any defect or malfunction of winches that affects safety shall be reported immediately to the officer in charge of the vessel, and the winch shall not be used until the defect or malfunction is corrected. (f) Temporary seats and shelters for winch drivers which create a hazard to the winch operator or other employees shall not be used. (g) Except for short handles on wheel type controls, winch drivers shall not be permitted to use winch control extension levers unless they are provided by either the ship or the employer. Such levers shall be of adequate strength and securely fastened with metal connections at the fulcrum and at the permanent control lever. (h) Extension control levers which tend to fall of their own weight shall be counterbalanced. (i) Winch brakes shall be monitored for performance. If winch brakes are unable to hold the load, the winch shall not be used. (j) Winches shall not be used when one or more control points, either hoisting or lowering, is not operating properly. Employees shall not be permitted to tamper with or adjust control systems. (k) When winches are left unattended, control levers shall be placed in the neutral position and the power shall be shut off or control levers shall be locked at the winch or the operating controls. §1918.54 Rigging gear.
