FR940429-0-00228 FR940429-0-00015 The Secretary appreciates the concern of the commenter that an institution terminated for misuse of Title IV, HEA program funds ought not be permitted to continue to handle those funds, even for a limited period. The Secretary, however, considers that the honoring of commitments made to students is equally important and, provided that the institution continues to offer education, insists that those commitments be honored. The Secretary can also take additional steps to safeguard these remaining funds when appropriate. The institution remains liable for the proper handling of Title IV, HEA program funds even after its participation is terminated. Naturally, should the institution reapply for participation in a Title IV, HEA program or should a person with substantial control over the institution also have substantial control over another institution, the way that the terminated institution complied with the requirements of this section will be a factor in determining the institution's readmission into the programs or the person's continued role in the administration of the programs. The Secretary needs assurance that if an institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program ends, the institution will make arrangements for a final audit of the institution's administration of the program. A letter of engagement provides the Secretary authoritative notification that the institution is carrying out its responsibility to end its participation in a way that will allow the Secretary to determine whether any further liabilities or corrective action is required. Generally accepted auditing standards and the GAO's Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions do not prohibit this requirement. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters recommended that the Secretary expand the exception for institutions that close as a result of a natural disaster. They suggested that the exemption apply to an institution that closes as a result of fire, a weather emergency, or other causes beyond the control of the institution. One commenter suggested that an institution that is closed or stops providing educational programs for fewer than seven instructional days should remain a participating institution. Discussion: The Secretary adopts the exception for closures as a result of a natural disaster because this event is readily verifiable. The Secretary acknowledges that other circumstances may require an institution to close on a temporary basis, but does not consider these other circumstances sufficient to establish additional exceptions to the requirements of this section, because the period of closure will be too short. In most such instances, the institution has recourse to other remedies, such as the arrangement for the use of other facilities. Indeed, the definition of academic year for most purposes actually recognizes that a week of instructional time can include a number of days in which instruction does not occur. Changes: None. Subpart G_Fine, Limitation, Suspension, and Termination Proceedings Section 668.81␣Scope and Special Definitions Comments: Several commenters believed that the appeal procedures of this section should apply to institutions that were provisionally certified if the Secretary revokes the institution's provisional certification. Many commenters believed that the appeal procedures of this section should apply to institutions if the institution's period of participation has expired. Several commenters suggested that the Secretary limit, suspend, or terminate the eligibility of a third-party servicer to contract with an institution only to those services and Title IV, HEA programs for which the servicer has been found to be in violation and only to those institutions on whose behalf the servicer committed the violation. The commenters claimed that the servicer's activities and the Secretary's sanctions might sometimes concern violations would have no material relationship to the servicer's ability to provide other servicing functions to institutions which it serves and to other institutions unaffected by the original violations. Discussion: See discussions under the section of the Analysis of Comments and Changes that address certification procedures (§668.13). The Secretary does not agree with the commenters' suggestion that the Secretary should limit, suspend, or terminate the eligibility of a third-party servicer to contract with an institution only to those services and Title IV, HEA programs for which the servicer has been found to be in violation and only to those institutions on whose behalf the servicer committed the violation. The Secretary imposes a sanction against a third-party servicer for a violation of a Title IV, HEA program requirement for a specific reason, to protect the integrity of the Title IV, HEA program. The Secretary, if necessary, must reserve the right to limit, suspend, or terminate a third-party servicer's eligibility to administer any aspect of the Title IV, HEA programs for any institution to ensure that further harm does not occur to one or all of those programs. However, where appropriate, any limitation, suspension or termination action may be limited in scope as suggested. Changes: None. Section 668.82␣Standard of Conduct Comments: One commenter believed that individual employees should not be responsible for actions beyond their control; instead, they should be held responsible for actions that are reasonable. For example, to be held responsible for accounting errors of other departments may be going beyond what is reasonable. Two commenters argued that the servicer is merely under contract to provide particular services, and is in no position to monitor the institution's compliance with other fiduciary matters. They also claimed that establishing a fiduciary standard also would establish enormous liability for areas beyond the servicer's control. These commenters recommended that clarification is needed in the regulations to ensure that a third-party servicer could only be held to a fiduciary standard for funds under that servicer's direct control. Discussion: The Secretary holds a third-party servicer to a fiduciary standard of care and diligence only in the exercise of the servicer's Title IV, HEA program responsibilities that the servicer has contracted with the institution to perform. The Secretary does not expect a third-party servicer to be responsible for aspects of administration of the Title IV, HEA programs or funds attributed to those programs that the servicer has not contracted with an institution to administer. With respect to the comment on the responsibility of individual employees, the Secretary notes that these regulations apply a standard of conduct only to the third-party servicer itself; individual employees are not held accountable under this provision. However, the Secretary expects a third-party servicer to train its employees to perform their duties consistent with the servicer's fiduciary obligations. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter was concerned that the provisions governing a third-party servicer's fiduciary duty would limit the servicer's ability to acquire its servicing fees from funds administered by the servicer.
