FR940603-0-00039 FR940603-0-00017 ยง1220.54 Evaluation process. (a) NARA shall select Federal agencies to be evaluated on the basis of perceived need by NARA or specific request by the agency, or on the basis of a compliance monitoring cycle developed by NARA. NARA will determine the scope of the evaluation. An agency may request an evaluation of its records management program by contacting the Assistant Archivist for Records Administration; however, the final determination of agencies to be evaluated will be made by NARA. The heads of agencies will be notified in writing by the Archivist of the United States of the intent to conduct an evaluation and the scope of the evaluation at least 180 calendar days prior to initiating the evaluation. (b) Once NARA has notified the agency, the agency head will, by the date specified in the Archivist's letter: (1) Acknowledge in writing NARA's intention to evaluate, and provide the Archivist with the name and telephone number of the senior official with overall responsibility for records management and of a headquarters official who will work with NARA to facilitate the evaluation process; (2) Provide written notification of the evaluation to all appropriate offices and employees and contractors potentially involved; this notification will include instructions to cooperate with NARA by setting up interviews, providing requested information, and making records available for inspection; (3) Provide NARA with a copy of the written notification in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and with a list of names and telephone numbers of officials responsible for records management in field sites, if applicable, who will work with NARA during the evaluation; (4) For comprehensive evaluations, provide NARA with a set of internal records management directives, orders, bulletins, or similar authoritative issuances; copies of the two most recent internal records management evaluations; and any special records-related reports. Included may be: issuances relating to adequate and proper documentation and recordkeeping requirements; personal papers; management and disposition of textual, electronic, audiovisual, cartographic and architectural, micrographic, and vital records; disaster mitigation and recovery; and any other records-related documentation requested by NARA. A subset of this documentation will be requested for more limited evaluations; (5) Provide NARA with a current version of the agency manual(s) covering records creation, maintenance, storage, and disposition, and a list of information systems maintained as required by OMB Circular A&hyph;130, section 9a(5), and a list of offices and/or functions and activities not currently covered by schedules; (6) Arrange for appropriate management and program officials in headquarters and, if applicable, at field sites to be briefed by NARA at the beginning and at the end of the evaluation process; and (7) Take immediate corrective action regarding any serious problems that NARA may bring to the agency's attention during the course of the evaluation process such as the unauthorized destruction of records or the unauthorized donation or other transfer of records to non-NARA facilities. ยง1220.56 Evaluation report. (a) NARA will submit a draft evaluation report for factual review and comment to the agency within 120 calendar days of the last evaluation site visit or exit briefing. After receipt of agency comments, NARA will finalize the report, incorporating any changes resulting from factual errors identified by the agency. The final report will be transmitted by the Archivist to the head of the agency within 30 calendar days of receiving comments from the agency. (b) The head of the agency will: (1) Comment within 60 calendar days, in writing, on the contents of the draft report. If necessary, agencies can request extensions. No response from the agency within the allotted time will indicate that the agency concurs in the factual accuracy of the draft report. (2) Review the final report and assign implementation responsibility; and (3) Distribute the final report to all concerned and appropriate persons and offices. ยง1220.58 Agency action plans and progress reports.
