FR940106-2-00021 FR940106-2-00007 Comment 13: Minasligas contends that the sale dates for certain U.S. sales falls outside the POI. Thus, Minasligas claims these sales should be excluded from this investigation. DOC Position: We agree with respondent. Based on the sale dates reported and verified, these sales are outside the POI and are not included in our margin calculation. Comment 14: Petitioners claim that Minasligas inappropriately allocated its labor and overhead costs between subject and non-subject merchandise based on number of furnaces, rather than actual production during the POI. Therefore, petitioners request that the Department adjust Minasligas' submitted costs accordingly. DOC Position: We agree with petitioners that number of furnaces is not an adequate basis for allocating labor or other fabrication costs. Number of furnaces is an arbitrary measure, which does not necessarily reflect the actual level of labor and overhead expended in the production of the subject merchandise. In the instant case, output tons is a more accurate allocation basis. Therefore, we have revised the submitted costs to reflect an allocation based on actual production units. Comment 15: Petitioners argue that Italmagnesio failed to cooperate with the Department by withdrawing from the investigation and should receive the highest, most adverse BIA rate on the record. Petitioners further argue that BIA includes the rates alleged in the petition, as corrected for clerical errors, and the rates alleged in petitioners' amended allegation of sales below cost for Italmagnesio. Petitioners disagree with the Department's decision in the preliminary determination which rejected the revised margin calculations in petitioners' amended sales-below-cost allegation as a source of BIA; the Department rejected the revisions on the grounds that petitioners based the revisions on information submitted by Italmagnesio. Petitioners state that their amended allegation relied not on financial statements submitted by Italmagnesio but on identical financial statements that petitioners had obtained independently prior to the date of Italmagnesio's submission of the information. In addition, petitioners assert that Italmagnesio withdrew from the investigation after the Department indicated in the preliminary determination that it would not use the higher rates in petitioners' amended allegation as BIA. Therefore, petitioners maintain that not using the amended allegation as BIA would allow Italmagnesio to control the outcome of the investigation. DOC Position: For this final determination, we assigned Italmagnesio a margin in accordance with the two-tiered BIA methodology under which the Department imposes the most adverse rate upon those respondents who refuse to cooperate or otherwise significantly impede the proceeding. In our BIA margin analysis, we utilized information contained in petitioners' amended COP allegation for Italmagnesio. Although Department policy does not allow petitioners to use questionnaire responses in a piece-meal manner in order to increase margins in the petition that may later be used as BIA, our analysis revealed that petitioners had access to Italmagnesio's financial statements prior to the submission of this information on the record by Italmagnesio. Continuation of Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 735(c)(4)(A) of the Act, we are directing the U.S. Customs Service to continue to retroactively suspend liquidation of all entries of FeSi from Italmagnesio. Retroactive suspension applies to entries of FeSi, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after May 18, 1993, which is the date 90 days prior to the date of the publication of our preliminary determination in the Federal Register . We are also directing the Customs Service to terminate the retroactive suspension of liquidation with regard to CBCC, and ``All Other Exporters'' entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption between May 18, 1993, and August 16, 1993, which is the date of our preliminary determination, and to release any bond or other security, and refund any cash deposit with respect to these entries during that period in accordance with section 735(c)(3). For CBCC and ``All Other Exporters'', we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of FeSi from Brazil, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after August 16, 1993. Finally, since the Department finds that no final dumping margin exists with respect to Minasligas, we are directing the Customs Service to terminate the suspension of liquidation for entries of FeSi from Minasligas, and to release any bond or other security, and refund any cash deposit with respect to these entries from Minasligas in accordance with section 735(c)(2) of the statute. However, if the Department has reasonable cause to believe or suspect at any time during the existence of the antidumping duty order that Minasligas has sold or is likely to sell the subject merchandise to the United States at less than its foreign market value, then the Department may institute an administrative review of Minasligas under section 751 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended. The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated margin amount by which the FMV of the subject merchandise exceeds the USP as shown below. ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Margin percent 1Critical circumstances Italmagnesio S.A. Industria e Comercio 88.86 Yes. Companhia Brasileira Carbureto de Calcio 2.23 No. Companhia Ferroligas Minas Gerais 0.00 No. All others 45.55 No. ITC Notification In accordance with section 735(d) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. Notification to Interested Parties This notice also serves as the only reminder to parties subject to administrative protective order (APO) in this investigation of their responsibility covering the return or destruction of proprietary information disclosed under APO in accordance with 19 CFR 353.34(d). Failure to comply is a violation of the APO. This determination is published pursuant to section 735(d) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1673d(d)) and 19 CFR 353.20(b)(2). Dated: December 29, 1993. Barbara R. Stafford, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;281 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
