FR941020-2-00048 FR941020-2-00032 We have determined that ASHI's laboratory enforcement and appeal policies are essentially equivalent to the requirements of this subpart as they apply to accreditation organizations. IV. Federal Validation Inspections and Continuing Oversight We may conduct Federal validation inspections of ASHI accredited laboratories, as specified in §493.507, on a representative sample basis or in response to allegations of noncompliance (called complaint inspections). The outcome of those validation inspections, performed by us, the State survey agency, or a HCFA agent, will be our principal means for verifying that the laboratories accredited by ASHI remain in compliance with CLIA requirements. This Federal monitoring is an on-going process. V. Removal of Approval as an Accrediting Organization Our regulations at §493.511 provide that we may remove the approval of an accreditation organization, such as that of ASHI, prior to the end of the effective date of approval. If validation inspection outcomes and the comparability or validation review produce findings as described at §493.509(a), we will conduct a review of an accreditation organization's program. We also conduct a review when the validation review findings, irrespective of the rate of disparity (as defined in §493.2), indicate systemic problems in the organization's processes that provide evidence that the organization's requirements, taken as a whole, are no longer equivalent to the CLIA requirements, taken as a whole. If we determine that ASHI has failed in practice to enforce its standards, or systemic problems exist in its inspection process, we may give it a probationary period, not to exceed one year, to allow ASHI to conform its inspection or enforcement procedures to the CLIA requirements. Based on an evaluation of any of the items stipulated at §493.511(d), we will make a determination as to whether or not ASHI retains its approved status as an accreditation organization under CLIA. If we deny approved status, ASHI may resubmit its application when it has revised its program to address the rationale for the denial, demonstrated that it can reasonably assure that its accredited laboratories meet CLIA condition level requirements, and resubmits its application for approval as an accreditation organization in its entirety. If, however, ASHI requests reconsideration of an adverse determination in accordance with subpart D of part 488 of our regulations, it may not submit a new application until a final reconsideration determination is issued.
