FR940728-1-00057 FR940728-1-00018 Thursday July 28, 1994 Part II Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 93 High Density Airports; Slot Use and Loss Requirements; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 144␣/␣Thursday, July 28, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 93 [Docket No. 27834, Notice No. 94&hyph;25] High Density Airports; Slot Use and Loss Requirements AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This document proposes to amend the Federal Aviation Regulations pertaining to the slot use and loss provisions for air carrier and commuter operator slots (i.e., instrument flight rules takeoff and landing reservations) at Kennedy International Airport, LaGuardia Airport, O'Hare International Airport, and Washington National Airport. This proposal would codify the agency's historical practice of treating as used, any slot held but not actually operated on Thanksgiving Day, the Friday following Thanksgiving Day, and the period from December 24 through January 2. The proposed revision would permit carriers and commuters to choose which flights to operate at any of the High Density Rule airports during certain days of the winter holiday season without jeopardizing the status of the slots under the ``use of lose'' requirement. DATES: Comments must be received on or before September 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this regulation may be mailed in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;10), Docket No. 27834, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. Or delivered in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Rules Docket, room 915, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments may be examined in the Rules Docket weekdays, except Federal holidays, between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia R. Lane, Office of the Chief Counsel, AGC&hyph;230, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591; telephone (202) 267&hyph;3491. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the proposal by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned decisions on the proposals. Comments are specifically invited on the overall economic, energy, environmental, reporting, and recordkeeping aspects of the proposals. Communications should identify the docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address above. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 27834.'' Communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking any further action on the proposals. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the docket both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this proposal will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center, APA&hyph;430, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3484. Communications must identify the docket number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future notices should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A, ``Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Distribution System,'' which describes the application procedures. Background The High Density Traffic Airport Rule, or ``High Density Rule,'' 14 CFR part 93, subpart K, was promulgated in 1969 to reduce delays at five congested airports: JFK International, LaGuardia, O'Hare International, Washington National, and Newark International (33 FR 17896; December 3, 1968). The regulation limits the number of IFR operations at each airport, by hour or half hour (by half hour at O'Hare), during certain hours of the day. It provides for the allocation to carriers of operational authority, or a ``slot'' for each instrument flight rule (IFR) landing or takeoff during a specific 30- or 60-minute period. The restrictions were lifted at Newark in the early 1970's. The proposed amendment would exempt certain holidays from being included in the bimonthly calculations for slot use. Traditionally, air carriers and commuters reduce their scheduled operations on the following holidays: Thanksgiving Day, the Friday following Thanksgiving, Christmas Day, and New Year's Day. Since December 1986, commuter slot-operators have been allowed to temporarily discontinue use of slots for Thanksgiving Day, the Friday following Thanksgiving Day, and the period from December 24 through the first Saturday in January of the new year. This policy was extended to air carrier operators for the 1993 holiday season. There is no reason to expect this agency's historical practice to change and it should be expressly codified in the regulations. This proposed change in the rule would not result in any additional flights or capacity at the four High Density Traffic Airports. This proposal also would be in the public interest because it would permit air carriers and commuters to choose which flights to operate during the winter holiday season without jeopardizing the status of the slots under the ``use or lose'' requirement. Regulatory Evaluation The FAA has determined that this rulemaking is not a ``significant regulatory action,'' as defined by Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review). The anticipated costs and benefits associated with this proposed rule to amend part 93 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) are shown below. Benefits The proposal would permit the non-operation of certain flights by carriers and commuters operating at any of the High Density Rule airports during certain days of the winter holiday season. But the air carrier could still count those flights toward its slot usage requirement. It would permit an air carrier that could not cover its variable operating costs to not operate those flights and to still meet the slot usage requirements for those particular days. The potential benefits would be primarily cost savings to the airlines. Costs The proposed rule would not result in any added costs to the affected air carriers. Fewer landings at the airports affected by this rulemaking could result in reduced airport revenues derived from landing fees. The FAA seeks comments on this issue.
