FR941222-0-00060 FR941222-0-00006 Calculation of Amount of Emissions Allowances Associated With a Transaction The Commission will also adopt EEI's proposal that sellers explain how they will compute the amount of emissions allowances that will be attributed to each coordination transaction. The amount of emissions allowances related to a coordination sale will vary based on the unit used for pricing, the amount of energy generated and the type of fuel used. The Commission expects that the generating unit used to compute the emission allowance amount would be the same unit that is used to price the incremental fuel component of the coordination rate. Also, the seller should explain how fractional amounts will be handled. While a customer choosing the cash compensation method could pay for part of an allowance, the customer cannot choose to return part of an allowance. To resolve this problem, utilities could adopt a ``rounding'' approach, i.e. , rounding up to the next whole number if the fraction is greater than one half, or down if the fraction is less than one-half. If a rounding approach is used for the return of allowances in kind, it should also be used for cash settlements so that there is no bias for or against the return in kind option. Timing The Commission also adopts EEI's proposal that utilities provide details on the timing of opportunities to return allowances or stipulate whether they will purchase or return allowances. Customers should be able to take advantage of possible cost savings resulting from the timing of allowance settlements. 32 This can be accomplished by allowing customers that choose to provide allowances in kind to do so by the appropriate EPA reporting date 33 rather than at the time of the transaction, i.e. , a ``timing option.'' Thus, allowance customers will have the same opportunities as allowance sellers and face the same consequences, i.e. , possible cost savings or additional costs. 34 32 This issue is significant because utilities in effect settle their allowance position with EPA at the EPA reporting date and the cost of obtaining an allowance may be different at that time than it is at the time that the transaction occurs. Indeed, there may be significant differences in allowance costs at different times of the year. 33 See supra n. 18. If a transaction begins and ends in different calendar years, the customer, exercising the in kind option, would be required to provide sufficient allowances to cover electric energy purchased in each calendar year by the immediately following EPA reporting date for such calendar year. 34 Customers would continue to have the option of a cash settlement based on a current index. We note, however, that EEI's proposal addresses timing options only with respect to longer-term transactions. In our opinion, timing options should be available for all transactions since the seller's timing flexibility is the same regardless of the length of the transaction. Other Factors That Impact Rates The Commission adopts EEI's proposal that sellers specify any other factors that may affect pricing. For example, many utilities have coordination rates that allow a reservation charge based on a unit other than the unit used to generate energy as long as the total revenues do not exceed the fixed and variable costs of the unit used for pricing. 35 Utilities which operate under this type of ceiling will have to clarify that the variable cost component includes the emissions allowance amount associated with the unit used to establish the ceiling. 35 An example is Indiana Michigan Power Company's coordination rate schedule, supra n.16, which consist of an energy charge based on system incremental fuel and operating costs and a reservation charge based on the cost of its Rockport generating unit. Because Indiana Michigan has negotiated favorable coal contracts for the Rockport unit, that unit is not likely to be available for coordination sales. As a result, there is an inconsistency between Indiana Michigan's demand charge (based on its Rockport unit) and its energy charge (based on system incremental fuel cost which is higher than Rockport's fuel cost). To conform this rate to the Commission's requirement that energy and demand charges be designed on a consistent basis, the rate is subject to a ceiling reflecting the fixed and variable costs of the Rockport unit. See Indiana & Michigan Electric Company, 10 FERC ¶61,295 (1980) (in which the Commission explained that energy and demand charges must be designed consistently to reflect the fixed and variable costs of the same units). Other Rate Issues Raised by Intervenors The Commission will not expand the scope of this Policy Statement beyond what EEI has proposed. The ratemaking treatment for coordination, requirements and affiliated pooling arrangements must recognize the differences in the character of the service arrangements. Furthermore, the timing of any ratemaking implementation will, of necessity, be different. For instance, because in requirements service the cost of emissions allowances will be a very small percentage of a utility's overall costs, a utility may choose not to address emissions allowance costs in requirements rates until it files its next general rate case. Also, since requirements customers typically pay a pro rata share of all of a utility's prudently incurred costs and utilities may choose various methods to comply with the CAAA, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to establish a generic policy that would be appropriate for all requirements service. Likewise, since operating agreements between affiliate utilities are not uniform, it would be difficult to establish a generic ratemaking policy for affiliated pooling arrangements. Affiliate agreements also may reflect compromises to satisfy the concerns of state regulators. 36 36 Indeed, several affiliated pooling groups have already made filings and their proposals reflect these types of significant distinctions. Conversely, the pricing of coordination transactions is fairly standardized, generally reflecting an energy charge equal to incremental costs and a reservation charge providing a contribution to the fixed costs of the units used to price the energy. Thus, the treatment of emissions allowances in coordination rates can be readily addressed in a generic fashion. In accordance with Florida Power's request, we state that Phase II utilities are not now required to make rate filings detailing their emission allowance treatment for coordination transactions that will not be affected until the year 2000. Such filings would be due no more than 120 or less than 60 days prior to Phase II. The intervenors have raised concerns regarding the crediting of allowance related revenues to requirements rates or the allocation of emissions allowances between retail and wholesale requirements jurisdictions. It will be our policy to treat the revenues from allowances sold as part of coordination sales the same way we treat other revenues from coordination sales. In other words, to the extent, and in the same way that, the latter revenues are credited to jurisdictional customers, so should the former revenues. However, we will address implementation of this policy in the context of individual requirements rate proceedings, or, if appropriate, complaint proceedings. In section 205 proceedings, utilities will be expected to fully support their test year projections for emission allowances associated with coordination sales. We reject Clean Air's requests that the Commission require sellers to report the volume and price of allowances transferred and publish this information, and that sellers certify unaffiliated third parties to provide allowances to a customer. Sellers must, of course, be prepared to document the calculation of all aspects of their rates, including the emissions allowance component. However, an extensive reporting requirement and third-party certification would be costly and time consuming, and there is no basis to conclude that imposition of this burden on utilities would enhance the development of the emission allowance trading markets. Use of Alternate Rate Treatments Finally, the Commission notes that this Policy Statement contains general guidelines on ratemaking treatment in coordination rates for the cost of emissions allowances. It is not intended to preclude utilities or other interested parties, such as state commissions, from proposing alternate rate treatments for consideration on a case-by-case basis. 37 37 Florida Power requests that the Policy Statement not prejudge every contractual relationship. Florida Power is primarily concerned about its existing arrangements with Southern Companies which are at issue in Docket No. ER95&hyph;59&hyph;000. This Policy Statement will not preclude Florida Power from proposing different treatments with respect to those arrangements at issue in Docket No. ER95&hyph;59&hyph;000. APPA is concerned about the lack of specifics concerning possible alternatives to EEI's proposal. However, we will not address alternate proposals in this Policy Statement, other than to state that they are permitted to be presented to the Commission and will be considered on a case-by-case basis. The Commission will ensure that any alternate proposal adopted is just and reasonable, and in so doing will consider fully the concerns of affected parties who intervene in individual rate proceedings, abbreviated or otherwise, involving emissions allowances.
