FR940418-0-00051 FR940418-0-00012 (b) Major litigation activities. Postal management shall also notify the Board in a timely manner whenever it proposes to seek review by any United States Court of Appeals of an adverse judicial decision. (c) Any significant changes proposed in the Postal Service's system of accounts or methods of accounting. (d) Matters of special importance, including but not limited to important research and development initiatives, major changes in Postal Service organization or structure, major law enforcement activities, and other matters having a significant impact upon the relationship of the Postal Service with its employees, with any major branch of Government, or with the general public. (e) Information concerning any proposed grant of unique or exclusive licenses to use Postal Service intellectual properties (other than patents and technical data rights), or any proposed joint venture involving the use of such property. (f) Other matters having important policy implications. PART 4_OFFICERS (ARTICLE IV) Sec. 4.1␣Chairman. 4.2␣Vice␣Chairman. 4.3␣Postmaster General. 4.4␣Deputy Postmaster General. 4.5␣Assistant Postmasters General, General Counsel, Judicial Officer. 4.6␣Chief Postal Inspector. 4.7␣Secretary of the Board. Authority: 39 U.S.C. 202, 203, 205, 401(2), (10), 1003, 3013. §4.1 Chairman. (a) The Chairman of the Board of Governors is elected by the Governors from among the members of the Board. The Chairman: (1) Shall preside at all regular and special meetings of the Board, and shall set the agenda for such meetings; (2) Shall select and appoint the Chairman and members of any committee properly established by the Board; (3) Serves a term that commences upon election and expires at the end of the first annual meeting following the meeting at which he or she was elected. (b) If the Postmaster General is elected Chairman of the Board, the Governors shall also elect one of their number to preside during proceedings dealing with matters upon which only the Governors may vote. §4.2 Vice Chairman. The Vice Chairman is elected by the Board from among the members of the Board and shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman during the Chairman's absence or disability. The Vice Chairman serves a term that commences upon election and expires at the end of the first annual meeting following the meeting at which he or she was elected. §4.3 Postmaster General. The appointment and role of the Postmaster General are described at 39 U.S.C. 202(c), 203. The Governors set the salary of the Postmaster General by resolution, subject to the limitations of 39 U.S.C. 1003(a). §4.4 Deputy Postmaster General. The appointment and role of the Deputy Postmaster General are described at 39 U.S.C. 202(d), 203. The Deputy Postmaster General shall act as Postmaster General during the Postmaster General's absence or disability, and when a vacancy exists in the office of Postmaster General. The Governors set the salary of the Deputy Postmaster General by resolution, subject to the limitations of 39 U.S.C. 1003(a). §4.5 Assistant Postmasters General, General Counsel, Judicial Officer. There are within the Postal Service a General Counsel, a Judicial Officer, and such number of officers, described in 39 U.S.C. 204 as Assistant Postmasters General, whether so denominated or not, as the Board authorizes by resolution. These officers are appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Postmaster General. §4.6 Chief Postal Inspector. The Postmaster General, in consultation with the Governors, appoints the Chief Postal Inspector, certain of whose powers and duties are delegated to the holder of that office by the Postmaster General, consistent with these bylaws and the Reorganization Act. The Chief Postal Inspector also holds the position of Inspector General, and for purposes of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended by Public Law 100&hyph;504, 5 U.S.C. App. 8E(f), reports to and is under the general supervision of the Postmaster General. The Postmaster General has the power, with the concurrence of the Governors, to remove or transfer the Chief Postal Inspector to another position or location within the Postal Service. In the event of any such removal or transfer, the Postmaster General must promptly notify both Houses of the Congress in writing of the reasons for such removal or transfer. §4.7 Secretary of the Board. The Secretary of the Board of Governors is appointed by the Governors and serves at the pleasure of the Governors. The Secretary shall be responsible for carrying out the functions of the Office of the Board of Governors, under the direction of the Chairman of the Board. The Secretary shall also issue notices of meetings of the Board and its committees, keep minutes of these meetings, and take steps necessary for compliance with all statutes and regulations dealing with public observation of meetings. The Secretary shall perform all those duties incident to this office, including those duties assigned by the Board or by the Chairman of the Board. The Chairman may designate such assistant secretaries as may be necessary to perform any of the duties of the Secretary. PART 5_COMMITTEES (ARTICLE V) Sec. 5.1␣Establishment and appointment. 5.2␣Committee procedure. Authority: 39 U.S.C. 202, 203, 204, 205, 401(2), (10), 1003, 3013; 5 U.S.C. 552b (a), (b), (g).
