FR940630-0-00106 FR940630-0-00036 Comment. Four commenters stated that efforts to recruit low- and very low-income residents should be required to be undertaken in languages other than English as appropriate for the community served by the HA. Response. The Department declines to impose this as a requirement on HAs, but notes that HAs that serve populations that contain substantial numbers of persons for whom English is not their first language have been sensitive to providing information in languages other than English. Comment. One commenter asked that an HA that works with other organizations to assist residents in locating job opportunities or improving their job opportunities should be found to be in compliance with section 3. Response. An HA that undertakes such action, which is commendable, may very well be in compliance with section 3. The Department emphasizes, however, that the requirements of section 3 are triggered by economic opportunities generated by the expenditure of certain HUD assistance. A housing authority that uses funds, other than section 3 covered assistance, to improve the economic situation of their residents deserves commendation and credit. However, the fact that the HA may be locating economic opportunities for their residents through such means, does not relieve the HA of the responsibility imposed by section 3 to recruit low- and very low-income residents, or to solicit section 3 business concerns for economic opportunities arising from the expenditure of section 3 covered activity. The fact that economic opportunities are generated from section 3 covered assistance triggers the applicability of section 3. Comment. One commenter stated that the rule should require recipients and contractors to provide long-term employment opportunities, and not simply seasonal or temporary employment. Response. The Department cannot dictate the types of jobs for which recipients and contractors must give preference to low-income and very low-income persons. Again, section 3 is not a job creation program. The economic opportunities that are available to low and very low-income persons are those that the recipient or contractor has determined are necessary for the project or activity funded by section 3 covered assistance and that would be available on the job or contract market with or without section 3. However, the objective of section 3 is to provide low- and very low-income persons, especially those on government assistance, with the types of economic opportunities that will allow them to become self-sufficient. Comment. A few commenters stated that the rule should emphasize that section 3 does not mandate the employment of any low-income person who is not qualified for job for which he or she applied. Response. This statement is made in the text of the regulation, and the Department believes this statement clarifies this point without further elaboration. Monitoring by Recipients Comment. A majority of the commenters raised objections to the requirement in the proposed rule that recipients must monitor the operations of their contractors and subcontractors to ensure compliance with the regulations of part 135, and questioned how recipients were to perform this monitoring function. Response. As discussed in the response to the fourth comment under the ``General Comments'' section, while the interim rule continues to require recipients to ensure that their contractors and subcontractors are in compliance with section 3, this responsibility is not the same as the ``monitoring'' responsibility imposed on recipients by the proposed rule. VII. Other Matters Environmental Impact A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment was made in accordance with HUD regulations at 24 CFR part 50, which implements section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) at the time of development of the proposed rule. This Finding remains applicable to this interim rule, and is available for public inspection between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. weekdays in the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of the General Counsel, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Room 10276, 451 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20410. Executive Order 12866 This interim rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866 as a significant regulatory action. Any changes made in this interim rule as a result of that review are clearly identified in the docket file, which is available for public inspection in the Office of HUD's Rules Docket Clerk, Room 10276, 451 Seventh St. SW, Washington, DC. Impact on Small Entities The Secretary, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed and approved this interim rule, and, in so doing, certifies that the interim rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Recipients and contractors that receive HUD financial assistance subject to the requirements are currently required, to the greatest extent feasible, to give economic opportunities generated by such assistance to low-income persons, and to businesses owned by or that substantially employ low-income persons. This interim rule, which implements the amendments made to section 3 by the 1992 Act, provides greater guidance on how the requirements of section 3 may be met, and decreases the administrative burden on recipients from that contained in the existing part 135 regulations. The interim rule eliminates much of the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in the proposed rule, and provides recipients and contractors with greater flexibility in complying with section 3. While the Department anticipates that the interim rule will increase the number of small businesses that will benefit from the implementation of amended section 3, the Department also anticipates that the lower dollar threshold in HUD's housing and community development programs (lower than that provided in the previous codified part 135 regulations), and the absence of a dollar threshold in HUD's public and Indian housing programs, may increase the number of small business concerns that will be subject to compliance with the part 135 regulations. However, as with those small businesses expected to benefit from the revised part 135 regulations, the increase in the number of small businesses that may be made subject to compliance with part 135 is not considered so great as to constitute a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order No. 12611, Federalism, has determined that this interim rule would not have a substantial, direct effect on the States or on the relationship between the Federal government and the States, or on the distribution of power or responsibilities among the various levels of government. The interim rule provides, consistent with section 3, that the preference requirements of section 3 are to be carried out consistent with existing Federal, State, and local laws and regulations. Impact on the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that the interim rule may have the potential to promote family formation, maintenance, and general well-being. If the revised part 135 regulations, implemented by this interim rule, contribute to successful implementation of section 3, an increased number of low-income persons will be employed which may promote family unification and general well-being. Since the impact of this interim rule is anticipated to be beneficial, no further review under the Order is necessary. Regulatory Agenda This interim rule was listed as sequence number 1669 in the Department's Semiannual Agenda of Regulations published on April 25, 1994 (59 FR 20424, 20466), under Executive Order 12826 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects in 24 CFR Part 135 Administrative practice and procedure, Community development, Equal employment opportunity, Government contracts, Grant programs_housing and community development, Housing, Loan programs_housing and community development, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Small businesses. Accordingly, 24 CFR part 135, consisting of §§135.1 through 135.92 and Appendix to part 135, is revised to read as follows:
