FR940504-0-00025 FR940504-0-00009 3. Central States Can Company Submitted Comments on July 26, 1989 Comment 1: We would be interested to know if there are any end lines running with off-line controls that can maintain a reduction efficiency of 76 percent (80% capture, 95% control) over a long period of time. The type of control systems that could be used on end lining systems would require a residence time of several hours and seem to be totally impractical considering the size required and the operational cost. USEPA Response: USEPA is not aware of add-on control being used on any end seal compound coating lines. USEPA agrees that add-on control is not feasible for this application. Comment 2: We note that the ``480T'' compound has been used on pet food. OEPA (presumably commenter means USEPA) seems to be proposing its use on all foods on the basis of tests with pet food. It should be pointed out that many other products besides pet food (including infant formula) are packed and should be considered before such a change is made. The USEPA cannot ignore food safety in its proposed action. USEPA Response: USEPA agrees that there appear to be some products which cannot use 3.7 lbs/gallon end seal compounds. However, there appear to be some food cans (e.g., pet food cans) which can use compliant end seal compounds. It is the State's responsibility to demonstrate that the requirements it submits are RACT. The burden is on the State to show for which cans another limit (above 3.7) is RACT and what is that appropriate limit. For example, an adequate demonstration has not been made of the lowest VOC content feasible for end seal compounds used for products such as infant formula. Because the State has submitted a general relaxation of the end seal limit and has not demonstrated that the relaxed limit is RACT for all end seal compounds, USEPA cannot approve the relaxation. Comment 3: While we are confident that other foods can successfully use an alternate compound, it is important that these products be tested prior to making such a change. It is not unreasonable that this testing for all products may require as much as 5 years. It is, therefore, requested that the Ohio proposed relaxation be approved. USEPA Response: The need for testing does not, in itself, justify a permanent relaxation. Central States Can has provided no specifics about food safety testing, and it is therefore not possible to evaluate the effects it would have. The nature and length of the testing is also not specified. Furthermore, there are no details or support for the Central States comment that ``It is not unreasonable that this testing for all products may require as much as 5 years.'' 4. The Can Manufacturers Institute (CMI) Submitted Comments on July 28, 1989 The CMI supports OEPA's action to raise the VOC end seal compound limits. CMI's specific comments are as follows: CMI's Position CMI opposes the basis of USEPA's proposed denial of Ohio's revision of end seal compound VOC limits. We believe USEPA's reliance on the study of Van Camp's efforts in San Diego is misguided. Additionally, CMI is concerned that the Agency is willing to risk endangering the food supply or forcing Ohio-based can makers to surrender business to obtain minuscule gains in the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). The Van Camp Study by Michael Lake In 1986, Michael Lake of the San Diego County Air Pollution Control District, San Diego, California, presented a paper entitled ``VOC Emission Control for Can End Sealing Compounds: A Case History.'' This study outlines the Van Camp Company's experience in testing, qualifying and running water-based end seal compound. It also broached the possibility of using add-on equipment around end seal application operations. USEPA cites Van Camp's narrow experience with add-on control equipment and water-based end seal compound as the rationale for denying Ohio's proposed rules 3745&hyph;21&hyph;09 (D)(1)(e) and (D)(2)(e). Add-On Controls The add-on control equipment referred to in the Lake study was not installed on a permanent basis. The Van Camp plant managers in 1987 told CMI that initial tests of mock-up add-on equipment showed the system was impractical from an engineering and production standpoint. The Lake study cites three very serious concerns of Van Camp concerning add-on control equipment: 1. The prototype VOC containment/capture system had not been tested under rigorous, extended-production conditions; 2. The system might not allow sufficient visual and physical access by line operators; and
