FR940128-1-00104 FR940128-1-00006 (5) Other such verification measures as appropriate. (d) An importer's obligation under paragraph (c) of this section will be satisfied if the importer imports product from a country that has an active memorandum of understanding (MOU), or similar agreement, with FDA that documents the equivalency of the inspection system of the foreign country with the U.S. system. The active MOU will be expected to accurately reflect the current situation between the signing parties and be functioning and enforceable in its entirety. (e) Importers should encourage foreign processors to obtain HACCP training similar to that required by §123.9. §123.12 Imports_determination of compliance. (a) There must be evidence that seafood that is offered for import has been produced under conditions that comply with subpart A of this part. Such evidence can be provided by: (1) Examination, at the U.S. importer's place of business, of the importer's Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plan, the foreign processor's HACCP plan and sanitation procedures and records associated with the importer's plan that demonstrate that the plan and procedures were followed. (2) An active memorandum of understanding (as defined in §123.11(d)) with an exporting country that provides that the country will impose regulatory controls equivalent to those established in this part for domestic processors. (3) Evidence that an exporting country has in place and is enforcing an HACCP-based regulatory system. (4) Inspection of foreign processors by FDA or some other organization designated by FDA. (5) Any other measures that FDA deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, end-product testing. (b) If assurances do not exist that the product has been produced under an HACCP plan and sanitation controls that are equivalent to those required of domestic processors, the product will appear to be adulterated and will be denied entry. Subpart B_[Reserved] Subpart C_Raw Molluscan Shellfish §123.20 General. This subpart augments subpart A of this part by setting forth specific requirements for processing fresh or frozen molluscan shellfish. §123.28 Source controls and records. (a) In order to meet requirements of subpart A of this part as they apply to microbiological contamination, natural toxins, and related hazards, processors shall include in their Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plans how they are controlling the origin of the molluscan shellfish they process. (b) Processors shall only process molluscan shellfish that originate from growing waters approved for harvesting by a shellfish control authority. To meet this requirement, processors shall only receive shellstock: (1) From a harvester that is licensed or a processor that is certified by a shellfish control authority; and (2) That has affixed a tag on each container of shellstock received by the processor that bears, at a minimum, the information required in §1240.60(b) of this chapter. (3) Bulk shellstock shipments may be identified by a bill of lading or similar document that contains the same information. (c) The same requirements that apply to shellstock shall apply to shucked molluscan shellfish received by a processor except that, in lieu of a tag, the body of the container of shucked molluscan shellfish shall bear a label that complies with §1240.60(c) of this chapter. (d) Processors shall maintain records that document that each lot of molluscan shellfish meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. (1) For shellstock these records shall document: (i) The date of harvest; (ii) The location of harvest by State and site; (iii) The quantity and type of shellfish; (iv) The date of receipt by the processor; and (v) The name of the harvester and identification number. (2) For shucked shellfish these records shall document: (i) The date of receipt; (ii) The quantity and type of shellfish; and
