FR940106-0-00108 FR940106-0-00021 (2) Geographic and salary data may be made available to assist in linking nurses to facilities. (3) Publications of vacancies and programs may be made in industry and State newsletters. (4) Training films and videotapes, as well as information on housing and relocation services, may be developed and distributed. (5) Measures may be taken to encourage other health professionals to become nurses, such as: setting up home study programs with State licensing boards to allow work credits for purposes of meeting educational or State clinical requirements; entering into cooperative agreements for providing health care insurance and other job-related elements which would allow greater flexibility for those attempting to combine careers and school; providing monetary grants or long-term loans to persons preparing to become nurses. (6) Steps may be taken to encourage nurses who have left the nursing field to return to nursing, by providing such inducements as child care, holiday schedule adjustments, and substantial salary increases. (7) The State may profile and publicize those facilities with special model programs. (8) The annual State plan may place demands on facilities for comprehensive plans to reduce reliance on foreign nurses. (f) Approval and disapproval of annual State plans. Determinations of approval and disapproval of annual State plans shall be made by the Director, USES. The annual State plan shall be reviewed by ETA, in consultation with the Department of Health and Human Services, and a determination to approve or disapprove the annual State plan made within 30 calendar days of ETA's receipt of the plan. (1) If the annual State plan is approved, the Director shall notify the Governor in writing. (2) If the annual State plan is disapproved, the Director shall notify the Governor in writing, specifying the reason(s) for disapproval. The notice shall state that within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice of disapproval, the Governor may correct the deficiencies noted in the disapproval and resubmit the annual State plan to ETA; and shall inform the state of its right to an appeal, by quoting the language of ยง XXX .320(a). (g) An approved annual State plan shall be valid for 12-month period beginning on the date of its approval by DOL. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205&hyph;0305) ยง XXX .320 Appeals of acceptance and rejection of attestations submitted for filing and of State plans. (a) Appeal right _(1) Attestations; when to file appeals from acceptances and rejections. On the basis that the explanation and documentation provided and maintained by the facility does not or did not meet the criteria set forth at ยง XXX .310(d)(2)(ii), (g)(1)(i)(B)( 5 ), (g)(1)(ii), or (k)(3)(iii), an interested party may appeal an acceptance or rejection by ETA of an attestation submitted by a facility for filing in those cases where DOL performed an attestation review function under those provisions. The appeal shall be limited to ETA's determinations on the element(s) reviewed and shall not be an appeal as to any other element(s) in the attestation. An interested party may also appeal ETA's invalidation or suspension of a filed attestation due to a discovery by ETA that it made an error in its reviewing of the attestation (see ยง XXX .310(o). In the case of an appeal of an acceptance, the facility shall be a party to the appeal; in the case of the appeal of a rejection, invalidation, or suspension, the collective bargaining representative (if any) representing nurses at the facility shall be a party to the appeal. Appeals shall be in writing; shall set forth the grounds for the appeal; shall state if de novo consideration by BALCA is requested; and shall be mailed by certified mail within 30 calendar days of the date of the action from which the appeal is taken ( i.e., the acceptance, rejection, suspension or invalidation of the attestation).
