FR941004-1-00061 FR941004-1-00016 The habitat of Lessingia germanorum also has been modified at one site by tree planting. Native and introduced shrubs and trees, including Pinus radiata , were planted at the Presidio in the late 1800's. These trees alter the habitat of L . germanorum by increasing the amount of shade (CDFG 1989; CNDDB 1992; Susan Smith, pers. comm., 1992), which adversely affects L . germanorum . Bulldozing and sand quarrying activities have adversely affected Lessingia germanorum . Bulldozing to stabilize a slope on San Bruno Mountain destroyed about one-eighth of the L . germanorum population (Paul Reeberg, pers. comm., 1993; Thomas Reid Associates, in litt ., 1991). In January 1989, most of the habitat for one population of L . germanorum on the Presidio was destroyed when sand was removed to repair a tee on the base golf course (CDFG 1990). Sand quarrying is an on-going threat at this site; any sand quarrying activities that may occur in the future would negatively impact this species. B. Overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes . Overutilization currently is not known to be a factor for Lessingia germanorum . Overutilization is potentially a threat to Arctostaphylos imbricata , which is used horticulturally as an ornamental plant. Two years ago, cuttings were made from plants located at Kamchatka Point on San Bruno Mountain. The remnant portions of the plants indicated that the clippings were performed with horticultural expertise (Doug Heisinger, Park Ranger, San Mateo County Park, pers. comm., 1993). Some A . imbricata being sold at local plant sales may originate from clippings from the natural populations (Paul Reeberg, pers. comm., 1993). Unrestricted collecting for scientific or horticultural purposes or excessive visits by groups or individuals interested in seeing rare plants could potentially result from increased publicity following publication of a proposed rule to list these species. C. Disease or predation . There are no known disease or predation threats to Lessingia germanorum or Arctostaphylos imbricata at this time. D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms . The State of California Fish and Game Commission has listed Arctostaphylos imbricata and Lessingia germanorum as endangered species under the California Endangered Species Act (Chapter 1.5 ยง2050 et seq . of the California Fish and Game Code and Title 14 California Code of Regulations 670.2). Listing by the State of California requires individuals to obtain a memorandum of understanding with the CDFG to possess or ``take'' a listed species. Though both the California Endangered Species Act and the California Native Plant Protection Act prohibit the ``take'' of State-listed plants (California Native Plant Protection Act, Chapter 10 ยง1908 and California Endangered Species Act, Chapter 1.5 ยง2080), State law exempts the taking of such plants via habitat modification or land use changes by the owner. After CDFG notifies a landowner that a State-listed plant grows on his or her property, State law only requires that the land owner notify the agency ``at least 10 days in advance of changing the land use to allow salvage of such a plant'' (Native Plant Protection Act, Chapter 10 ยง 1913). The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a full disclosure of the potential environmental impacts of proposed projects. The public agency with primary authority or jurisdiction over the project is designated as the lead agency, and is responsible for conducting a review of the project and consulting with the other agencies concerned with the resources affected by the project. Section 15065 of the CEQA Guidelines requires a finding of significance if a project has the potential to ``reduce the number or restrict the range of a rare or endangered plant or animal.'' Species that are eligible for listing as rare, threatened, or endangered but are not so listed are given the same protection as those species that are officially listed with the State or Federal governments. Once significant effects are identified, the lead agency has the option to require mitigation for effects through changes in the project or to decide that overriding considerations make mitigation infeasible. In the latter case, projects may be approved that cause significant environmental damage, such as destruction of endangered species. Protection of listed species through CEQA is, therefore, dependant upon the discretion of the lead agency.
