FR941221-2-00080 FR941221-2-00066 B. Purpose of the Demonstration Projects funded through this solicitation are to provide reemployment and retraining services_as described in sections 314(c) and 314(d) of JTPA_to non-managerial workers at risk of dislocation in the health care industry. The goals of this retraining program are to: (1) assist workers faced with dislocation to qualify for and secure new jobs in the most efficient and cost effective manner; and (2) provide assistance that is integral to necessary conversion of health care facilities in an effort to reduce or prevent closure or mass layoff. The purpose of this demonstration is to test early intervention for non-managerial health care workers whose jobs are being eliminated in order to qualify them for better jobs with their current employer or to increase their mobility within the health care industry, in increasing demand occupations, as an administratively feasible alternative for responding to worker dislocation resulting from broad restructuring in the health care industry. C. Evaluation Under a separate announcement, DOL will select and fund separate evaluation contractors to: (1) provide technical assistance to selected grantees in establishing appropriate data collection methods and processes; and (2) conduct an independent evaluation of the outcomes, impacts and benefits of the demonstration projects. Grantees will be expected to make available participant records and access to personnel, as specified by the evaluation contractor. In addition, DOL will establish, for each demonstration project site, an oversight group made up of federal, State and substate staff. Part II. Application Process_All Information Required To Submit a Proposal Is Contained in This Announcement A. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants for demonstration projects funded under this announcement are health care providers, unions, or other representatives of health care workers, or such entities or organizations that are directly involved with restructuring a health care facility or organization. While matching funds will not be required, applicants will have to demonstrate integration with other resources to maintain current levels of effort and to continue the restructuring process after the project has ended. Current levels of training and staff development resources cannot be reduced as a result of this project. Applicants will be expected to indicate how the demonstration activities fit within an overall effort to achieve restructuring goals, including efforts planned beyond the end of the demonstration period.
