FR940719-1-00096 FR940719-1-00015 (f) Primary escapeway. (1) One escapeway that is ventilated with intake air shall be designated as the primary escapeway. (2) Paragraphs (f)(3) through (f)(6) of this section do not apply to areas of a primary escapeway where separation of the belt and trolley haulage entries from the primary escapeway did not exist before November 16, 1992. (3) The following equipment is not permitted in the primary escapeway: (i) Unattended diesel equipment. (ii) Mobile equipment hauling coal. (iii) Compressors, except_ (A) Compressors necessary to maintain the escapeway in safe, travelable condition; (B) Compressors that are components of equipment such as locomotives and rock dusting machines; and (C) Compressors of less than five horsepower. (iv) Underground transformer stations, battery charging stations, substations, and rectifiers except_ (A) Where necessary to maintain the escapeway in safe, travelable condition; and (B) Rectifiers and power centers with transformers that are either dry-type or contain nonflammable liquid, provided they are located on or near a working section and are moved as the section advances or retreats. (v) Water pumps, except_ (A) Water pumps necessary to maintain the escapeway in safe, travelable condition; (B) Submersible pumps; (C) Permissible pumps and associated permissible switchgear; (D) Pumps located on or near a working section that are moved as the section advances or retreats; (E) Pumps installed in anthracite mines; and (F) Small portable pumps. (4) Mobile equipment in the primary escapeway, except for continuous miners and as provided in paragraphs (f)(5) and (f)(6) below, shall be equipped with a fire suppression system installed according to §§75.1107&hyph;3 through 75.1107&hyph;16 that is_ (i) Manually operated and attended continuously by a person trained in the systems function and use, or (ii) A multipurpose dry chemical type capable of both automatic and manual activation. (5) Personnel carriers and small mobile equipment designed and used only for carrying people and small hand tools may be operated in primary escapeways if_ (i) The equipment is provided with a multipurpose dry chemical type fire suppression system capable of both automatic and manual activation, and (ii) The suppression system is suitable for the intended application and approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory. (6) Mobile equipment not provided with a fire suppression system may operate in the primary escapeway if no one is inby except those persons directly engaged in using or moving the equipment. * * * * * (i) *␣*␣* (2) Each slope that is part of a designated escapeway and is inclined more than 9 degrees from the horizontal. * * * * * 31. The Agency is asking for comments on paragraph (b) of §75.380 which is identical to the text published in the Federal Register on May 15, 1992 (57 FR 20926). This paragraph is being reproposed and republished for the convenience of the readers to read as follows: §75.380 Escapeways; bituminous and lignite mines. * * * * * (b) (1) Escapeways shall be provided from each working section, and each area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, continuous to the surface escape drift opening or continuous to the escape shaft or slope facilities to the surface. (2) During equipment installation, these escapeways shall begin at the projected location for the section loading point. During equipment removal, they shall begin at the location of the last loading point. * * * * *
