FR941205-2-00030 FR941205-2-00026 Sphingoid Bases And Methods For Their Preparation And Use Boumendjel, A., Miller, S.P.F. (NINDS) Filed 14 Feb 94 Serial No. 08/195,815 This is a new method for synthesizing a group of novel analogs of sphingosine-1-phosphate (S&hyph;1&hyph;P) that offer improved methods of studying cell growth as well as other cell regulatory processes. Sphingolipids compromise a large class of biologically significant compounds, some of which act upon enzymes that control cell growth or have potent mitogen activity. Previously, it has been difficult to study this class of compounds because there was no economically feasible method of producing large-scale amounts; however, a method has been developed for synthesizing S&hyph;1&hyph;P and other related analogs with greater yields and quantities in a shorter period of time compared to previous methods, allowing for large-scale production of these compounds at much lower costs. A Novel Chaperone Protein Kaye, F.J., Otterson, G.A. (NCI) Filed 28 Feb 94 Serial No. 08/203,905 The gene sequences for the rat and human Stch chaperone protein, which belongs to the heat shock protein (HSP) family, have been isolated and characterized. HSP products have been localized to specific cellular fractions, such as cytosol, nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondria, and recent experimental models have implicated these ``chaperones'' in facilitating protein transport across these specialized compartments. The Stch protein has significant differences from previously identified heat shock proteins and is expressed in tumor origin cells. These novel gene sequences and probes derived from the gene sequences are useful for quantitating the amount of Stch gene transcript in tissues, and antibodies are useful for detecting the presence of protein in cells. Genes Coding For Melanoma Tumor Antigens Kawakami, Y., Rosenberg, S.A. (NCI) Filed 22 Apr 94 Serial No. 08/231,565 Genes have been isolated that code for melanoma tumor antigens, which may provide an important new method for the prevention or treatment of this deadly form of cancer. Melanomas are aggressive, frequently metastatic tumors, and even when the melanoma is apparently localized to the skin, up to 30 percent of patients eventually will have the tumor spread to other organs and tissues of the body. The majority of these individuals will die. Recent studies have shown that many melanoma patients mount cellular and humoral responses against these tumors and that melanomas express both MHC antigens and tumor-associated antigens. These newly discovered melanoma antigen genes may be used in gene therapy protocols, or peptides derived from the gene product may be used in vaccines to help the recipient mount a T-cell-mediated immune response against the melanoma. Dated: November 16, 1994. Barbara M. McGarey, Deputy Director, Office of Technology Transfer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29746 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;P
