FR940627-0-00086 FR940627-0-00015 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Parts 61, 64, and 69 [CC Docket 91&hyph;141, FCC No. 94&hyph;118] Expanded Interconnection With Local Telephone Company Facilities AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Commission required Tier 1 local exchange carriers (LECs) (except members of the National Exchange Carrier Association (NECA)) to provide to interested third parties, including competitive access providers (CAPs), interexchange carriers, (IXCs), and end users, signalling information necessary to provide tandem switching services. These parties will thus, for the first time, be able to carry traffic of multiple IXCs from LEC end offices to their own tandems, switch traffic at that point, and deliver the traffic to the appropriate IXC. LECs must offer signalling information from their equal access end offices pursuant to tariff. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 15, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary L. Phillips (202) 632&hyph;4048 or Linda L. Haller (202) 632&hyph;1298. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a summary of the Commission's Third Report and Order in CC Docket No. 91&hyph;141, adopted May 19, 1994, and released May 27, 1994. The full text of this decision is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference Center (Room 239), 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20554. The complete text of this decision also may be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, Inc., 2100 M Street, NW., Suite 140, Washington, DC 20037, (202) 857&hyph;3800. Paperwork Reduction Act Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 37 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Federal Communications Commission, Records Management Division, Paperwork Reduction Project, Washington, DC 20554 and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project, Washington, DC 20503. Summary of the Order 1. The Commission found that this decision represents another step in a series of efforts to remove barriers to competition in interstate access services. It stated that while the Commission's earlier expanded interconnection decisions opened the door to competition in special access and switched transport transmission services, interconnectors, however, had to rely on LECs to perform the switching functions necessary to provide switched transport. The Commission concluded that the Order will enable interconnectors, as well as other parties, to provide tandem switching functions for switched transport services. 2. The Commission concluded that LEC-provision of signalling information will open the door to third parties to provide competitive tandem switching services. By further reducing barriers to competition in switched access services, this action will benefit all users of tandem switching, especially small IXCs that tend to rely heavily on tandem-switched transport, who will benefit from more competitively priced tandem switching services. The Commission also found that its action should promote more efficient use and deployment of the country's telecommunications networks, encourage technological innovation, and exert downward pressure on access charges and long-distance rates, all of which should contribute to economic growth and the creation of new job opportunities. In addition, these measures should increase access to diverse facilities, which could improve network reliability. 3. The Commission required Tier 1 LECs (except NECA pool members) to provide signalling information necessary for tandem switching from LEC equal access end offices to any interested third party (hereinafter sometimes referred to as ``tandem switching providers'' or ``TSPs''). (Tier 1 LECs are those with $100 million or more in annual regulated revenues for a sustained period of time.) In end offices in which common channel signalling (CCS or SS7) is available, TSPs shall have the option of receiving signalling information via SS7 or multi-frequency (MF) signalling. The provision of this information will be treated as a new service under the Commission's price caps regime. Tier 1 LECs must file tariff amendments to reflect the availability of signalling information from LEC equal access end offices within ninety days of the publication of the Order in the Federal Register . Based on the record and in light of prior decisions on pricing flexibility in the Switched Transport Expanded Interconnection Order and in the Transport proceeding, the Commission did not grant LECs additional pricing flexibility at this time. The Commission also found that the transport interconnection charge is sufficient to protect support flows potentially affected by the provision of signalling information.
