FR941003-1-00085 FR941003-1-00006 (5) Amendments. The Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, and the Council may agree to amend a Memorandum of Agreement executed in accordance with §800.10(c)(2) and to execute an amended Memorandum of Agreement. The Agency Official and the State Historic Preservation Officer may agree to amend a Memorandum of Agreement executed in accordance with §800.10(c)(1) and execute an amended Memorandum of Agreement, which shall be filed with the Council and take effect unless the Council objects within 30 days of receipt. Failure to agree on amendments leaves the existing Memorandum of Agreement in effect, provided that the Council may terminate any Memorandum of Agreement and comment to the head of the agency on the undertaking in accordance with § 800.11(b). (6) Termination. If one of the signatories determines that the terms of a Memorandum of Agreement cannot be carried out, the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Council, where appropriate, shall consult to seek amendment of the agreement in accordance with §800.10(c)(5). If the Memorandum of Agreement is not amended, any of the signatories may terminate the agreement. In that event, the Agency Official shall seek the comments of the Council in accordance with §800.11(b). §800.11 Failure to resolve adverse effects. (a) Termination of negotiation_ (1) Finding negotiation unproductive. After participating in consultation to avoid or minimize the adverse effects by negotiating acceptable alternatives or modifications to the undertaking as proposed, the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, or the Council may determine that further negotiation will not be productive and terminate negotiation. If negotiation is terminated, the head of the agency or an Assistant Secretary or an officer having major department-wide or agency-wide responsibilities shall then request the Council's comments. (2) Documentation requirements. The official requesting Council comment shall submit the documentation set forth in §800.14(e) with the request for Council comments and notify other participants in the consultation of the request. (b) Comments by the Council_ (1) Preparation. The Council shall prepare its comments with an adequate opportunity for the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, interested parties, and the public to provide their views on the adverse effects of the undertaking and offer any alternatives or modifications to resolve those effects. The Agency Official shall make a good faith effort to provide additional information available concerning the undertaking, its effects, and possible alternatives or modifications, and shall assist the Council in arranging an onsite inspection and an opportunity for public participation when requested by the Council. The Agency Official shall assist the Council to ensure that any Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization is afforded a reasonable opportunity to make its views known during the formulation of Council comments. (2) Timing. The Council shall transmit its comments within 45 days of receipt of a properly documented request from the head of the agency, unless otherwise agreed to by the Agency Official. (3) Transmittal. The Council shall provide its comments to the head of the agency requesting comment with copies to the State Historic Preservation Officer, interested parties, and others as appropriate. (4) Response to Council comment. When the Council has commented pursuant to this paragraph (b), the head of the agency shall consider the Council's comments in reaching a final decision on the proposed undertaking. The head of the agency may not delegate his or her responsibilities pursuant to this paragraph. The head of the agency shall document any decision made pursuant to Section 106 by:
