FR940719-2-00020 FR940719-2-00003 3. The Soybean Base Price shall be subtracted from the Soybean Futures Price to determine the ``Soybean Price Change''. 4. The ``Maximum Price Change'' per bushel shall be that amount selected by You ($1.00, $2.00, or $3.00 per bushel) on Your application for coverage and shown on the Summary of Coverage provided by Us to You. 5. The ``Indemnity Per Bushel'' shall be the lesser of: a. The Soybean Price Change; and b. Maximum Price Change. 6. The MPCI Indemnity Payment shall be divided by Your MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for soybeans to determine the ``Soybean Production Loss'' in bushels; 7. The Indemnity Per Bushel shall be multiplied by the Soybean Production Loss to determine the total indemnity to be paid to You. B. ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' means the average derived by totaling the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for soybeans for each full active day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month as to soybeans, no indemnity shall be payable as to Your Soybean Corp. A full active trading day is any trading day on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market during which more than 50 soybean futures contracts are traded. C. In the event that trading on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market for soybeans is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price for soybeans there are fourteen (14) or less active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable under this Policy as to Your Soybean Corp, and that portion of the Premium paid by You which is applicable to Your Soybean Corp shall be refunded by Us. Pursuant to the ``Insurance Period'' Section of Article III of the Policy: The coverage provided by the policy and this endorsement for your soybean crop is not continuous. You must renew the coverage provided by the policy and this endorsement on your soybean crop no later than April 15 of each year for coverage to be effective for the succeeding year. SPRING WHEAT ENDORSEMENT Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company); Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. How this endorsement effects your coverage: The Losses Insured Against under the ``Cause of Loss'' Section of Article III of the Policy shall include: A. Unavoidable financial loss resulting directly from an increase in the Minneapolis Grain Exchange futures settlement prices for wheat, as specifically set forth in this endorsement and the Policy, and provided that You sustain a Wheat production loss, during the Insurance Period, caused by an insured peril(s) under the MPCI Policy and MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment is made to you. Under paragraph ``A'' of the ``Indemnity Payment'' Section of Article V of the Policy, the indemnity payable to Your for loss to Your Wheat Crop shall be calculated as follows: A. As to any under the MPCI Policy, during the Insurance Period, to any Wheat Crop: 1. Ninety-five percent (95%) of the August Average Daily Settlement Price for wheat to be delivered during the month of September, of the then current crop year, shall be established (hereinafter the ``Wheat futures Price''); 2. The ``Wheat Base Price'' shall be established as the highest MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for wheat available under the MPCI Policy for the then current crop year.
