FR940617-2-00011 FR940617-2-00007 This margin creation effect is due to the fact that the basis for calculating both the amount of tax included in the price of the foreign market merchandise and the amount of the USP tax adjustment include many expenses that are later deducted when calculating USP and FMV. After these deductions are made, the tax included in FMV and the USP tax adjustment still reflect the inclusion of these expenses in the bases. Thus, a margin may be created that is not dependent upon a difference between adjusted USP and FMV, but is the result of differences between the expenses in the United States and the home market that were deducted through adjustments. This adjustment to avoid the margin creation effect is in accordance with court decisions. The United States Court of Appeals has held that the application of the USP tax adjustment under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act should not create an antidumping duty margin if pre-tax FMV does not exceed USP. Zenith Electronics Corp. v. United States, 988 F.2d 1573, 1581 (Fed. Cir. 1993). In addition, the CIT has specifically held that an adjustment should be made to mitigate the impact of expenses that are deducted from FMV and USP upon the USP tax adjustment and the amount of tax included in FMV. Daewoo Electronics Co., Ltd. v. United States, 760 F. Supp. 200, 208 (CIT, 1991). However, the mechanics of the Department's adjustments to the USP tax adjustment and the foreign market tax amount as described above are not identical to those suggested in Daewoo . In this investigation, we added to USP an amount for value added tax that would have been paid had the U.S. sale not been exported. In Brazil, there are four different taxes levied on sales of the subject merchandise in the home market which are not levied on export sales: (1) Imposto sobre a Circulacão de Mercadorias e Servicos (ICMS), a regional tax with a rate that varies depending upon the state in which the purchase originates; (2) Imposto sobre Produtos Industrializados (IPI), the Federal value-added tax which is levied at a rate of four percent; (3) Programa de Integracão Social (PIS), a social integration program tax which is levied at a rate of 0.65 percent; and (4) Contribuicao do Fim Social (CONFINS), a social investment fund tax which is levied at a rate of 2.0 percent. Foreign Market Value In order to determine whether there was a sufficient volume of sales in the home market to serve as a viable basis for calculating FMV, we compared the volume of home market sales of subject merchandise to the volume of third country sales of subject merchandise, in accordance with section 773(a)(1)(B) of the Act. Since the total volume of merchandise sold by Paulista in Brazil during the POI was greater than five percent of the aggregate volume of third country sales for each such or similar category, we determined that the home market was viable. Therefore, we based FMV on home market sales for both silicomanganese lumps and silicomanganese fines, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.48(a). We excluded from our analysis sales to a related customer that were not claimed by Paulista to be at arm's length. We calculated FMV based on prices to unrelated customers. In light of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit's (CAFC) decision in Ad Hoc Committee of AZ&hyph;NM&hyph;TX&hyph;FL Producers of Gray Portland Cement v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;1239 (Fed. Cir., January 5, 1994), the Department no longer deducts home market movement charges from FMV pursuant to its inherent authority to fill in gaps in the antidumping statute. We instead adjust for those expenses under the circumstance of sale provision of 19 CFR 353.56 and the exporter's sales price offset provision of 19 CFR 353.56(b) (1) and (2), as appropriate. Accordingly, in the present case, we made circumstance of sale adjustments for certain post-sale home market movement charges under 19 CFR 353.56. Also pursuant to 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2), we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in credit expenses, warehousing, sampling-weighing-testing expenses, and bank fees. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b), we added commissions paid on U.S. sales and deducted indirect selling expenses incurred on sales in Brazil up to the amount of the U.S. commission. Under our past practice, if the Department determines that a country is hyperinflationary, we calculate FMVs on a monthly basis to eliminate the distortive effects of inflation (see, Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value and Amended Antidumping Duty Order, Tubeless Steel Disc Wheels from Brazil, 53 FR 34566, September 7, 1988). An economy is deemed to be hyperinflationary if its monthly inflation rate is greater than 5 percent or if its annual inflation rate is greater than 60 percent. We determined that Brazil's economy was hyper-inflationary during the POI. Brazil's inflation rate was over 60 percent during 1993. We included in FMV the amount of the VAT collected in the home market ( i.e. , the sum of the actual IPI, PIS and CONFINS tax rates plus the weighted-average ICMS rate). However, we calculated the amount of tax that was due solely to the inclusion of price deductions in the original tax base ( i.e. , the sum of any adjustments, expenses, and charges that were deducted from the tax base). See the ``United States Price'' section of this notice, above. This amount was deducted from the FMV after all other additions and deductions had been made. Cost of Production Based on petitioner's allegations, and in accordance with section 773(b) of the Act, the Department initiated an investigation to determine whether Paulista made home market sales at prices below its COP over an extended period of time, which would not permit the recovery of costs within a reasonable period of time. However, Paulista's COP questionnaire response is due on June 16, 1994, which is after the deadline for the preliminary determination. The response will, however, be considered for the final determination. Currency Conversion No certified rates of exchange, as furnished by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, were available for the POI. In place of the official certified rates, we used the daily official exchange rates for Brazilian currency published by the Central Bank of Brazil. In hyperinflationary economies, the Department normally converts movement charges for U.S. sales on the date that these charges become payable, and we have done so in this investigation. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the accuracy of all information used in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of silicomanganese from Brazil that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated preliminary dumping margins as shown below. This suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The estimated preliminary dumping margins are as follows: ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Weighted-average margin percentages Paulista 37.76 All others 37.76
