FR940506-1-00068 FR940506-1-00014 13. Section 52.232&hyph;26 is revised to read as follows: 52.232&hyph;26 Prompt Payment for Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts. As prescribed in 32.908(a), insert the following clause: (a) As authorized in 32.905(b)(4), the Contracting Officer may modify the date in subdivision (a)(4)(i) of this clause to specify a period longer than 7 days for constructive acceptance or constructive approval, if required, to afford the Government a practicable opportunity to inspect and test the supplies furnished or evaluate the services performed. (b) If applicable, as authorized in 32.906(a) and only as allowed under agency policies and procedures, the Contracting Officer may insert in paragraph (b) of this clause a period shorter than 30 days (but not less than 7 days) for making contract financing payments. Prompt Payment for Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts (Date) Notwithstanding any other payment terms in this contract, the Government will make invoice payments and contract financing payments under the terms and conditions specified in this clause. Payment shall be considered as being made on the day a check is dated or the date of an electronic funds transfer. Definitions of pertinent terms are set forth in Federal Acquisition Regulation 32.902. All days referred to in this clause are calendar days, unless otherwise specified. (However, see paragraph (a)(3) of this clause concerning payments due on Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.) (a) Invoice payments _(1) Due date. The due date for making invoice payments shall be_ (i) For work or services completed by the Contractor, the later of the following two events: (A) The 30th day after the designated billing office has received a proper invoice from the Contractor (except as provided in subdivision (a)(1)(iii) of this clause). (B) The 30th day after Government acceptance of the work or services completed by the Contractor. On a final invoice where the payment amount is subject to contract settlement actions ( e.g., release of claims), acceptance shall be deemed to have occurred on the effective date of the contract settlement. (ii) The due date for progress payments shall be the 30th day after Government approval of Contractor estimates of work or services accomplished. (iii) If the designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice or payment request with the actual date of receipt, at the time of receipt, the payment due date shall be the 30th day after the date of the Contractor's invoice or payment request, provided a proper invoice or payment request is received and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or Contractor compliance with contract requirements. (2) Contractor's invoice. The Contractor shall prepare and submit invoices to the designated billing office specified in the contract. A proper invoice must include the items listed in subdivisions (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(viii) of this clause. If the invoice does not comply with these requirements, the Contractor will be notified of the defect within 7 days after receipt of the invoice at the designated billing office. Untimely notification will be taken into account in computing any interest penalty owed the Contractor in the manner described in subparagraph (a)(4) of this clause. (i) Name and address of the Contractor.
