FR941205-0-00067 FR941205-0-00019 (3) Asserted that requiring the agency head to complete the application is an unnecessary step in the application process because it would require Board of Supervisors' action (``head of the agency'') and signature of the Chairman; (4) Argued that voter registration and voter list maintenance are entirely decentralized in many states and controlled by local elected officials, the vast majority of whom have no staff or office resources, and that imposing additional administrative requirements for bulk mail will eliminate the use of special bulk rates in counties and municipalities that are least able to afford the full rates; (5) Proposed that the ``Chief Election Official'' designated in accordance with the NVRA of 1993 should be permitted to submit to the Postal Service the names of the registration offices and post offices where special bulk rates would be needed, or that state officials might file a request for all county and local officials to mail under the NVRA; and (6) Suggested that the application be revised to require the applicant to submit only relevant material to establish eligibility to mail at the special bulk third-class rates. Postal laws have long required mailers to apply for authorization to mail at special bulk third-class rates before entering mail at the special rates. See former 39 U.S.C. 4452(d). This application process ensures that only qualified mailers enter matter at the special rates and that the matter entered is eligible. The Postal Service has no objections to state and other officials providing advice and assistance to local voting registration officials in qualifying to mail their materials at the special bulk third-class rates. However, the Postal Service will continue to require voting registration officials to obtain an authorization to mail at the special bulk third-class rates at the post office where the officials will present matter for mailing at the special bulk third-class rates. Some commenters appear to misunderstand the proposed procedure for applying to mail at the special bulk third-class rates. The state or local voting registration official who will be presenting bulk third-class mailings will be required to apply to mail at the special bulk third-class rates and will be considered the ``official head of the government agency'' (voting registration official). An organization authorized to mail at the special bulk third-class rates may mail only its matter at those rates. The Postal Service is not requiring state officials to file requests for local voting registration officials to mail at the special bulk third-class rates. However, state officials may assist local voting registration officials in preparing their applications if the applications are submitted to the post office where the local voting registration officials will make mailings at the special bulk third-class rates. Consistent with the comments received, the Postal Service is also revising the application form to reduce the burden on voting officials applying to mail at the special rates. PS Form 3624, Application to Mail at Special Bulk Third-Class Rates, will be revised so that election officials will have to supply only minimal information. The revised form will be printed in the Postal Bulletin. The information required will be far less than that required from nonprofit mailers seeking to mail at the special rates. List of Subjects in 39 CFR Part 111 Postal Service.
