FR940414-1-00086 FR940414-1-00010 Table 17._ Primary Markets of All Facilities Impacted Under Option 3 Owned by Small Firms 1Primary market 1Facilities with less than 25 percent of revenue from PFPR activities 1Facilities with at least 25 percent of revenue from PFPR activities Agricultural 6 0 Institutional/commercial 107 0 Industrial 46 0 Wood preservatives and coatings 0 0 Pesticide intermediate products 0 0 Products used as additives to non-pesticide products 0 0 Non-agricultural professional use products 0 0 Consumer home, lawn and garden 1 1 Government, for non-institutional use 0 0 Other 0 0 No primary market 0 0 n,s Total 160 1 c. Consideration of alternative options. Because there may be a disproportionate impact on some small entities, EPA identified and considered alternative regulatory options that would still accomplish the objectives of the Clean Water Act (See Section 603 of the Reg. Flex Act). EPA then evaluated the pollution contribution associated with small impacted facilities relative to other groups and determined that there were two distinct groups within those facilities impacted. The two groups are wastestreams containing only R&hyph;4 products and all other wastestreams. Because of the differential pollution contribution of these two groups, EPA decided to investigate alternative, less burdensome regulatory approaches for those facilities which have separable wastestreams containing the R&hyph;4 products listed above. Option 3/S is proposed as an alternative to Option 3 that results in decreased impacts on the most heavily burdened subgroup of facilities owned by small businesses. Impacts upon facilities owned by small businesses fell from 161 under Option 3 to 126 under Option 3/S. The 3/S exemption results in a minimal increase (203 pounds and 19 toxic weighted pounds) in releases to the environment. The relief provided for R&hyph;4 producing facilities (with separable wastestreams) falls into the dual categories of exemption based alternatives and relaxed standards for small entities. Option 3/S provides a partial exemption from certain regulatory requirements (treat and reuse) for certain classes and other small entity standards (the separable R&hyph;4 wastestreams and their producers). 2. Subcategory E Facilities EPA certifies that the proposed regulation for Subcategory E facilities would not impose a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Therefore, the Agency did not perform a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis for the Subcategory E regulation. L. Assessment of Economic Impacts Including Additional PAIs not on the Original List of 272 PAIs Studied for Regulation EPA has also estimated the economic impacts of including under the proposed option all other PAIs not on the list of 272 PAIs studied in detail to develop these proposed regulations. The analysis was conducted on two separate sets of facilities: (1) facilities that formulate, package or repackage using these additional PAIs as well as the original 272 PAIs, and (2) facilities that use only the additional PAIs. 1. Facilities Using Both Original 272 PAIs and Additional PAIs Compliance cost estimates were developed for the first set of facilities under a regulatory option to include the additional PAIs. This regulatory option, Option 3/S.1, is analogous to Option 3/S, except that Option 3/S.1 regulates additional PAIs beyond the original 272 PAIs. The estimated costs and impacts of this regulatory option, Option 3/S.1, are presented in the Table 18 below, in comparison with the costs and impacts of Option 3/S.
