FR940621-0-00018 FR940621-0-00007 Energy conservation, Government procurement, Grant programs_housing and community development, Lead poisoning, Loan programs_housing and community development, Public housing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Utilities. Accordingly, the Department amends 24 CFR parts 905 and 965 as follows: PART 905_INDIAN HOUSING PROGRAMS 1. The authority citation for part 905 continues to read as follows: Authority: 25 U.S.C. 450e(b); 42 U.S.C. 1437aa, 1437bb, 1437cc, 1437ee, and 3535(d). 2. A new ยง905.195 is added to subpart B, to read as follows: ยง905.195 Lead-based paint liability insurance coverage. (a) General. The purpose of this section is to specify what HUD deems reasonable insurance coverage with respect to the hazards associated with testing for and abatement of lead-based paint that the IHA undertakes, in accordance with the IHA's ACC or MHACC with HUD. The insurance coverage does not relieve the IHA of its responsibility for assuring that lead-based paint testing and abatement activities are conducted in a responsible manner. (b) Insurance coverage requirements. When the IHA undertakes lead-based paint testing and abatement, it must assure that it has reasonable insurance coverage for itself for potential personal injury liability associated with those activities. If the work is being done by IHA employees, the IHA must obtain a liability insurance policy directly to protect the IHA. If the work is being done by a contractor, the IHA may obtain, from the insurer of the contractor performing this type of work in accordance with a contract, a certificate of insurance providing evidence of such insurance and naming the IHA as an additional insured; or it may obtain such insurance directly. Insurance must remain in effect during the entire period of testing and abatement and must comply with the following requirements: (1) Named insured. If purchased by the IHA, the policy shall name the IHA as insured. If purchased by an independent contractor, the policy shall name the contractor as insured and the IHA as an additional insured, in connection with performing work under the IHA's lead-based paint testing and abatement contract. If the IHA has executed a contract with a Resident Management Corporation (RMC) to manage a building/project on behalf of the IHA, the RMC shall also be an additional insured under the policy in connection with the lead-based paint testing and abatement contract. (The duties of the RMC are similar to those of a real estate management firm.) (2) Coverage limits. The minimum limit of liability shall be $500,000 per occurrence written, with a combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage. (3) Deductible. A deductible, if any, may not exceed $5,000 per occurrence. (4) Supplementary payments. Payments for such supplementary costs as the costs of defending against a claim must be in addition to, and not as a reduction of, the limit of liability. However, it will be permissible for the policy to have a limit on the amount payable for defense costs. If a limit is applicable, it must not be less than $250,000 per claim prior to such costs being deducted from the limit of liability. (5) Occurrence form policy. The form used must be an ``occurrence'' form, or a ``claims made'' form that contains an extended reporting period of at least five years. (Under an occurrence form, coverage applies to any loss if the policy was in effect when the loss occurred, regardless of when the claim is made.) (6) Aggregate limit. If the policy contains an aggregate limit, the minimum acceptable limit is $1,000,000. (7) Cancellation. In the event of cancellation, at least 30 days' advance notice is to be given to the insured and any additional insured.
