FR940505-1-00295 FR940505-1-00012 R 2004 =Allowable VOC for all emissions sources at the facility for the year 2004 in units of kg (lbs) per month, R o =Baseline VOC emissions in units of kg (lbs) per month for each emissions source at the facility. Baseline emissions shall be calculated in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. i=Subscript denoting a specific emissions source, and n=Total number of emissions sources at the facility. E:GraphicsEP05MY94.054 (See footnote to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) of this section.) where R 2005 =Allowable VOC for all emissions sources at the facility for the year 2005 in units of kg (lbs) per month, R o =Baseline VOC emissions in units of kg (lbs) per month for each emissions source at the facility. Baseline emissions shall be calculated in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. i=Subscript denoting a specific emissions source, and n=Total number of emissions sources at the facility. (iv) Reporting . (A) Each owner or operator of a facility which is subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section shall submit to the Administrator by March 1 of each calendar year, beginning in 2002, a certification of compliance with this section for the previous calendar year. This certification shall include: (1) A declaration that the facility is in compliance with all of the requirements of this section; and (2) Documentation of methods used to achieve the VOC emissions reductions required in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) ( 1 ) through ( 5 ) of this section. (B) Each owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section shall comply with the following: ( 1 ) By January 1, 2000, the owner or operator shall certify to the Administrator that the facility is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. This certification shall include: (i) A declaration that the facility is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section; and (ii) Calculations which demonstrate that total baseline VOC emissions from all emissions sources at the facility are and will remain less than 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during any one day. Baseline emissions shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) (1) and (2) of this section. (2) On and after January 1, 2000, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of any record showing that total VOC emissions from the facility exceeded 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during any one day by sending a copy of such record to the Administrator within 30 calendar days after the exceedance occurs. (v) Recordkeeping . (A) Each owner or operator of a facility which is subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, shall collect and record all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section for each emissions source and maintain the information at the facility for a period of five (5) years. The information shall be collected and recorded each day of each calendar year beginning in 2001 and ending with 2005. (B) Each owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, shall collect and record all information necessary to demonstrate that total VOC emissions from all emissions sources are less than 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during each day and maintain the information at the facility for a period of five (5) years. The information shall be collected and recorded each day of each calendar year beginning in 2001 and ending with 2005. (vi) Testing and Monitoring . (A) The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and/or to install monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)(B) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (B) The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section because of paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to demonstrate that the facility is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (5) Petroleum and Natural Gas Extraction, Processing, and Storage . (i) Definitions . (A) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the general definitions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply. (B) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the following definitions also apply: Crude oil means a naturally occurring mixture which consists of hydrocarbons and sulfur, nitrogen, or oxygen derivatives of hydrocarbons and which is a liquid at standard conditions. Extraction facility means any facility where drilling and servicing equipment, flow lines, separators, gathering lines, and auxiliary nontransportation related equipment are used to extract petroleum or natural gas from a well. Gasoline means any petroleum distillate which is used as a motor fuel. Petroleum means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal. Processing facility means any facility where petroleum or natural gas is used as a feedstock to produce gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, or other related products.
