FR940223-2-00073 FR940223-2-00037 Finally, a comment on the remedy itself. The corrective advertising is ordered to be placed on Eggland's Best carton label. Due to other legal limitations, Eggland's Best has not made serum cholesterol or heart health claims on the carton. Thus, while the attempt to limit the breadth of the remedy may be well-intentioned, I find it highly ironic that corrective advertising has been mandated in a medium where the original deceptive claims were never made. Statement of Roscoe B. Starek, III, in Eggland's Best, Matter No. 932&hyph;3000 After very careful deliberation, I have decided to support the corrective advertising provision in this order. I arrived at this decision somewhat reluctantly, since I think this remedy should be used sparingly. The appeals court decision in Warner-Lambert accords the Commission substantial discretion in applying such a remedy. 1 The Commission must take great care, however, to exercise such broad discretion judiciously. Thus, the question I had to answer was whether corrective advertising is appropriate in the absence of an extended period of deceptive advertising or extrinsic evidence demonstrating that the false impressions will persist in consumers' minds after the ads cease. 2 1 Warner-Lambert Co. v. F.T.C., 562 F.2d 749 (D.C. Cir. 1977). The court suggested that the purpose of advertising is to create enduring beliefs in consumers' minds, such that the FTC might well presume in some cases that the standard for imposing corrective advertising had been met. It stated that it need not rely upon such a presumption in Warner-Lambert, however, because the record contained evidence that the Listerine ads had created, in the minds of consumers exposed to the advertising, false beliefs that would persist after the ads ended. Id., 562 F.2d at 762&hyph;63; see, 86 F.T.C. 1398 (1975), at 1471 n.23 (data relied upon was survey of ``consumers who have seen or heard a lot of advertising for Listerine''). 2 It is certainly unrealistic to think that we will have this data when the respondents enter into a consent agreement before a complaint is filed. I have determined that a limited corrective advertising requirement is an appropriate remedy here. First, I have reason to believe that the Eggland's ads have created in consumers' minds enduring false impressions about these eggs. Because Eggland's is able to charge for its eggs about 200% of the typical price per dozen, we have strong evidence that the company's ads have been successful in creating in the minds of their consumers a belief that their eggs are meaningfully superior to other eggs. Second, the superiority touted by Eggland's ads_ads disseminated as recently as two months ago_pertains to their effect on serum cholesterol. Common sense tells me that this belief is not going to disappear overnight, simply because advertising making that claim ceases. Third, consumers who continued to believe that Eggland's had a demonstrated superiority over typical eggs would suffer an identifiable injury, again due to the price differential. Corrective advertising placed on the egg package would enable consumers to avoid further injury. Finally, I am persuaded by the careful crafting of the corrective remedy. In my view, corrective advertising should educate, not punish. The instant notice is designed to reach the Eggland's target (those who are preparing to purchase the product) rather than the population at large. It has a limited dissemination schedule and will not be unreasonably costly. Moreover, the notice itself is a statement of fact that is neither derogatory of Eggland's eggs nor implies criticism of other companies' products. Although I support the very narrow corrective advertising provision in this case, I am not an advocate of this type of remedy. Statement of Commissioner Dennis A. Yao, in Eggland's Best, Inc. I voted to accept the proposed consent agreement for public comment. Although I support the terms of the consent agreement, I would have preferred that the complaint include an implied heart disease allegation. The Commission alleges in its complaint that, among other things, Eggland's Best falsely represented that it had a reasonable basis for claims that eating its eggs will not increase serum cholesterol in an absolute sense and that eating its eggs will not increase serum cholesterol as much as eating ordinary eggs. I believe that reasonable consumers would interpret the express claim that Eggland's eggs will not increase serum cholesterol to imply that those eggs would therefore not increase the risk of heart disease_especially when the express claim was made for eggs, a product notoriously well known for its negative impact on heart health. Although the proposed order does include a requirement that health claims, including claims about heart disease, be substantiated by competent and reliable scientific evidence, I believe that industry and the public would best be served if the Commission communicated its belief that an implied health claim has been made here. 3 3 I would note that the complaint also alleges that Eggland's Best falsely represented that its eggs are low in saturated fat in an absolute sense, and are lower in saturated fat than ordinary eggs. Although I agree that the implied saturated fat claims challenged in the complaint were made, in my view this claim is further down the spectrum of implied claims towards those needing extrinsic evidence than the implied heart disease claim I discuss here. I thus can discern no reason for excluding the implied heart disease claim from the proposed complaint while including the saturated fat claims. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4044 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
