FR940505-1-00395 FR940505-1-00012 ( i ) The percentage of valves in service and awaiting repair or replacement at any time shall not exceed the values below: ␣ 1Effective date 1Percentage of leaking valves January 1, 1996 2 January 1, 1997 1 January 1, 1999 0.5 ( ii ) The percentage of pump and compressor seals in service and awaiting repair or replacement at any time shall not exceed the values below: ␣ 1Effective date 1Percentage of leaking pumps and compressors January 1, 1996 10 January 1, 1999 1 ( 4 ) Any repaired or replaced component shall be re-inspected in accordance with the method prescribed in paragraph (i)(7) of this section by the owner or operator within 30 days of the repair or replacement. ( 5 ) A component or parts thereof which incur five repair actions for a major gas or liquid leak within a continuous twelve month period shall be replaced with BACT equipment as determined by EPA. (C) Leak control requirements. The owner or operator of any facility subject to this section shall comply with the following leak control requirements. The requirements of paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(C) ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of this section shall not apply to components being repaired or replaced within the specified repair or replacement period, as given in the table of repair periods in this section or paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(B)( 3 ) of this section, if the requirements for leak minimization under paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(B)( 1 ) of this section have been met. ( 1 ) Any liquid leak detected during an inspection by EPA shall constitute a violation of this section. ( 2 ) Any leak detected during an inspection by EPA, within any continuous 24-hour period, and numbering in excess of the leak thresholds for that component listed in the table of leak thresholds in this section, shall constitute a violation of this section. ( 3 ) Any open-ended line or valve found to be leaking shall be sealed with a second valve, blind flange, cap, plug, or a second closed valve except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended line or valve. ( 4 ) Hatches shall be closed at all times except during sampling, addition of process material, or attended maintenance operations. ( 5 ) Effective twelve months after the adoption of this section, control valves shall be replaced or retrofitted so that a major leak shall not occur during valve actuation or at any other time. ( 6 ) Effective twelve months after the adoption of this section, any component leak that is vented through a stack or other confined air stream shall be transported in a closed-vent system with a collection efficiency of at least 95% to a VOC control device with a control efficiency of at least 95%. The determination of control efficiency shall be made in accordance with the test method specified in paragraph (i)(7)(iv) of this section. (4) Exemptions. The provisions of paragraphs (i)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not apply to the following components: (i) Pressure relief valves, pump seals, and compressor seals that are equipped with a closed-vent system with a VOC collection efficiency of at least 95% that transports the VOC emissions to a vapor control system with a VOC control efficiency of at least 95%. The determination of control efficiency shall be made in accordance with the test method specified in paragraph (i)(7)(iv) of this section. (ii) The following cases, where the person seeking the exemption shall supply proof of the applicable criteria to the satisfaction of the EPA: (A) Components buried below ground. (B) Components, except those at gas processing plants, exclusively handling fluids with a VOC concentration of 10 percent by weight or less, as determined by the test method specified in paragraph (i)(7)(ii) of this section; or components exclusively handling fluids, if the weight percent evaporated is 10 percent or less at 150 degrees Celsius, as determined by the test method specified in paragraph (i)(7)(iii) of this section. (iii) One-half inch and smaller stainless steel tube fittings which have been demonstrated to the EPA to be leak-free based on an initial inspection in accordance with paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section. (iv) Components in vacuum service. (5) Reporting. Any owner or operator of a facility subject to this section shall comply with the following reporting requirements. (i) A compliance plan shall be prepared and submitted to the EPA by July 1, 1995. The plan shall include the following information: (A) Component identification methodology to meet the requirements of paragraphs (i)(3)(i)(A) through (C) of this section. (B) An inspection schedule for all unsafe-to-monitor components pursuant to paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(A)(4) of this section. (C) A description of all components meeting the exemption requirements of paragraphs (i)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section. (ii) An annual certification of compliance shall be submitted to the EPA on or before January 1, 1996, and annually thereafter. The certification of compliance shall include: (A) A declaration that the facility is in compliance with all of the requirements of this section. (B) A summary of any changes that have been made to component identification in the original compliance plan. (6) Recordkeeping. (i) Each facility operator shall maintain an inspection log containing, at a minimum, the following: (A) Name, location, type of components, and description of any unit where leaking components are found. (B) Date of leak detection, emission level (ppmv) of leak, and method of leak detection. (C) Date of leak repair and description of repair action. (D) Date and emission level of re-check after leak is repaired. (E) Identification of leaks from critical components that cannot be repaired until the next process turnaround. (F) If applicable, the API gravity of petroleum process fluids. (G) The VOC content of leaking process fluids or gases. (H) Total number of components inspected, and total number and percentage of leaking components found by component type. (ii) Records of leaks detected by a quarterly or annual operator inspection and each subsequent repair and reinspection shall be submitted to the EPA upon request. (iii) All records of operator inspection and repair shall be maintained at the facility for the previous two year period and be made available at the time of inspection by the EPA or immediately upon EPA request.
