FR940627-2-00032 FR940627-2-00026 • Minimum Requirements for Project Design : This section presents the basic set of issues that must be addressed in the application. Typically, they relate to project design, evaluation, and community involvement. This section also asks for specific information on the proposed project. Inclusion and discussion of these items in the applicant's application is important since they will be used by the reviewers in evaluating the proposal against the evaluation criteria. Project products, continuation of the project effort after the Federal support ceases, and dissemination/utilization activities, if applicable, should also be addressed. • Project Duration : This section specifies the maximum length of time for the project period; it refers to the amount of time for which Federal funding is available. • Federal Share of Project Cost : This section specifies the amount of Federal support for the project. The term ``budget period'' refers to the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which a multi-year period of assistance (project period) is divided for budgetary and funding purposes. The term ``project period'' refers to the total time a project is approved for support, including any extensions. • Matching Requirement : This section specifies the minimum non-Federal contribution, either through cash or in-kind match, that is required. Applicants are encouraged to meet their match requirements through cash contributions. Grantees must provide at least 10 percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the ACYF share and the non-Federal share. Therefore, if the required match is 10 percent, a project requesting $90,000 in Federal funds must include a match of at least $10,000 (10 percent of the total project cost of $100,000). • Anticipated Number of Projects To Be Funded : This section specifies the number of projects that ACYF anticipates it will fund in the priority area. B. Priority Areas 1.01_National Resource Centers for Child Welfare Services Programs 1.01A_National Resource Center for Family-Centered Practice 1.01B_National Resource Center for Permanency Planning 1.01C_National Resource Center for Organizational Improvement 1.01D_National Resource Center for Youth Development 1.01E_National Resource Center on Legal and Court Issues 2.01_National Resource Center for Programs Serving Abandoned Infants and Infants at Risk of Abandonment and Their Families C. Discussion of Priority Areas 1.01␣National Resource Centers For Child Welfare Services Programs. 1. Eligible Applicants : Any State, local, Tribal, public or private non-profit agency or organization, including accredited colleges and universities may submit an application under this announcement. Applications developed jointly by State, local, and community-based social service agencies, foundations, colleges or universities, and private organizations that bring complementary expertise to bear on the resource needs of the child welfare field are encouraged. All applications, even those developed by two or more organizations, must identify a single lead agency to be the primary administrator of the Resource Center and the official recipient of an award. Organizations interested in applying to administer more than one Resource Center must submit a separate and distinct application for each. Applications must clearly indicate whether they are being submitted under Priority Area 1.01 or 2.01. Also, every application submitted under Priority Area 1.01 must clearly indicate by letter which specific National Resource Center for Child Welfare Services Programs the application addresses.
