FR940317-1-00033 FR940317-1-00011 12. Similarly, we believe that Congress intended to exempt noncommercial secondary and auxiliary broadcast services, such as low power television (``LPTV'') stations, television translators and boosters, remote pickup stations and intercity relay stations. This interpretation is consistent with our interpretation of the application fee provisions in section 8. Accordingly, we propose to utilize our current noncommercial exemption for LPTV and translator stations for regulatory fees. We also propose to utilize this fee exemption for boosters, auxiliary broadcast services, and other Mass Media, Common Carrier or Private Radio authorizations used in conjunction with qualifying noncommercial educational radio, television, or instructional services. 7 7 We thus propose to extend the exemption to noncommercial services used in conjunction with ITFS facilities, which are exempted. 47 CFR 1.1112(e)(4). 13. Finally, it does not appear that Congress intended that a noncommercial exemption for regulatory fees be available to international short-wave broadcast stations. As was the case when we were implementing section 8, we do not intend to provide a noncommercial exemption for international broadcast licensees. 8 8 See Memorandum Opinion and Order, GN Docket No. 86&hyph;285, 6 FCC Rcd 5919, 5925, 56 FR 56599 (Nov. 6, 1991). 14. As with the exemption for governmental and nonprofit entities, to avoid unnecessary paperwork and to the extent possible, we propose to rely on information currently in Bureau files to identify most noncommercial licensees and permittees. However, where necessary, we reserve the option of requiring such entities, in lieu of paying the required fee, to file certifications (and other relevant information) as to their noncommercial status. 9 If additional information beyond a certification is requested, it would be done in a case-by-base basis and such information would have to show that the entity qualifies under our rules for the noncommercial exemption. 9 Entities claiming an exemption would be required to file this information on or before the payment due date for the relevant regulatory fee category. If a showing is not properly documented or a claimed exemption is otherwise rejected, an entity failing to pay the proper fee on time may be subject to a 25 percent late-payment penalty. 5. Public Safety Services 15. The Schedule of Regulatory Fees does not list specific Private Radio services under the category of ``Shared use services.'' See 47 U.S.C. 159(g). In this regard, however, the legislative history clearly states that Congress intended to exempt public safety licensees from regulatory fees. Accordingly, we propose to exempt all licensees in the Public Safety Radio and Special Emergency Radio Services from regulatory fees, but we also seek comment on whether the exemption should be limited to governmental and nonprofit entities, which are explicitly mentioned in the statute's exemptions.
