FR940419-1-00006 FR940419-1-00003 Following severe liquidity problems in 1966 and 1969, the credit union movement again petitioned Congress for a central bank. Congressman Wright Patman (D&hyph;TX) introduced a bill to create a national credit union bank in 1971, but did not secure enactment. He tried again in 1973, once more unsuccessfully. Realizing that credit union system liquidity and investment needs would continue to be addressed in the private sector, CUNA worked to establish a central institution to serve corporate credit unions, securing a charter for U.S. Central Credit Union from the State of Kansas in 1974. In 1980, legislation was passed enabling U.S. Central and the other corporate credit unions to be designated as ``bankers banks,'' with access to the Federal Reserve System. By the early 1980's, most states had established corporate credit unions. The financial reform bills of the early to mid-1970's advanced the concept of a central liquidity facility for credit unions, rather than a central bank. The credit union movement eventually supported the establishment of such a facility to serve as a backup for the private system. The Central Liquidity Facility (CLF) was officially established November 1978 and continues in its role of providing a government-operated source of liquidity for the credit union system. The credit union movement must be acknowledged for successfully establishing a private system which has met the liquidity needs of credit unions and provided services in the areas of investments, securities safekeeping, payment systems, and correspondent services. This corporate credit union system, while encountering some problems, has nevertheless done an admirable job of meeting the needs of credit unions over an extended period of time. C. Regulatory History The history of NCUA's regulatory efforts in this area reflects its concern regarding the control and direction of corporate credit unions. Until 1979, only natural person members of a corporate credit union were permitted to serve on the board of directors. In 1979 the NCUA Board issued a final rule permitting member credit unions to appoint representatives to the corporate credit union. See 44 FR 58496, Oct. 10, 1979. A representative was empowered to attend meetings, vote, and stand for election on behalf of the member credit union. In 1980 the Board issued Interpretive Ruling and Policy Statement (IRPS) 80&hyph;3, which clarified that although other non-natural person members of corporate credit unions were entitled to vote through agents, such agents could not stand for election in place of the non-natural person member and were not eligible to serve in any elective or appointive capacity in the corporate credit union. 45 FR 14202, Mar. 5, 1980. In 1983 the Board adopted the standard corporate federal credit union (FCU) bylaws. Article XV, Section 2, addresses conflicts of interest of officials and employees and is identical to Article XIX, Section 4, of the standard FCU bylaws for natural person FCUs. It provides, in relevant part: No director, committee member, officer, agent, or employee of this credit union shall in any manner, directly or indirectly, participate in the deliberation upon or the determination of any question affecting his/her pecuniary interest or the pecuniary interest of any corporation, partnership, or association (other than this credit union) in which he/she is directly or indirectly interested. In response to concerns about the implications for a corporate credit union official who is the designated representative of a member credit union acting upon matters which may affect that credit union, the Board noted that the provision was not intended to preclude an official from participating in the establishment of policy and general direction of the corporate credit union. The Board stated that it was intended to preclude an official from taking part in actions which would represent a true conflict of interest in a meaningful sense pertaining to his or her credit union. In 1984 the Board issued a final rule permitting all non-natural person members of corporate credit unions to designate representatives to stand for election and hold elective and appointive office. 49 FR 50368, Dec. 28, 1984. In the preamble to the proposed rule, the Board stated that the restrictions of the regulation and IRPS 80&hyph;3 were at variance with the underlying philosophy of one-member-one-vote. 49 FR 17953, Apr. 26, 1984. In the preamble to the final rule, the Board stated that because corporate credit unions must primarily serve other credit unions, the credit union members would continue to influence the direction, policy, and priorities of the corporates through the democratic process. The Board also acted to officially repeal IRPS 80&hyph;3, stating that it addressed matters that were either superseded by or incorporated in the rule. Over time, a limited number of corporate credit unions developed financial problems resulting in part from poor quality, preferential loans made to affiliated leagues, less than arms-length transactions involving the purchase or lease of league's fixed assets, and the payment of other league expenses. These incidents occurred in corporates that were closely tied to leagues at either the board or management level. In response, the NCUA Board issued a proposed rule in 1991 requiring that at least three members of the corporate credit union board be individuals who were independent of any organization with which the corporate credit union was associated, excluding member credit unions. See 56 FR 11952, Mar. 21, 1991. The Board noted that many corporate credit unions shared physical space, personnel, and officials with other organizations, often leagues and service organizations, creating an environment in which conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, could develop. The proposed rule also contained a recusal provision identical to Article XV, Section 2, of the standard corporate FCU bylaws. The final rule, issued on May 7, 1992, see 57 FR 22626, May 28, 1992, gave corporate credit unions an option with regard to board representation. Section 704.12(a) states that the board of directors of a corporate credit union is determined as stipulated in the corporate credit union's bylaws, provided that: (1) At least three directors are not officers, directors, or employees of an affiliated organization; or (2) elections are open and independent, with procedures for nominations by petition and mail balloting. The proposed recusal provision was also changed. Section 704.12(c)(1) requires recusal for matters involving personal pecuniary interest. For matters involving the pecuniary interest of an entity in which an official or employee is interested, Section 704.12(c)(2) requires recusal only when the amount in question exceeds 5 percent of the corporate credit union's capital, when measured annually as an aggregate of business arrangements with the entity. The conflict faced by corporate FCUs, between the new recusal provision and the bylaws, was not addressed.
