FR940217-1-00120 FR940217-1-00014 (iv) States the limits which may be imposed, in the case of a limitation proceeding; (v) States the proposed date the limitation or termination becomes effective, which is at least 20 days after the date of mailing of the notice; (vi) Informs the lender or servicer that the limitation or termination will not take effect on the proposed date if the Secretary receives, at least five days prior to that date, a request for an oral hearing or written material showing why the limitation or termination should not take effect; (vii) Asks the lender or servicer to correct voluntarily any alleged violations; and (viii) Notifies the lender or servicer that the Secretary may collect any amount owed by means of offset against amounts owed to the lender by the Department and other Federal agencies. (b) Hearing. (1) If the lender or servicer does not request an oral hearing but submits written material, the Secretary, or a designated Departmental official, considers the material and_ (i) Dismisses the proposed limitation or termination; or (ii) Notifies the lender or servicer of the date the limitation or termination becomes effective. (2) If the lender or servicer requests a hearing within the time specified in paragraph (a)(2)(vi) of this section, the Secretary schedules the date and place of the hearing. The date is at least 15 days after receipt of the request from the lender or servicer. No proposed limitation or termination takes effect until a hearing is held. (3) The hearing is conducted by a presiding officer who_ (i) Ensures that a written record of the hearing is made; (ii) Considers relevant written material presented before the hearing and other relevant evidence presented during the hearing; and (iii) Issues an initial decision, based on findings of fact and conclusions of law, that may limit or terminate the lender's or servicer's eligibility if the presiding officer is persuaded that the limitation or termination is warranted by the evidence. (4) The formal rules of evidence do not apply, and no discovery, as provided in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, is required. (5) The presiding officer shall base findings of fact only on evidence presented at or before the hearing and matters given official notice. (6) If a termination action is brought against a lender or third-party servicer and the presiding officer concludes that a limitation is more appropriate, the presiding officer may issue a decision imposing one or more limitations on a lender or third-party servicer rather than terminating the lender's or servicer's eligibility. (7) The initial decision of the presiding officer is mailed to the lender or servicer. (8) Any time schedule specified in this section may be shortened with the approval of the presiding officer and the consent of the lender or servicer and the Secretary or designated Departmental official. (9) The presiding officer's initial decision automatically becomes the Secretary's final decision 20 days after it is issued and received by both parties unless the lender, servicer, or designated Departmental official appeals the decision to the Secretary within this period. (c) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, if a lender or a lender's owner or officer or third-party servicer or servicer's owner or officer, respectively, is convicted of or pled nolo contendere or guilty to a crime involving the unlawful acquisition, use, or expenditure of FFEL program funds, that conviction or guilty plea is grounds for terminating the lender's or servicer's eligibility, respectively, to participate in the FFEL programs. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1080, 1082, 1085, 1094) 47. Section 682.707 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) introductory text and (d) to read as follows: ยง682.707 Appeals in a limitation or termination proceeding. (a) If the lender, third-party servicer, or designated Departmental official appeals the initial decision of the presiding officer in accordance with ยง682.706(b)(9)_ * * * * *
