FR940805-1-00060 FR940805-1-00013 (1) First year following publication. By the end of the first year following publication, all detention facilities must have identified deficiencies and developed an action plan that identifies the actions and resources necessary to correct deficiencies and a schedule for these remedies. (2) Second year following publication. By the end of the second year following publication and thereafter, all detention facilities must be one hundred percent compliant with the mandatory standards. For example, an existing adult detention facility would have to comply with the 48 mandatory standards of the 249 total standards applicable to this facility type. (3) Fourth year following publication. By the end of the fourth year following publication and thereafter, all detention facilities must be 50 percent compliant with the non-mandatory standards. For example, an existing adult detention facility would have to remain compliant with the 48 mandatory standards and also comply with 101 (50%) of the 201 non-mandatory standards for this facility type. (4) Fifth year following publication. By the end of the fifth year following publication and thereafter, all detention facilities must be 60 percent compliant with the non-mandatory standards. For example, an existing adult detention facility would have to remain compliant with the 48 mandatory standards and also comply with 121 (60%) of the non-mandatory standards for this facility type. (5) Sixth year following publication. By the end of the sixth year following publication and thereafter, all detention facilities must be 70 percent compliant with the non-mandatory standards. (6) Seventh year following publication. By the end of the seventh year following publication and thereafter, all detention facilities must be 80 percent compliant with the non-mandatory standards. (7) Eighth year following publication. By the end of the eighth year following publication and thereafter, all detention facilities must be 90 percent compliant with the non-mandatory standards. (8) Available assistance. The BIA, Division of Law Enforcement shall provide a format for self-accreditation of programs with provision for program audits. ยง10.5 Facilities operated by contractors. (a) Form of organization. The entity operating the facility shall be a legal entity or part of a legal entity. (b) Program continuity. The operator of the facility shall document that necessary legal measures have been taken to provide continuity of service in the event of incapacitation, retirement or death. (c) Annual meeting. The governing authority of the facility shall meet at least annually with the contracting officer to facilitate communication, establish policy, explore problems, ensure conformity to legal and fiscal requirements, and implement programs. (d) Minimum criteria for private agencies. At a minimum, the bylaws for the governing authority of the incorporated agency shall include membership qualifications, community representation, size of the governing body, method of selection, terms of office, duties and responsibilities of officers, times the board will meet, committee structure, quorums, parliamentary procedure, recording of minutes, method of amending the bylaws, conflict of interest items, and the relationship of the chief executive officer to the governing body. Subpart B_Adult Detention Facilities ยง10.11 Administration and management. (a) General administration _(1) Mission and goals. A written statement, which shall be updated as necessary, shall describe the philosophy, goals and policies of the facility. (2) Administration of facility. An administrator, whose responsibility and authority shall be documented, shall oversee each facility. The appointment shall be based on written qualifications. (3) Organization chart. An organization chart shall describe the facility's organization and chain of command. The chart shall be updated as needed. (4) Service provider roles. A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), which shall be updated as needed and reviewed at least annually, shall define the role and function of employees of public or private agencies providing a service to the facility. The MOA shall specify the relation of service providers to the authority and responsibility of the administrator. (5) Interagency meetings. The administrator shall conduct regular meetings between the staff of criminal justice, social service, health care and detention agencies to develop and maintain effective interagency coordination. (6) Policy and procedure manual. All employees of the facility shall have access to a policy and procedure manual and its supporting documents. The Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, shall approve the manual and its supporting documents, which shall provide for the implementation of these standards and shall direct documentation of compliance. The administrator shall update the manual as needed and review it annually. (7) Dissemination of policy and procedure. The administrator shall disseminate approved, new, or revised policies and procedures to designated staff, volunteers, and, where appropriate, inmates prior to implementation. Staff shall review and indicate in writing that they understand the content of policies and procedures prior to their implementation. (8) Channels of communication. The administrator or designee shall regularly disseminate information to staff prior to the beginning of their shift.
