FR940407-0-00060 FR940407-0-00014 Thursday April 7, 1994 Part II Environmental Protection Agency 40 CFR Part 51 Economic Incentive Program Rules; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 67␣/␣Thursday, April 7, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 51 [FRL&hyph;4853&hyph;8] RIN 2060&hyph;AD58 Economic Incentive Program Rules AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule and guidance. SUMMARY: This action promulgates rules for economic incentive programs (EIP's) which either may or must be adopted by States for certain ozone (O 3 ) and carbon monoxide (CO) nonattainment areas upon the failure of a State to submit an adequate showing that an applicable reasonable further progress (RFP) or a specific emissions reductions milestone has been met (in serious, severe, and extreme O 3 and serious CO nonattainment areas) or upon the failure of a serious CO nonattainment area to attain the national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) for CO. Under the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 (Act), the EPA was required to promulgate final EIP rules for stationary, area, and mobile sources by November 15, 1992; this action is that rulemaking. The provisions of today's rules are also guidance for discretionary EIP's that any State may choose to adopt for any criteria pollutant, as explicitly allowed for in the Act. The Agency views this action as an opportunity to encourage the development and early implementation of appropriate EIP's. In so doing, the Agency hopes these rules and guidance will stimulate the adoption of incentive-based, innovative programs, where appropriate, that will assist States in meeting air quality management goals through flexible approaches which benefit both the environment and the regulated entities, allow for less costly control strategies, and provide stronger incentives for the development and implementation of pollution prevention measures and innovative emissions reductions technology. The EPA intends that the portion of the preamble and rules published today that concern discretionary EIP's constitute guidance, not final action. Final action with respect to discretionary EIP's will occur when the EPA approves or disapproves State implementation plan (SIP) revisions containing discretionary EIP's. EFFECTIVE DATE: The regulations in this rulemaking go into effect on April 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: The public docket for this action, A&hyph;91&hyph;56, including copies of the public comments on the EPA's February 23, 1993 proposed rulemaking, is available for public inspection and copying between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the address listed below. A reasonable fee for copying may be charged. The address of the EPA Air Docket is EPA Central Docket Section, South Conference Center, room 4, 401 M Street, SW, Washington, DC 20460.
