FR940404-0-00056 FR940404-0-00019 (d) The Federal awarding agency may require adequate fidelity bond coverage where the recipient lacks sufficient coverage to protect the Federal Government's interest. (e) Where bonds are required in the situations described above, the bonds shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties, as prescribed in 31 CFR part 223, ``Surety Companies Doing Business with the United States.'' ยง19.22 Payment. (a) Payment methods shall minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from the United States Treasury and the issuance or redemption of checks, warrants, or payment by other means by the recipients. Payment methods of State agencies or instrumentalities shall be consistent with Treasury-State CMIA agreements or default procedures codified at 31 CFR part 205. (b) (1) Recipients are to be paid in advance, provided they maintain or demonstrate the willingness to maintain: (i) Written procedures that minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and disbursement by the recipient, and (ii) Financial management systems that meet the standards for fund control and accountability as established in section ยง19.21. (2) Cash advances to a recipient organization shall be limited to the minimum amounts needed and be timed to be in accordance with the actual, immediate cash requirements of the recipient organization in carrying out the purpose of the approved program or project. The timing and amount of cash advances shall be as close as is administratively feasible to the actual disbursements by the recipient organization for direct program or project costs and the proportionate share of any allowable indirect costs. (c) Whenever possible, advances shall be consolidated to cover anticipated cash needs for all awards made by the Federal awarding agency to the recipient. (1) Advance payment mechanisms include, but are not limited to, Treasury check and electronic funds transfer. (2) Advance payment mechanisms are subject to 31 CFR part 205. (3) Recipients shall be authorized to submit requests for advances and reimbursements at least monthly when electronic fund transfers are not used. (d) Requests for Treasury check advance payment shall be submitted on SF&hyph;270, ``Request for Advance or Reimbursement,'' or other forms as may be authorized by OMB. This form is not to be used when Treasury check advance payments are made to the recipient automatically through the use of a predetermined payment schedule or if precluded by special Federal awarding agency instructions for electronic funds transfer. (e) Reimbursement is the preferred method when the requirements in paragraph (b) cannot be met. Federal awarding agencies may also use this method on any construction agreement, or if the major portion of the construction project is accomplished through private market financing or Federal loans, and the Federal assistance constitutes a minor portion of the project. (1) When the reimbursement method is used, the Federal awarding agency shall make payment within 30 days after receipt of the billing, unless the billing is improper.
