FR941003-0-00118 FR941003-0-00018 Single family program means a mortgage or loan insurance program authorized by the National Housing Act for one-to-four family residential property as defined in ยง267.5(c). State means any state of the United States, any territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands. USPAP means that edition of the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice most recently promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation at the time the Standards are applied. The term also includes such changes and additions to USPAP as the Department shall recognize. In general, HUD will recognize a change or addition to USPAP. If, after opportunity to consider the applicability and consequences of the change for HUD programs, HUD should decide that it will no longer recognize the change or addition, that decision will be published in the Federal Register . ยง267.3 Professional association membership; nondiscrimination; lender reporting and competency. (a) Membership in appraisal organizations. A state certified general or certified residential appraiser or a state licensed appraiser may not be excluded from consideration for an assignment solely because of membership or lack of membership in a particular appraisal organization. (b) Discrimination prohibited. In the selection of an appraiser, there shall be no discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age or disability. (c) Single family report and multifamily information; public availability. (1) Based upon data compiled pursuant to paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section, HUD will develop gender and minority status information and will publish a report summarizing with respect to each mortgagee the total number of appraisals performed within the applicable reporting period and of that total the number of appraisals performed by female appraisers and the number of appraisals performed by minority status appraisers as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section. (2) Based on data compiled pursuant to paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(5) of this section, HUD will develop gender and minority status information with respect to each housing finance agency participating in the Risk-Sharing Program, each Delegated Processor, and each appraisal company and individual appraiser contracting directly with the Department. The information will disclose for each of the parties described above the total number of appraisals performed within the applicable reporting period and of that total the number of appraisals performed by female appraisers and the number of appraisals performed by minority status appraisers as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section. (3) Each institution or individual who conducts or contracts for appraisals covered by this part will be monitored by HUD with respect to the number of appraisals which it has performed or contracted for during the reporting year by: (i) Staff appraisers; (ii) Appraisers assigned from a fee panel; (iii) Appraisers whose services it has contracted for; in order to determine the number of appraisals conducted for the mortgagee by female and minority persons within the reporting period. A minority appraiser is one who is: Hispanic, Hispanic black, Non-Hispanic black, Asian/Pacific Islander, Asian Indian American, or American Indian/Alaskan Native. (4) With respect to single family programs, the information contained in the report will be extracted by HUD from data kept on record with respect to each appraiser listed on the HUD Appraiser Roster described in ยง267.8(d)(2). The data will be maintained so as to record the identity of the appraiser when the mortgagee requests an appraisal assignment. (5) With respect to multifamily programs, information will be extracted by HUD from data kept on record for each Review Appraiser and Field Appraiser performing appraisals or consulting for housing finance agencies (HFAs), Delegated Processors, and the Department on a contract basis. The information will be submitted within the following time limits:
