FR940613-0-00040 FR940613-0-00012 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Ocenic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 216 [Docket No. 940667&hyph;4167; I.D. 053194B] RIN 0648&hyph;AG34 Taking and Importing of Marine Mammals AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule; with request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS implements provisions of the International Dolphin Conservation Act (IDCA) that make it unlawful, after June 1, 1994, for any person, to sell, purchase, offer for sale, transport, or ship, in the United States, any tuna or tuna product that is not dolphin safe. The intent of this action is to ensure that the U.S. market does not act as an incentive to the harvest of tuna caught in association with dolphins or with driftnets. DATES: This rule is effective June 2, 1994. Comments on this rule must be received or postmarked on or before August 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to: Director, Southwest Region, NMFS, 501 W. Ocean Blvd., Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA 90802&hyph;4213. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LT Dana Wilkes, NMFS, 310&hyph;980&hyph;4000. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background NMFS is required to monitor the importation of certain fish and fish products to ensure compliance with various provisions of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA), as amended by the IDCA and the Dolphin Protection Consumer Information Act (DPCIA). The IDCA states, among other things, that ``It is the policy of the United States.. to ensure that the market of the United States does not act as an incentive to the harvest of tuna caught in association with dolphins or with driftnets.'' The IDCA makes it unlawful, after June 1, 1994, for any person to sell, purchase, offer for sale, transport, or ship, in the United States, any tuna or tuna product that is not dolphin safe. Tuna, or a tuna product, is not dolphin safe if it contains tuna that was harvested on the high seas by a vessel engaged in fishing with driftnets 2.5 km or longer in length (``large-scale driftnets''). As of May␣31, 1994, the Secretary had not identified any nation whose vessels are engaging in fishing with large-scale driftnets. Tuna or a product containing tuna that was harvested in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean (ETP) by a vessel 400 short tons (362.8 metric tons (mt)) carrying capacity or greater, is dolphin safe only if it is accompanied by two written statements: one executed by the captain of the vessel that harvested the tuna, certifying that purse seine nets were not intentionally deployed on or to encircle dolphins at any time during the fishing trip (captain's statement); and the other from a NMFS or Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission official certifying that there was an approved observer on board the vessel during the entire trip and that purse seine nets were not intentionally deployed during the trip on, or to encircle, dolphins (observer's statement). Both the captain's and the observer's statements must be endorsed in writing by each exporter, importer, and processor of the product. Tuna or a product containing tuna harvested outside the ETP by a purse seine vessel, is dolphin safe if it is accompanied by a captain's statement, certifying that no purse seine net was intentionally deployed on, or to encircle, dolphins during the particular voyage on which the tuna was harvested. Tuna or a product containing tuna harvested outside the ETP by a purse seine vessel in a fishery in which the Secretary has determined that a regular and significant association occurs between marine mammals and tuna, and in which tuna is harvested through the use of purse seine nets deployed on, or to encircle, marine mammals, is dolphin safe if it is accompanied by a captain's statement and an observer's statement. As of May␣31, 1994, the Secretary had not made such a determination. NMFS anticipates that the dolphin-safe documentation requirements of the IDCA and this final rule will primarily affect tuna harvested with purse seine nets outside of the ETP. In accordance with the importation requirements of 50 CFR 216.24(e), all tuna, other than fresh, is required to be accompanied by a NOAA Form 370 ``Fisheries Certificate of Origin'' (FCO) upon importation into the United States. NMFS believes that most tuna marketed in the United States (U.S.-harvested, as well as imports) is labeled ``dolphin safe'' in accordance with DPCIA labeling standards. Therefore, most tuna harvested in the ETP by purse seine vessels 400 short tons (362.8 mt) carrying capacity or greater and sold in the United States meets the dolphin-safe documentation requirements (i.e., it is accompanied by an FCO, as well as captain's and observer's statements and endorsements). For imported tuna harvested outside the ETP by a purse seine vessel, this regulation requires that a captain's statement be attached to the FCO. In addition, for tuna harvested outside the ETP by a U.S. purse seine vessel, this regulation requires a captain's statement. The FCO's must be endorsed by each exporter, importer, and processor of the tuna, as described above. The U.S. Customs Service (USCS) controls the importation of tuna and tuna products into the United States. USCS will verify that a captain's statement accompanies shipments of tuna and tuna product containing tuna harvested by purse seine outside the ETP, and that a captain's statement and an observer's statement, endorsed in writing by every exporter, importer, and processor, accompany tuna or tuna product containing tuna harvested by purse seine in the ETP. This rule is codified in 50 CFR 216.24(e)(9). The former text of paragraph 216.24(e)(9) that is replaced by this regulation was effective only through 1986. Therefore, deletion of that language has no regulatory effect. Classification This rule codifies statutory requirements and prohibitions that became effective pursuant to the IDCA after June 1, 1994. Therefore, under authority set forth at 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B), good cause exists to waive the notice and comment requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act as such procedures are unnecessary. Further, in that this rule incorporates a statutory requirement already in effect, good cause exists under 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(3) to waive the 30-day delay in effective date. This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. This rule contains collection-of-information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. The collections found at 50 CFR 216.24(e) have been previously approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under Control Number 0648&hyph;0040 for tuna or a tuna product that contains tuna harvested in the ETP by purse seine vessels of 400 short tons (362.8 metric tons) carrying capacity or greater and that is labeled ''dolphin safe.'' The public reporting burden for this collection was previously estimated to be 0.66 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information (56 FR 47418, September 19, 1991). The IDCA now mandates that the same reporting requirement apply to all tuna or tuna products containing tuna harvested by purse seine in the ETP by these vessels, and it is expected that the same reporting burden will apply. In addition, all tuna or tuna products containing tuna harvested by purse seine vessel outside the ETP must now be accompanied by the captain's statement described above. The reporting burden for the completion of the captain's statement for tuna harvested by purse seine outside of the ETP is estimated to be 0.083 hours per response. Also, tuna harvested outside the ETP must now be accompanied by an FCO and captain's statement. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or on any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the Director, Southwest Region, NMFS (see ADDRESSES) and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project 0648&hyph;0400, Washington, D.C. 20503 (Attn: NOAA Desk Officer). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 216 Administrative practice and procedure, Imports, Indians, Marine mammals, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Transportation. Dated: June 6, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 216 is amended as follows: PART 216_REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE TAKING AND IMPORTING OF MARINE MAMMALS 1. The authority citation for part 216 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq . 2. In §216.24, the heading of paragraph (e) is revised and paragraph (e)(9) is revised to read as follows: §216.24 Taking and related acts incidental to commercial fishing operations. * * * * * (e) Importation, purchase, shipment, sale and transport . (9) Dolphin safe requirements . (i) It is unlawful for any person to sell, purchase, offer for sale, transport, or ship in the United States, any tuna or tuna product that is not dolphin safe. (ii) For purposes of this section, tuna or a tuna product is dolphin safe if: (A) It does not contain tuna that was harvested on the high seas by a vessel engaged in large-scale driftnet fishing; (B) In the case of tuna or tuna product that contains tuna harvested in the ETP by a purse seine vessel, either the purse seine vessel is of less than 400 short tons (362.8 metric tons (mt)) carrying capacity or, if the purse seine vessel is of 400 short tons (362.8 mt) carrying capacity or greater, the tuna or tuna product is accompanied by: ( 1 ) A completed Fisheries Certificate of Origin; ( 2 ) A written statement by the captain of each vessel that harvested the tuna, certifying that the vessel did not intentionally deploy a purse seine net on, or to encircle, dolphins at any time during the trip; a written statement, signed by either the Secretary or a representative of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission, certifying that an observer employed by or working under contract with the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission or the Secretary, was on board the vessel during the entire trip and that the vessel did not intentionally deploy a purse seine net on, or to encircle, dolphin at any time during the trip; and ( 3 ) An endorsement on the Fisheries Certificate of Origin by each exporter, importer, and processor certifying that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, the Fisheries Certificate of Origin and attached documents, and the statements required by this paragraph (e)(9)(ii) accurately describe the tuna products; (C) In the case of tuna or a tuna product containing tuna harvested outside the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean by a purse seine vessel, it is accompanied by a written statement, executed by the captain of the vessel, certifying that no purse seine net was intentionally deployed on, or to encircle, dolphins during the particular voyage on which the tuna was harvested; and (D) In the case of tuna or a tuna product containing tuna harvested outside the ETP by a purse seine vessel in a fishery in which the Secretary has determined that a regular and significant association occurs between marine mammals and tuna, and in which tuna is harvested through the use of purse seine nets deployed on, or to encircle, marine mammals, it is accompanied by a written statement, executed by the captain of the vessel and by an observer, certifying that no purse seine net was intentionally deployed on, or to encircle, marine mammals during the particular voyage on which the tuna was harvested. (iii) Submission of documentation ._(A) Imported tuna or tuna product . The documents required by paragraph (e)(9)(ii) of this section must accompany the imported tuna or tuna product until no further endorsements are required on the documentation and the documents have been submitted to officials of the U.S. Customs Service at the time of importation. (B) U.S. domestic shipments . The documents required by paragraph (e)(9)(ii) of this section must accompany tuna or tuna product, other than imported, until no further endorsements are required on the documentation and the documents have been submitted to the Director, Southwest Region, National Marine Fisheries Service, 501 W. Ocean Boulevard, Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA 90802. * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14247 Filed 6&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;F
