FR940825-1-00112 FR940825-1-00009 Once EPA has made a determination under the CAA or other EPA-administered environmental programs concerning the boundaries of a reservation, it will rely on that determination in evaluating all future applications from that Tribe under the CAA unless the application presents different legal issues. For example, once the Agency has arrived at a position concerning a reservation boundary dispute, it will not alter that position in the absence of significant new factual or legal information. Thus, as with the recognition and governmental requirements, there will generally be no need to provide EPA with additional demonstrations of jurisdiction, unless the Tribe is making a more expansive jurisdictional assertion in a subsequent submittal. EPA believes that this new process for resolving questions of jurisdiction constitutes a significant improvement over the old TAS jurisdiction process. It will provide States with an opportunity to notify EPA of boundary disputes and enable EPA to obtain relevant information as needed while minimizing delays in the process and focusing its inquiry on what is likely to be the principal relevant issue, namely, the geographic boundaries of the reservation. 4. Capability Requirement Section 301(d)(2)(C) of the CAA provides that in determining Tribal eligibility the Administrator also must determine that the Tribe ``is reasonably expected to be capable *␣*␣* of carrying out the functions to be exercised in a manner consistent with the terms and purposes of [the CAA] and all applicable regulations.'' A program-by-program inquiry into the question of capability is necessary since a Tribe may have capability to carry out certain activities but not others. Therefore, EPA may request that to establish capability a Tribe submit a narrative statement or other documents showing it is capable of administering the program for which it is seeking approval. The specific capabilities which must be described are set forth in today's proposed rule. In evaluating a Tribe's demonstration of capability, EPA may consider the following factors: (1) The Tribe's previous management experience; (2) Existing environmental or public health programs administered by the Tribe; (3) The mechanism(s) in place for carrying out the executive, legislative, and judicial functions of the Tribal government; (4) The relationship between regulated entities and the administrative agency of the Tribal government that will be the regulator; and (5) The technical and administrative capabilities of the staff to administer and manage the program. EPA recognizes that certain Tribes may not have substantial experience administering environmental programs. A lack of experience will not preclude a Tribe from demonstrating the required capability. Otherwise Tribes would be placed in the dilemma of being denied the opportunity to develop the requisite capability because they lack such capability. For this reason, today's proposed rule requires Tribes either to show that they have the necessary management and technical skills or to submit a plan detailing steps for acquiring those skills. However, this flexibility does not change the requirement that to obtain approval for a particular program under the CAA the Tribe must submit a fully effective program that meets all the applicable statutory and regulatory requirements associated with the program in question. Because a Tribe may not want to go through the expense of developing such a program without first being assured of meeting the eligibility requirements, today's proposed rule provide that a Tribe may, at its option, ask for a preliminary finding on any or all of these requirements. EPA's evaluation of capability will also consider the relationship between the existing or proposed Tribal agency that will implement the program in question and any potential regulated Tribal entities. It is not uncommon for a Tribe to be both the regulator and regulated entity, and such a situation could result in a conflict of interest since the Tribe would then be regulating itself. Independence of the regulator and regulated entity best assures effective and fair administration of a program.
