FR941227-2-00002 FR941227-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Office of the Secretary Department Reorganization AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, Department of Agriculture (USDA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given of the creation of subcabinet positions, the creation of new agencies, the abolition of positions and agencies, the assignment of functions in USDA, and the transfer of assets, rights, and obligations to the new agencies. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James Michael Kelly, Associate General Counsel, Room 2043 South Building, Washington, D.C. 20250; telephone (202)&hyph;720&hyph;7219. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994, Public Law No. 103&hyph;354, signed by the President on October 13, 1994, permits the Secretary of Agriculture to accomplish the reorganization of USDA. Pursuant to that authority, on October 20, 1994, the Secretary took the following actions: (1) Establishment of Subcabinet Positions The following subcabinet positions were established within USDA: (A) Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services The Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services supervises all activities of the Consolidated Farm Service Agency including the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, and the Foreign Agricultural Service, and performs such other functions related to farm and foreign agricultural services as are assigned. (B) Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Economic and Community Development The Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Economic and Community Development supervises all activities of the Rural Utilities Service, the Rural Housing and Community Development Service, and the Rural Business and Cooperative Development Service, and performs such other functions related to rural economic and community development as are assigned. (C) Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services The Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services supervises all activities of the Food and Consumer Service, coordinates functions related to nutrition policy and education, and performs such other functions related to food, nutrition, and consumer services as are assigned. (D) Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment The Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment supervises all activities of the Forest Service and the Natural Resources Conservation Service, coordinates functions related to agricultural environmental quality, and performs such other functions related to natural resources and environment as are assigned. (E) Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics The Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics supervises all activities of the Agricultural Research Service, the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, the Economic Research Service, and the National Agricultural Statistics Service, and performs such other functions related to research, education, and economics as are assigned. (F) Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety The position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety is established by the Act. The Under Secretary supervises all activities of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, as well as functions under the Egg Products Inspection Act formerly performed by the Agricultural Marketing Service, and the salmonella enteritidis reduction program and pathogen reduction activities formerly performed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, and performs such other functions related to food safety as are assigned. (G) Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs The Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs supervises those activities of the Agricultural Marketing Service and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service which do not relate primarily to food safety, as well as all activities of the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration, and performs such other functions related to marketing and regulatory programs as are assigned.
