FR940627-0-00035 FR940627-0-00009 The elimination of the §250.16 reports will not adversely affect the ability of non-affiliates to monitor affiliate transactions. The only significant difference between the Standard H and §250.16 EBB posting requirements is that the §250.16 reports are posted at the close of the billing period so they include the quantity of gas actually scheduled by the affiliate whereas scheduled quantity information could not be included in a contemporaneous posting under Standard H. But after-the-fact information on actual quantities scheduled is not needed for shippers adequately to monitor affiliate transactions. Non-affiliates only need to be able to determine whether they were denied a discount offered to an affiliate, and the information in the contemporaneous postings will allow them to make this determination. The actual quantities scheduled under a discount casts no light on whether the pipeline engaged in undue discrimination when the discount was offered. 39 39 As discussed later, pipelines still will be required, under §250.16, to maintain discount information for both affiliate and non-affiliate transactions. See text accompanying note 63, infra . The Commission still requires the affiliate and non-affiliate information, including the actual volumes shipped, to be able to adequately review completed affiliate and non-affiliate transactions. Accordingly, the Commission will incorporate into Standard H the requirement that a pipeline offering a discount to an affiliate (or a discount for a transportation transaction in which an affiliate is involved) must contemporaneously post the offer on its EBB and maintain the posting for 90 days. The posting must include the date of the offer, the discount rate, the quantity of gas scheduled to be moved at the discounted rate, the delivery points in the offer, any conditions underlying the offer (for example, if the discount is dependent on an agreement to move a certain quantity of gas or on the use of a specific transportation path), and the procedures by which shippers can request a comparable discount. The posting of the information must conform with the requirements applicable to pipelines' EBBs as required in §284.8(b)(4). 40 40 The requirements for EBB access to this information are discussed at the text accompanying note 65, infra. 3. Specific Issues a. Affiliate's Role in a Transportation Transaction In the NOPR, the Commission proposed to require the pipelines to disclose an affiliate's role in a transportation transaction when they are not the shipper in the transaction. 41 Several pipelines object to this proposal, contending it creates an impossible burden since pipelines will not know the affiliate's role if it is not a shipper. 42 KGPC contends that disclosure of an affiliate's role, when it is not a shipper, runs counter to the Commission's determination in Order No. 497&hyph;E to eliminate Standard F's contemporaneous posting requirements for non-transportation related information. Texas Gas states that since the pipeline generally will not know whether an affiliate is involved, the Commission should permit pipelines to obtain this information from shippers. 43 41 In the NOPR, this proposal was related to the requirements under §250.16. Since the Commission has moved the EBB posting requirement to Standard H, the Commission will address here comments on the NOPR that are applicable to the contemporaneous posting of affiliate discount offers on pipeline EBBs. 42 CNG, K N Energy, KGPC, Panhandle Eastern Pipelines, WGM, WNG/Northwest. 43 It states that most pipelines already require shippers to complete a request form for internal purposes and that information on the affiliate's role could be included on that form, even if no other Order No. 497 information needs to be included. The Commission's requirement to disclose discounts when an affiliate is involved in the transaction is merely a continuation of the requirement in §250.16(b)(2) of the existing regulations to report such transactions. 44 In many instances, pipelines are aware of the role played by its affiliate or sales operating unit. For instance, when the affiliate acts as an agent in a transaction (by arranging for gas supplies and transportation), the pipeline may know of the affiliate's role even when it is not the official shipper because the affiliate will be making the transportation arrangements on behalf of its client. In response to Texas Gas's comment, the Commission will not require the pipelines to obtain the information from shippers about affiliate involvement. The pipelines need disclose that information only when they have knowledge of the affiliate's involvement in the transaction. 44 In fact, pipelines have reported transactions in which an affiliate is not the shipper under the existing regulations. The Commission finds no inconsistency between the requirement to disclose transactions in which an affiliate is involved and its decision in Order No. 497&hyph;E to eliminate the contemporaneous disclosure requirement for sales and marketing information provided to an affiliate. When a pipeline is aware that its affiliate is involved in a transportation transaction, it may offer a selective transportation discount to the actual shipper in order to ensure that the shipper does business with the affiliate. Thus, a pipeline's provision of a transportation discount in a transaction in which an affiliate is involved can raise the same question of potential undue discrimination as a discount provided directly to the affiliate. Conversely, when the pipeline does not know of its marketing affiliate's involvement in a transaction, the possibility of unduly preferential behavior seems unlikely.
