FR941116-0-00148 FR941116-0-00022 (4) A change in producer shares to reflect changes in the shares of the crop that were originally approved by the county committee on the CCC&hyph;477. (b) If a change in producers occurs on a farm enrolled in a program in accordance with this part before the end of the ARP signup period, such new producers shall be considered to be successors in interest, if an advance payment has been made to the predecessor, unless such advance payment is refunded to CCC. (c) A succession in interest on the CCC&hyph;477 is not permitted if CCC determines that the change results in a violation of the landlord-tenant provisions set forth at §1413.107, or otherwise defeats the purpose of the program. (d) All producers whose shares of the crop as listed on the CCC&hyph;477 have changed from the original CCC&hyph;477 are required to sign a revised CCC&hyph;477 by the earliest of: (1) The date the crop is actually harvested; (2) December 31 of the current crop year; or (3) 15 days after the county committee was notified of the change in share amounts. (e) When any producer of the crop on the farm (the predecessor) is succeeded by another producer (the successor), any payment which is due and owing shall be divided between the predecessor and successor on such basis as the predecessor, successor, and the county committee agree is fair and equitable. ’(f) Advance payments issued to the predecessor will be attributed to each successor based on: (1) The successor's share of the crop; and (2) The amount of advance payment issued to the predecessor for the crop. (g) The successor shall assume responsibility for refunding any unearned payments issued to the predecessor, if such refunds are required under the CCC&hyph;477. (h) If the predecessor and successor fail to agree on a revised CCC&hyph;477 and the predecessor: (1) Has become unable to carry out the producer's responsibilities under the CCC&hyph;477, CCC may terminate the CCC&hyph;477 with respect to the predecessor and enter into a new CCC&hyph;477 with the successor; (2) If the predecessor has not become unable to carry out the producer's responsibilities under the CCC&hyph;477, the contract may be terminated. (i) In any case in which the amount of any payment due any successor producer has been paid previously to another producer, such payment shall not be paid to the successor unless it is recovered from the predecessor or payment to the successor has been authorized by the Deputy Administrator. If the predecessor refunds an advance program payment, such producer shall not be assessed interest in accordance with part 1403 of this chapter. (j)(1) If payments are reduced on a farm for a predecessor in accordance with part 1497 of this chapter, such payments shall not increase because of a succession in interest. (2) A succession in interest cannot increase the liability of CCC. (k) The total amount of payments that a successor may be entitled to receive under one or more of the annual programs established under the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended, for wheat, feed grains, upland and ELS cotton, rice and oilseeds may not exceed $50,000 for deficiency and land diversion payments, and $75,000 for marketing loan gains (except honey), loan deficiency payments (except honey), and emergency compensation (increased deficiency) payments, except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section. §1413.52 Misrepresentation and scheme or device. (a) A producer who is determined by the county committee or the State committee to have erroneously represented any fact affecting a program determination made in accordance with this part shall: (1) Not be entitled to payments under the crop program with respect to which the representation was made, (2) Refund to CCC all payments received by such producer with respect to such farm and such crop program, and (3) Be liable for liquidated damages in accordance with the terms of the CCC&hyph;477. (b) With respect to programs conducted in accordance with this part, a producer who is determined by the State committee, or the county committee with the approval of the State committee, to have knowingly:
