FR940930-0-00143 FR940930-0-00028 v. Fuel-by-fuel comparison. As stated above, EPA and CARB use different approaches to establish VOC emission standards. Traditionally, federal organic emissions controls have been based on total hydrocarbon (THC) emissions where mass of THC emissions is measured by a flame ionization detector (FID), implicitly assuming that all hydrocarbon emissions behave similarly with respect to ozone reactivity and FID response. This approach is not used for methanol-fueled vehicles because emissions from these vehicles consist primarily of methanol and formaldehyde, and a FID will only detect about 70 to 80 percent of the methanol and very little of the formaldehyde. For methanol-fueled vehicles, the methanol and formaldehyde emissions are sampled separately and measured chromatographically while other emissions are measured by a FID. The oxygen mass is factored out of the methanol and formaldehyde emissions resulting in ``equivalent hydrocarbon emissions'', which are then summed with the other FID-measured hydrocarbons to yield organic material (or total) hydrocarbon equivalent (OMHCE or THCE) mass. A third approach involves separately measuring methane and subtracting it from the THC to result in a non-methane hydrocarbon (NMHC) mass. For methanol-fueled vehicles, NMHC is equivalent to OMNMHCE (organic material non-methane hydrocarbon equivalent) or NMHCE (non-methane hydrocarbon equivalent). The CAA has established THC and NMHC exhaust emission standards for conventional light-duty gasoline and diesel vehicles (0.41 g/mile for THC and 0.25 g/mile for NMHC). EPA has also established OMHCE and OMNMHCE standards for methanol-fueled vehicles (0.41 and 0.25 g/mile, respectively), an NMHC standard for CNG-fueled vehicles (0.25 g/mile), and THC and NMHC standards for LPG-fueled vehicles identical to the gasoline THC and NMHC standards. 14 14 EPA Gaseous Fuels Rule: ``Standards for Emissions from Natural Gas-Fueled, and Liquified Petroleum Gas-Fueled Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines and Certification Procedures for Aftermarket Conversion Hardware.'' (Published in the Federal Register on September 21, 1994). CARB measures VOC emissions as non-methane organic gases (NMOG). Under this approach, the mass of each organic compound except methane is measured and adjusted according to its ozone-forming reactivity relative to gasoline emissions. The sum of these adjusted masses is the amount of NMOG emitted from the vehicle. An alternative CARB NMOG method involves measuring the total mass of organic emissions and multiplying this mass by a single RAF for the particular fuel used. A RAF is equivalent to the ratio of the ozone-forming potential of emissions from a given fuel and the ozone-forming potential of conventional gasoline emissions. CARB determines a RAF for each fuel. Therefore, the relative stringency of the CARB and EPA standards for organic emissions should be compared for each fuel individually. Gasoline and Diesel Fuel
