FR940822-2-00127 FR940822-2-00061 IV. Eligibility for Award In awarding funds to accomplish these objectives and purposes, the Institute has been authorized by Congress to award grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts to State and local courts and their agencies (42 U.S.C. 10705(b)(1)(A)); national nonprofit organizations controlled by, operating in conjunction with, and serving the judicial branches of State governments (42 U.S.C. 10705 (b)(1)(B)); and national nonprofit organizations for the education and training of judges and support personnel of the judicial branch of State governments (42 U.S.C. 10705(b)(1)(C)). An applicant will be considered a national education and training applicant under section 10705(b)(1)(C) if: (1) The principal purpose or activity of the applicant is to provide education and training to State and local judges and court personnel; and (2) the applicant demonstrates a record of substantial experience in the field of judicial education and training. The Institute also is authorized to make awards to other nonprofit organizations with expertise in judicial administration, institutions of higher education, individuals, partnerships, firms, corporations, and private agencies with expertise in judicial administration, provided that the objectives of the relevant program area(s) can be served better. In making this judgment, the Institute will consider the likely replicability of the projects' methodology and results in other jurisdictions. For-profit organizations are also eligible for grants and cooperative agreements; however, they must waive their fees. The Institute may also make awards to Federal, State or local agencies and institutions other than courts for services that cannot be adequately provided through nongovernmental arrangements. Finally, the Institute may enter into inter-agency agreements with other public or private funders to support projects consistent with the purpose of the State Justice Institute Act. Each application for funding from a State or local court must be approved, consistent with State law, by the State's Supreme Court or its designated agency or council. The latter shall receive all Institute funds awarded to such courts and be responsible for assuring proper administration of Institute funds, in accordance with section XI.B.2. of this Guideline. A list of persons to contact in each State regarding approval of applications from State and local courts and administration of Institute grants to those courts is contained in Appendix I. V. Types of Projects and Grants; Size of Awards A. Types of Projects Except as expressly provided in section II.B.2.b. and II.C. above, the Institute has placed no limitation on the overall number of awards or the number of awards in each special interest category. The general types of projects are: 1. Education and training; 2. Research and evaluation; 3. Demonstration; and 4. Technical assistance. B. Types of Grants The Institute has established the following types of grants: 1. New grants (See sections VI. and VII.). 2. Continuation grants (See sections III.H. and IX.A). 3. On-going Support grants (See sections III.I. and IX.B.). 4. Package Grants (See sections III.J., VI.A.2.b., VI.A.3.b., and VII.). 5. Technical Assistance grants (See section II.C.2.). 6. Curriculum Adaptation grants (See section II.B.2.b.i.(b)). 7. Scholarships (See section II.B.2.b.v.). C. Maximum Size of Awards 1. Except as specified below, concept papers and applications for new projects other than national conferences, and applications for continuation grants may request funding in amounts up to $300,000, although new and continuation awards in excess of $200,000 are likely to be rare and to be made, if at all, only for highly promising proposals that will have a significant impact nationally. 2. Applications for on-going support grants may request funding in amounts up to $600,000, except as provided in paragraph V.C.3. At the discretion of the Board, the funds to support on-going support grants may be awarded either entirely from the Institute's appropria-tions for the fiscal year of the award or from the Institute's appropriations for successive fiscal years beginning with the fiscal year of the award. When funds to support the full amount of an on-going support grant are not awarded from the appropriations for the fiscal year of award, funds to support any subsequent years of the grant will be made available upon (1) the satisfactory performance of the project as reflected in the quarterly Progress Reports required to be filed and grant monitoring, and (2) the availability of appropriations for that fiscal year. 3. An application for a package grant may request funding in an amount up to a total of $750,000 per year. 4. Applications for technical assistance grants may request funding in amounts up to $30,000. 5. Applications for curriculum adaptation grants may request funding in amounts up to $20,000. 6. Applications for scholarships may request funding in amounts up to $1,500. D. Length of Grant Periods 1. Grant periods for all new and continuation projects ordinarily will not exceed 24 months. 2. Grant periods for on-going support grants ordinarily will not exceed 36 months. 3. Grant periods for technical assistance grants and curriculum adaptation grants ordinarily will not exceed 12 months.
