FR940720-2-00106 FR940720-2-00068 On December 29, 1993, the NRC issued Generic Letter 93&hyph;08 titled ``Relocation of Technical Specification Tables of Instrument Response Time Limits.'' This generic letter provides guidance for preparing a proposed license amendment to relocate the tables of response time limits for the RTS and the Engineered ESFAS instruments from TS to station-controlled documents. The RTS and the ESFAS provides the signals needed to actuate the safety equipment necessary to mitigate accidents and transients. Consistent with Generic Letter 93&hyph;08 the licensee is requesting license amendments for NA&hyph;1&2 to relocate the RTS and ESFAS tables of instrument response time limits from TS to station-controlled documents. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Specifically, operation of North Anna Power Station in accordance with the proposed Technical Specification[s] changes will not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability of occurrence or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The Reactor Trip System and the Engineered Safety Features Actuation System provide the signals needed to actuate the safety equipment necessary to mitigate accidents and transients. The proposed changes relocate the RTS and ESFAS instrument response time limits from the Technical Specifications to station controlled documents but will not change the operability or surveillance requirements for these instruments. With these proposed changes, revisions to the response times for these instruments can be made pursuant to 10 CFR 50.59 without Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval unless the revision involves an unreviewed safety question. The proposed changes will not change any accident initiators or the consequences of any analyzed accident. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously analyzed. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes relocate the RTS and ESFAS instrument response time limits from the Technical Specifications to station controlled documents but will not change the functions of these instruments. The proposed change does not represent a change in the configuration or operation of the plant. No new hardware is being added to the plant as part of the proposed changes. The Technical Specifications will continue to require the same operability and surveillance requirements to be met for these instruments. Therefore, the proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different type of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes will not affect the functions of the RTS or the ESFAS instruments. Relocating the response time limits will not alter the operability or the surveillance requirements of these instruments. The administrative change control provisions for plant procedures written pursuant to 10 CFR 50.59 are adequate to control revisions to the response time limits. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: The Alderman Library, Special Collections Department, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22903&hyph;2498. Attorney for licensee: Michael W. Maupin, Esq., Hunton and Williams, Riverfront Plaza, East Tower, 951 E. Byrd Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219. NRC Project Director: Herbert N. Berkow. Virginia Electric and Power Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;280 and 50&hyph;281, Surry Power Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, Surry County, Virginia
