FR940118-2-00060 FR940118-2-00047 B. If defendants have not accomplished the divestiture required by section V of this Final Judgment at the expiration of the time period specified in section V(A) and V(B) of this Final Judgment, as applicable, the appointment by the Court of the trustee shall become effective. The trustee shall then take steps to effect divestiture of Baroid's diamond bit business; provided, however, that the appointment of the trustee shall not become effective if, prior to expiration of the applicable time period, defendants have notified plaintiff pursuant to section VIII of this Final Judgment of a proposed divestiture of Baroid's diamond bit business and plaintiff has not filed a written notice that it objects to said proposed divestiture. When the appointment of the trustee becomes effective, Baroid's diamond bit business will include a nonexclusive license to manufacture and sell steel-bodied bits anywhere in the world, including The People's Republic of China. C. After the trustee's appointment has become effective, only the trustee shall have the right to sell Baroid's diamond bit business. The trustee shall have the power and authority to accomplish the divestiture to a purchaser acceptable to plaintiff at such price and on such terms as are then obtainable upon a reasonable effort by the trustee, subject to the provisions of section VIII of this Final Judgment, and shall have such other powers as this Court shall deem appropriate. Defendants shall not object to a sale of Baroid's diamond bit business by the trustee on any grounds other than the trustee's malfeasance. Any such objection by defendants must be conveyed in writing to plaintiff and the trustee within fifteen (15) days after the trustee has notified defendants of the proposed sale in accordance with section VIII of this Final Judgment. D. The trustee shall serve at the cost and expense of defendants, shall receive compensation based on a fee arrangement providing an incentive based on the price and terms of the divestiture and the speed with which it is accomplished, and shall serve on such other terms and conditions as the Court may prescribe; provided, however, that the trustee shall receive no compensation, nor incur any costs or expenses, prior to the effective date of his or her appointment. The trustee shall account for all monies derived from a sale of Baroid's diamond bit business and all costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith. After approval by the Court of the trustee's accounting, including fees for its services, all remaining monies shall be paid to defendants and the trust shall then be terminated. E. Defendants shall take no action to interfere with or impede the trustee's accomplishment of the divestiture and shall use their best efforts to assist the trustee in accomplishing the required divestiture. The trustee shall have full and complete access to the personnel, books, records, and facilities of Baroid's diamond bit business, and defendants shall develop such financial or other information relevant to Baroid's diamond bit business.
