FR940919-0-00144 FR940919-0-00017 Service Response: The best information available to the Service indicates that non-degraded vernal pools and swales do not provide a significant breeding source for mosquitoes. Mosquitoes do not appear in vernal pools until very late in the season, when they are unlikely to complete their development before the pools dry (Wright 1991; Stan Wright and Dave Brown, Sacramento-Yolo Mosquito Abatement District, pers. comm., 1993). This pattern likely is due to the ecology of vernal pool invertebrate communities rather than to oviposition timing of female mosquitoes or to water chemistry, since (1) duck ponds in the same area that fill at the same time as many vernal pools produce mosquitoes throughout the wet season while vernal pools do not, and (2) degraded pools and ruts without healthy vernal pool invertebrate communities support mosquito populations while undisturbed vernal pools in close proximity do not (S. Wright, pers. comm., 1993; J. King, pers. comm., 1993; Christopher Rogers, Redding Mosquito Abatement District, pers. comm., 1993). Female mosquitoes are attracted to gases produced by fermentation that indicate an abundance of decaying organic matter suitable for food for mosquito larvae (S. Wright, pers. comm., 1993). This likely is the cue used by females to select oviposition sites. Healthy vernal pools appear to have tight nutrient cycling and relatively low levels of decaying organic material, which makes them undesirable as oviposition sites for gravid mosquitoes. Only late in the season when the abundance of the invertebrates in vernal pools begins to decline are enough nutrients and organic material available to make the vernal pools attractive oviposition sites. By this time, however, it is often too late for the mosquito larvae to develop before the pools dry. Therefore, protecting vernal pools from disturbance and degradation can prevent vernal pools from becoming mosquito breeding grounds, thereby naturally preempting the need for artificial mosquito control in this habitat. Quantitative data collected from 64 vernal pools of widely varying types, depths, and locations on a random 322 kilometer (200 mile) north-south transect in the Central Valley from Fall River in Shasta County to Jepson Prairie in Solano County over an entire season indicate that mosquitoes are successful in breeding and developing only in pools that have been disturbed or degraded, or late in the season (J. King, pers. comm., 1993). Only about one third (34 percent) of the 64 pools studied were occupied by mosquito larvae or pupae. Most of these pools had relatively low population densities of mosquitoes, and in all of these pools mosquitoes were only present later in the season. Of the 5 pools (8 percent) that did contain abundant mosquitoes, one was an artificially created pool and another appeared to be degraded by vehicular use and possibly discing. The Service recognizes that there could be potential conflicts with protection of the three fairy shrimp and the vernal pool tadpole shrimp in implementing mosquito control programs. The Service will be working with Federal, State, and local agencies, and examining additional alternatives, such as the use of Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (Bti) and methoprene, to allow suppression programs to continue. In this way, the Service is confident that Federal listing will contribute to the survival of the four species and promote the understanding of their vernal pool environment without jeopardizing public health and safety. Issue 26: Several commenters expressed concern that listing of the crustaceans would curtail or eliminate cattle and livestock grazing in areas containing vernal pools. Two crustacean biologists reported that grazing by cattle and the crustacean species are compatible with each other. They stated that moderate to low levels of grazing likely have no adverse impacts on the fairy shrimp and the vernal pool tadpole shrimp. Service Response: The Service recognizes and acknowledges that low to moderate levels of livestock grazing likely have no impact or may be beneficial for these crustaceans. However, overgrazing in areas containing the shrimp and their habitat likely is detrimental to these species. High levels of pasture runoff may lead to increased siltation of vernal pool habitat, and high livestock densities may cause changes in pool water chemistry, water quality, and excessive physical disturbances, such as trampling. Issue 27: Several commenters reported the presence of the fairy shrimp in non-vernal pool habitats, such as irrigation return ditches, stock ponds, a backhoe pit, a gravel pit, and a depression left from scraping. One commenter stated that a historic vernal pool habitat site in southern Sacramento County that was disced, plowed, and farmed with winter wheat still contained inundated depressions inhabited by the vernal pool fairy shrimp and vernal pool tadpole shrimp. This example was used to support the contention that these species can survive and reproduce in degraded habitat. The commenter also noted that ``the site was not leveled unlike other properties in the area, and still retained some swale and hillock topography.'' (Bill Sugnet, Sugnet and Associates, in litt. , 1992). Another respondent, based on anecdotal data, concluded that the habitat for the vernal pool fairy shrimp, and the vernal pool tadpole shrimp has been insufficiently described. He reported them from roadside ditches, scrapes, tire track depressions, or similar man-made ephemeral pools from 28 locations in Sacramento County (E.J. Koford, Ebasco Environmental, in litt. , 1992). This commenter asserted that herbicides and/or mechanical weed control at sites located along some railroad tracks may have promoted the habitat for these species. One crustacean biologist, based on discussions, examination of photographs of these sites, and personal knowledge of the area concluded that they are remnant or disturbed vernal pools (J. King pers. comm., 1992).
