FR940919-0-00129 FR940919-0-00016 Appendix X to Part 268_ Recordkeeping, Notification, and/or Certification Requirements 1Entity 1Scenario 1Frequency 1Recipient of notification 1Recordkeeping, notification, and/or certification requirements I. Generator A. Waste does not meet applicable treatment standards or exceeds applicable prohibition levels (see §268.7(a)(1)) Each shipment Treatment or storage facility Notice must include: ␣EPA hazardous waste number. ␣Constituents of concern. ␣Treatability group. ␣Manifest number. ␣Waste analysis data (where available). ␣ B. Waste can be disposed of without further treatment (meets applicable treatment standards or does not exceed prohibition levels upon generation) (see §268.7(a)(2)) Each shipment Land disposal facility Notice and certification statement that waste meets applicable treatment standards or applicable prohibition levels. Notice must include: ␣EPA hazardous waste number. ␣Constituents of concern. ␣Treatability group. ␣Manifest number. ␣Waste analysis data (where available). Certification statement required under §268.7(a)(2)(ii) that waste complies with treatment standards and prohibitions. ␣ C. Waste is subject to exemption from a prohibition on the type of land disposal utilized for the waste, such as a case-by-case extension under §268.5, an exemption under §268.6, or a nationwide capacity variance (see §268.7(a)(3)) Each shipment Receiving facility Notice must include: ␣Statement that waste is not prohibited from land disposal. ␣EPA hazardous waste number. ␣Constituents of concern. ␣Treatability group. ␣Manifest number. ␣Waste analysis data (where available). ␣Date the waste is subject to the prohibitions. ␣ D. Waste is being accumulated in tanks or containers regulated under 40 CFR 262.34 and is being treated in such tanks or containers to meet applicable treatment standards (see §268.7(a)(4)) Minimum of 30 days prior to treatment activity EPA Regional Administrator (or designated representative) or authorized State. Delivery must be verified Generator must develop, keep on-site, and follow a written waste analysis plan describing procedures used to comply with the treatment standards. If waste is shipped off-site, generator also must comply with notification requirement of §268.7(a)(2). ␣ E. Generator is managing a lab pack containing certain wastes and wishes to use an alternative treatment standard (see §268.7(a)(8)) Each shipment Treatment facility Notice in accordance with §268.7(a)(1), (a)(5), and (a)(6), where applicable. Certification in accordance with §268.7(a)(8). ␣ F. Small quantity generators with tolling agreements (pursuant to 40 CFR 262.20(e)) (see §268.7(a)(9)) Initial shipment Treatment facility Must comply with applicable notification and certification requirements in §268.7(a). Generator also must retain copy of the notification and certification together with tolling agreement on-site for at least 3 years after termination or expiration of agreement. ␣ G. Generator has determined waste is restricted based solely on his knowledge of the waste (see §268.7(a)(5)) N/A Generator's file All supporting data must be retained on-site in generator's files. ␣ H. Generator has determined waste is restricted based on testing waste or an extract (see §268.7(a)(5)) N/A Generator's file All waste analysis data must be retained on-site in generator's files. ␣ I. Generator has determined that waste is excluded from the definition of hazardous or solid waste or exempt from Subtitle C regulation (see §268.7(a)(6)) One-time Generator's file Notice of generation and subsequent exclusion from the definition of hazardous or solid waste, or exemption from Subtitle C regulation, and information regarding the disposition of the waste. ␣ J. Generator (or treater) claims that hazardous debris is excluded from the definition of hazardous waste under 40 CFR 261.3(f)(1) (see §268.7(d)) One-time EPA Regional Administrator or authorized State. Notification must be updated as necessary under §268.7(d)(2) Notice must include: ␣Name and address of Subtitle D facility receiving treated debris. ␣EPA hazardous waste number and description of debris as initially generated. ␣Technology used to treat the debris (Table 1 of §268.45). Certification and recordkeeping in accordance with §268.7(d)(3). ␣ K. Generator (or treater) claims that characteristic wastes are no longer hazardous (see §268.9(d)) One-time Generator's (or treater's) files and EPA Regional Administrator or authorized State. Notification must be updated as necessary under §268.9(d) Notice must include: ␣Name and address of Subtitle D facility receiving the waste. ␣EPA hazardous waste number and description of waste as initially generated. ␣Treatability group. ␣Underlying hazardous constituents. Certification in accordance with §268.9(d)(2). ␣ L. Other recordkeeping requirements (see §268.7(a)(7)) N/A Generator's file Generator must retain a copy of all notices, certifications, demonstrations, waste analysis data, and other documentation produced pursuant to §268.7 on-site for at least 5 years from the date that the waste was last sent to on-site or off-site treatment, storage, or disposal. This period is automatically extended during enforcement actions or as requested by the Administrator. II. Treatment Facility A. Waste shipped from treatment facility to land disposal facility (see §268.7(b)(4), (b)(5)) Each shipment Land disposal facility Notice must include: ␣EPA hazardous waste number. ␣Constituents of concern. ␣Treatability group. ␣Manifest number. ␣Waste analysis data (where available). Applicable certification, in accordance with §268.7(b)(5)(i), (ii) or (iii), stating that the waste or treatment residue has been treated in compliance with applicable treatment standards and prohibitions. ␣ B. Waste treatment residue from a treatment or storage facility will be further managed at a different treatment or storage facility (see §268.7(b)(6)) Each shipment Receiving facility Treatment, storage, or disposal facility must comply with all notice and certification requirements applicable to generators. ␣ C. Where wastes are recyclable materials used in a manner constituting disposal subject to §266.20(b) (see §268.7(b)(7)) Each shipment Regional Administrator (or delegated representative) No notification to receiving facility required pursuant to §268.7(b)(4). Certification as described in §268.7(b)(5) and notice with information listed in §268.7(b)(4), except manifest number. Recycling facility must keep records of the name and location of each entity receiving hazardous waste-derived products. III. Land Disposal Facility A. Wastes accepted by land disposal facility (see §268.7(c)) N/A N/A Maintain copies of notice and certifications specified in §268.7(a) and (b). Certification Statements A. I certify under penalty of law that I personally have examined and am familiar with the waste through analysis and testing or through knowledge of the waste to support this certification that the waste complies with the treatment standards specified in 40 CFR part 268, subpart D and all applicable prohibitions set forth in 40 CFR 268.32 or RCRA section 3004(d). I believe that the information I submitted is true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. (§268.7(a)(2)(ii)) B. I certify under penalty of law that I personally have examined and am familiar with the waste and that the lab pack does not contain any wastes identified at §268.42(c)(2). I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment. (§268.7(a)(8)) C. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the treatment technology and operation of the treatment process used to support this certification and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining this information, I believe that the treatment process has been operated and maintained properly so as to comply with the performance levels specified in 40 CFR part 268, subpart D, and all applicable prohibitions set forth in 40 CFR 268.32 or RCRA section 3004(d) without impermissible dilution of the prohibited waste. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. (§268.7(b)(5)(i)) D. I certify under penalty of law that the waste has been treated in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 268.42. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. (§268.7(b)(5)(ii)) E. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the treatment technology and operation of the treatment process used to support this certification and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining this information, I believe that the nonwastewater organic constituents have been treated by incineration in units operated in accordance with 40 CFR part 264, subpart O or 40 CFR part 265, subpart O, or by combustion in fuel substitution units operating in accordance with applicable technical requirements, and I have been unable to detect the nonwastewater organic constituents, despite having used best good faith efforts to analyze for such constituents. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. (§268.7(b)(5)(iii)) F. I certify under penalty of law that the waste has been treated in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 268.40 to remove the hazardous characteristic. This decharacterized waste contains underlying hazardous constituents that require further treatment to meet universal treatment standards. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. (§268.7(b)(5)(iv)) G. I certify under penalty of law that the debris have been treated in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 268.45. am aware that there are significant penalties for making a false certification, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. (§268.7(d)(3)(iii))
