FR940913-0-00065 FR940913-0-00027 Project period means the period established in the award document during which HUD sponsorship begins and ends. Property means, unless otherwise stated, real property, equipment, intangible property and debt instruments. Real property means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, but excludes movable machinery and equipment. Recipient means an organization receiving financial assistance directly from HUD to carry out a project or program. The term includes public and private institutions of higher education, public and private hospitals, and other quasi-public and private non-profit organizations such as, but not limited to, community action agencies, research institutes, educational associations, and health centers. The term includes commercial organizations, international organizations when operating domestically (such as agencies of the United Nations) which are recipients, subrecipients, or contractors or subcontractors of recipients or subrecipients. The term does not include government-owned contractor-operated facilities or research centers providing continued support for mission-oriented, large-scale programs that are government-owned or controlled, or are designated as federally-funded research and development centers. The term does not include mortgagors that receive mortgages insured or held by HUD or mortgagors or project owners that receive capital advances from HUD under the Section 202 and 811 programs. Research and development means all research activities, both basic and applied, and all development activities that are supported at universities, colleges, and other non-profit institutions. ``Research'' is defined as a systematic study directed toward fuller scientific knowledge or understanding of the subject studied. ``Development'' is the systematic use of knowledge and understanding gained from research directed toward the production of useful materials, devices, systems, or methods, including design and development of prototypes and processes. The term research also includes activities involving the training of individuals in research techniques where such activities utilize the same facilities as other research and development activities and where such activities are not included in the instruction function. Small awards means a grant or cooperative agreement not exceeding $100,000 or the small purchase threshold fixed at 41 U.S.C. 403(11), whichever is greater. Subaward means: (1) An award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under an award by a recipient to an eligible subrecipient or by a subrecipient to a lower tier subrecipient. The term includes financial assistance when provided by any legal agreement, even if the agreement is called a contract, but does not include procurement of goods and services nor does it include any form of assistance which is excluded from the definition of ``award''. (2) For Community Development Block Grants, the term ``subaward'' does not include the arrangement whereby the prime recipient transfers funds to another entity and that entity is the project. A distinction is made between such a transfer for the furtherance of the prime recipient's goals and the transfer of funds to a subrecipient who carries out activities and is accountable to the prime recipient. For example, in a CDBG award where a prime recipient has as its program goal the revitalization of a downtown area, the funds transferred to a business in the downtown area to remodel its store would not be considered a subaward subject to this part 84. Subrecipient means the legal entity to which a subaward is made and which is accountable to the recipient for the use of the funds provided. The term includes commercial organizations and international organizations operating domestically (such as agencies of the United Nations). Supplies means all personal property excluding equipment, intangible property, and debt instruments as defined in this section, and inventions of a contractor conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the performance of work under a funding agreement (``subject inventions''), as defined in 37 CFR part 401, ``Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements.'' Suspension means an action by HUD that temporarily withdraws HUD sponsorship under an award, pending corrective action by the recipient or pending a decision to terminate the award by HUD. Suspension of an award is a separate action from suspension under HUD regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and E.O. 12689, ``Debarment and Suspension,'' at 24 CFR part 24. Termination means the cancellation of HUD sponsorship, in whole or in part, under an agreement at any time prior to the date of completion. Third party in-kind contributions means the value of non-cash contributions provided by non-Federal third parties. Third party in-kind contributions may be in the form of real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, and the value of goods and services directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to the project or program. Unliquidated obligations, for financial reports prepared on a cash basis, means the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient that have not been paid. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, they represent the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient for which an outlay has not been recorded. Unobligated balance means the portion of the funds authorized by HUD that has not been obligated by the recipient and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized. Unrecovered indirect cost means the difference between the amount awarded and the amount which could have been awarded under the recipient's approved negotiated indirect cost rate. Working capital advance means a procedure whereby funds are advanced to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for a given initial period. §84.3 Effect on other issuances. For awards subject to this part, all administrative requirements of codified program regulations, program manuals, handbooks and other nonregulatory materials which are inconsistent with the requirements of this part shall be superseded, except to the extent they are required by statute, or authorized in accordance with the deviations provision in §84.4. §84.4 Deviations. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) may grant exceptions for classes of grants or recipients subject to the requirements of this rule when exceptions are not prohibited by statute. However, in the interest of maximum uniformity, exceptions from the requirements of this rule shall be permitted only in unusual circumstances. HUD may apply more restrictive requirements to a class of recipients when approved by OMB. HUD may apply less restrictive requirements when awarding small awards and when approved by OMB, except for those requirements which are statutory. Exceptions on a case-by-case basis may also be made by HUD. §84.5 Subawards. Unless sections of this part specifically exclude subrecipients from coverage, the provisions of this part shall be applied to subrecipients performing work under awards if such subrecipients are institutions of higher education, hospitals, commercial organizations and international organizations operating domestically, or other non-profit organizations. State, local and Federally recognized Indian tribal government subrecipients are subject to the provisions of regulations implementing the grants management common rule, ``Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State, Local and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments,'' (24 CFR part 85). Subpart B_Pre-Award Requirements §84.10 Purpose. Sections 84.11 through 84.17 prescribe forms and instructions and other pre-award matters to be used in applying for HUD awards. §84.11 Pre-award policies.
