FR940606-1-00022 FR940606-1-00008 If pressure drop is selected as the parameter to be used to determine continuous compliance, then a violation of the standards could occur under one of the following conditions: (1) Whenever the pressure drop moves outside the limits specified by the manufacturer or (2) when the pressure drop is found to be outside the specified limits when monitored and recorded once per operating shift. As the proposed rule is currently written, a violation would occur in the latter situation. The EPA is requesting comments on which of these options, or another option, is most appropriate. The EPA is proposing to exempt the following list of operations from the proposed standards for inorganic HAP emissions from primer and topcoat application operations: (1) Touch-up of scratched surfaces or damaged paint, (2) Hole daubing for fasteners, (3) Touch-up of trimmed edges, (4) Coating prior to joining dissimilar metal components, (5) Stencil operations performed by brush or air brush, (6) Section joining, and (7) Touch-up of bushings and other similar components. 3. Depainting Operation Standards are being proposed for both organic HAP emissions and inorganic HAP emissions from depainting. With the exception of the proposed standards for spot stripping and decal removal, as discussed below, the standards being proposed for depainting would be the same for all new and existing affected sources. The proposed standards would apply only to the depainting of the outer surface of entire aerospace vehicles, including the fuselage, wings, and horizontal and vertical stabilizers of the aircraft, and the outer casing and stabilizers of missiles and rockets. Standards for the depainting of parts, subassemblies, radomes, and parts normally removed from the completed vehicle before depainting are not being proposed at this time. However, wings and stabilizers would always be required to comply. a. Organic HAP emissions. The proposed standards would require that there be no organic HAP emissions from the depainting operation. These standards could be achieved through the use of (1) chemical strippers that contain no organic HAP or (2) media blasting equipment, high intensity ultra-violet light blasting, or any other non-chemical depainting technique. However, the proposed rule would allow the use of organic HAP-containing chemical stripper for spot stripping and decal removal. The proposed rule would limit this use of organic HAP-containing chemical stripper to an average of 26 gallons per aircraft for commercial aircraft and 50 gallons per aircraft for military aircraft, calculated on an annual basis. Non-chemical-based depainting equipment would be required to be operated and maintained according to manufacturer's specifications. During any period of malfunction, the owner or operator would be allowed to use a substitute material to depaint the vehicles. Unless the substitute material does not contain any organic HAP, the substitute material would not be allowed to be used for more than 14 consecutive days. The proposed rule does not contain an annual limit on the number of days a source may use HAP-containing chemical strippers during periods of malfunction of non-chemical-based depainting equipment. The EPA is requesting comments on whether an annual limit should be imposed and, if so, technical justification for the number of days specified by the limit. b. Inorganic HAP emissions. The proposed rule for inorganic HAP emissions would apply to those depainting methods (typically blasting methods) that generate airborne particulate emissions, such as dust and paint particles, that contain inorganic HAP. The proposed standards would require that the depainting operation be carried out in an enclosed hangar and that any air stream removed from the depainting area be directed through a particulate filter (e.g., panel-type filter or baghouse) before exhausting to the atmosphere. This filtration system must have a particulate removal efficiency greater than or equal to 99 percent, and the pressure drop across the filter must be continuously monitored. If the pressure drop moves outside of these limits as recorded each operational shift, then the operation must immediately be shut down and corrective action taken. The process cannot resume until the pressure drop is within the limits specified by the manufacturer.
