FR940112-2-00121 FR940112-2-00087 [Release No. 34&hyph;33412; File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;9] Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Depository Trust Co.; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change Relating to Implementation of a Deposit Automated Management Service January 4, 1994. On August 16, 1993, The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') under section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 a proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;9) to implement its Deposit Automated Management (``DAM'') service. The Commission published notice of this proposed rule change in the Federal Register on October 1, 1993. 2 No public comments were received. For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is approving the proposed rule change. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32957 (September 24, 1993), 58 FR 51395. I. Description The proposed rule change establishes procedures for implementation of DTC's DAM service. 3 DAM is an enhanced automated deposit service that enables DTC participants to send details of deposits to DTC in advance of forwarding physical certificates. 3 The proposal will neither add new rules to nor amend any existing rules in DTC's Rules Manual. Telephone conversation between Jack R. Wiener, Associate Counsel, and Cheryl Lambert, Group Director, DTC, and Richard C. Strasser, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation (``Division''), Commission (September 7, 1993). Using DAM, a DTC participant will send to DTC advance Computer-to-Computer Facility (CCF/CCF II) or PTS transmissions with details regarding securities that the participant plans to deposit. DTC then will determine whether the proposed deposit is acceptable by reviewing for such things as ineligible issues, chilled issues, and incorrect CUSIPs. At this point, DTC will send to the participant a PTS transmission which will flag rejected items (i.e., securities which are unacceptable for deposit), items with record dates that affect DTC's processing, 4 and other special processing items. The participant then will direct the printing of a special bar-coded deposit ticket for all accepted items on a thermal bar-code printer. 5 One bar-coded ticket will be printed for each CUSIP. 6 Each bar-coded ticket will contain information such as the identity of the transfer agent, the nature of the deposit (e.g., whether the deposit is made pursuant to a special corporate event or whether the shares are those of a limited partnership), and other information that is required for DTC's internal processing of the deposit. After the participant presents the physical certificates and the bar-coded deposit ticket to DTC, DTC will scan the bar-coded deposit ticket, and the information contained therein immediately will update DTC's mainframe computer. This process eliminates the need to enter data by keystroke. 4 DTC will not flag the record date of every corporate event. Letter from Jack R. Wiener, Associate Counsel, DTC, to Richard C. Strasser, Attorney, Division, Commission (September 29, 1993). For instance, DTC will not notate the record date of corporate events such as holiday parties. 5 If a participant chooses not to acquire a bar-code printer (which costs between $2,000 and $8,000 depending on printer speed), the participant will print a deposit ticket that does not have a bar-code using the information and deposit control number received from DTC. When the participant presents the securities and the deposit tickets without bar-codes to DTC, DTC will use the deposit control numbers on the deposit tickets to print bar-coded deposit tickets on a printer located at DTC. 6 If a CUSIP is eligible for deposit, the ticket will so signify. If a CUSIP is ineligible for deposit, the ticket will state ``reject'' and will give the reason for the rejection. Telephone conversation between Cheryl Lambert, Group Director, DTC, and Jerry W. Carpenter, Branch Chief, Division, Commission (December 17, 1993). Among other benefits, DAM will provide an opportunity for participants to consolidate deposits in the same issue (whether or not the advanced deposit notifications are transmitted to DTC together) and will enable DTC to produce a single deposit ticket for the total quantity of an issue deposited on a particular day. 7 By providing a unique deposit control number that will be printed on the deposit ticket for each deposit, the service will speed research, when needed, on the deposited item. DAM also will permit participants to suspend deposits for up to ten business days in the event of an emergency, transportation delay, or error. 7 Participants can realize cost savings by avoiding separate fees for multiple deposits made in the same issue on the same day. For instance, throughout a given day a participant repeatedly may notify DTC that it plans to deposit a certain number of shares of IBM common stock. Assume a participant announces in its first transmission that it will deliver 100 shares of IBM common stock, in its second transmission that it will deliver 200 more shares of IBM, and in its third transmission that it will deposit yet another 300 shares of IBM for a total of 600 shares for the day. DTC will sum the three deposits for the day, and the bar-coded deposit ticket will reflect an intended deposit of 600 shares of IBM common stock.
