FR940317-1-00104 FR940317-1-00013 (d) When circumstances permit, assistance in meeting local requirements will be rendered to the foreign personnel involved at the scene of an incident by the commanding officer of the installation to which the incident was reported. The commanding officer of an installation at which a foreign unit is stationed should request that local law enforcement agencies follow procedures applicable to incidents involving military personnel of the United States in any incident involving foreign personnel. Claims Against the United States Arising Overseas ยง536.115 Scope. (a) This section provides guidance on claims against the United States which are based on acts of our soldiers or employees within the scope of their employment and which arise in countries for which there is an international agreement requiring a foreign government (i.e., receiving state) to adjudicate and pay the claims subject to partial reimbursement by the United States. (b) Claims by foreign inhabitants based on acts of members of our forces which are outside the scope of their official duties may be payable under the Foreign Claims Act (chapter 10) but are usually not adjudicated by receiving states under most international agreements. These non-scope claims will be processed under the provisions of subpart J. ยง536.116 Claims procedures. (a) Claims provisions in Status of Forces Agreements providing for receiving state adjudication have been held to be the exclusive remedy for claims against the United States, preempting any remedy that would otherwise be available under other United States claims statutes, such as the Foreign Claims Act or the Public Vessels Act ( Aaskov v. Aldridge , 695 F. Supp. 595 (D.D.C. 1988)). (b) SOFA provisions for receiving state adjudication of claims against the United States usually refer to claims by ``third parties'' against members of the force or civilian component. This clearly includes claims by tourists or business travelers from the United States as well as inhabitants of foreign countries. Depending on how the receiving state interprets the class of proper claimants under the SOFA claims provisions, the receiving state may also adjudicate claims by dependents of our forces. Chiefs of command claims services responsible for claims arising in countries with SOFA or other treaty provisions requiring adjudication of claims against the United States by a receiving state will ensure their tort claims personnel are aware of the receiving state's policy on the issue of who are proper claimants under the treaty provisions. (c) Where SOFA provisions provide for receiving state adjudication of claims, the time limit for filing such claims is often substantially less than the two years that would otherwise be allowed under the FCA or MCA. For example, the Defense Cost Office in Germany requires that a claim be filed within 90 days of the date it accrues. Command claims services will ensure that all claims personnel in their area of responsibility: (1) Receive annual training on the receiving state's claims procedures, to include the applicable time limits, procedures and location of the appropriate receiving state claims office or agency; (2) Screen all new claims and inquiries about claims to identify claimants who must file with the receiving state; (3) Ensure that all such claimants are informed of this requirement and the applicable time limit. (d) All foreign inhabitants who have claims against the United States which are the responsibility of the receiving state (i.e., based on acts within scope of duties of employees or members of U.S. forces and not otherwise excluded by the treaty) will be required to file the claim with the appropriate receiving state office. Those U. S. inhabitants whose claims would otherwise be cognizable under the Military Claims Act (chapter 3) and who are deemed by the receiving state to be proper claimants under the SOFA claims provisions must also file with the receiving state. However, if they fail to do so, their claim may be considered under subpart C, for good cause, with the permission of the Commander, USARCS. Claims for which a foreign country is responsible under a SOFA or similar agreement will not be paid under subpart J or subpart C without prior approval of the Commander, USARCS or the senior JA in country (ยง536.52(a)(3) and 536.152(c)). (e) A claim filed and adjudicated by a receiving state under a SOFA or other international agreement claims provision may be considered under other claims provisions of this regulation only if the receiving state denied the claim on the basis that it was not cognizable under the treaty or agreement provisions. Where a claimant has filed a claim with a receiving state and received payment, such payment will be the claimant's final and exclusive remedy against the United States. If the claim is denied on the merits by the receiving state, that action will also be the claimant's final and conclusive remedy against the United States.
