FR940819-1-00046 FR940819-1-00011 You may submit a statement to FRA with a copy to this railroad and comment on any aspect of the railroad's report. The decision whether to submit such a statement is entirely optional on your part. If you choose to do so, please see the additional notices and instructions on the reverse of this form. Because FRA is proposing to replace ``employee'' with the term ``worker,'' the title of Form FRA F 6180.78 would be revised to read ``Notice to Railroad Worker Involved in Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Attributed to Worker Human Factor; Worker Statement Supplementing Railroad Accident Report.'' Similarly, the title of Form FRA F 6180.81 would be revised to read ``Worker Human Factor Attachment.'' The format of the proposed Form FRA F 6180.78 is set forth in Appendix 14 to this NPRM. Note that Appendix 15, the currently used Form FRA F 6180.78, is provided for reference and comparison purposes. D. Recordkeeping 1. Injury and Illness Recordkeeping a. Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log (Proposed Form FRA F 6180.xx and Proposed §225.25(a)). Section 225.25(a) refers to the log of injuries and occupational illnesses at and for each railroad establishment. It is silent as to whether an injury or illness has to be ``reportable'' to be included on the log. FRA has concluded that in order to effectively enforce railroad injury reporting, the log must contain all injuries and illnesses to railroad workers that arise from the operation of the railroad. Unless FRA has the opportunity to examine those injuries and illnesses deemed ``non-reportable'' as well as those deemed ``reportable'' by the railroad, it is difficult for FRA to determine whether a railroad is properly making the ``reportable'' decision. Consequently, in order to accurately identify and review both reportable and non-reportable railroad injuries and illnesses, FRA is proposing to amend §225.25(a) to require that railroads maintain a log of all reportable and non-reportable ( i.e., recordable) injuries and illnesses to railroad workers for each railroad establishment using a new form entitled ``Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log'' (Form FRA F 6180.xx). The format of the proposed ``Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log'' (Form FRA F 6180.xx) is set forth in Appendix 16 to this NPRM. A ``recordable'' injury or illness is intended to encompass any condition, not otherwise reportable, of a railroad worker that is associated with an event, exposure, or activity in the work environment that causes or requires the worker to be examined or treated by a qualified health care professional. Such treatment would usually occur at a location other than the work environment. The ``Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log'' would be maintained for each operational railroad establishment, i.e., an establishment wherein workers report to work. The proposed log contains all the information currently required under §225.25(a). Requiring railroads to log injury and illness data on the new Form would help alleviate the difficulty FRA inspectors encounter when attempting to locate injury and illness information at railroad establishments. b. Updating the Log (Proposed §225.25(c)). Discrepancies in the log are the most recurring problems FRA inspectors encounter during an inspection. Many railroads fail to update the log in a timely manner, particularly with respect to lost/restricted workdays. Therefore, in order to assure that each railroad continuously updates the log (new Form), FRA proposes, in new §225.25(c), that each reportable and recordable (non-reportable) injury and illness be entered on the log as early as practicable, but in any event no later than seven working days after receiving information that an illness or injury has occurred. Additionally, new §225.25(d) provides that if the log is maintained at a centralized location, but not through electronic means, a paper copy of the log that is current within 35 days of the month to which it applies must be available at the appropriate establishment. When the logs are maintained at a central location through electronic means, the records for that establishment must be available for review in a hard copy format (paper printout) within four business hours of the request. The ``Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log'' would also be used to prepare Form FRA F 6180.55a and to update changes in the status of a particular case. c. Elimination of supplementary record required under §225.25(b). FRA has found that much of the information requested in the supplementary record of injuries and illnesses pursuant to the present regulation set forth in §225.25(b) would be collected on the new ``Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log'' as proposed in §225.25(a). Therefore, the requirement that each railroad maintain a supplementary record, as currently required under §225.25(b), would be eliminated. d. Monthly list of injuries and illnesses (Proposed §225.25(e)). New §225.25(e) proposes that each railroad maintain a list of all reported injuries and illnesses for the previous month and that such list be posted in a conspicuous location at each railroad establishment within 30 days after expiration of the month during which the injuries and illnesses occurred. For example, the monthly list of injuries and illnesses for the month of May must be completed and posted no later than June 30th. Moreover, the monthly injury and illness list would be displayed for a minimum of 60 consecutive days so as to allow all workers at that establishment the opportunity to view the list. Given the example above, the list, if posted on June 30th, would remain posted for a minimum of 60 days, or until August 30th. Proposed §225.25(e)(1) outlines the data that would be included in the list. New §225.25(e)(2) proposes that if no reportable injuries or illnesses were associated with an establishment, the posting shall make reference to that fact. e. Employer notification (Proposed §225.39(a) and Copy of ``Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log'' to worker (Proposed §225.39(b)). Rail labor organizations have repeatedly expressed concern that many injured workers fail to inform their employers of such injuries. By placing part of the burden for reporting on the individual railroad worker, FRA believes it could improve the general quality of the injury/illness reporting data. Consequently, proposed §225.39(a) would require that railroad workers notify their employer, in writing, that they have an injury and/or illness within seven calendar days of either incurring the injury or illness or obtaining knowledge that they incurred the injury or illness. A railroad worker must notify his or her employer of both reportable injuries and illnesses and non-reportable, i.e. , ``recordable'' injuries and illnesses. As discussed previously in this NPRM, a ``recordable'' injury or illness is intended to encompass any condition, not otherwise reportable, of a railroad worker that is associated with an event, exposure, or activity in the work environment that causes or requires the worker to be examined or treated by a qualified health care professional. Another concern is that injured workers do not have the opportunity to review and verify the information on the accident/illness report prior to submission of that report to FRA. FRA thus proposes, in new §225.39(b), the requirement that the reporting railroad must provide the railroad worker with a copy of the completed ``Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log'' (Form FRA F 6180.xx). FRA believes that the general quality of injury and illness data would improve by allowing the worker to participate in the reporting process as set forth above. 2. Derailment and Collision Recordkeeping a. Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Log (Proposed Form FRA F 6180.xx(a) and Proposed §225.25(b)). At the present time railroads are required to maintain a log of only reportable rail equipment accidents. Information on non-reportable events can typically be found in ``unusual occurrence'' reports and ``morning reports'' that are maintained at various locations by the railroad. However, there is no guarantee that all of those reports are either available or complete. As a result, during routine accident/incident records inspections it is often difficult, if not impossible, to identify the events that were determined by the railroad to be non-reportable.
