FR940505-1-00079 FR940505-1-00012 Methods recommended for promoting aerobic decomposition of livestock waste include: aerating manure storage piles every three to seven days; scraping feedlots at least three times per year; and spreading oxidizing agents on feedlots. For waste management practices using a dry method, the proposed FIP measure will require the periodic aeration and removal of manure storage piles. This measure is estimated to reduce VOC emissions by 25 percent. Methane recovery and utilization systems are considered a potential control method for reducing VOC and methane emissions. Methane is considered an important greenhouse gas and also a potential energy source. Depending on the size of the livestock waste operation, methane recovery systems can pay for themselves over time and result in cost savings for large-scale dairy operations. Methane recovery systems are currently operating at 23 sites in the U.S., including at a swine facility near Tulare, CA and a dairy near Modesto, CA. Near Chino, CA, a recovery system is under development which would process an estimated 2,500 tpd of cattle waste and 600 tpd of chicken waste. Technologies for methane recovery include covered lagoons, plug flow digesters, and complete mix digesters. Although these recovery systems represent a viable, demonstrated technology, some systems have not been as successful as expected because of improper design or other factors. For these reasons, EPA requests comment and information on any examples, circumstances, and/or reasons why a previously installed recovery system may not have achieved its full expectations. The proposed FIP rule will require that at least 55 percent of the manure generated be collected and managed through a methane recovery system. These systems are estimated to reduce emissions by 80 percent. The technical and economic feasibility of this technology depends on farm size, climate, and energy process. The off-gas (i.e., methane) collected can be utilized in the dairy operation for processes such as: electricity production (e.g., to fuel an engine generator); heating (e.g., to fire boilers and/or space heaters); and cooling (e.g., to fire chillers or other refrigeration equipment). This in turn can create farm profits from avoided energy costs or sales of excess electricity to the local utility. Although methane recovery systems would require a large initial investment, estimated annual costs range from $100 to $1,300 per year (for a 400 head dairy) to a cost savings of $10,000 per year (for a 1,400 head dairy). The initial investment could be recovered within six to fourteen years, depending on dairy size. The overall emission reductions from livestock waste operations will depend on the percentage of waste which is managed via the dry method (e.g., placed in storage piles) compared to the handled through a wet method (e.g., sent to the covered lagoon or digester). For purposes of the FIP reduction estimates, it is assumed that a minimum of 55 percent of the livestock waste would be sent to a lagoon or digester. Assuming that a hypothetical dairy farm would install a recovery system for liquid management and use the dry method for the remaining fraction of the wastes not sent to the recovery system, overall expected cost per ton of VOC reduced is estimated to range from about $2,100 per ton for a 400 head dairy to a $400 (cost) to $100 (savings) per ton for a 1,450 head dairy. Preliminary evaluation of the environmental, economic, and other impacts of the proposed rule are discussed in EPA's technical support document. VOC Emission reductions expected from this proposed regulation are estimated at 1.0 tpd in the Sacramento area and 6.0 tpd in the South Coast. No reductions are expected in Ventura County because all livestock waste operations are believed to be less than 200 head. Additional reductions could be achieved if the requirements were extended to smaller livestock waste operations, such as 250 head or greater. EPA is requesting comments and information on a number of issues related to this proposed measure. Comments are requested on the proposed FIP requirements and/or other potential emission reduction strategies not addressed in the proposal. Because each dairy operation is unique and can vary in its waste management practices, comments are specifically requested on alternative emission reduction methods and/or more cost effective strategies which might achieve equivalent results to those proposed. EPA also requests comments and information on the number of dairy farms in the FIP areas which contain at least 400 head and the percentage of dairy farms which manage at least 55 percent of the livestock waste through a wet method. Because the emission factors used to estimate VOC emissions from these sources should be updated, EPA intends to explore options for additional testing to verify that VOC emission factors accurately reflect emissions expected from both wet and dry waste management methods. (j)(1) Fugitive Emissions from Oil and Gas Production Facilities and Conveying Stations (Sacramento, South Coast, Ventura). Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(t) controls VOC fugitive leak emissions from valves, flanges, fittings, pumps, compressors, open ended lines and/or other components at oil and gas production facilities and conveying stations. 42 1990 VOC emissions from these fugitive sources were estimated at approximately 0.9 tons per day (tpd) in the Sacramento area, 4.4 tpd in the South Coast, and 3.8 tpd in Ventura. 42 Conveying stations include any compressor station, metering station, or other transfer station located between the extraction well and the refinery or gas processing plant. The proposed rule builds upon current regulations and strengthens and improves existing rules through retrofits on gas-operated control valves, lower allowable leak thresholds, correction of rule deficiencies, and improved inspection and repair programs. The proposed regulation is based on: CARB RACT guidance for the control of fugitive emissions of VOCs from oil and gas production and processing facilities, refineries, chemical plants, and pipeline transfer stations; Santa Barbara APCD Rule 331; SCAQMD Rule 1173; and new information regarding gas-operated control valves. Currently, gas-operated control valves are not regulated in the FIP areas. These valves are designed to bleed upon actuation, resulting in the release of uncontrolled VOC emissions. The proposed FIP rule would require that these valves be retrofitted using a control valve which would reduce gas bleed emissions by an estimated 95 percent. EPA has estimated a California population of 10,000 gas-operated control valves and assumed that these valves are evenly distributed throughout the state. EPA has also assumed that the control valves are only used in natural gas conveyance and petroleum production. Comments are specifically requested on the number of gas-operated control valves in the FIP areas and whether these valves are used in other operations besides those described above. The proposed FIP rule will establish a fugitives regulation for oil and gas production and conveying stations within the Sacramento FIP area. Previously, these fugitive sources were unregulated. The majority of expected reductions will be from the Yolo-Solano portion of the FIP area. In the Ventura FIP area, the rule builds upon requirements in VCAPCD Rule 74.10 and lower the number of allowable leaking components and leak definition to requirements consistent with existing rules and CARB's RACT guidance.
