FR940606-1-00056 FR940606-1-00008 The rationale for the pressure drop monitoring requirements proposed for inorganic HAP emissions from depainting operations is identical to that for primers and topcoats. d. Handling and storage of waste. For those wastes subject to the proposed rule, the EPA could not identify any operating parameters that would monitor whether housekeeping measures were being performed. Therefore, no monitoring requirements are being proposed. H. Selection of Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements 1. Recordkeeping In addition to the specific recordkeeping requirements described below for each affected source, the proposed rule adopts the provisions specified in §63.10 (a), (b), (d), and (f) of the General Provisions, 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. 11 These were the only paragraphs from §63.10 that were considered to be applicable to the proposed rule. 11 Ibid. a. Cleaning operation. The proposed standards for hand-wipe cleaning operations require cleaning solvents to be used that either comply with the approved composition list or have a composite vapor pressure less than or equal to 45 mm Hg at 20 ○C (24.1 in. H 2 O at 68 ○F). In order to determine whether these requirements are being complied with, it is necessary to keep data on the cleaning solvents being used in these operations. Therefore, the EPA is proposing that each owner or operator keep for each cleaning solvent used at the facility, a record of the name of the cleaning solvent and documentation that shows the organic HAP content and organic HAP constituents. In addition, the EPA is proposing the following records for specific cleaning operations be kept. For each cleaning solvent used in hand-wipe cleaning operations that conforms to the approved composition list, the records that would be maintained are the name of each cleaning solvent, documentation demonstrating compliance to the approved composition list, and annual purchasing records showing the annual volume purchased of each. For each cleaning solvent used in hand-wipe cleaning operations that does not conform to the approved composition list, but does conform to the vapor pressure requirement, the information required to be recorded would be the name of each cleaning solvent, the monthly usage of the cleaning solvent at each operation, the composite vapor pressure, the manufacturer's data sheets or other documentation of the vapor pressure, and any test reports and calculations performed to determine the composite vapor pressure (in order to assess compliance with the vapor pressure limit).
