FR940214-2-00011 FR940214-2-00005 [I.D. 020894B] New England Fishery Management Council; Public Meeting AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of public meeting. SUMMARY: The New England Fishery Management Council (Council), will hold a 2-day meeting on February 16 and 17, 1994, to consider actions affecting the New England fisheries in the exclusive economic zone. DATES: The meeting will begin on Wednesday, February 16, 1994, at 10 a.m., and on Thursday, February 17, 1994, at 8:30 a.m. ADDRESSES: The meeting will take place at King's Grant Inn, Rt. 128 at Trask Lane, Danvers, MA 01923, telephone: 508&hyph;774&hyph;6800. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Douglas G. Marshall, Executive Director, New England Fishery Management Council, 5 Broadway, Saugus, MA 01906, telephone: 617&hyph;231&hyph;0422. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Council meeting will begin on February 16 with reports from the Council Chairman and Executive Director, the NMFS Regional Director, NMFS Northeast Fisheries Science Center liaison, Mid-Atlantic Council liaison, and representatives from the Coast Guard, Fish and Wildlife Service and Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC). The Lobster Oversight Committee Chair will report on the formation of the Effort Management Teams as described in Amendment 5 to the American Lobster Fishery Management Plan (FMP). During the afternoon session, the Sea Scallop Oversight Committee Chair will report on the framework measure initiation explained later in this notice. The Wednesday session will conclude with a report from the Council Vice Chairman on the recommendations of an ad hoc committee for the upcoming Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act reauthorization hearings in Congress. On Thursday, the meeting will begin at 8:30 a.m. with an Enforcement Oversight Committee report on its recommendations on scallop management measures and on the winter flounder exception. The Marine Mammal Oversight Committee will report on time/area closures to reduce the take of harbor porpoise. This will be followed by a report from the Groundfish Oversight Committee on framework measure initiation discussed below. The Groundfish Committee will conclude its report in the afternoon session of the second day of the Council meeting. The meeting will conclude with a discussion of the petition from the National Fisheries Association to prohibit the use of nets for large pelagic species in special management areas. Abbreviated Rulemaking Actions_Atlantic Sea Scallops The Council will consider framework adjustments to management measures under the framework for abbreviated rulemaking described in the final rule for Amendment 4 to the FMP for Atlantic Sea Scallops (59 FR 2757, January 19, 1994). The Council will determine whether adjustments, or additional management measures are necessary to protect small scallops in the Mid-Atlantic region. The Council will receive findings and recommendations from its Plan Development Team for Atlantic Sea Scallops, which met on February 4, 1994. Additionally, the Council will determine whether adjustments or additional management measures are necessary to address possible problems with double-linking of rings in the dredge bags, the availability of 51/2 inch (13.97 cm) twine tops and the increase of at-sea freezing of scallops. The Council's recommendation on adjustments to, or addition of, management measures must come from one or more of the following categories: 1. Days at sea changes (total or average); 2. Shell height; 3. Offloading window re-instatement; 4. Effort monitoring; 5. Data reporting;
