FR941026-2-00019 FR941026-2-00013 Alternative B Alternative B is a modification of Alternative A developed by the three Federal agencies that allows for greater siting flexibility to minimize potential environmental impacts once the geothermal resource is defined through exploration. It is similar to Alternative A in plant design and size, size of the well field and pads, and design of the facilities except for the transmission line. It differs most in respect to the siting flexibility of well pads, power plant, pipelines, and access roads and the mitigation and monitoring measures to be included. It is described in detail in the FEIS and highlights include development of exploration/production well pads at 14 out of 20 possible locations; siting the individual well pads within a 40-acre or less siting area; construction and operation of one 33&hyph;MW power plant at one of three possible locations; construction of associated pipelines and access roads; construction and utilization of a single pole design 115-kilovolt transmission line to the south of Forest Road 9735; and additional mitigation and monitoring measures proposed by the agencies and public. These facilities would also be permanent, with a contract life of at least 50 years. Alternative C Alternative C is the No Action alternative. Under this alternative, BPA would not acquire the energy output from the proposed Newberry Project, thereby foregoing the opportunity to supplement BPA's energy supply and to demonstrate the availability of geothermal power to help meet the region's power needs. BPA would also not provide billing credits to EWEB, with the same results as above, and would not provide wheeling services to transmit the energy. CEE would not go forth with the project without the power purchase agreement, and EWEB would cease further involvement without billing credits. This alternative is environmentally preferable, as it would result in no impacts to the immediate environment. Other Actions Because the proposed action will not satisfy BPA's total need for electrical energy, implementing the proposed action will not foreclose consideration of other potential BPA resource actions. Resource types potentially available to meet future load growth were comparatively evaluated in the RPEIS and include: •Conservation (commercial, residential, and industrial sectors); •Renewables (hydropower, wind, biomass, solar, and other geothermal power); •Cogeneration; •Combustion turbines; •Nuclear; and •Coal. Decision Factors and Issues All of the project alternatives were evaluated against the purpose and need for the Newberry Project, and only Alternatives A and B would satisfy the need for electrical power. These alternatives would also help BPA meet its contractual obligations and are consistent with BPA's statutory responsibilities. Based on the information analyzed and disclosed in the FEIS and associated documents, including the USFS/BLM ROD, BPA has determined that the preferred alternative is Alternative B with the conditions and mitigation and monitoring elements described in the USFS/BLM ROD. The rationale for selecting Alternative B is summarized in the USFS/BLM ROD by major issues that were of most concern or apparent controversy. A Mitigation Action Plan (MAP) developed from the FEIS analysis is available. It requires implementation of the specific mitigation requirements described in the FEIS and USFS/BLM ROD. Environmental Consultations, Review, and Permit Requirements BPA reviewed the status of all permits and licenses required for the Newberry Project, consulted with CEE to satisfy area-wide, state, and local environmental plans and programs, and developed a Mitigation Action Plan MAP to assure that all environmental requirements are addressed and that all practicable means to avoid, minimize, or mitigate environmental impacts have been adopted. It implements the specific mitigation requirements described in the FEIS and USFS/BLM ROD. Development of the Newberry Project will be consistent with environmental policies established by NEPA and the Oregon Energy Facility Siting Council (EFSC), and will be consistent with the requirements of the Council's Power Plan. Monitoring and Enforcement The MAP (Attachment 2) for the Newberry Project requires implementation of mitigation measures necessary to reduce the environmental impacts identified in the FEIS. The USFS, BLM, and BPA all have responsibility for monitoring the progress of the Newberry Project and ensuring that these measures are taken as appropriate. The USFS and BLM responsibilities are detailed in the USFS/BLM ROD. (Attachment 1). BPA will continue to monitor the Newberry Project through its environmental oversight program. The Power Purchase and Billing Credits Agreements stipulate the penalties for noncompliance with these measures. Decision Upon consideration of the entire record, BPA has decided to execute a Power Purchase Agreement with CE Newberry, Inc., execute a Billing Credits Generation Agreement with EWEB, and provide wheeling services for transmission of energy from the Newberry Project to EWEB's system. Issued in Portland, Oregon on September 16, 1994. John. S. Robertson, Deputy Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26537 Filed 10&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
