FR940318-0-00202 FR940318-0-00023 The NPRM listed HCFC&hyph;123 as pending review for use as a substitute for tobacco expansion. One commenter proposed that HCFC&hyph;123 should not be listed as an acceptable substitute in the final rule because the sole U.S. manufacturer will not sell it for use in the tobacco expansion process. The sole U.S. manufacturer of HCFC&hyph;123 confirmed via public comment that HCFC&hyph;123 will not be sold to the tobacco industry for use in the tobacco expansion process. The manufacturer requested EPA to withdraw this compound from consideration as an alternative for this end-use. Subsequently, EPA terminated the review for HCFC&hyph;123 in tobacco expansion, and will not include HCFC&hyph;123 in the listing decisions for this sector. 3. Listing Decisions a. Carbon dioxide. The Agency has determined that the use of carbon dioxide as a substitute for CFC&hyph;11 in tobacco expansion is acceptable. Carbon dioxide has been successfully used in the tobacco industry for approximately twenty years. It is non-toxic, non-flammable, and it has zero ODP. A permissible exposure level (PEL) has been set at 5,000 ppm, a level that can easily be met during the well contained tobacco expansion process. The carbon dioxide process is similar to the process using CFC&hyph;11, though pressure and temperature parameters are different. For this reason carbon dioxide cannot be used as a retrofit for CFC&hyph;11 equipment; new equipment must be purchased in order to use carbon dioxide for tobacco expansion. Although carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, increased use of carbon dioxide for tobacco expansion will not increase global warming because the carbon dioxide used in tobacco expansion is a by-product of the production of other gases. The carbon dioxide is captured from a stream of gas that otherwise would be emitted to the ambient air. Additionally, carbon dioxide recycling equipment is available, which will also help limit emissions of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. b. Propane. The Agency has determined that the use of propane as a substitute for CFC&hyph;11 in tobacco expansion is acceptable. Plant modifications may be necessary to control the flammability of this substitute to ensure worker safety. Propane is a VOC and must be controlled as such under Title I of the CAA. K. Adhesives, Coatings, and Inks 1. Overview Methyl chloroform (MCF) is used as a solvent in the adhesives, coatings, and inks sector because of its unique and favorable properties: High solvency, non flammability, low toxicity, relative high stability, and low boiling point. For this section, coatings are defined to be durable and decorative coatings such as paints. Unlike a number of other solvents that are classified as volatile organic compounds (VOCs), MCF does not photochemically degrade in the lower atmosphere to lead to ground-level ozone formation. This key property caused many manufacturers to switch from formulations containing VOC solvents to MCF in the mid 1980s because regulatory pressure increased to reduce VOC emissions in nonattainment areas. Companies achieved compliance by altering their VOC solvent-borne formulations to MCF, thereby avoiding costly capital investment in new equipment, changes in operating procedures, and employee retraining. This trend has now been reversed as companies have begun to respond to the phase-out of MCF under the stratospheric ozone protection provisions of the Clean Air Act. This section examines substitutes that can be used in place of MCF in this sector, and presents the Agency's proposed decisions and supporting analysis on acceptability of these substitutes. These determinations are summarized in appendix B at the end of the sector discussions. Of the three uses for MCF in this sector, use of MCF is largest in the adhesives subsector. In 1989, manufacturers of adhesives consumed about 28,000 metric tons (MT) of MCF in their formulations, roughly nine percent of the total MCF produced in the U.S. (HSIA, 1991). Solvent-based adhesive formulations constitute 15 percent of all adhesive types. MCF is desirable as a solvent for adhesives because it evaporates rapidly, is nonflammable, exhibits a relatively high PEL, performs comparably to VOC-formulated products, and does not photochemically degrade in the lower atmosphere. The 1991 consumption of methyl chloroform as a solvent in the adhesives sector was estimated to be 32,000 MT. EPA believes that this consumption has declined since 1991 due to increased excise taxes, the CFC labeling requirement of the CAA and the increasing awareness of the pending 1996 phaseout. MCF is used in five adhesive types: •Laminate adhesives; •Flexible foam adhesives; •Hardwood floor adhesives; •Metal to rubber adhesives; and
