FR940202-0-00119 FR940202-0-00013 In any case, the National Environmental Policy Act and the Endangered Species Act state that costs associated with mitigation or compensation are part of the project costs. Because the least Bell's vireo is essentially an obligate wetland species, the costs associated with impacts to unoccupied vireo habitat would be borne by the project applicant whether or not critical habitat was designated. However, the Service believes that no mitigation costs will be attributable to the designation of critical habitat for projects on private lands that are outside the jurisdiction of Federal regulatory agencies. Issue 9: The designation of critical habitat may impact flood control projects. If periodic removal of riparian vegetation from flood control channels is restricted, the impacts will involve not only losses of water and uncontrolled flooding, but also costs in terms of human life. Service Response: The response to Issue 6 above states that projects are rarely blocked, since reasonable and prudent alternatives or measures are usually developed that allow the project to proceed in a timely manner. The response to Issue 8 above addresses the potential increase in regulation due to critical habitat designation. A high level of protection is afforded to wetlands by the Clean Water Act and Federal wetland policy. Regulations to avoid, minimize, or compensate for impacts to wetlands in general, and vireo habitat in particular, would be incurred even if critical habitat was not designated. The layer of regulation added through critical habitat designation is not expected to preempt public health and safety. Although the Service encourages long-range planning of all projects that adversely affect the vireo or vireo habitat, it recognizes that emergencies (e.g., fires) develop that necessitate accelerated consultations or the assessment of impacts and development of appropriate mitigation measures after-the-fact. Issue 10: Utility corridors and access roads should not be included as critical habitat. Both routine and emergency maintenance are necessary to maintain public safety and service. Service Response: Utility corridors exist within least Bell's vireo critical habitat; however, no biological evidence or other basis justifies the exclusion of such corridors from a critical habitat designation. The Service will address each project on a case-by-case basis and assist the Federal action agency in avoiding, minimizing, and mitigating for impacts to the vireo and its critical habitat. In addition, agencies are generally encouraged to request formal consultation on programmatic activities. Such consultations would facilitate long range planning efforts. The Service is unaware of any instances where the maintenance of utility structures or facilities was precluded by the listing of the vireo; it is anticipated that the designation of critical habitat similarly will not impinge on necessary operations. Furthermore, as was explained in the response to Issue 9 above, pertinent regulations and Service policy provide for the resolution of impacts to listed species and their critical habitat that result from corrective actions taken in true emergency situations. Issue 11: Designation of critical habitat requires an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) pursuant to the requirement for Federal agencies to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Service Response: For the reasons cited in the NEPA section of this rule, the Service has determined that rules issued pursuant to section 4(a) of the Endangered Species Act do not require the preparation of an EIS.
