FR941207-0-00141 FR941207-0-00022 Amendatory Text Part 24 of Chapter I of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 24_PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES 1. The authority citation for part 24 continues to read as follows: Authority: 47 U.S.C. 154, 301. 302, 303, 309, and 332, unless otherwise noted. 2. Section 24.709 is revised to read as follows: ยง24.709 Eligibility for licenses for frequency Blocks C and F. (a) General Rule. (1) No application is acceptable for filing and no license shall be granted for frequency block C or frequency block F, unless the applicant, together with its affiliates and persons or entities that hold interests in the applicant and their affiliates, have gross revenues of less than $125 million in each of the last two years and total assets of less than $500 million at the time the applicant's short-form application (Form 175) is filed. (2) The gross revenues and total assets of the applicant (or licensee), and its affiliates, and (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section) of persons or entities that hold interests in the applicant (or licensee), and their affiliates, shall be attributed to the applicant and considered on a cumulative basis and aggregated for purposes of determining whether the applicant (or licensee) is eligible for a license for frequency block C or frequency block F under this section. (3) Any licensee awarded a license pursuant to this section (or pursuant to ยง24.839(d)(2)) shall maintain its eligibility until at least five years from the date of initial license grant, except that a licensee's (or other attributable entity's) increased gross revenues or increased total assets due to nonattributable equity investments ( i.e. , from sources whose gross revenues, and total assets are not considered under paragraph (b) of this section), debt financing, revenue from operations or other investments, business development or expanded service shall not be considered. (b) Exceptions to General Rule. (1) Small Business Consortia. Where an applicant (or licensee) is a consortium of small businesses, the gross revenues and total assets of each small business shall not be aggregated. (2) Publicly-Traded Corporations. Where an applicant (or licensee) is a publicly traded corporation with widely dispersed voting power, the gross revenues and total assets of a person or entity that holds an interest in the applicant (or licensee), and its affiliates , shall not be considered. (3) 25 Percent Equity Exception. The gross revenues and total assets of a person or entity that holds an interest in the applicant (or licensee), and its affiliates, shall not be considered so long as: (i) Such person or entity, together with its affiliates, holds only nonattributable equity equaling no more than 25 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity; (ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, such person or entity is not a member of the applicant's (or licensee's) control group; and (iii) The applicant (or licensee) has a control group that complies with the minimum equity requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section, and, if the applicant (or licensee) is a corporation, owns at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) voting interests, and, if the applicant (or licensee) is a partnership, holds all of its general partnership interests. (4) 49.9 Percent Equity Exception. The gross revenues and total assets of a person or entity that holds an interest in the applicant (or licensee), and its affiliates, shall not be considered so long as: (i) Such person or entity, together with its affiliates, holds only nonattributable equity equaling no more than 49.9 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity; (ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, such person or entity is not a member of the applicant's (or licensee's) control group; and (iii) The applicant (or licensee) has a control group that complies with the minimum equity requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section and, if the applicant (or licensee) is a corporation, owns at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) voting interests, and, if the applicant (or licensee) is a partnership, holds all of its general partnership interests. (5) Control Group Minimum 25 Percent Equity Requirement. In order to be eligible to exclude gross revenues and total assets of persons or entities identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and applicant (or licensee) must comply with the following requirements: (i) Except for an applicant (or licensee) whose sole control group member is a preexisting entity, as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, at the time the applicant's short-form application (Form 175) is filed and until at least three years following the date of initial license grant, the applicant's (or licensee's) control group must own at least 25 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity as follows: (A) At least 15 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity must be held by qualifying investors, either unconditionally or in the form of options exercisable, at the option of the holder, at any time and at any exercise price equal to or less than the market value at the time the applicant files its short-form application (Form 175); (B) Such qualifying investors must have both de jure and de facto control of the applicant; (C) The remaining 10 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity may be owned by any of the following: ( 1 ) Such qualifying investors, either unconditionally or in the form of stock options not subject to the restrictions of paragraph (b)(5)(i)(A) of this section; ( 2 ) Institutional investors, either unconditionally or in the form of stock options; ( 3 ) Noncontrolling existing investors in any preexisting entity that is a member of the control group, either unconditionally or in the form of stock options; or ( 4 ) Individuals that are members of the applicant's (or licensee's) management, either unconditionally or in the form of stock options. (D) Following termination of the three-year period specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, qualifying investors must continue to own at least 10 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity, either unconditionally or in the form of stock options subject to the restrictions in paragraph (b)(5)(i)(A) of this section. The restrictions specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i)(C)( 1 ) through ( 4 ) of this section no longer apply to the remaining equity after termination of such three-year period. (ii) At the election of an applicant (or licensee) whose control group's sole member is a preexisting entity, the 25 percent minimum equity requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section shall apply, except that only 10 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity must be held by qualifying investors and that the remaining 15 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity may be held by qualifying investors or noncontrolling existing investors in such control group member or individuals that are members of the applicant's (or licensee's) management. These restrictions on the identity of the holder(s) of the remaining 15 percent of the licensee's total equity no longer apply after termination of the three-year period specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section. (6) Control Group Minimum 50.1 Percent Equity Requirement. In order to be eligible to exclude gross revenues and total assets of persons or entities identified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, an applicant (or licensee) must comply with the following requirements: (i) Except for an applicant (or licensee) whose sole control group member is a preexisting entity, as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, at the time the applicant's short-form application (Form 175) is filed and until at least three years following the date of initial license grant, the applicant's (or licensee's) control group must own at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity as follows: (A) at least 30 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity must be held by qualifying minority and/or women investors, either unconditionally or in the form of options exercisable, at the option of the holder, at any time and at any exercise price equal to or less than the market value at the time the applicant files its short-form application (Form 175);
