FR940805-1-00045 FR940805-1-00008 The Minnesota I/M program uses compensation retainage for assessing penalties against the contractor when the MPCA determines that the contractor has not complied with the requirements of the MPCA contract agreement. The amount of compensation retained is determined at the discretion of MPCA. Where retainage does not adequately address the severity of noncompliance, the MPCA may also avail itself of other remedies. Each month, the contractor submits to the MPCA an invoice for payment based on the number of vehicles tested. MPCA staff reviews the invoice for accuracy, retains 10% and pays the contractor the remaining 90%. The 10% retainage is accumulated monthly and released to the contractor at the end of each quarter provided the MPCA is satisfied with the contractors performance. When judging performance, the MPCA pays particular attention to the requirements of public convenience, proper calibration of instruments, excessive wait times, facility and lane down time, and submittal of complete reports in the time specified. MPCA retains an average of $100,000 per month. Therefore, the State believes that it is meeting the retainage requirement of $100 or 5 times the inspection fee as specified in Section 51.364. Section 51.364(b) states that quality assurance officers shall have the authority to temporarily suspend station and inspector licenses or certificates (after approval of a superior) immediately upon finding a violation or equipment failure that directly affects emission reduction benefits, pending a hearing when requested. As explained in the SIP submittal, MPCA quality assurance officers do not have direct authority to impose disciplinary action against inspectors employed by the contractor since inspectors are not directly employed by MPCA. Any disciplinary action to be taken is carried out through the contractor's internal disciplinary procedures. However, MPCA quality assurance officers may recommend disciplinary action or discharge of an employee of the contractor. In the event that improper performance is observed or reported, the quality assurance officer may recommend disciplinary action to MPCA's Program Manager. Disciplinary action against inspectors include verbal warnings, written reprimands or revocation of the Certification of Training, which can result in re-training and, if necessary, immediate discharge. Situations requiring disciplinary action have been isolated incidents and, since initial notification to the MPCA of such incidents, no subsequent similar incidents have been recorded. MPCA has committed to implementing a formal process to certify lane inspectors are qualified and authorized to test vehicles. Lane inspectors will be required to complete the existing Training Program outlined in Appendix 14 of the submittal and demonstrate competence in vehicle testing by receiving at least an 80% passing grade on the written and practical examinations. Upon successful completion of the Training Program, lane inspectors will be issued by the MPCA and the contractor, a certificate of training which certifies that the lane inspector is qualified and authorized to test vehicles. A Certificate of Training will be valid for two years, at which time the inspector is required to repeat the Training Program. No lane inspector will be authorized to test vehicles without a valid Certificate of Training. A lane inspector must retain a valid Certificate as a condition of employment as a lane inspector by the contractor. MPCA has committed to entering into a Contract Compliance Order with the contractor to reflect these certification requirements for lane inspectors. USEPA proposes to conditionally approve the SIP based on this commitment. MPCA must submit these amendments as a SIP revision within one year of final conditional approval. Data Collection Section 51.365 outlines the test data and quality control data that must be collected for the management, evaluation, and enforcement of an I/M program. I/M programs must gather test data on individual vehicles, as well as quality control data on test equipment. The Minnesota I/M program contains data gathering provisions that meet all of the criteria of the Checklist. Data Analysis and Reporting SIP submittals are to include information on how States will incorporate data analysis and reporting into their I/M programs. Reports should provide information regarding the types of program activities performed and their final outcomes, including summary statistics and effectiveness evaluations of the enforcement mechanism,, the quality assurance system, the quality control program, and the testing element. The Minnesota I/M SIP submittal describes data analysis and reporting activities that completely satisfy the criteria of the Checklist. Inspector Training & Licensing or Certification All inspectors partaking in I/M programs must receive formal training and be licensed or certified to perform inspections. SIP submittals must include a description of the training program, the written and practical examinations and the licensing or certification process. Lane inspectors are employed and trained by the contractor. Appendix 14 describes the contractor's training program. MPCA has committed to issuing a Contract Compliance Order to the contractor requiring inspectors to complete the contractor training and demonstrate competence by receiving an 80% or better grade on an examination. The certificates will expire after two years at which time inspectors must repeat the training program. USEPA proposes to conditionally approve the SIP based on this commitment. MPCA must submit these amendments as a SIP revision within one year of final conditional approval. Public Information and Consumer Protection SIP submittals must include a plan for informing the public on an ongoing basis, throughout the life of the I/M program, of the air quality program, the requirements of Federal and State law, the role of motor vehicles, in the air quality problem, the need for benefits of an inspection program. In addition, the submittal must describe procedures and mechanisms to protect the public from fraud and abuse by inspectors, mechanics, and others involved in the I/M program. The Minnesota I/M program has included public information and consumer protection provisions since its inception in 1991. Appendix 25 contains MPCA's most current Public Information Plan and Appendix 26 includes all of the fact sheets, brochures, an annual report, quarterly newsletter, a media relations kit and other I/M program publications.
