FR941007-2-00029 FR941007-2-00012 Corps of Engineers Notice of Intent To Prepare a Draft Supplement (DEIS) to the Final Integrated Feasibility Report and Environmental Impact Statement on the Central and Southern Florida Project, Environmental Restoration of the Kissimmee River, Florida, Addressing the Kissimmee River Headwaters Revitalization in Osceola County, FL AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Jacksonville District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: A study of the modification of the Kissimmee River Project headquarters is authorized for the ecosystem restoration of the Kissimmee River, Florida. The studied action is necessary to restore historical flows to the Kissimmee River Lower Basin while optimizing fish and wildlife habitat in the Upper Basin. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Jacksonville District, P.O. Box 4970, Jacksonville, Florida 32232&hyph;0019. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William Porter, (904) 232&hyph;2259. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The study, named the Headwaters Revitalization Study, was addressed generally by an integrated feasibility report and final Environmental Impact Statement filed with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency January 17, 1992 (57 FR 2093). The present study is to formulate a plan to optimize environmental improvements to the Upper Kissimmee Basin while re-establishing discharges to the Lower Basin that are necessary to restore the ecological integrity of the Kissimmee River. Increasing the levels of Lakes Kissimmee, Cypress and Hatchineah is under study. A preliminary proposal is to increase the controlled upper water level from 52.5 to 54.0 feet NGVD, with the lower level remaining at 48.5 feet NGVD. Additionally, the scheduled would be zoned to provide discharges based on season and water levels. The revised schedule would seasonally reflood land between elevations 52.5 and 54.0 feet in the Upper Basin. The revised schedule is expected to increase seasonal water storage capacity by 100,000 acre-feet, according to studies by the SFWMD, and to provide for greater, and more natural fluctuations of water levels in the lakes. Additionally, the studied regulation schedule is expected to provide capability to simulate the historic seasonal flow from Lake Kissimmee to the Lower Basin. This capability is a prerequisite for successful restoration of the Lower Basin ecosystem. Alternative plans consist of ``no action,'' i.e., leaving the existing Upper Basin works in place and operating with the present schedules, and combinations of the following: Different modifications of the Upper Chain of Lakes regulation schedules, C&hyph;34, C&hyph;35, C&hyph;36, and C&hyph;37 enlargement, and Acquistion of real estate interests to acquire rights to reflood land below evaluation 54.0 feet. The study will address the effects of higher water levels on private property, agricultural and commercial interests, public works, cultural resources including historical structures, recreation, aesthetics, water quality, and fish and wildlife in the Upper Basin and effects on the Kissimmee River Restoration Plan. Tributary lakes Rosalie, Tiger and Jackson may be affected by the studied change, and effects on these lakes will also be considered. Scoping of this study was started with a letter dated July 16, 1992, to all known interested parties, based on responses to the integrated feasibility report and final EIS cited above. The letter described the studied action and reasonable alternatives conceived at that time. The public and affected state and federal agencies will be further involved in scoping through workshops to obtain information and concerns from agencies and the public and to share planning concepts and procedures. The workshops have not been scheduled, but will be announced through mailings and public media notices. Additionally, a series of public hearings will be scheduled after circulation of the draft report and EIS and before completion of the final reports and EIS. The study is being conducted with the participation of the South Florida Water Management District (local sponsor), and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission, Florida Department of Natural Resources, and Florida Department of Environmental Regulation. The U.S. Department of Agricultural Soil Conservation Service has met with planners and expressed concerns over the potential seasonal loss of wetland pasturage and the effect on water quality and fish and wildlife habitat. Further participation is invited from federal, state and local agencies, affected Indian tribes, and other private organizations and parties. The Project Modification Report and DEIS are scheduled for availability to the public in March 1995. Kenneth L. Demon, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24998 Filed 10&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;AJ&hyph;M
