FR940505-1-00125 FR940505-1-00012 (c) Compliance Dates. Under the expected regulations, all engines produced by an engine manufacturer on or after January 1 of the implementation year specified below by power category would be required to be certified by the engine manufacturer according to the requirements in effect for that year. EPA expects equipment manufacturers to begin installing certified engines as soon as they become available from engine manufacturers, with some lag time expected for equipment manufacturers to clear out normal inventories. Early certification will be allowed one year prior to the applicable effective date for engines participating in the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program. ␣ 1Engine size (kW) 1Implementation date ≥130 to <560 January 1, 1996. ≥75 to <130 January 1, 1997. ≥37 to <75 January 1, 1998. >560 January 1, 2000. (d) Certification and Test Procedures. The exhaust emission 8&hyph;Mode test procedures for NO X emissions and the smoke test procedures are expected to be adopted as they were proposed with minor revisions. The 8&hyph;Mode test procedure would also apply to emissions of HC and CO. For PM emission measurement, EPA would adopt the California test procedures as finalized in Section 2420&hyph;2427, Chapter 11, Title 13 of the California Code of Regulations, ``California Regulation for New 1996 and Later Heavy-duty Off-road Diesel Cycle Engines.'' Manufacturers of engines that are not able to operate properly over the 8&hyph;Mode or smoke test cycles (such as engines with constant speed governors), would be able to petition the Administrator to allow use of an alternative test procedure. Upon adequate demonstration of need, the Administrator may allow use of alternative procedures. If an engine is unable to be operated over the smoke test procedure, the manufacturer would be required to submit an alternative test plan to the Administrator for approval in advance of any testing. The particulate standard adopted in the rule would be based on the use of the low sulfur fuel. Should a manufacturer or EPA choose to perform certification or in-use compliance testing with commercially available fuel containing higher sulfur, the particulate measurement will be adjusted by using the following equation to reflect the effects of higher sulfur content of the fuel on particulate emissions PM adj =PM_[BSFC×0.0917×(FSF^USLF CA )] Where: PM adj =adjusted measured PM level [g/kWh] PM=measured weighted PM level [g/kWh] BSFC=measured brake specific fuel consumption [(G/kW-hr) hr] FSF=fuel sulfur weight fraction USLF CA =upper sulfur level weight fraction of California test fuel specification This adjustment only applies to engines with no exhaust gas aftertreatment. No adjustment is provided for engines with exhaust gas aftertreatment. (2) Federal Requirements for Small Nonroad SI Engines at or Under 19 kW. (a) Background. Since March 1992, EPA has held several public workshops and meetings to solicit information on technical characteristics, emissions, potential regulatory strategies, and general regulatory issues related to small SI engines. Public notice of such meetings may be found in the docket for this rulemaking. At the March 1992 public workshop, the Engine Manufacturers Association and the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute encouraged Federal regulation of nonhandheld small SI engines and expressed interest in working in a cooperative program with EPA to develop regulations by November 1993. Likewise, the Portable Power Equipment Manufacturers Association encouraged Federal regulation of portable 2-stroke power equipment and expressed interest in working cooperatively with EPA. Following the March 1992 workshop, EPA determined that setting emission standards for the small SI engine category might be suitable for a consultative approach to rulemaking, such as negotiated rulemaking. The Negotiated Rulemaking Act (5 U.S.C. 581&hyph;590) establishes a framework for conducting negotiated rulemaking. The goal of a regulatory negotiation committee is to reach consensus on the language or issues involved in a rule. If consensus is reached, it is used as the basis of the Agency's proposal.
