FR940317-1-00084 FR940317-1-00013 (a) The Secretary of the Army, the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management) as designee of the Secretary or other designee of the Secretary of the Army must approve settlements in excess of $100,000. (b) Delegations of authority. (1) Disapprovals and final offers in claims acted on under the delegations set forth herein are subject to appeal to the authorities specified in paragraph (d) of this section. (2) The TJAG and TAJAG are delegated authority to pay up to $100,000 in settlement of a claim and to disapprove a claim regardless of the amount claimed. The Commander, USARCS will process such claims as prescribed in ยง536.62. (3) The Commander, USARCS, or designees, are delegated authority to pay up to $25,000 in settlement of a claim and to disapprove or make a final offer in a claim regardless of the amount claimed. (4) The SJA and, subject to limitations imposed by him or her, the chief of the command claims service of the commands listed below are delegated authority to pay up to $25,000 in settlement of a claim, regardless of the amount claimed, and to disapprove or make a final offer in a claim presented in an amount not exceeding $25,000: (i) USAREUR. (ii) Eighth U.S. Army, Korea. (iii) USARSO. (5) Area claims offices are delegated authority to pay up to $15,000 in settlement of a claim, regardless of the amount claimed, and to disapprove or make a final offer in a claim presented in an amount not exceeding $15,000. (6) Claims processing offices with approval authority are delegated authority to approve, in full or in part, claims presented for $5,000 or less, and to pay claims regardless of the amount claimed provided an award of $5,000 or less is accepted in full satisfaction of the claim. (c) Settlement of multiple claims arising from a single incident. (1) Where a single act or incident gives rise to multiple claims cognizable under this chapter, and where one or more of these claims apparently cannot be settled within the jurisdiction of the authority initially acting on the claims, no final offer will be made and all claims will be forwarded with recommendation as to disposition to the authority having jurisdiction over the largest claim for a determination of liability. (2) If such authority determines that liability of the United States is established, he or she may return claims of lesser value to the field office for settlement within that office's jurisdiction. Care will be exercised by the field office to avoid compromising the discretion of the higher authority by conceding liability in claims of lesser amount. (d) Appeals. Denials or final offers on claims described as allows may be appealed to the official designated: (1) For claims presented in an amount over $100,000, final decisions on appeals will be made by The Secretary of the Army or designee.
