FR940922-0-00035 FR940922-0-00015 Comment: A discount in the sales price should be given to owner-occupants who have received certificates for completing homebuyer education seminars. (1) Response: Although the Department recognizes the value of homeownership counseling programs, it does not believe the suggestion would be in its best interests. It is unlikely that there would be any ``standard'' by which certificates would be issued to potential buyers by the many different organizations providing such counseling. Further, the discount offered by HUD is justified primarily by the savings to the Department on direct sales to nonprofits and government agencies. These same savings (sales commission, closing/financing costs, and expected holding costs) would not be realized in sales to other than direct sale buyers. Although the Department will not sell to owner-occupant buyers that are not government agencies or nonprofits at discounted prices, properties purchased at the deep discount by those organizations are primarily intended to be resold to persons who are at or below 115 percent of median income for their area, when adjusted for family size, or used to shelter the homeless. Therefore, the program will enhance affordable homeownership opportunities. Comment: Consideration should be given to accepting purchase offers from direct sale buyers that are below asking price. (1) Response: This action clearly would not be in the Department's best interests. At the time properties are available for direct purchase, the asking prices are based on very recent appraisals and the Department has no reason to believe those prices are not reflective of true market value. To accept offers below those prices would effectively increase the discount the Department is willing to provide and undermine the return to the mortgage insurance funds. If properties remain available at the time of offering to the general public, those buyers who previously could purchase direct then have the opportunity to bid competitively and may, in fact, submit offers below the asking price at that time. Comment: Homeless providers should be permitted to purchase only in nonrevitalization areas. (1) Response: An agency that is a homeless provider (and may have leased properties from the Department for that purpose) often may be the same nonprofit or government agency that can purchase on a direct basis. Such an agency has the right to purchase properties it has leased, regardless of their location. Further, the Department does not see a legitimate reason to restrict homeless providers only to nonrevitalization areas and believes that such action would be detrimental to the goal of expanding homeownership opportunities. IV. Other Amendments As a result of an agreement with nonprofit organizations to place certain limits on the amount of required earnest money deposits, thus alleviating possible hardships on owner-occupant purchasers, the Department has determined that the amount of such a deposit on a property with a sales price of $50,000 or less shall be $500, except that for vacant lots the amount shall be 50 percent of the list price. For a property with a sales price greater than $50,000, the deposit shall be set by the Field Office in an amount not less than $500 or more than $2,000. This amendment is made in this final rule at ยง291.105(h)(1). V. Other Matters Findings made under the National Environmental Policy Act, Executive Orders on Federalism and The Family, and the Regulatory Flexibility Act that were discussed in the preamble to the interim rule are not affected by any changes made in this final rule. This rule was listed as sequence number 1594 in the Department's Semiannual Agenda of Regulations published at 59 FR 20424, 20449 on April 25, 1994, under Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects 24 CFR Part 291 Community facilities, Homeless, Surplus government property, Low and moderate income housing, Mortgages, Lead poisoning, Conflict of interests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
