FR940627-0-00116 FR940627-0-00019 EPA considered redefining ``requisite information'' to mean studies that could be completed for all F/FAs within three years. Given the time frame, laboratory availability, and the number of groups to be tested, EPA was not sure that any meaningful health effects testing could be accomplished for all groups within three years. Certainly, such testing could not include testing of combustion and evaporation products for all groups. As discussed elsewhere, EPA believes that the testing of combustion and evaporative emissions included in Tier 2 is part of the basic testing necessary to evaluate potential health effects, because people are exposed to both combustion and evaporative emissions. Therefore, EPA would require this testing under section 211(b) regardless of whether the testing is required by section 211(e)(2). If EPA had chosen to interpret ``requisite information'' to be testing that could be done in three years, EPA would have, in any case, required such testing in addition to the Tier 2 testing required by this rule. This would likely have delayed submission of the information that EPA believes to be necessary ( i.e., the combustion emissions testing and evaporative emissions testing). In today's rule, EPA interprets ``requisite information'' as either data required by Tiers 1 and 2 or data required by Tier 1 and a commitment to conduct Tier 2 testing. EPA believes that this meets the congressional mandate to require emissions speciation testing and a demonstration that manufacturers are making progress in their testing by requiring submission of evidence of a contract with a qualified laboratory to conduct the Tier 2 studies. In addition, this interpretation imposes testing costs on manufacturers only for types of studies that EPA believes are necessary and useful, and it requires manufacturers to finish testing in a time frame that EPA believes is possible to meet. Even if ``requisite information'' were interpreted to mean only data required by Tier 1, EPA would still impose Tier 2 testing and timing requirements as contained in today's rule. In that case, section 211(e) would require Tier 1 data to be submitted within three years of this rule's promulgation, and section 211(b) would provide authority for EPA to impose the Tier 2 testing requirements in the time frame set forth in this rule. c. Timing of Requirements: Registrable and New F/FAs. Consistent with section 211(e), for F/FAs not yet registered, all test requirements must be satisfied prior to registration, including any Tier 3 requirements which EPA judges to be necessary. However, as discussed in the Reopening Notice, this final rule makes a distinction between ``registrable'' and truly ``new'' F/FA products. Registrable F/FAs are products 4 that are not registered as of the effective date of this rule but that meet the program's criteria for grouping with a currently registered fuel or bulk additive 5 in the same fuel family. 6 Conversely, a F/FA product not registered as of the effective date of this rule is designated as ``new'' if it does not meet the program's criteria for grouping with a currently registered fuel or bulk additive in the same fuel family. In the above definitions, the term ``currently'' refers to the date on which EPA receives the basic registration data for the F/FA product in question. 7 4 Registration is product-specific. Thus, if a particular fuel or additive product has not been registered by its manufacturer, then that manufacturer does not have the right to introduce, market, and/or sell this product, even if a compositionally similar or identical product has been registered by another manufacturer. 5 A ``bulk additive,'' sometimes called a ``general use'' additive, is defined as a product added to fuel at the refinery as part of the original blending stream or after the fuel is transported from the refinery, but before the fuel is purchased for introduction into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle. In contrast, an ``aftermarket additive,'' sometimes called a ``consumer additive,'' is an additive product which is added by the end-user directly to fuel in a motor vehicle or engine to modify the performance or other characteristics of the fuel, the engine, or its emissions. 6 ``Fuel family'' refers to the primary categorization of F/FAs in the grouping system of this registration program, as described in Section IV. A fuel family is defined as a set of F/FAs which share basic chemical and physical formulation characteristics and can be used in the same engine or vehicle. In the definition of ``registrable'', the restriction ``in the same fuel family'' means that the similarity of an applicant F/FA product to a bulk additive currently registered for use in another fuel family will not suffice to make the applicant F/FA product registrable. This restriction is consistent with the general principles of the grouping system, which permits grouping of F/FAs only within the defined fuel families. 7 Revision of an existing registration (e.g., addition or deletion of a currently-registered bulk additive to an existing fuel registration) does not constitute a new registration (assuming any added bulk additive is registered for use in fuels of the same type). However, test requirements may change if the revision causes the fuel product to change from one group to another. For registrable products, similar testing and compliance requirements apply as those pertaining to currently registered F/FAs in the same group. Upon the manufacturer's submittal of the basic registration data and other pre-Tier 1 application requirements for a registrable product, registration will be granted by EPA. Once registered, these products will be legally able to enter the market. The manufacturer will have the same period of time after the effective date of this rule for the completion of Tiers 1 and 2 as the applicable group of existing F/FAs, and can satisfy these requirements either by joining the existing group or by testing individually. On the other hand, manufacturers of new F/FA products ( i.e., F/FAs not registered as of the effective date of this rule and not fitting the registrable criteria) are required to submit all testing requirements prior to registration, including Tier 3 when prescribed by the Agency. Thus, if EPA identifies a need for additional testing at the Tier 3 level for a new F/FA product, registration will not occur until satisfactory completion of all such requirements.
