FR941205-0-00132 FR941205-0-00027 Methods for Secondary Contaminants_Some commenters believed that delisting a secondary contaminant method precludes its use for other than compliance monitoring samples. This is not correct; EPA does not certify laboratories for secondary monitoring, and EPA only recommends methods for secondary contaminants. Unless State requirements provide otherwise, laboratories may use methods other than those cited at 40 CFR 143.4(b) for measurement of secondary contaminants. EPA Method 245.2 (mercury)_EPA was asked to withdraw this method, which is an automated, cold vapor method for mercury. EPA cannot withdraw this method because there is no other equivalent version of the method. Because EPA does not have enough information to assess the effect that withdrawal of Method 245.2 would have, it is deferring a decision on withdrawal. EPA Methods 150.1, 150.2 (pH)_In the 1994 NOA, EPA proposed to replace these methods with equivalent ASTM and Standard Methods for pH. A commenter noted that the EPA methods are easier to use under field conditions. The commenter indicated that since many pH measurements are made in the field at the point of sample collection, withdrawal of the EPA methods would pose a significant hardship. EPA agrees with the commenter, and will not withdraw these methods until ASTM or Standard Methods pH methods are simplified for field use. F. Miscellaneous Reformat Listing of Methods in 40 CFR Parts 141 and 143_Commenters have asked EPA to improve the organization and clarity of the drinking water regulations. Commenters have criticized the organization of the rules, and noted difficulty in obtaining copies of drinking water regulations. They need the regulations, because they contain tables and lists of approved methods, and because mandatory method instructions are included in the text of the rules and in footnotes to the tables of methods. These instructions are not contained in the approved methods, because they were developed after the method was published. In today's rule, EPA is minimizing the use of footnotes and lengthy technical instructions in drinking water rules. EPA is accomplishing this by including these instructions in the document Technical Notes on Drinking Water Methods (EPA, 1994d). This EPA publication contains mandatory procedures, clarifications and helpful options, such as guidance on more efficient ways to conduct asbestos and dioxin compliance measurements. EPA will place these instructions in the affected method when the method is revised and published. EPA intends to use this document to publish future method corrections or modifications (after notice and comment in the Federal Register as necessary). EPA believes Technical Notes will be easier for users to obtain, read and photocopy than the tables of approved methods in the drinking water rules. Incorporating Technical Notes on Drinking Water Methods by reference in the rule has the effect of making its provisions as mandatory as those in the approved drinking water methods. EPA is improving the clarity of the rules by consolidating listings of analytical methods. Analytical methods for THMs have been moved from §141.30 to §141.24(e). Appendix C of §141.30, which contained THM Methods 501.1 and 501.2, is withdrawn immediately, but the methods may be used for compliance monitoring under §141.30 until July 1, 1996 (or 18 months from publication, whichever is later). And analytical methods formerly specified for lead, copper, and corrosivity at 40 CFR 141.89(a) and sodium at §141.41(d) are now listed with other inorganic methods at §141.23(k)(1). EPA notes that although sodium was removed from the list of 83 contaminants included in the 1986 amendments to the SDWA (53 FR 26487), the provisions at §141.41 still obtain. Specifications for Continuous Chlorine Monitoring Methods_Commenters favored the proposed specification for continuous chlorine monitoring measurements to be based on calibration with an approved grab sample method. Two commenters asked EPA to extend the calibration period to seven days. EPA has no data to support such an extension. However, the EPA protocol for continuous chlorine monitoring allows a laboratory to use an alternative protocol, if it is approved by the State. EPA believes it is prudent for States to monitor and approve changes to the EPA protocol, such as those suggested by commenters. The protocol approved in today's rule is specified at 40 CFR 141.74(a)(2), and allows States to grant variations, including certain changes in the chemistry of the method.
