FR940505-1-00491 FR940505-1-00012 ERC certificate means a document identifying the quantity and type of ERCs issued by the district pursuant to a banking rule to the source identified on the Certificate. Fugitive emissions means those emissions which could not reasonably pass through a stack, chimney, vent, or other functionally equivalent opening. Halogenated hydrocarbons means the following: 1,1,1-trichloroethane, methylene chloride, 2,2-dichloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane (HCFC-123), 2-chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (HCFC-124), trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-11), dichlorodifluoromethane (CFC-12), 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (CFC-113), 1-chloro-1,1-difluoro-2-chloro-2,2-difluoroethane (CFC-114), chloropentafluoroethane (CFC-115), pentafluoroethane (HFC-125), 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134), tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134a), 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane (HCFC-141b), 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane (HCFC-142b), 1,1,1-trifluoroethane (HFC-143a), chlorodifluoromethane (HCFC-22), trifluoromethane (HFC-23), 1,1-difluoroethane (HFC-152a), and the following four classes of perfluorocarbon compounds: Cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated alkanes; cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated ethers, with no unsaturations; cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated tertiary amines with no unsaturations; and sulfur-containing perfluorocarbons with no unsaturations and with sulfur bonds only to carbon and fluorine. Perfluorocarbon compounds will be assumed to be absent from a product or process unless a manufacturer or facility operator identifies the specific individual compounds (from the broad classes of perfluorocarbon compounds) and the amounts present in the product or process and provides a validated test method which can be used to quantify the specific compounds. Hazardous air pollutant (HAP) means any air pollutant listed pursuant to section 112(b) of the Clean Air Act as amended (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq. ). Historic actual emissions means: (1) The actual emissions for the existing emissions unit averaged over the consecutive two-year period immediately preceding the date of application for authorized emission reduction credits. If the last two years are unrepresentative of normal source operations as determined by the EPA, then any two consecutive years of the last five years that represent normal source operation may be used. (2) If, at any time during the two-year period, actual emissions exceeded the allowed or permitted emission levels, then actual emissions shall be reduced to reflect emission levels that would have occurred if the unit were in compliance with all applicable limitations and rules. (3) Where an emissions unit has been in operation for less than two years, a shorter averaging period of at least one year may be used, provided that the averaging period is representative of the full operational history of the emissions unit. If an emissions unit has been in operation for less than one year, then the historic actual emissions shall be zero. Historic potential emissions means emissions based on the potential to emit of the emissions unit prior to modification. In determining the potential to emit, daily emissions limitations shall be treated as part of an emissions unit's design only if the limitations are representative of normal operations, of in the facility has provided offsets form previous permitting actions. If there are no enforceable limiting conditions, an emissions unit's potential to emit shall be limited to the unit's historic actual emissions. For a new emissions unit, historic potential emissions are equal to zero. For the purposes of the above determination, ``normal operations'' is defined as the usual or typical daily operating of an emissions unit resulting in actual emissions which are at least 80% of the specific limits contained in the emission unit's authority to construct or permit to operate. Lake Tahoe air basin means that portion of Placer County within the drainage area naturally tributary to Lake Tahoe including said lake, plus that area in the vicinity of the head of the Truckee River described as follows (as established pursuant to section 39606 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California and as described in Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 60113 [b]): Commencing at the point common to the aforementioned drainage area crestline and the line common to Townships 15 North and 16 North, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian (M.D.B. & M.), and following that line in a westerly direction to the northwest corner of section 3, Township 15 North, Range 16 East, (M.D.B. & M.), thence south along the west line of Sections 3 and 10, Township 15 North, Range 16 East, M.D.B. & M., to the intersection with the drainage crestline, thence following the said drainage area boundary in a southwesterly, then northeasterly, direction to and along the Lake Tahoe Dam, thence following the said drainage area crestline in a northeasterly, then northwesterly, direction to the point of beginning. This Lake Tahoe Air Basin is delineated on an official map on file at the California Air Resources Board Headquarters Office. Major stationary source means any stationary source which emits or has the potential to emit 25 tons per year or more of NO X or 25 tons per year or more of ROC. In addition, any physical change occurring at a stationary source not otherwise qualifying as a major stationary source, which would constitute a major stationary source by itself makes the source a major stationary source. Major modification means a modification to a major stationary source which, when aggregated with all other increases in potential to emit over the period of five consecutive years before the application for modification, and including the calendar year of the most recent application, results in an increase in the potential to emit greater than 25 tons per year of NO X or 25 tons per year of ROC. Modification means any physical change, change in method of operation (including change in fuel characteristics), change in hours of operation, or change in production rate, which: (1) For an emissions unit: (i) Would necessitate a change in permit conditions; or
