FR941117-0-00112 FR941117-0-00011 (2) If the radial antenna HAAT is 150 meters or more: d=6.336×h 0.31 ×p 0.15 where: d is the radial distance in kilometers h is the radial antenna HAAT in meters p is the radial ERP in Watts (3) The value used for p in the above formula must not be less than 27 dB less than the maximum ERP in any direction, or 0.1 Watt, whichever is more. (4) The distance from the transmitting antenna to the interfering contour along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is routinely calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle. However, in resolving petitions to deny, the FCC may calculate the distance to the interfering contour using the appropriate formula in paragraph (f) of this section with actual HAAT and ERP data for the inter-station radial and additional radials above and below the inter-station radial at 2.5 ○ intervals. (g) Protection for BETRS. In applying the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, if either or both of the transmitters involved is a BETRS central office station, the following contour substitutions must be used: (1) The service contour of the BETRS central office station(s) is a circle, centered on the central office station antenna, with a radius of 40 kilometers (25 miles). (2) The interfering contour of any station of any type, when determining whether it would overlap the service contour of a BETRS central office station, is calculated as follows: d=36.364×h 0.2 × p 0.1 where: d is the radial distance in kilometers h is the radial antenna HAAT in meters p is the radial ERP in Watts Whenever the actual HAAT is less than 30 meters (98 feet), 30 must be used as the value for h in the above formula. The value used for p in the above formula must not be less than 27 dB less than the maximum ERP in any direction, or 0.1 Watt, whichever is more. (h) Assignment of mobile channels to base or fixed transmitters. Mobile channels may be assigned to base or fixed transmitters if the following criteria are met: (1) The paired base channel, as designated in §22.561, is assigned to base transmitters in the same geographical area operated by the same licensee. (2) The authorization is granted subject to the condition that no interference be caused to fixed receivers in use on or prior to the date of the grant. §22.569 Additional channel policies. The rules in this section govern the processing of applications for a mobile channel when the applicant has applied or been granted an authorization for other mobile channels in the same geographic area. This section applies to applications proposing to use the channels listed in §22.561, except applications that propose to use these channels to provide paging service only, which are subject to §22.539, instead of this section. The general policy of the FCC is to assign no more than two channels in an area to a carrier per application cycle. That is, a carrier must apply for no more than two channels, receive the authorization, construct the station, provide service to subscribers, and notify the FCC of commencement of service to subscribers (FCC Form 489) before applying for additional mobile channels in that area. (a) Transmitters in same area. Any transmitter on any channel listed in §22.561 is considered to be in the same geographic area as another transmitter or any other channel listed in §22.561 if: (1) One transmitter location is within the service area of the other transmitter; or, (2) The area within the overlap of the service contours of the two transmitters constitutes 50 percent or more of the service area of either of the transmitters.
