FR940303-0-00037 FR940303-0-00011 (2) Manner of verification . An Agency may verify that a taxpayer has incurred more than 10 percent of its reasonably expected basis in a project by obtaining a certification from the taxpayer, in writing and under penalty of perjury, that the taxpayer has incurred by the close of the calendar year of the allocation more than 10 percent of the reasonably expected basis in the project. The certification must be accompanied by supporting documentation that the Agency must review. Supporting documentation may include, for example, copies of checks or other records of payments. Alternatively, an Agency may verify that the taxpayer has incurred adequate basis by requiring that the taxpayer obtain from an attorney or certified public accountant a written certification to the Agency, that the attorney or accountant has examined all eligible costs incurred with respect to the project and that, based upon this examination, it is the attorney's or accountant's belief that the taxpayer has incurred more than 10 percent of its reasonably expected basis in the project by the close of the calendar year of the allocation. (3) Time of verification . An Agency may require that the basis certification be submitted to or received by the Agency prior to the close of the calendar year of allocation or within a reasonable time after the close of the calendar year of allocation. The Agency will need to verify basis in order to accurately complete the Form 8610, Annual Low-Income Housing Credit Agencies Report, for the calendar year. If certification is not timely made, or supporting documentation is lacking, inadequate, or does not actually support the certification, the Agency should notify the taxpayer and try to get adequate documentation. If the Agency cannot verify before the Form 8610 is filed that the taxpayer has satisfied the basis requirement for a carryover allocation, the allocation is treated as if it had not been made and the carryover allocation document should not be filed with the Form 8610. (d) Requirements for making carryover allocations _ (1) In general . Generally, an allocation is made when an Agency issues the Form 8609, Low-Income Housing Credit Allocation Certification, for a building. See ยง1.42&hyph;1T(d)(8)(ii). An Agency does not issue the Form 8609 for a building until the building is placed in service. However, in cases where allocations of credit are made pursuant to section 42(h)(1)(E) (relating to carryover allocations for buildings) or section 42(h)(1)(F) (relating to carryover allocations for multiple-building projects), Form 8609 is not used as the allocating document because the buildings are not yet in service. When an allocation is made pursuant to section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F), the allocating document is the document meeting the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section. In addition, when an allocation is made pursuant to section 42(h)(1)(F), the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section must be met for the allocation to be valid. An allocation pursuant to section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F) reduces the state housing credit ceiling for the year in which the allocation is made, whether or not the Form 8609 is also issued in that year. (2) Requirements for allocation . An allocation pursuant to section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F) is made when an allocation document containing the following information is completed, signed, and dated by an authorized official of the Agency_
