FR941020-2-00154 FR941020-2-00087 (6) If, after completing the review, changes are recommended, develop and submit any needed advisory material or notice of proposed rulemaking in final form. The Working Group should recommend time line(s) for completion of the task, including the rationale, for consideration at the meeting of the ARAC to consider air carrier operations issues held following publication of this notice. The Working Group will give a status report on the task at each meeting of the ARAC held to consider air carrier operations issues. The Single Engine-IMC-with passengers Working Group will be comprised of experts from those organizations having an interest in the tasks assigned. A Working Group member need not necessarily be a representative of one of the member organizations of the ARAC. Individuals who have expertise in the subject and wish to become a member of the Working Group should write the person listed under the caption FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT expressing that desire, describing their interest in the task, and the expertise they would bring to the Working Group. The request will be reviewed with the ARAC Assistant Chair for Air Carrier Operations and the Chair of the Single Engine-IMC-with passengers Working Group, and the individual will be advised whether or not the request can be accommodated. The Secretary of Transportation has determined that the formation and use of the ARAC are necessary in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties of the FAA by law. Meetings of the ARAC to consider air carrier operations issues will be open to the public except as authorized by section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Meetings of the Single Engine-IMC-with passengers Working Group will not be open to the public except to the extent that individuals with an interest and expertise are selected to participate. No public announcement of Working Group meetings will be made. Issued in Washington, DC, on October 13, 1994. Quentin J. Smith, Jr., Assistant Executive Director for Air Carrier Operations Issues, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26068 Filed 10&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
