FR941110-0-00190 FR941110-0-00016 Many commenters were generally negative in response to using the facility's financial condition as a factor affecting the amount of penalty and offered the following arguments about this policy: •It is not equitable; •It would result in inconsistent civil money penalties for the same deficiency; •Poorly managed and/or not-for-profit facilities should not be excused or pay a lower civil money penalty; •It discriminates against facilities that are more solvent; •It is inappropriate if the facility can not appeal the amount of the penalty; •Neither the Secretary nor the States have adequate information to evaluate a facility's financial condition; •It would be difficult to apply objectively and would require an audit of the facility; and •The regulation does not clarify how financial information is obtained, who evaluates this information and if it will be available promptly. Another commenter requested that we remove a facility's financial condition as a factor and consider instead the location of the facility and the percent of Medicaid or Medicare patient days relative to the total patient days of the facility. A few commenters suggested including the facility's degree of culpability as a factor in determining the amount of the civil money penalty as mentioned in the preamble of the proposed rule. Response: In determining the amount of the penalty, section 1128A of the Act, which is incorporated by reference into sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act, requires the Secretary to consider specific matters and also provides authority to take into account any other items relevant to the penalty determination. We are requiring the State to also consider these specific matters to make Medicare and Medicaid requirements equivalent for SNFs and NFs. The specific matters the Secretary and the State must take into account, as stipulated in section 1128A of the Act, include the facility's degree of culpability, history of prior offenses and financial condition. Therefore, we cannot remove financial condition as the commenters suggested, and we are revising redesignated §488.438(f) to include the facility's degree of culpability, which was inadvertently omitted from the proposed regulatory text. We explain in §488.438 what we mean by ``culpability'' in the context of provider certification. Section 1128A authorizes civil money penalties for criminal or quasi-criminal acts, such as, false claims or claims for charges in excess of those permitted by law. The intent of the individual who commits one of these acts plays a prominent role in determining the amount of the civil money penalty. For example, if this individual submits a false claim while under the influence of drugs or the individual has a psychiatric condition, that person's culpability for submitting false claims may be reduced. The enforcement provisions for civil money penalties in sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) incorporate section 1128A of the Act and require a consideration of a facility's culpability in determining the amount of the civil money penalty. However, this consideration is not limited to situations in which a provider ``intends'' for a situation of noncompliance to exist. In fact, a facility is culpable if noncompliance causing harm or placing a resident at risk of harm is intentional or is a product of neglect, indifference or disregard. While a facility's culpability for serious noncompliance is a factor in the determination of the amount of the civil money penalty, the absence of culpability is not a factor, as a facility is always fully responsible for the health and safety of its residents. Comment: One commenter asked that we specifically define ``history'' as used at proposed §488.230(g)(1). Another commenter suggested that the facility's history of prior compliance only include the period of operation under the current owners. Response: Information concerning a facility's history of noncompliance, as discussed with regard to §488.438(f)(1) of the final rule, is maintained in the State survey agency, the HCFA regional office and the Online Survey Certification and Reporting system (OSCAR). The OSCAR system can provide facility specific reports from the four most recent surveys. We do not accept the comment that the facility's history of prior noncompliance only include that of the current owner because when a change of ownership occurs, all Medicare penalties and sanctions are automatically assigned to the new owner or owners with the exception of the two year restriction on Nurse Aide Training and Competency Evaluation Programs (which is explained later in this preamble).
