FR940713-2-00123 FR940713-2-00071 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. STN 50&hyph;529] Arizona Public Service Company; Consideration of Issuance of Amendment to Facility Operating License, Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination, and Opportunity for a Hearing The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;51 issued to Arizona Public Service Company (the licensee) for operation of the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station, Unit 2 located in Maricopa County, Arizona. The proposed amendment would modify Technical Specification Figure 3.2&hyph;1, Reactor Coolant Cold Leg Temperature Vs. Core Power Level. Specifically, the minimum cold leg temperature for core power levels between 90 percent and 100 percent would be changed to 552 ○F, (which is a reduction of 10 ○F from the previous TS requirement). This TS change permits reactor operation at full power with a lower reactor coolant temperature to minimize potential steam generator tube degradation. Before issuance of the proposed license amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act) and the Commission's regulations. The Commission has made a proposed determination that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Under the Commission's regulations in 10 CFR 50.92, this means that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not (1) involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated; or (2) create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated; or (3) involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. This amendment does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Peak pressure events were reanalyzed and LOCA events were partially reanalyzed, and these reanalyses confirmed that the existing safety analysis for cycle 5 for PVNGS Unit 2 remains valid for a 10 ○F reduction in RCS temperature. The Unit 2 LOCA and non-LOCA reanalyses were performed to account for additional steam generator tube plugging (1100 total plugged tubes with no restriction on the number of plugged tubes in each steam generator for LOCA analysis, and 2000 total plugged tubes with a maximum of 1000 plugged tubes in each steam generator for non-LOCA analysis). 2. The proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any other previously evaluated. This amendment does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The reanalyses performed demonstrated that the current licensing basis analyses results remain valid with a 10 ○F reduction in RCS temperature, and that the safety system settings remain unchanged.
