FR940203-1-00067 FR940203-1-00013 RSPA has determined that master meter operators will not be affected by this notice of proposed rulemaking because the master meter operator generally owns the complete gas distribution system. Thus, the master meter operator is responsible for the pipeline from the point of purchase to the ultimate customer. A draft regulatory evaluation has been prepared to determine the economic impact of this proposed rule on public, private, and municipal gas distribution systems. Based on the facts available, I certify that this proposal will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This certification is subject to modification as a result of a review of comments received in response to this proposal. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements associated with this notice of proposed rulemaking are being submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval in accordance with 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 under the following: Administration: Department of Transportation, Research and Special Programs Administration; Title: Customer-owned service line information dissemination; Need for Information: To reduce the number of incidents and resulting deaths, injuries, property, and environmental damage caused by improper maintenance of customer-owned service lines; Proposed Use of Information: To advise owners of customer-owned service lines of the proper maintenance of these gas lines and of the potential hazards of not properly maintaining these lines; Frequency: Occasionally; Burden Estimate: $500,000 initially, $50,000 annually thereafter; Respondents: Gas distribution operators; Form(s): N/A; Average Burden Hours per Respondent: minimal. For further information contact: The Information Management Division, M&hyph;34, Office of the Secretary of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590, (202) 366&hyph;4735. Comments on the proposed information collection requirements should be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503, Attn: Desk Officer for Department of Transportation, Research and Special Programs Administration. It is requested that comments sent to OMB also be sent to the RSPA rulemaking docket for this proposed action. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 192 Pipeline safety, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. In consideration of the foregoing, RSPA proposes to amend 49 CFR part 192 as follows: PART 192_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 192 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 App. U.S.C. 1672 and 1804; 49 CFR 1.53. 2. Section 192.3 would be amended by adding the following definition to read as follows: ยง192.3 Definitions. As used in this part: Customer-Owned Service Line means a pipeline that transports natural gas or petroleum gas from a service line to (1) an exterior wall of a building, or (2) end-use equipment. ``Farm taps'' are customer-owned service lines which begin at a customer meter, usually adjacent to a gas transmission line, and run to a single consumer. * * * * * 3. Section 192.16 would be added to subpart A to read as follows: ยง192.16 Customer-owned service lines. (a) Each operator of a natural gas or petroleum gas distribution system that does not maintain buried customer-owned service lines up to the building wall or to the end-use equipment to part 192 standards, shall provide written notification to the customer: (1) That the customer owns and is responsible for the maintenance of the customer-owned service line;
