FR940419-2-00151 FR940419-2-00086 (ii) An estimate of the replacement cost of equipment systems or structural elements which would normally be replaced over the remaining period of the annual contributions contract or during the 30-year period beginning on the date of submission of the application. (iii) Where funding is being requested for management improvements, an identification of the deficiency, a general description of the work required for correction, and estimated cost. Examples of management improvements include, but are not limited to the following areas: (A) The management, financial, and accounting control systems of the HA; (B) The adequacy and qualifications of personnel employed by the HA in the management and operation of its developments by category of employment; and (C) The adequacy and efficacy of resident programs and services, resident and development security, resident selection and eviction, occupancy and vacant unit turnaround, rent collection, routine and preventive maintenance, equal opportunity, and other HA policies and procedures. (2) Form HUD&hyph;50071, Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans and Cooperative Agreements , in an original only, required of HAs established under State law, applying for grants exceeding $100,000. (3) SF&hyph;LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities , in an original only, required of HAs established under State law, only where any funds, other than federally appropriated funds, will be or have been used to influence Federal workers, Members of Congress and their staff regarding specific grants or contracts. (4) Form HUD&hyph;2880, Applicant/Recipient Update/Disclosure Report , in an original only, required of HAs established under State law which have requested or received an aggregate amount of Federal assistance in excess of $200,000 during the current FY. (5) At the option of the HA , a narrative statement addressing any or all of the technical review factors in section IV(c)(5). (6) At the option of the HA , photographs or video cassettes showing the physical condition of the developments. (d) CIAP Application Deadline The CIAP Application must be physically received by the local HUD Field Office by 3 p.m. local time on June 20, 1994. Faxed copies will not be considered official applications. The application deadline for this NOFA is firm as to date and hour. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, the Department will not consider any application that is received after the application deadline. All applicants should take this into account and submit application materials as early as possible to avoid any risk brought about by unanticipated delays or delivery-related problems. This application deadline does not apply to applications for emergency funding, which may be submitted at any time when funds are available. IV. Application Processing by Field Office (a) Completeness Review (Corrections to Deficient Applications) To be eligible for processing, the CIAP Application must be received by the Field Office within the time period specified in this NOFA and must be complete. In order to determine whether an application is complete, responsive to the NOFA and acceptable for technical processing, the Field Office shall perform a completeness review, using the following criteria: (1) The application was received by HUD at the appropriate address by the date and time specified in the NOFA and was complete and responsive (excluding exhibits which are certifications); or
