FR940208-2-00011 FR940208-2-00007 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary Final Programmatic Life-Cycle Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Theater Missile Defense (TMD) Program AGENCY: Ballistic Missile Defense Organization (BMDO), DOD. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: The Proposed Action is to conduct research and development activities that would give the United States the capability to produce and deploy an integrated, comprehensive theater missile defense. The Proposed Action is necessary to improve the capability of the United States to defend its forward-deployed armed forces and its friends and allies against hostile theater missiles in any foreign theater of operations. TMD consists of three components: (1) Active Defense to destroy enemy missile in-flight; (2) Counterforce to destroy an enemy's ability to launch missiles and; (3) Passive Defense to evade detection and otherwise enhance survival from missile attack. A network of command, control, communications and intelligence (C 3 I) elements would support each of the components individually and provide a means of managing and integrating the overall TMD system. The EIS addresses, to the extent possible, the potential environmental impacts of the research, development and testing, production, basing (not deployment), and eventual decommissioning of the proposed TMD components. It also identifies any mitigation measures that could avoid or lessen those impacts. Environmental resource topics evaluated include air quality, noise, surface and ground water quality, hazardous materials and wastes, electromagnetic radiation, safety, land use, transportation, and biological and cultural resources. Alternative to the Proposed Action analyzed in the EIS: •Improve Active Defense Only_involving only Active Defense and related C 3 I research, development, and testing activities. TMD system improvements would only occur in the area of intercepting and destroying in-flight theater missiles. •Improve Counterforce Only_involving only Counterforce and related C 3 I research, development, and testing activities. TMD system improvements would only occur in the areas of detecting, identifying, and destroying fixed and mobile launch platforms, support and storage facilities, and command and control nodes. •Improve Passive Defense Only_involving only Passive Defense and related C3I research, development, and testing activities. TMD system improvements would occur in the area of camouflage, cover, and deception; hardening of military assets; reductions in thermal, and electronic emissions; and mobility. •No-Action Alernative_no research and development activities, no testing activities, and no production or basing would be undertaken that would result in an integrated and comprehensive TMD system. Normal improvements and maintenance of existing system (i.e., aircraft, missile, radars) would occur to assure their performance against traditional combatant forces. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Major Christine Queen, BMDO/DRE, room 1E1008, 7100 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC, 20301&hyph;7100, (703) 695&hyph;8743. Dated: February 2, 1994. L.M Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2757 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
