FR940620-1-00019 FR940620-1-00006 Section 1906(a)(2) requires every individual entitled to receive Medicaid to apply for enrollment in a cost- effective group health plan as a condition of initial or continued eligibility for Medicaid. However, under section 1906(b)(2), enrollment in the group health plan is not a condition of initial or continued Medicaid eligibility for a child if a parent fails to enroll that child. We also note that where a Medicaid eligible spouse (for example, a wife) cannot apply for enrollment in her husband's group health plan if her husband fails to enroll her, she will not lose eligibility for Medicaid by virtue of his failure to enroll her. This is because the section 1906(a)(2) requirements do not apply to a Medicaid eligible spouse who does not have the independent ability to apply for enrollment in a cost- effective group health plan. 4. Services Covered Under section 1906(c)(2) of the Act, an individual's enrollment in a group health plan does not change the individual's eligibility for benefits under the State plan. However, under section 1902(a)(25), Medicaid is a payer of last resort with respect to services covered under the group health plan. In other words, the group health plan's payment is considered primary to any Medicaid payments. The State must pay for services covered under the State plan which are not otherwise included in the group health plan under the terms and conditions applicable to all other Medicaid recipients. States must establish their own procedures to pay for Medicaid services that are not included under the group health plan. We recognize that some providers that participate in group health plans may not be Medicaid-participating providers. Of course, States should always encourage all providers to participate in Medicaid. However, in the interest of State flexibility, we are offering several options that States may elect to resolve problems that may arise from non-Medicaid-participating providers furnishing services to Medicaid recipients. First, States that deem providers to be Medicaid-participating providers merely through the submission of a bill for services to the State Medicaid agency (as is currently permitted for qualified Medicare beneficiaries) may similarly do so for providers in cost-effective group health plans. In lieu of this voluntary provider arrangement, States could require that all providers in a cost-effective group health plan bill States directly for residual charges on services provided to Medicaid recipients. In other words, States may deem all providers in cost-effective group health plans to be Medicaid- participating providers by billing the State directly for any care or services provided under the group health plan, which are otherwise covered under the State Medicaid plan, but which are not fully paid by the group health plan. Alternatively, States may ascertain what percentage of providers in a group health plan participate in Medicaid, and incorporate that percentage into the determination of whether a group health plan is cost-effective. If the State determines that fewer than a certain percentage (specified by the State) of all providers in a group health plan are not Medicaid-participating providers, the group health plan would not be cost-effective. If either of these options is not feasible for a State, we will allow a State to reimburse recipients directly in the event a recipient is billed directly for any care or services provided under the group health plan, which are otherwise covered under the State Medicaid plan, but which are not fully paid by the group health plan. We will allow States to pay recipients directly where a State demonstrates that failure to do so would render section 1906 of the Act a nullity. A situation in which the provisions of section 1906 could not be effectuated but for direct payment to recipients presents extraordinary circumstances sufficient to justify direct payment to recipients. Under any of these scenarios, a State would have to pay for all cost-sharing obligations, even if such costs are above the State's usual Medicaid rate for services provided to Medicaid recipients. In addition, the State agency must pay for an eligible enrollee's premiums for a group health plan determined cost- effective, and for all deductibles, coinsurance, and other cost-sharing obligations under the group health plan for items and services otherwise covered under the State plan, under section 1906(a)(3). Further, when a non-Medicaid eligible family member must first be enrolled in a group health plan in order for the Medicaid eligible member to receive coverage, section 1906(c)(1)(B) provides that where it is determined to be cost-effective (taking into account payment of all such additional premiums), Medicaid payment is available for the premiums (but no other forms of cost-sharing) of the non-Medicaid eligible member.
