FR940812-2-00198 FR940812-2-00071 Most plastic window-covering materials evaluated in these tests were considered to be nondiffusing or transparent materials and exhibited hazes in the range of 1 to 25 percent. All glassines tested were considered to be diffusing or translucent materials and exhibited haze values from 64 to 97 percent. Although readability was significantly affected by the quality of the printing on the inserts as well as the spacing between the glassine and the printed insert, those materials that measured no more than a 70-percent correlated haze performed best. In accordance with these results, the Postal Service proposes recommending, as a general guideline, that glassine when used to cover the windows of mailpieces intended for automation-based rates, have a correlated haze value of no greater than 70 percent (using ASTM D 1003, standard test criteria). This proposed guideline is intended specifically for manufacturers to aid in the production of glassine window-covering materials capable of satisfying Postal Service automation-compatibility requirements. It will not affect the application of the current standards for print contrast ratio or print reflectance difference because those remain the relevant measurements when evaluating the ability of Postal Service automated sorting equipment to read an address or barcode appearing through a window covering. Accordingly, in some cases a mailpiece may be determined not to qualify for automation-based rates based on failure to meet the PCR or PRD standard, even though the glassine measured alone would comply with the haze value guideline. Mailers concerned about the acceptability of their mailpieces should note that Postal Service mailpiece design analysts are equipped to assist customers in determining whether their envelopes meet PCR or PRD standards but are not equipped to evaluate correlated haze. The Postal Service does not intend to publish this guideline in the Domestic Mail Manual. Because this guideline is intended primarily for the small number of manufacturers that produce glassine and will not affect rate eligibility, it does not appear that wide dissemination will be necessary. Instead, the Postal Service plans to issue the guideline in a Customer Support Ruling (CSR). CSRs were created to assist postal personnel and customers with interpreting, clarifying, and applying the meaning of the standards contained in the DMM. The rulings are intended to be used in conjunction with the DMM standards. These rulings are issued by the Manager, Business Mail Acceptance, U.S. Postal Service, Washington, DC. Mailers can request copies of rulings that specifically address certain topics through a local Postal Service manager of business mail entry. In addition, the final standard would be incorporated in a future issue of Postal Service Publication 25, Designing Business Letter Mail. Interested parties are invited to comment on the proposed guideline as well as the proposed means for its issuance. Stanley F. Mires, Chief Counsel, Legislative. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19683 Filed 8&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7710&hyph;12&hyph;P
