FR940922-2-00063 FR940922-2-00037 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration Request for Nominations for Members on Public Advisory Committees; Science Advisory Board to the National Center for Toxicological Research AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is requesting nominations for members to serve on the Science Advisory Board (the board) to the National Center for Toxicological Research. Three vacancies will occur on June 30, 1995. FDA has a special interest in ensuring that women, minority groups, and individuals with disabilities are adequately represented on advisory committees and, therefore, extends particular encouragement to nominations for appropriately qualified female, minority, and physically disabled candidates. Final selections from among qualified candidates for each vacancy will be determined by the expertise required to meet specific agency needs and in a manner to ensure appropriate balance of membership. DATES: Nominations should be received by October 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: All nominations for membership, except for general public representatives (consumer-nominated members), should be sent to Barbara J. Jewell (address below). All nominations for general public representatives (consumer-nominated members) should be sent to Susan K. Meadows (address below). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regarding all nominations for membership, except for general public representatives (consumer-nominated members): Barbara J. Jewell, National Center for Toxicological Research (HFT&hyph;10), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;3155. Regarding all nominations for general public representatives (consumer-nominated members): Susan K. Meadows, Office of Consumer Affairs (HFE&hyph;40), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;5006. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA is requesting nominations for members to serve on the board to the National Center for Toxicological Research (NCTR). The function of the board is to advise the Director, NCTR, on establishment and implementation of a research program that will assist in fulfilling the regulatory responsibilities of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. The board provides an extra-agency review to ensure that the research programs at NCTR are scientifically sound and pertinent. Criteria for Members Persons nominated for membership shall have adequately diversified experience that is appropriate to the work of the board in the fields related to toxicological research. The specialized training and experience necessary§ to qualify nominees as experts suitable forappointment are subject to review, but may include experiencein medical practice, teaching, and/or research relevant to the field of activity of the board. The term of office is up to 4 years, depending on the appointment date. General Public Representatives (Consumer-nominated Members) FDA currently attempts to place on committees members who are nominated by consumer organizations. These members are recommended by a consortium of 12 consumer organizations that has the responsibility for screening, interviewing, and recommending consumer-nominated candidates with appropriate scientific credentials. Candidates are sought who are aware of the consumer impact of committee issues, but who also possess enough technical background to understand and contribute to the committee's work. For some advisory committees the agency notes, however, it may require such nominees to meet the same technical qualifications and specialized training required of other expert members of the committee. The term of office for these members is up to 4 years, depending on the appointment date. Nominations are invited for consideration for membership as openings become available. Nomination Procedures Any interested person may nominate one or more qualified persons for membership on the board. Nominations shall state that the nominee is aware of the nomination, is willing to serve as a member of the board, and appears to have no conflict of interest that would preclude board membership. Potential candidates will be asked by FDA to provide detailed information concerning such matters as financial holdings, consultancies, and research grants or contracts in order to permit evaluation of possible sources of conflict of interest. This notice is issued under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app. 2) and 21 CFR part 14, relating to advisory committees. Dated: September 15, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23375 Filed 9&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
