FR940202-0-00068 FR940202-0-00006 (d) Treatment of certain options. This paragraph (d) provides rules for determining the issue price of a debt instrument to which section 1274 applies (other than a debt instrument issued in a potentially abusive situation) that is subject to one or more options described in both paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(5) of §1.1272&hyph;1. Under this paragraph (d), an issuer will be deemed to exercise or not exercise an option or combination of options in a manner that minimizes the instrument's imputed principal amount, and a holder will be deemed to exercise or not exercise an option or combination of options in a manner that maximizes the instrument's imputed principal amount. If both the issuer and the holder have options, the rules of this paragraph (d) are applied to the options in the order that they may be exercised. Thus, the deemed exercise of one option may eliminate other options that are later in time. See §1.1272&hyph;1(c)(5) to determine the debt instrument's yield and maturity for purposes of determining the accrual of OID with respect to the instrument. (e) Mandatory sinking funds. In determining the issue price of a debt instrument to which section 1274 applies (other than a debt instrument issued in a potentially abusive situation) and that is subject to a mandatory sinking fund provision described in §1.1272&hyph;1(c)(3)(ii), the mandatory sinking fund provision is ignored. (f) Treatment of variable rate debt instruments_ (1) Stated interest at a qualified floating rate_ (i) In general. For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, the imputed principal amount of a variable rate debt instrument (within the meaning of §1.1275&hyph;5(a)) that provides for stated interest at a qualified floating rate (or rates) is determined by assuming that the instrument provides for a fixed rate of interest for each accrual period to which a qualified floating rate applies. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the assumed fixed rate in each accrual period is the greater of_ (A) The value of the applicable qualified floating rate as of the first date on which there is a binding written contract that substantially sets forth the terms under which the sale or exchange is ultimately consummated; or (B) The value of the applicable qualified floating rate as of the date on which the sale or exchange occurs. (ii) Interest rate restrictions. Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, if, as a result of interest rate restrictions (such as an interest rate cap), the expected yield of the debt instrument taking the restrictions into account is significantly less than the expected yield of the debt instrument without regard to the restrictions, the interest payments on the debt instrument (other than any fixed interest payments) are treated as contingent payments. Reasonably symmetric interest rate caps and floors, or reasonably symmetric governors, that are fixed throughout the term of the debt instrument do not result in the debt instrument being subject to this rule. (2) Stated interest at a single objective rate. For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, the imputed principal amount of a variable rate debt instrument (within the meaning of §1.1275&hyph;5(a)) that provides for stated interest at a single objective rate is determined by treating the interest payments as contingent payments. (g) Contingent payments. [Reserved] (h) Examples. The following examples illustrate the rules of this section. Each example assumes a 30-day month, 360-day year. In addition, each example assumes that the debt instrument is not a qualified debt instrument (as defined in section 1274A(b)) and is not issued in a potentially abusive situation. Example 1. Debt instrument without a fixed rate over its entire term_ (i) Facts. On January 1, 1995, A sells nonpublicly traded property to B for a stated purchase price of $3,500,000. In consideration for the sale, B makes a down payment of $500,000 and issues a 10-year debt instrument with a stated principal amount of $3,000,000, payable at maturity. The debt instrument calls for no interest in the first 2 years and interest at a rate of 15 percent payable annually over the remaining 8 years of the debt instrument. The first interest payment of $450,000 is due on December 31, 1997, and the last interest payment is due on December 31, 2004, together with the $3,000,000 payment of principal. Assume that the test rate of interest applicable to the debt instrument is 10.5 percent, compounded annually. (ii) Applicability of section 1274. Because the debt instrument does not provide for any interest during the first 2 years, none of the interest on the debt instrument is qualified stated interest. Therefore, the issue price of the debt instrument is determined under section 1274. See §1.1274&hyph;1(b)(1). If the debt instrument has adequate stated interest, the issue price of the instrument is its stated principal amount. Otherwise, the issue price of the debt instrument is its imputed principal amount. The debt instrument has adequate stated interest only if the stated principal amount is less than or equal to the imputed principal amount. (iii) Determination of imputed principal amount. To compute the imputed principal amount of the debt instrument, all payments due under the debt instrument are discounted back to the issue date at 10.5 percent, compounded annually, as follows:
