FR940617-0-00233 FR940617-0-00026 (c) Notwithstanding any other requirement of this subpart, a nonroad engine may be finally admitted into the United States under this paragraph if prior written approval for such final admission is obtained from the Administrator. Conditional admission of these nonroad engines under this subpart is not permitted for the purpose of obtaining such written approval from the Administrator. A request for approval is to contain the identification information required in §89.604&hyph;96(a) (except for §89.604&hyph;96(a)(5)) and information that demonstrates that the importer is entitled to the exemption or exclusion. The following exemptions or exclusions are permitted by this paragraph: (1) National security exemption. A nonroad engine may be imported under the national security exemption found at §89.908. (2) Hardship exemption. The Administrator may exempt on a case-by-case basis a nonroad engine from federal emission requirements to accommodate unforeseen cases of extreme hardship or extraordinary circumstances. (3) Exemption for nonroad engines identical to United States certified versions. (i) A person (including businesses) is eligible for importing a nonroad engine into the United States under the provisions of this paragraph. An exemption will be granted if the nonroad engine: (A) is owned by the importer; (B) is not offered for importation for the purpose of resale; and (C) is proven to be identical, in all material respects, to a nonroad engine certified by the Original Engine Manufacturer (OEM) for sale in the United States or is proven to have been modified to be identical, in all material respects, to a nonroad engine certified by the OEM for sale in the United States according to complete written instructions provided by the OEM's United States representative, or his/her designee. (ii) Proof of Conformity. (A) Documentation submitted pursuant to this section for the purpose of proving conformity of individual nonroad engines is to contain sufficiently organized data or evidence demonstrating that the nonroad engine identified pursuant to §89.604&hyph;96(a) is identical, in all material respects, to a nonroad engine identified in an OEM's application for certification. (B) If the documentation does not contain all the information required by this part, or is not sufficiently organized, EPA notifies the importer of any areas of inadequacy, and that the documentation does not receive further consideration until the required information or organization is provided. (C) If EPA determines that the documentation does not clearly or sufficiently demonstrate that a nonroad engine is eligible for importation, EPA notifies the importer in writing. (D) If EPA determines that the documentation clearly and sufficiently demonstrates that a nonroad engine is eligible for importation, EPA grants approval for importation and notifies the importer in writing. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this subpart, the notice constitutes approval for final admission into the United States. (d) Foreign diplomatic and military personnel may import a nonconforming nonroad engine without bond. At the time of admission, the importer must submit to the Administrator the written report required in §89.604&hyph;96(a) (except for information required by §89.604&hyph;96(a)(5)) and a statement from the U.S. Department of State confirming qualification for this exemption. The nonroad engine may not be sold in the United States and must be exported if the individual's diplomatic status is no longer applicable, as determined by the Department of State, unless subsequently brought into conformity in accordance with §§89.605&hyph;96, 89.609&hyph;96, or 89.611&hyph;96(c)(3).
