FR941116-2-00045 FR941116-2-00032 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM Citicorp, New York, NY; Application to Engage in Nonbanking Activities Citicorp, New York, New York (Applicant), has applied pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) (BHC Act) and 225.23(a)(3) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)(3)) to engage de novo through Citicorp Futures Corporation, New York, New York (Company), a futures commission merchant (FCM) registered under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq. ), in executing and clearing, clearing withoutxecuting, executing without clearing, purchasing and selling through the use of omnibus trading accounts, and providing investment advisory services with regard to Sour Crude Oil Futures, Light Sweet Crude Oil Futures, Options on Light Sweet Crude Oil Futures, Gulf Coast Unleaded Gasoline Futures, New York Harbor Unleaded Gasoline Futures, Options on New York Harbor Unleaded Gasoline Futures, Natural Gas Futures, Options on Natural Gas Futures, Heating Oil Futures, Options on Heating Oil Futures and Propane Futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange; World Sugar No. 11 Futures, Options on World Sugar No. 11 Futures, Coffee ``C'' Futures, Options on Coffee ``C'' Futures, Cocoa Futures and Options on Cocoa Futures on the Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa Exchange, Inc.; Hard Red Winter Wheat Futures and Options on Hard Red Winter Wheat Futures on the Kansas City Board of Trade; Soybean Futures and Options on Soybean Futures on the MidAmerica Commodity Exchange; Corn Futures, Options on Corn Futures, Soybean Futures, Options on Soybean Futures, Soybean Oil Futures, Options on Soybean Oil Futures, Soybean Meal Futures, Options on Soybean Meal Futures, Wheat Futures and Options on Wheat Futures on the Chicago Board of Trade; Live Cattle Futures, Options on Live Cattle Futures, Feeder Cattle Futures, Options on Feeder Cattle Futures, Live Hog Futures, Options on Live Hog Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange; and High Sulphur Fuel Oil Futures on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Applicant proposes that Company become a clearing member of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Kansas City Board of Trade, MidAmerica Commodity Exchange and Singapore International Monetary Exchange. These activities will be conducted world wide. Section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act provides that a bank holding company may, with Board approval, engage in any activity which the Board, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, has determined (by order or regulation) to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. This statutory test requires that two separate tests be met for an activity to be permissible for a bank holding company. First, the Board must determine that the activity is, as a general matter, closely related to banking. Second, the Board must find in a particular case that the performance of the activity by the applicant bank holding company may reasonably be expected to produce public benefits that outweigh possible adverse effects. Applicant states that the Board previously has approved providing the proposed FCM execution, clearance and advisory services with respect to nonfinancial commodity contracts. See Bank of Montreal, 79 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1049 (1993); J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated , 80 Federal Reserve Bulletin 151 (1994)( J.P. Morgan ). Applicant has stated that Company would provide the proposed services in accordance with J.P. Morgan , except that Company would provide FCM services to commodity pools that are owned or sponsored by, or otherwise affiliated with, Applicant. In order to approve the proposal, the Board must determine that the proposed activities to be conducted by Company ``can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.'' 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8). Applicant believes that the proposal will produce public benefits that outweigh any potential adverse effects. In particular, Applicant maintains that the proposal will enhance competition and enable Applicant to offer its customers a broader range of products. In addition, Applicant states that the proposed activities will not result in adverse effects such as an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. In publishing the proposal for comment, the Board does not take a position on issues raised by the proposal. Notice of the proposal is published solely to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the application and does not represent a determination by the Board that the proposal meets, or is likely to meet, the standards of the BHC Act. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing and received by William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551, not later than December 2, 1994. Any request for a hearing on this application must, as required by 262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(e)), be accompanied by a statement of the reasons why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. This application may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, November 9, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Deputy Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28249 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;F
