FR940720-0-00066 FR940720-0-00006 II. Valid Range Limits The valid range limits in both the Simple and Complex Models specify the range for each fuel parameter outside of which the models cannot be used for the evaluation of emission performances. These limits ensure that the models will not be used for extremely high or low fuel parameter values which would compromise the validity of the models. Thus the valid range limits were instituted as a means toward maintaining the accuracy of the compliance calculations, and thus the integrity of the reformulated gasoline and anti-dumping programs. The Agency made every attempt to make the valid range limits as wide as possible to provide flexibility to refiners while maintaining a focus on the need for accurate performance estimates. This was especially true for the conventional gasoline valid range limits, as EPA wanted to avoid, to the extent possible, establishing provisions which would require refiners to reformulate their conventional fuels. To provide additional flexibility, the Agency also allowed the extension of the specified valid range for the Complex Model for conventional gasoline when a refiner's individual 1990 baseline fuel exceeds the valid range in one or more fuel parameters. Since publication of the final rule, the Agency has determined that the flexibility provided to refiners in the valid range limits requires some revision and clarification to avoid unnecessary and costly refinery modifications which have no long term environmental benefit. The changes to the regulations can be separated into two categories: changes to the specified valid range limits, and clarification of the provision for extending the valid range for individual refiner baseline fuels. Both of these topics will be described in detail below. A. Revised Valid Range Limits The valid range limits for the Simple and Complex Models were based on two different sets of data and were developed using different assumptions. The Simple Model valid range limits were determined following the regulatory negotiations held in 1991. The Complex Model valid range limits were based upon an examination of the sufficiency of data in the Complex Model database and the accuracy of extrapolations (See the Regulatory Impact Analysis for the final rule, Section IV.D). Because the valid range limits for the Simple and Complex Models were established independently and through different processes, the valid range limits for the two models were different from one another. Since promulgation of the final rule, the Agency has learned that the specified valid ranges may force refiners to make refinery modifications to comply with the regulations that are unwarranted under the Simple Model, and unnecessary under the Complex Model. Thus EPA is revising the valid range limits for oxygen content, RVP, aromatics content, and benzene content for the Simple Model, and oxygen content for the Complex Model. 1. Change to High End of Oxygen Valid Range The high end of the valid range limit for oxygen in both the Simple and Complex Models was based on the maximum amount of oxygen that an oxygenated fuel was expected to lawfully contain. Of all the oxygenates that will likely be used in the reformulated gasoline program, ethanol has the highest oxygen content at 0.35 grams of oxygen per gram of ethanol. The Agency used this value as a benchmark in determining the high end of the valid range for oxygen, assuming a 10 volume percent ethanol blend. However, since promulgation of the final rule, the Agency has learned that density variations in gasoline blendstocks may result in wide variations in the oxygen content of an oxygenated fuel on a weight percent basis despite the fact that the volume percent remains fixed. For instance, blending 10 volume percent ethanol into a higher density gasoline could produce a blend with an oxygen content as low as 3.4 weight percent, while blending 10 volume percent ethanol into a lower density gasoline could produce a blend with an oxygen content as high as 4.0 weight percent. Since the largest excise tax exemption available to refiners for the use of ethanol in gasoline blends is for oxygenated fuels that contain 10 volume percent, many ethanol blends will contain 10 volume percent ethanol. Thus it is essential that the high end of the valid range for both the Simple and Complex Models be raised to 4.0 weight percent. This change will allow fuels which are already being produced to be evaluated with the Simple and Complex Models. The change will also guarantee that no fuel oxygenated with ethanol will be excluded from the reformulated gasoline program due to an oxygen content that is outside the range of the model, as long as it complies with the volume limits applicable in a waiver issued under section 211(f) of the Clean Air Act. Since fuels with oxygen contents of 4.0 weight percent are already being produced, the change will have no additional impact on vehicle driveability. Also, since the models continue to be accurate between 3.5 and 4.0 weight percent, and the emission standards are not being changed, this change to the high end of the valid range for oxygen content will have no adverse impact on the environment.
