FR940414-1-00068 FR940414-1-00010 The analysis of product line conversion is based on comparing the return on assets (ROA) that would be obtained by continuing PFPR in the post-compliance scenario with the ROA that could be obtained from operating activities classified in SIC 2842. (This data is not available for SIC 2899.) The analysis assumes that the ROA achieved by 75 percent of facilities operating in SIC 2842 could reasonably be expected to be achieved by a converted PFPR line. From 1986 through 1988, the average lowest quartile ROA was 2.9 percent for SIC 2842 (Robert Morris Associates, Annual Statement Studies). If a facility's ROA for PFPR falls below 2.9 percent as a result of compliance costs, the facility would be expected to convert its PFPR production lines to other FPR activities. 3 3 In recognition of the uncertainty regarding the ROA achievable by facilities from alternate formulating, packaging, and repackaging activities, a sensitivity analysis of the ROA conversion percentage is presented in Appendix E of the EIA. EPA evaluated each of the impact measures assuming that the facility is unable to pass any costs through to customers. This is an extremely conservative assumption that yields maximum projected impacts on PFPR facilities. In fact, this scenario is highly unlikely. For a zero cost pass-through analysis to represent a realistic scenario, either the supply curves for pesticide markets must be perfectly inelastic or the demand curves must be perfectly elastic. A perfectly inelastic supply curve is associated with goods for which there is a fixed supply. This is not the case in the pesticide market. Based on an analysis of the price elasticity of demand for pesticides conducted for the pesticide manufacturer EIA, demand for pesticides is generally somewhat inelastic. 4 Because supply curves for the pesticide markets are not known, however, and compliance costs are not estimated in a manner that can necessarily be associated with specific pesticide products, it is difficult to project the percentage of the compliance costs that will be passed through to customers. If the analysis shows the regulation to be economically achievable under an assumption of zero cost pass-through, then it is reasonable to conclude that the regulation would be economically achievable under a more realistic scenario of partial cost pass-through. A sensitivity analysis based on partial cost pass-through was also conducted and is presented in Appendix D of the EIA. Estimated impacts under a partial cost pass-through assumption of 50 percent are expected to be five percent lower than those estimated under the assumption of zero cost pass-through. 4 See Appendix C of the EIA. C. Projected Facility Economic Impacts 1. Baseline Analysis The baseline impacts projected for the indirect discharge facilities are shown in Table 3. As mentioned above, a baseline impact is said to occur if a facility's average after-tax cash flow for the three years of Survey data is negative. Table 3._ Projected Population Baseline Facility Closures for Facilities that Use Water 1 [Based on 3-year Average Negative Cash Flow] 1␣ 1Subcategory C facilities 1Subcategory E facilities Facility closures 203 169 Total facilities 943 830 Percentage of facilities impacted 22% 20% 1 Not including direct discharging facilities. 2. Impacts Due to Compliance a. Subcategory C Facilities: Original PSES Options 1 through 5. For Subcategory C facilities, EPA initially analyzed the impacts of five possible regulatory options for PSES. These five options were previously described in Section X. Of these options, EPA initially decided to propose Option 3 because, as discussed in Section X, it represents the performance achievable with the best available technology. EPA's analysis shows that this option is economically achievable and, in fact, results in the fewest impacts among the five options. (As described below, today's notice proposes a different option, (Option 3/S.1) based on 3/S, which is the same as Option 3 but includes somewhat different provisions for wastewaters from the formulating, packaging, and repackaging of a group of PAIs termed the ``sanitizer'' PAIs.)
