FR941220-0-00034 FR941220-0-00005 (i) Personal care services such as bathing, dressing, grooming, caring for hair, nail and oral hygiene that are needed to facilitate treatment or to prevent deterioration of the beneficiary's health, changing the bed linens of an incontinent beneficiary, shaving, deodorant application, skin care with lotions and/or powder, foot care, ear care, feeding, assistance with elimination (including enemas unless the skills of a licensed nurse are required due to the beneficiary's condition, routine catheter care, and routine colostomy care), assistance with ambulation, changing position in bed, and assistance with transfers. (ii) Simple dressing changes that do not require the skills of a licensed nurse. (iii) Assistance with medications that are ordinarily self-administered and that do not require the skills of a licensed nurse to be provided safely and effectively. (iv) Assistance with activities that are directly supportive of skilled therapy services but do not require the skills of a therapist to be safely and effectively performed, such as routine maintenance exercises and repetitive practice of functional communication skills to support speech-language pathology services. (v) Routine care of prosthetic and orthotic devices. (2) The services to be provided by the home health aide must be_ (i) Ordered by a physician in the plan of care; and (ii) Provided by the home health aide on a part-time or intermittent basis. (3) The services provided by the home health aide must be reasonable and necessary. To be considered reasonable and necessary, the services must_ (i) Meet the requirement for home health aide services in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; (ii) Be of a type the beneficiary cannot perform for himself or herself; and (iii) Be of a type that there is no able or willing caregiver to provide, or, if there is a potential caregiver, the beneficiary is unwilling to use the services of that individual. (4) The home health aide also may perform services incidental to a visit that was for the provision of care as described in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. For example, these incidental services may include changing bed linens, personal laundry, or preparing a light meal. (c) Medical social services. Medical social services may be covered if the following requirements are met: (1) The services are ordered by a physician and included in the plan of care. (2)(i) The services are necessary to resolve social or emotional problems that are expected to be an impediment to the effective treatment of the beneficiary's medical condition or to his or her rate of recovery. (ii) If these services are furnished to a beneficiary's family member or caregiver, they are furnished on a short-term basis and it can be demonstrated that the service is necessary to resolve a clear and direct impediment to the effective treatment of the beneficiary's medical condition or to his or her rate of recovery. (3) The frequency and nature of the medical social services are reasonable and necessary to the treatment of the beneficiary's condition. (4) The medical social services are furnished by a qualified social worker or qualified social work assistant under the supervision of a social worker as defined in ยง484.4 of this chapter. (5) The services needed to resolve the problems that are impeding the beneficiary's recovery require the skills of a social worker or a social work assistant under the supervision of a social worker to be performed safely and effectively.
