FR940303-1-00046 FR940303-1-00010 FSIS is considering proposing handling requirements that would provide that material to be processed into MDP be processed within 2 hours from the time it is separated from the bones of poultry carcasses or parts of carcasses, except that such product may be held for no more than 72 hours at 40 ○F (4 ○C) or less, or held indefinitely at 0 ○F (^18 ○C) or less. Within 2 hours of the mechanical deboning operation, FSIS is also considering proposing that MDP be chilled to 40 ○F (4 ○C) or less, frozen at 0 ○F (^18 ○C) or less, or cooked. FSIS is further considering proposing that MDP be used as an ingredient in a poultry or meat food product directly after being processed, except that it may be held prior to such use for no more than 72 hours at 40 ○F (4 ○C) or less or indefinitely at 0 ○F (^18 ○C) or less. FSIS recognizes that different starting materials will be processed into MDP, i.e., poultry carcasses or parts of carcasses chilled and maintained in accordance with 9 CFR 381.66; unchilled poultry carcasses or parts of carcasses; and heat-treated poultry carcasses or parts of carcasses, and such carcasses or parts from which a substantial portion of skeletal muscle or other tissue has been removed. FSIS wishes to receive comments on whether specific handling requirements other than those being considered are appropriate for specific types of starting materials. In addition, in order to avoid confusion about the parts or physical state of poultry that may be processed into MDP, FSIS is considering providing a definition of ``poultry carcasses or parts of carcasses.'' The terms ``poultry carcasses'' or ``parts of carcasses'' would apply to whole carcasses or disjointed portions of such carcasses that are ``ready-to-cook poultry'' within the meaning of 9 CFR 381.1(b)(44) of the poultry products inspection regulations. In other words, the head, feet, crop, oil gland, trachea, esophagus, entrails, mature reproductive organs, and lungs of the slaughtered poultry have been removed and such poultry is free from protruding pinfeathers and vestigial feathers and suitable for cooking without need of further processing. FSIS is considering that adoption of the handling requirements discussed above would eliminate the need to require that the temperature of rooms or compartments in which equipment for mechanical deboning of raw poultry is operated be maintained at 50 ○F or less. Thus, if the requirements FSIS is considering are adopted, FSIS would need to rescind 9 CFR 381.47(e). C. Tentative position: Limitations on use. FSIS's tentative position is to establish and codify limitations with respect to use of MDP in the formulation of poultry and meat food products. FSIS is contemplating imposing such restrictions based on the potential fluoride contribution of MDP made from fowl (i.e., mature female chickens) and the characteristics of MDP, including the kind of poultry from which it is made, its consistency, and its protein and fat contents. FSIS believes that such requirements are necessary to prevent potential health and safety problems, and to maintain the quality and integrity of the poultry and meat food product supply. (1) Tentative position: Kind of product limitation. FSIS is considering that when a poultry product is required to be prepared from a particular kind or kinds of poultry (e.g., chickens), use of MDP of any other kind (e.g., mechanically deboned turkey) should not be permitted. This provision would assure that MDP made from a different kind of poultry is not used in a poultry product represented as containing ingredients from a particular kind or kinds of poultry. The tentative definition and standard for MDP that FSIS is considering covers MDP prepared from any kind of poultry. FSIS is not considering, however, to permit use of MDP as an ingredient in any given poultry product regardless of the kind of poultry from which it is made. Such action would be inconsistent with existing regulatory requirements and interpretations and could, among other things, result in false or misleading labeling. For example, the definition and standard for (Kind) patties (9 CFR 381.160) requires that poultry product ingredients be ``of the kind indicated'' (e.g., turkey products in turkey patties). FSIS believes that in considering to amend the poultry products inspection regulations to provide for the use of MDP as a distinctive poultry product ingredient, this consideration should not abrogate this type of requirement (e.g., to permit use of mechanically deboned chicken in turkey patties).
