FR940318-0-00205 FR940318-0-00023 Radiation curing is a production technique for drying and curing adhesives with radiant energy in the form of ultraviolet (UV) or infrared (IR) light, electron beams (EB), and gamma or x-rays. The binding agents that can be cured with radiant energy are acrylics, epoxies, urethanes, anaerobic adhesives, and polyester resins. In many cases, if the materials are either heat sensitive or opaque, radiation curing cannot be employed. Radiation-dried coatings are applied as either a powder or as a high-solids form and dried using the same radiant energy forms as used in radiation-cured adhesives. The binder systems that can be dried with radiant energy are also similar. In cases where the radiant energy is harmful to a component, such as sensitive electronic equipment, radiant-dried coating cannot be employed. Moisture-cured, chemical-cured, and reactive liquid adhesives are still not widely used because they are still being developed or because performance or application problems still have to be addressed. They will not be widely commercially available for several years. 3. Comment Response a. Acceptable substitutes. It was suggested that the acceptable substitutes cited for MCF could also be extended to other ozone-depleting solvents, such as CFC&hyph;113. Depending on the specific application, EPA believes that it is probable that the same substitutes would apply and has addressed such substitutes as appropriate. Another commenter noted that some terminology was inconsistent and should be clarified. The use of the collective term ``organic solvent'' when describing alcohols, ketones and esters was cited. EPA agrees and believes that ``Oxygenated organic solvent'' is more specific. This phrase was substituted in the final rule. b. Unacceptable substitutes_no comments received. c. Pending substitutes. One commenter suggested that other chlorinated solvents, glycol ethers, glycol ether acetates and N-methyl pyrollidone be forbidden as substitutes. EPA believes that when used as directed and within the specified controls, these substances are safe alternative processes. d. Other related issues_ One commenter stated that ``coatings'' needs to be clarified to mean paint type coatings and not other coatings such as lubricants and mold releases. The phrase coatings is defined in the overview section to mean durable and decorative coatings such as paint to clarify this application. 4. Preliminary Listing Decisions a. Acceptable substitutes. (1) Solvent substitutes. (a) Petroleum distillates. Petroleum hydrocarbons are acceptable substitutes for MCF in adhesives, coatings, and inks. The principal concern with these substitutes is over risk to workers during manufacture and use of the alternative solvent. However, the Agency's analysis of these alternatives indicated that risks from use of petroleum hydrocarbons are well understood and already subject to necessary controls. For instance, although these solvents are flammable, industry has a good record of safe use of these substitutes. Additionally, certain of the petroleum hydrocarbons, for example n-hexane, have low Permissible Exposure Limits (PELs), but the Agency's survey of exposures in the workplace found that these levels can successfully be attained if adequate ventilation and appropriate work practices are implemented. The Agency's analysis of the potential for risks to residents in nearby communities did indicate the potential for adverse effects near a site with industrial use of petroleum hydrocarbons if a relatively toxic petroleum hydrocarbon is used. However, the Agency does not believe that the risk screen describes the true risk presented by these chemicals. First, the agency has determined that petroleum hydrocarbons used in this sector are rarely as toxic as n-hexane. Second, the screen used as past MCF emissions as a proxy for emissions of n-hexane. This approach does not account for other regulatory controls, such as VOC controls, that limit emissions of hydrocarbons from industrial sites, and would consequently also serve to lower any other health risks to the general population from these chemicals. For this reason, the Agency believes that petroleum hydrocarbons merit use as substitutes, although it encourages manufacturers to formulate products where possible with compounds with lowest inherent toxicity. (b) Alcohols, ketones, ethers and esters. Alcohols, ketones, ethers and esters are acceptable substitutes for MCF in adhesives, coatings, and inks. The concerns for use of these solvents parallel the concerns associated with petroleum hydrocarbons. In this case, two of the typical oxygenated hydrocarbons examined in the Agency's risk screen, methyl ethyl ketone and methyl isobutyl ketone, also have comparatively low toxicity. For the same reasons described in the section on petroleum distillates, the Agency is approving these compounds as substitutes for MCF. This approval also includes the same guidance to manufacturers_to select chemicals for product formulations with lowest inherent toxicity. (c) Chlorinated solvents. Perchloroethylene, methylene chloride and trichloroethylene are acceptable substitutes for adhesives, coatings, and inks. Use of these solvents merit special caution, since they are suspected human carcinogens. However, as with other solvents, the Agency's risk screen indicates that proper workplace practices significantly reduce risks in occupational settings. The Agency's examination of risks to the general population determined the highest potential for adverse effects to be associated with use of trichloroethylene, since it has the greatest cancer potency. Clearly there is a need for further assessment of the hazards from use of this chemical, and the Agency notes that authorities exist to address any risks determined from such analyses under Title III of the Clean Air Act. Title III lists all three of the chlorinated solvents as Hazardous Air Pollutants, and mandates development of Maximum Achievable Control Technology standards to control emissions of these chemicals in various industrial settings.
