FR940516-1-00050 FR940516-1-00003 Blowing down a pipeline at a platform would require a scrubber system to separate liquids. These liquids would need to be disposed of safely which may be difficult during a platform emergency. Question_ What are the benefits and shortcomings of subsea pipeline diversion? Response_ System dependability might be enhanced by subsea diversion but not enough to offset additional cost over platform diversion. Subsea diversion could place evacuating and rescuing personnel in peril and could pose a significant pollution problem. Question_ What are the advantages and disadvantages of having the capability to blow down a pipeline from both ends? Response_ It may be good engineering practice to locate blowdowns at each end of a pipeline. One end may be inaccessible due to fire or failure. If both ends are accessible, a more rapid blowdown can be accomplished. However, the majority of damage and injuries on a platform occurs during the first few minutes and before pressure could be reduced. Actual damage is not likely to be significantly reduced. It would be necessary to bypass the check valve of the outgoing line. The bypass would need to be maintained and tested. Facilities for large scrubbing, liquid handling, and flaring would also be required. Question_ Should pipelines be required to have the capability of rapid reduction of pipeline pressure from either end and, if so, what length of time should be specified as the maximum time for pipeline pressure reduction in an emergency situation? Response_ Rapid pressure reduction is impractical during emergencies. Larger lines and volumes must be depressurized more slowly. The pest solution is accident prevention and efficient platform evacuation. Gas pipeline pressure cannot be reduced fast enough to prevent early damage during a platform emergency. In an emergency, evacuation is the primary concern. Flaring large volumes of gas could create a dangerous situation for aircraft and boats. Summary of Proposed Changes Based on the report of the task group and the analysis of the responses received following the July 23, 1990, Federal Register Notice, MMS proposes to:
