FR940803-1-00011 FR940803-1-00004 The NCUA proposed commentary is derived from the one proposed by the FRB and from information provided in the supplementary information to NCUA's final Truth in Savings rule, part 707 of the NCUA Rules and Regulations. The proposed commentary also reflects NCUA staff's understanding of the FRB's interpretations which have not been publicly published. The proposed commentary, for the most part, does not repeat information provided in part 707. We believe the proposed commentary is self-explanatory and not in need of further supplementary information. Due to the fact that most credit unions will not have to comply with part 707 until 1995, NCUA is in the unusual position of promulgating a commentary before experiencing the implementation of the rule which is explained in the commentary. However, the NCUA Board believes that it will be of assistance to credit union members and potential members, credit unions, credit union supervisors and regulators, the NCUA, and other interested parties to have a commentary finalized before the compliance date of part 707 to aid in compliance of this new, technical regulation required by Congress. Therefore, NCUA requests the assistance of all interested parties in ensuring that the commentary address the most generally asked questions and concerns that credit union members and potential members, credit unions, and other interested parties might have regarding Truth in Savings and part 707. To a great extent, the final commentary to be issued by NCUA will reflect the questions, concerns, and comments that are generated by this proposed commentary. NCUA solicits comments on any aspect of part 707 that may be addressed by a commentary which may provide assistance to credit unions in complying with TISA and part 707, providing an easily accessible, safe harbor for credit unions, while observing the letter, spirit and intent of TISA. In providing comments on this proposal, NCUA reminds commenters that TISA requires NCUA's regulation to be substantially similar to Regulation DD (12 CFR 230), the FRB's Truth in Savings regulation, except that NCUA may take into account the unique nature of credit unions and the limitations under which credit unions pay dividends. Commenters are asked to direct their comments not to the rule (12 CFR §§707.1&hyph;707.9) or Appendices A and B to part 707, but to how the rule and its appendices can best be implemented and complied with by credit unions. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 707 Advertising, Credit unions, Consumer protection, Deposit accounts, Interest, Interest rates, Truth in savings. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Board proposed to amend 12 CFR part 707 as follows: PART 707_TRUTH IN SAVINGS 1. The authority citation for part 707 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 4311. 2. Part 707 would be amended by adding a new Appendix C to Part 707_Official Staff Interpretations to read as follows: Appendix C_Official Staff Interpretations Introduction 1. Official status. This commentary is the vehicle by which the staff of the Office of General Counsel of the National Credit Union Administration issues official staff interpretations of Part 707 of the NCUA Rules and Regulations. Good faith compliance with this commentary affords protection from liability under section 271(f) of the Truth in Savings Act (``TSIA''), 12 U.S.C. §4311. Section 707.1_Authority, purpose, coverage, and effect on state laws. (c) Coverage 1. Foreign applicability. Part 707 applies to all credit unions, whether state or federally chartered, that offer share and deposit accounts to residents (including resident aliens) of any state as defined in §707.2(v) and that offer accounts insurable by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (``NCUSIF'') whether or not such accounts are insured by the NCUSIF. Corporate credit unions designated as such by NCUA under 12 CFR §704.2 (definition of ``corporate credit union'') are exempt from part 707. 2. Persons who advertise accounts. Persons who advertise accounts are subject to the advertising rules. This includes agent and agented accounts, such as a member who subdivides interests in a jumbo term share certificate account for sale to other parties or among members who form a certificate account investment club. For example, if a share broker places an advertisement that offers members a dividend in an account at a credit union, the advertising rules apply to the advertisement, whether the account is held by the broker or directly by the member. 3. Preemption of state laws. State laws are preempted to the extent they impose requirements that are inconsistent with TISA and part 707. If credit union officials or members are concerned as to whether state law requirements are preempted, they may write to NCUA's Office of General Counsel requesting a preemption determination. Written preemption requests should cite (or include a copy of) the allegedly inconsistent state law, demonstrate the inconsistency with TISA and part 707 and the burden on credit unions, and formally request a preemption determination. Section 707.2_Definitions. (a) Account 1. Covered accounts. Examples of accounts subject to the regulation are: Dividend-bearing or interest-bearing accounts Non-dividend-bearing or non-interest-bearing accounts Accounts opened as a condition of obtaining a credit card Escrow accounts with a consumer purpose, such as an account established by a member to escrow rental payments, pending resolution of a dispute with the member's landlord
