FR941220-1-00031 FR941220-1-00009 EPA Response Some commenters noted that no chronic health effects have been associated with long-term exposure to high levels of sulfate. However, sulfate can have acute adverse effects on non-acclimated persons. The population at risk is readily identified and targeted for protective measures. While the laxative effect eases and disappears as the person acclimates to the high sulfate concentration, the individual is subject to debilitation during the acclimation period. Diarrhea and/or laxative effects have been reported in infants ingesting water with high levels of sulfate and in adults at concentrations in the 500 to 1000 mg/L range. EPA believes an MCL level of 500 mg/L will be sufficiently protective of infants and adults. An RfD for sulfate has not been determined. SMCLs for aesthetic qualities relating to the public acceptance of drinking water are not federally enforceable, and intended only as guidance for the States. SMCLs do not meet the statutory requirement to set an NPDWR for sulfate. The requirements for transient and non-transient, non-community water systems which do not serve the target population frequently would be minimal. They could achieve compliance by placing permanent signs at drinking fountains and having bottled water which complies with EPA MCLs available for visitors. The Agency has updated the occurrence data and the cost analysis since the Phase V proposal. 4. Today's Proposed MCLG Today EPA is proposing an MCLG of 500 mg/L which represents the level at which no known or anticipated adverse effects on human health occur, and which allows for an adequate margin of safety based on current data. As a basis for choosing this level, EPA notes that the survey conducted by Peterson (1951) and evaluated by Moore (1952) indicated that the number of people reporting laxative effects greatly increased at sulfate concentrations above 500 mg/L. This concentration is considered protective of infants based on the information reported by Chien et al. (1968). EPA believes that the MCLG for sulfate should be based on the potential for causing loose stools and diarrhea. Infants are at risk from diarrhea regardless of the cause, and unacclimated adults may also be at risk. A standard to limit the intake of sulfate will protect the infant population and unacclimated adults from potential adverse effects. EPA requests comment on this proposed MCLG. EPA particularly requests any new data or any other new information that may be submitted in support of or opposing the reproposed sulfate MCLG of 500 mg/L. In light of comments opposing the regulation of sulfate, the Agency is also requesting any new data or information that would support a higher level for the MCLG. The Agency is particularly interested in comments that raise issues other than those that EPA has already considered and responded to above and in the record for today's proposal. B. Establishment of NPDWR for Sulfate 1. Methodology for Determination of MCLs The SDWA directs EPA to set the MCL ``as close to'' the MCLG ``as is feasible.'' The term ``feasible'' means ``feasible with the use of the best technology, treatment techniques, and other means, which the Administrator finds, after examination for efficacy under field conditions and not solely under laboratory conditions, are available (taking costs into consideration)'', (SDWA section 1412(b)(5)). Each NPDWR that establishes an MCL lists the technology, treatment techniques, and other means which the Administrator finds to be feasible for meeting the MCL (SDWA section 1412(b)(6)).
