FR940526-1-00021 FR940526-1-00011 §641.4 Permits and fees. * * * * * (m) Moratorium on permits. This paragraph (m) is effective through December 31, 1995. * * * * * (4) A permit that is not renewed or that is revoked will not be reissued. A permit is considered to be not renewed when an application for renewal is not received by the Regional Director within one year of the expiration date of the permit. (n) Red snapper endorsement. This paragraph (n) is effective through December 31, 1995. * * * * * (o) Condition of a permit. Effective through December 31, 1995, as a condition of a reef fish permit issued under this section, without regard to where red snapper are harvested or possessed, a permitted vessel_ * * * * * (p)␣*␣*␣*␣ (4) A fish trap endorsement is not transferable upon change of ownership of a vessel with a fish trap endorsement, except when such change of ownership is from one to another of the following: husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, mother, or father. In the event of such transfer of a fish trap endorsement, the new owner of the vessel may renew the endorsement without regard to the requirement of paragraph (p)(1) of this section regarding a record of landing of reef fish from fish traps. (5) A fish trap endorsement that is not renewed or that is revoked will not be reissued. A fish trap endorsement is considered to be not renewed when an application for renewal is not received by the Regional Director within one year of the expiration date of the permit. 3. In §641.7, effective from the effective date of the final rule through September 30, 1994, a new paragraph (ee) is added to read as follows: §641.7 Prohibitions. * * * * * (ee) Falsify information submitted in accordance with §641.10. 4. In subpart A, effective from the effective date of the final rule through September 30, 1994, a new §641.10 is added to read as follows: §641.10 Red snapper data collection. (a) General. (1) To evaluate red snapper effort management alternatives, including individual transferable quota (ITQ) systems and license limitations, it is necessary to obtain commercial red snapper landings data for the years 1990 through 1992. To identify individuals who may qualify for initial participation in a red snapper effort management regime, it is necessary to identify certain participants in the red snapper fishery, specifically, operators of vessels who were the earned income qualifiers for the vessels' reef fish permits and those who are ``historical captains.'' In the latter case, documentation of a historical captain's share agreement with the vessel's owner is also required. (2) For the purpose of the red snapper effort limitation alternatives, a historical captain means an operator who_ (i) From November 6, 1989, through 1993, fished solely under a verbal or written share agreement with an owner to lease a vessel, such agreement provided for the operator to be responsible for hiring the crew, who were paid from his or her share; (ii) Landed from that vessel at least 5,000 lb (2,268 kg) of red snapper per year in 2 of the 3 years 1990, 1991, and 1992; and (iii) Derived more than 50 percent of his or her earned income from commercial fishing, that is, sale of the catch, in each of the years 1989 through 1993. (3) The data collection described in this section will be the only collection for the effort management alternatives currently being considered by the Council. Accordingly, failure to submit requested data may result in failure to be included among the initial participants in the red snapper fishery under an effort management system and/or failure to obtain the full initial share of red snapper to which a person may be entitled under an ITQ regime. (b) Existing data. (1) NMFS has records of all red snapper landings reported by vessel logbook forms submitted pursuant to §641.5 (a) or (b) and has access to records of red snapper landings reported under Florida's trip ticket system. NMFS also has records of the earned income qualifier for each vessel permit issued for reef fish. Data duplicating these records are not needed. (2) Landings of red snapper reported by vessel logbook forms and received by the Science and Research Director prior to September 16, 1992, are conclusive as to red snapper landed during the months that such logbook forms were required of, or voluntarily submitted by, a vessel_landings data from other sources will not be considered for such months. In the absence of landings data from such logbook forms, landings of red snapper reported under Florida's trip ticket system and received by the State prior to September 16, 1992, are conclusive as to landings in Florida_ landings data from other sources will not be considered for landings in Florida. However, vessel owners/operators will be given printouts of their logbook/trip ticket records of landings and will have an opportunity to submit records they believe were omitted. (c) Additional landings data. (1) An owner or operator who wishes to be considered for initial participation in the red snapper fishery under an effort management system may submit documentation of red snapper landings not covered by vessel logbook forms or the Florida trip ticket system. (i) Such documentation may consist of copies of trip receipts that show dates and amounts of landings of red snapper. Trip receipts must definitively show the species known as red snapper and the vessel's name, official number, or other reference that provides a way of clearly identifying the vessel. (ii) Such documentation may also consist of dealer records that show dates and amounts of landings of red snapper. As with trip receipts, dealer records must definitively show the species known as red snapper and the vessel's name, official number, or other reference that provides a way of clearly identifying the vessel. Dealer records must contain a sworn affidavit by the dealer confirming the accuracy and authenticity of the records. A sworn affidavit is an official written statement wherein the individual signing the affidavit affirms that the information presented is accurate and can be substantiated, under penalty of law. (iii) Documentation by a combination of trip receipts and dealer records is acceptable, but duplicate records for the same landings are not acceptable. (2) Red snapper landings data will not be accepted_ (i) For a period during which the harvesting vessel did not have a permit, provided a permit was required during such period. Permits were not required from January 1 through April 22, 1990, and from January 1 through 31, 1992. (ii) For a period during which the commercial red snapper fishery in the EEZ was closed. The commercial red snapper fishery was closed in the EEZ from August 24 through December 31, 1991, from February 22 through April 2, 1992, and from May 15 through December 31, 1992.
