FR940607-2-00112 FR940607-2-00068 2. Applicants assert that the charge for mortality and expense risks is reasonable compensation for the risks assumed. 3. Applicants represent that the charge of 1.20% for the mortality and expense risks assumed by Western Southern is within the range of industry practice with respect to comparable annuity products. Applicants state that this representation is based upon their analysis of publicly available information regarding products of other companies, taking into consideration such factors as: Guaranteed minimum death benefits and guaranteed annuity purchase rates; minimum initial and subsequent purchase payments; other contract charges and the manner in which such charges are imposed; investment options available under other contracts; and the availability of other contracts to individual qualified and nonqualified plans. Applicants represent that Western Southern will maintain at its principal office, available to the Commission upon request, a memorandum setting forth in detail the variable annuity products analyzed and the methodology and results of Western Southern's comparative review. 4. Applicants acknowledge that the Sales Charge may be insufficient to cover all costs relating to the distribution of the Contracts and that, if a profit is realized from the mortality and expense risk charge, all or a portion of such profit may be offset by distribution expenses not reimbursed by the Sales Charge. Applicants represent that Western Southern has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangement will benefit the Account and the Contract owners. The basis for such conclusion is set forth in a memorandum which will be maintained by Western Southern at its principal office and will be made available to the Commission upon request. 5. Western Southern also represents that the Account will invest only in management investment companies which undertake, in the event such company adopts a plan under Rule 12b&hyph;1 of the 1940 Act to finance distribution expenses, to have such plan formulated and approved by the company's board of directors, a majority of whom are not interested persons of such company within the meaning of the 1940 Act. Conclusion Applicants assert that for the reasons and upon the facts set forth above, the requested exemptions from sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13740 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
