FR940418-2-00049 FR940418-2-00021 We will also evaluate possible alternatives to the project and recommend specific mitigation measures to lessen or avoid impacts on the various resource areas. Our independent analysis of the issues will result in the publication of a Draft EIR/EIS which will be mailed to Federal, state, and local agencies, public interest groups, interested individuals, affected landowners, newspapers, libraries, and the Commission's official service list for these proceedings. A 45-day comment period will be allocated for the review of the Draft EIR/EIS. We will consider all comments on the Draft EIR/EIS and revise the document, as necessary, before issuing a Final EIR/EIS. The Final EIR/EIS will include our response to each comment received. Public Participation and Scoping Meetings You can make a difference by sending a letter with your specific comments or concerns about the project. You should focus on the potential environmental effects of the proposal, alternatives to the proposal (including alternative routes), and measures to avoid or lessen environmental impact. The more specific your comments, the more useful they will be. Please follow the instructions below to ensure that your comments are received and properly recorded: •Address the letter to: Ms. Lois Cashell, Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street NE., Washington, DC 20426; •Reference Docket Nos. CP93&hyph;258&hyph;000, et al.; •Send a copy of the letter to the following individuals: Michael J. Boyle, EIS Project Manager, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Room 7312, 825 North Capitol Street NE., Washington, DC 20426 Mary Griggs, EIR Project Manager, State Lands Commission, 1807 13th Street, Sacramento, CA 95814. •Mail comments before May 20, 1994. In addition to asking for written comments, we invite you to attend any of the joint public scoping meetings the FERC and SLC will conduct. The locations and times for these meetings are listed on the next page. Requests to hold additional public scoping meetings will be considered. The public meetings will be designed to provide you with more detailed information and another opportunity to offer your comments on the proposed project. Those wanting to speak at the meetings can call the EIS Project Manager to pre-register their names on the speaker list. Those people on the speaker list prior to the date of the meeting will be allowed to speak first. A second speaker list will be developed at each meeting. Priority will be given to people representing groups. A transcript of each meeting will be made so that your comments will be accurately recorded. Becoming an Intervenor In addition to involvement in the EIR/EIS scoping process, you may want to become an official party to the FERC proceedings by becoming an intervenor. Among other things, intervenors have the right to receive copies of case-related Commission documents and filings by other intervenors. Likewise, each intervenor must provide copies of its filings to all other parties. If you want to become an intervenor, you must file a Motion to Intervene according to Rule 214 of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214) which is attached as appendix 4. The date for filing timely motions to intervene in this proceeding has passed. Therefore, parties now seeking to file late interventions must show good cause, as required by §385.214(b)(3), why this time limitation should be waived. Environmental issues have been viewed as good cause for late intervention. You do not need intervenor status to have your scoping comments considered or to speak at a meeting.
