FR941006-2-00089 FR941006-2-00073 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 50&hyph;336] Northeast Nuclear Energy Company, The Connecticut Light and Power Company; The Western Massachusetts Electric Company, Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 2; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an exemption from Facility Operating License No. DPR&hyph;65, issued to Northeast Nuclear Energy Company, (NNECO or the licensee), for operation of the Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 2, located in New London County, Connecticut. Environmental Assessment Identification of the Proposed Action The proposed action would provide a schedular exemption from the requirements of 10 CFR part 50, appendix J. Sections III.D.2.(a) and III.D.3 on behalf of Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit 2. On September 23, 1994, NNECO determined that the 24-month testing requirement had been exceeded for a number of Type B and C components by up to approximately four months. The exemption would provide temporary relief from the 2-year schedular requirement associated with Type B and C periodic Containment local leakage rate tests (LLRTs). The proposed exemption would extend the 2-year requirement through the end of the 12 refueling outage. The proposed action is in accordance with the licensee's application for exemption dated September 26, 1994. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed action would permit Millstone Unit 2 to proceed with the current schedule for the twelfth refueling outage which is when the plant begins a shut down currently scheduled for October 1, 1994. The proposed exemption would allow the licensee to take advantage of the preparations that have been made for the upcoming refueling outage, including initiatives which would reduce personnel radiation exposure, allow dynamic testing of motor-operated valves, permit testing of main steam safety valves, and allow the performance of work on the service water system to reduce shutdown risks. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The Commission has completed its evaluation of the proposed action and concludes that there are no significant radiological or nonradiological impacts associated with the proposed action and that the issuance of the proposed exemption will have no significant impact on the quality of the human environment. The change will not increase the probability or consequences of accidents, no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action.
