FR940727-2-00101 FR940727-2-00054 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 50&hyph;139] University of Washington; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Environmental Impact Regarding Proposed Renewal of Facility License No. R&hyph;73 The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility License No. R&hyph;73 for the University of Washington Research Reactor (the licensee) located on the University campus in Seattle, Washington. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action This Environmental Assessment is written in connection with the proposed renewal date of February 14, 1999, for the facility license of the University of Washington Research Reactor (UWRR) at Seattle, Washington, in response to a timely application from the licensee dated August 10 and 31, 1989, as modified on February 14 and May 2, 1994. The proposed action would authorize possession, but not operation, of the facility, for a period of five years. Need for the Proposed Action The license for the facility was due to expire on October 13, 1989. The licensee made a timely request for renewal as a possession only license on August 10 and 31, 1989, for a period of 20 years which was later modified on February 14, 1994 for a period of five years. The proposed action is required to authorize continued possession, but not operation, of the facility, so that the licensee can complete its decommissioning plan and ultimately decommission the reactor facility. Alternatives to the Possession Action An alternative to the proposed action that was considered was not renewing the license. This alternative would have led to possession of a facility and radioactive material without authorization by law. This alternative did not provide an acceptable way for the licensee to possess the facility prior to decomissioning, or for decommissioning the facility in a controlled, coordinated manner. The other alternative was to renew the license for possession only a period of one year, but this would require license renewals on an annual basis until decommissioning is completed. Environmental Impact The reactor is defueled and all special nuclear material and source material have been shipped offsite or transferred to the State license. The only remaining radioactivity at the facility is activated reactor components. There is no potential for generation of further radioactive materials. The extension of the facility license as a possession only license for a five year period allows the licensee time to complete its decommissioning plan and affords it a reasonable time to implement decommissioning. Further, providing additional time for the licensee to develop and implement the decommissioning plan should lessen the environmental impact, in that radioactive materials will continue to be depleted by the decay process and the licensee will have an opportunity to better plan and conduct decommissioning activities. Alternatives Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources beyond those normally allocated for such activities. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's request and did not consult other agencies or persons. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission has concluded that the propose d action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for this proposed action. For further details with respect to this action, see the licensee's request for a license renewal application dated August 10 and 31, 1989, as modified on February 14 and May 2, 1994. These documents are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20555. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 21st day of July 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Seymour H. Weiss, Director, Non-Power Reactors and Decommissioning Project Directorate, Division of Operating Reactor Support, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18249 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
