FR940426-0-00079 FR940426-0-00017 Regulatory Impacts A. Costs and Other Impacts This notice was not reviewed under Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review). NHTSA has analyzed the impact of this rulemaking action and determined that it is not ``significant'' within the meaning of the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. The agency estimates this final rule will impose minimal reporting costs on manufacturers of passenger motor vehicles. The agency estimates that the average annual cost per manufacturer per year to report on new vehicle lines is $2,000. The agency estimates that the cost to all affected manufacturers totals $56,000 per year. The Supplementary Information section of this notice discussed the ``Anti Car Theft Act of 1992's'' redefinition of ``passenger motor vehicle'' to include ``any multipurpose passenger vehicle and light-duty truck that is rated at 6,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less.'' Thus, manufacturers may now have to follow part 542 procedures for certain multipurpose passenger vehicles and light-duty trucks. The burden on these manufacturers will be minimal because relatively few new lines of light-duty trucks and multipurpose passenger vehicles are introduced in any year. The additional burden on manufacturers with respect to passenger cars as a result of reporting becoming mandatory will also be minimal. Most manufacturers are already providing new car line information on a voluntary basis. For these reasons, NHTSA believes that the additional costs will be so minimal as not to warrant preparation of a full regulatory evaluation. Since there will be so little additional reporting cost, NHTSA does not believe that this rule will affect the impacts described in the regulatory evaluation (pursuant to E.O. 12291 and the DOT's regulatory policies) prepared for the proposal published May 10, 1985 (See 50 FR 19728, at 19741) setting forth the substantive requirements of part 541. Interested persons may wish to examine that regulatory evaluation. Copies of that evaluation have been placed in Docket No. T84&hyph;01; Notice 4, and may be obtained by writing to: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Docket Section, Room 5109, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. B. Small Business Impacts The agency has also considered the effects of this rulemaking action under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). I certify that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rationale for this certification is that, as noted above, the reporting costs will be minimal. Further, almost none of the manufacturers of passenger motor vehicles that will be subject to this rule is considered to be a small business, a small non-profit organization, or a small governmental entity as defined by the SBA. C. Environmental Impacts In accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the agency has considered the environmental impacts of this rule and determined that, the final rule will not have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment. D. Paperwork Reduction Act The procedures in this rule for manufacturers to submit new vehicle line information to NHTSA are considered to be information collection requirements, as that term is defined by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in 5 CFR part 1320. The information collection requirements for part 542 have been submitted to and approved by the OMB pursuant to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ) This collection of information has been assigned OMB Control No. 2127&hyph;0539 (``Procedures for selecting lines to be covered by the theft prevention standard'') and has been approved for use through August 31, 1995. E. Federalism This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism assessment. F. Civil Justice Reform This final rule does not have any retroactive effect, and it does not preempt any State law. Section 613 of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 2020), provides that judicial review of this rule may be obtained pursuant to section 504 of the Cost Savings Act, (15 U.S.C. 2004). The Cost Savings Act does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 542
