FR940830-2-00114 FR940830-2-00057 Comments of Citicorp Credit Services, Inc., Concerning the Proposed Consent Decree in United States v. Electronic Payments Services, Inc. Pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. §16(b), Citicorp Credit Services, Inc. (``Citicorp'') submits these comments concerning the proposed consent decree in United States v. Electronic Payments Services, Inc., which was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware on April 21, 1994, and published in the Federal Register on May 12, 1994. Citicorp is not a member of defendant Electronic Payment Services' (``EPS'') ATM network, Money Access Service (``MAC''). Citicorp is, however, involved in all aspects of electronic fund payments, including credit cards, ATM cards, and, more recently, access cards containing an integrated circuit computer chip with a stored value function, or ``smart cards''. The Complaint on which the consent decree is based alleges that MAC is the largest ATM network in the United States by transaction volume; that EPS has entered into agreements with a multitude of banks in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, and other states; that more than ninety percent of all ATMs in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware are connected to MAC; that MAC is the ``dominant'' ATM network in those states; and that ``nearly all banks'' regard MAC as, in effect, an essential facility for entry into the ATM business. (¶¶ 14, 19, 20.) The Complaint further alleges that EPS has used its ``monopoly power'' to exclude competitors from the ATM business in MAC's areas of dominance. (¶25.) The proposed consent decree is intended to put an end to EPS' anticompetitive practices and thereby to increase ATM network competition. Citicorp is concerned, however, that the proposed consent decree could be understood_or, more likely, misunderstood_to give EPS license to engage in what may be anticompetitive conduct with respect to the smart card business. The source of this concern is Paragraph H of Section IV of the proposed consent decree. Among other things, that Paragraph prohibits EPS from restricting MAC-member banks from issuing ATM cards that display multiple ATM network logos. The Paragraph goes on to state, however, that EPS ``may restrict'' multiple branding of smart cards. The Competitive Impact Statement asserts that permitting EPS to restrict multiple branding of smart cards will not lessen the pro-competitive impact of the consent decree (page 16, n.10). Citicorp understands these statements to mean only that restrictions on multiple branding of smart cards are not prohibited by the consent decree. But the language is not clear and could be read to manifest a conclusion by the Department of Justice that restrictions on multiple branding, and perhaps other EPS restrictions on smart cards, are not anticompetitive. No such conclusion is warranted on this record, and the Department should make clear that it has reached no such conclusion. It is too early to know whether future restrictions on smart card branding, or other restrictions not barred by the proposed consent decree, would be procompetitive or anticompetitive. It is not difficult to imagine, however, how EPS could engage in anticompetitive practices that could injure the fledgling smart card business if EPS' dominant position in the ATM network market persists. For example, if successful development of non-MAC smart card networks required participation of many or all of the thousands of MAC-member banks, EPS could deal a crippling blow to competing smart card networks by prohibiting MAC-member banks from participating in non-MAC smart card networks. Similarly, if access to the MAC ATM network were essential to the success of competing smart cards, EPS could doom competitors by prohibiting such access. EPS could achieve the same objectives through less direct means. EPS could impose operating rules or technical restrictions on third-party processors that as a practical matter make it impossible for MAC-member banks' ATM machines to be accessed by non-MAC smart cards or cards that utilize a technology different from that used for MAC smart cards. 1 Such restrictions would be similar to the ATM network processing restrictions that are prohibited by the proposed consent decree. 1 Currently, EPS utilizes the smart card technology offered by Gem Plus. Competitors including Microcard, Schlumberger, IBM, and AT&T offer different technology. Restrictions on multiple smart card branding could also make it economically infeasible for banks to participate in more than one smart card network. MAC-member banks that issue MAC smart cards would have to issue additional cards to give their customers access to non-MAC machines and networks. The resulting additional costs could discourage MAC-member banks from participating in other smart card networks and thereby impede the development of competing networks. Depending on the circumstances, any of these kinds of restrictions could reduce competition and prevent the development of alternative, and perhaps superior, smart card technologies. The risk, in short, is that EPS could use its existing dominant power in ATM networks and ATM processing, and the MAC-member banks' control of essential facilities, to prevent the establishment of competing smart card networks and thereby leverage its ATM monopoly into market power in the smart card business. If so, EPS' restrictions could injure both MAC-member banks (and their customers) and, perhaps more important, entities (and their potential customers) that would prefer not to join MAC but rather to compete against it. Accordingly, Citicorp urges the Department of Justice to make clear for the Court and the public that the proposed consent decree does not authorize EPS to impose any branding restrictions for smart cards or reflect any conclusion by the Department about the competitive significance of any potential EPS restrictions regarding smart cards. Such a clarification would not require any substantive changes to the proposed consent decree. Instead, the Department could clarify the meaning of the proposed consent decree in the response to the public comments that it submits to the Court pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. §16(b). The development of smart card technology and networks offers enormous potential benefits to the public. Citicorp urges the Department to keep a watchful eye in order to prevent anticompetitive conduct by EPS that could hinder the full development of smart card technology and its applications. ␣␣␣Respectfully submitted, A. Douglas Melamed Martha Aaron Ross Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, 2445 M Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20037&hyph;1420, (202) 663&hyph;6000. Counsel for Citicorp Credit Services, Inc. July 11, 1994.
