FR941110-2-00110 FR941110-2-00064 Written comments must be concurrently served by first class mail on the United States Secretary of Transportation (DOT), the Attorney General of the United States (DOJ), and applicants' representatives. Written comments must also be served upon all parties of record within 10 days of service of the service list by the Commission. We plan to issue the service list shortly after comments have been received. Any person who files timely written comments shall be considered a party of record if he, she, or it so indicates in their comments. In this event, no petition for leave to intervene need be filed. Written comments shall include: 1. The docket number and title of the proceeding; 2. The name, address, and telephone number of the commenting party and its representative upon whom service shall be made; 3. The commenting party's position, i.e. , whether it supports or opposes the proposed transaction; 4. A statement on whether the commenting party intends to participate formally in the proceeding or merely comment upon the proposal; 5. A list of all information sought to be discovered from applicant carriers; 6. An initial list of specific protective conditions sought; 7. An analysis of the issues the Commission must consider in this proceeding. Particular attention should be given to our general policy statement for the merger or control of at least two class I railroads, 49 CFR 1180.1, the statutory criteria, and antitrust policy. Because we have determined that this proceeding constitutes a major transaction within the meaning of our rail consolidation rules, 49 CFR Part 1180, railroads filing written comments must also submit at that time a statement of whether the commenting railroad intends to file inconsistent applications, petitions for inclusion, trackage rights, or any other affirmative relief requiring an application to be filed with the Commission and a general statement of what that application is expected to include. THIS WILL BE CONSIDERED A PREFILING NOTICE WITHOUT WHICH THE COMMISSION WILL NOT ENTERTAIN APPLICATIONS FOR THIS TYPE OF RELIEF. Comments from the Secretary of Transportation and Attorney General must be filed by January 11, 1995. Parties seeking to modify any protective conditions specified in their initial comments must file a second list of protective conditions no later than January 24, 1995. Parties shall not be permitted to seek any protective conditions other than those requested in their final list.
