FR941028-2-00167 FR941028-2-00109 Table 2._ Elements of a Tuberculosis (TB) Infection-Control Program 1Element 1Risk categories 2Minimal 2Very low 2Low 2Intermediate 2High Assigning responsibility (Section II.A) Designated TB control officer or committee R R R R R Conducting a risk assessment (Section II.B.1) Baseline risk assessment R R R R R Community TB profile: incidence, prevalence, and drug-susceptibility patterns Y Y Y Y Y Facility case surveillance (laboratory- and discharge-diagnosis-based) C C C C C Analysis of purified protein derivative (PPD) test results among health-care workers (HCWs) N/A V* Y Every 6&hyph;12 mos Every 3 mos. Review of TB patient medical records N/A O Y Every 6&hyph;12 mos Every 3 mos. Observation of infection-control practices N/A N/A Y Every 6&hyph;12 mos Every 3 mos. Evaluation of engineering control maintenance O O Y Every 6&hyph;12 mos Every 3 mos. Developing a TB infection control plan (Section II.B.2) Written TB infection control plan R R R R R Periodically reassessing risk (Section II.B.3) Reassessment of risk Y Y Y Every 6&hyph;12 mos Every 3 mos. Identifying, evaluating, and initiating treatment for patients who may have active TB (Section II.C) Protocol (clinical prediction rules ¶ for identifying patients who may have active TB R R R R R Protocol for diagnostic evaluation of patients who may have active TB** N/A R R R R Protocol for reporting laboratory results to clinicians, infection-control practitioners, collaborating referral facilities, and appropriate health department(s) N/A R R R R Protocol for initiating treatment of patients who may have active TB** N/A R R R R Managing patients who may have TB in ambulatory-care settings and emergency departments (Section II.D) Triage system for identifying patients who have active TB in emergency departments and ambulatory-care settings R R R R R Protocol for managing patients who may have active TB in emergency departments and ambulatory-care settings R R R R R Protocol for referring patients who may have active TB to collaborating facility R R N/A N/A N/A Managing hospitalized patients who may have TB (Section II.E) Appropriate number of TB isolation roomsN/A N/A N/A R R R Protocol for initiating TB isolation N/A N/A R R R Protocol for TB isolation practices N/A N/A R R R Protocol for discontinuing TB isolation N/A N/A R R R Protocol for discharge planning N/A N/A R R R Engineering controls (Suppl. 3, Section II.F) Protocol(s) for maintenance of engineering controls O O R R R Respiratory protection (Suppl. 4, Section II.G) Respiratory protection program N/A V* R R R Cough-inducing and aerosol-generating procedures (Section II.H) Protocol(s) for performing cough-inducing or aerosol-generating procedures O O ¶¶ R R R Engineering controls for performing cough-inducing or aerosol-generating procedures O O ¶¶ R R R Educating and Training HCWs (Section II.I) Educating and training HCWs regarding TB R R R R R Counseling and screening HCWs (Section II.J) Counseling HCWs regarding TB R R R R R Protocol for identifying and evaluating HCWs who have signs or symptoms of active TB R R R R R Baseline PPD testing of HCWs O*** R R R R Routine periodic PPD screening of HCWs for latent TB infection N/A V* Y Every 6&hyph;12 mos Every 3 mos. Protocol for evaluating and managing HCWs who have positive PPD tests R R R R R Protocol for managing HCWs who have active TB R R R R R Conducting a problem evaluation (Section II.K) Protocol for investigating PPD conversions and active TB in HCWs R R R R R Protocol for investigating possible patient-to-patient transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis R R R R R Protocol for investigating possible contacts of TB patients who were not diagnosed initially as having TB and were not placed in isolation R R R R R Coordination with the public health department (Section II.L) Effective system for reporting patients who have suspected or confirmed TB to appropriate health department(s) R R R R R R=recommended; Y=yearly; C=continual; N/A=not applicable; O=optional; V=variable. *Because very low-risk facilities do not admit patients who may have active TB to inpatient areas, most HCWs in such facilities do not need routine follow-up PPD screening after baseline PPD testing is done. However, those who are involved in the initial assessment and diagnostic evaluation of patients in the ambulatory-care, emergency, and admitting departments of such facilities or in the outpatient management of patients with active TB could be exposed potentially to a patient who has active TB. These HCWs may need to receive routine periodic PPD screening. Similarly, these HCWs may need to be included in a respiratory protection program. Because very low-risk facilities do not admit patients suspected of having active TB, review of TB patient medical records is not applicable. However, follow-up of patients who were identified during triage as possibly having active TB and referred to another institution for further evaluation and management may be useful in evaluating the effectiveness of the triage system. Some minimal or very low-risk facilities may elect to use engineering controls (e.g., booths for cough-inducing procedures, portable high-efficiency particulate [HEPA] filtration units, ultraviolet germicidal irradiation units) in triage/waiting areas. In such situations, appropriate protocols for maintaining this equipment should be in place, and this maintenance should be evaluated periodically. ¶ The criteria used in clinical prediction rules will probably vary from facility to facility depending on the prevalence of TB in the population served by the facility and on the clinical, radiographic, and laboratory characteristics of TB patients examined in the facility. **The protocols should be consistent with CDC/American Thoracic Society recommendations ( 33 ). Protocols for referring patients who require specialized treatment (e.g., patients with multidrug-resistant TB) may be appropriate. Based on maximum daily number of patients requiring TB isolation for suspected or confirmed active TB. Isolation rooms should meet the performance criteria specified in these guidelines. ¶¶ If such procedures are used in the triage protocol(s) for identifying patients who may have active TB. ***Minimal-risk facilities do not need to maintain an ongoing PPD skin-testing program. However, baseline PPD testing of HCWs may be advisable so that if an unexpected exposure does occur, conversions can be distinguished from positive PPD test results caused by previous exposures.
