FR940127-0-00055 FR940127-0-00012 (a) Surrender to the FAA all data developed pursuant to Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 36; or (b) Maintain indefinitely all data developed pursuant to Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 36, and make that data available to the FAA for inspection upon request. 8. Transferability. An authorization issued under this Special Federal Aviation Regulation is not transferable. 9. Inspections. Each holder of an authorization issued under this Special Federal Aviation Regulation and each applicant for an authorization must allow the Administrator to inspect its personnel, facilities, products and articles, and records upon request. 10. Limits of Applicability. An authorization issued under this Special Federal Aviation Regulation applies only to_ (a) A product that the air carrier, commercial, or air taxi operating certificate holder is authorized to maintain pursuant to its continuous airworthiness maintenance program or maintenance manual; or (b) An article for which the domestic repair station certificate holder is rated. If the certificate holder is rated for a component of an article, the holder may not, in accordance with this Special Federal Aviation Regulation, approve that article for return to service. 11. Additional Authorization Limitations. Each hold of a authorization issued under this Special Federal Aviation Regulation must comply with any additional limitations prescribed by the Administrator and made a part of the authorization. 12. Data Review and Service Experience. If the Administrator finds that a product or article has been approved for return to service after a major repair has been performed under this Special Federal Aviation Regulation, that the product or article may not conform to the applicable airworthiness requirements or that an unsafe feature or characteristic of the product or article may exist, and that the nonconformance or unsafe feature or characteristic may be attributed to the repair performed, the holder of the authorization, upon notification by the Administrator, shall_ (a) Investigate the matter; (b) Report to the Administrator the results of the investigation and any action proposed or taken; and (c) If notified that an unsafe condition exists, provide within the time period stated by the Administrator, the information necessary for the FAA to issue an airworthiness directive under part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations. 13. Current Records. Each holder of an authorization issued under this Special Federal Aviation Regulation shall maintain, at its facility, current records containing_ (a) For each product or article for which it has developed and used major repair data, a technical data file that includes all data and amendments thereto (including drawings, photographs, specifications, instructions, and reports) necessary to accomplish the major repair; (b) A list of products or articles by make, model, manufacturer's serial number (including specific part numbers and serial numbers of components) and, if applicable, FAA Technical Standard Order (TSO) or Parts Manufacturer Approval (PMA) identification, that have been repaired under the authorization; and (c) A file of information from all available sources on difficulties experienced with products and articles repaired under the authorization. This Special Federal Aviation Regulation terminates January 23, 1999. Issued in Washington, DC, on January 21, 1994. David R. Hinson, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1646 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 4:24 pm] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
