FR940216-0-00091 FR940216-0-00010 e. Other options considered. EPA proposed 37 and investigated several options for VOC standards. One proposed option was to set a VOC standard at the statutory level of 25% reduction; this standard could also be set higher based on the cost-effectiveness analysis. Also mentioned in the NPRM was the option to relax the VOC standard if a NO X standard was promulgated to allow refiners more flexibility in meeting both standards. Finally, EPA proposed granting refiners the option to trade off VOC and NO X control within fixed limits on either standard. 37 As corrected in 58 FR 17175, Thursday, April 1, 1993. EPA determined that setting only a 25% reduction VOC standard (with a requirement of no NO X increase) would provide minimal NO X reductions and marginal VOC benefits to southern (VOC Control Region 1) areas which will already use lower RVP fuel than northern areas under Phase I. A higher VOC standard selected based on a cost-effectiveness benchmark of about $5,000/ton would get somewhat greater NO X reductions and some additional VOC reductions in southern areas. EPA has set the VOC standard based on a level of reduction that would allow flexibility to refiners and would not be too economically burdensome. Since a NO X standard is being set concurrently, EPA set the VOC standard based on a slightly more relaxed RVP than might have been used if only a VOC standard were implemented, as discussed above in subsection a. One comment on the proposal strongly opposed lessening the maximum achievable level of VOC reduction to achieve NO X reductions. As discussed above, however, roughly the same level of VOC reduction is being achieved with both a NO X standard and a VOC standard (basing the standard on a fuel with 138 ppm sulfur and an RVP of 6.7 psi) as would be achieved if only VOC control were required (basing the standard on a fuel RVP of 6.5 psi and a sulfur level of 250 ppm). The final option proposed by EPA was to set a combined VOC and NO X standard and allow refiners flexibility in controlling emissions of either. As discussed in subsection C.2 above, EPA believes it is important to achieve both VOC and NO X control. VOC control alone would not provide significant ozone reduction benefits in all areas using RFG. The option of allowing refiners to meet a combined VOC and NO X standard would have likely resulted in VOC control (primarily through RVP reductions) with minimal NO X control. Refiners would have had a strong incentive to augment the complex model through vehicle testing and push RVP well below the 6.5 psi level in order to avoid sulfur control (for NO X reductions), since RVP control is much less costly. As mentioned previously, EPA has significant concerns about driveability problems with fuels with RVPs lower than 6.5 psi. Since refiners would be limited in their ability to cost effectively achieve the combined standards, the reductions achieved through this type of program would be in question. Hence, EPA has decided not to implement a combined VOC and NO X standard. No significant comments were received on this option.
