FR941006-1-00146 FR941006-1-00016 C. Educational Efforts 1. Review of Consumer Education Issues in Citizen Petitions Two of the three petitions submitted discussed the benefits of educational efforts for the public and health professionals, focusing on the prevention of accidental pediatric iron poisoning. The AAPCC petition and the NDMA petition advocated educational efforts and outlined specific actions as described herein. a. The AAPCC petition. The AAPCC petition called for the initiation of an FDA educational campaign for four different segments of the population. The four target segments are: (1) Parents, babysitters, daycare providers, and other consumers; (2) pediatricians; (3) obstetricians; and (4) other health professionals such as physicians, others who can prescribe iron, and pharmacists. The petition suggested that pediatricians discuss the dangers of an iron overdose with parents at the 6-month checkup, and that obstetricians inform mothers at the final postpartum checkup. b. The NDMA petition. In the fall of 1993, NDMA in cooperation with CPSC, developed and launched a national consumer education campaign to be carried out in conjunction with the voluntary labeling and packaging measures (described above in section I.D. of this document) that were undertaken by the members of NDMA and NNFA. The purpose of the campaign, as stated in the petition, is to inform adults about how to protect children from accidental iron poisoning. The three major themes of the educational campaign mirror some of the messages in NDMA's and NNFA's voluntary warning statements for iron-containing products and are as follows: (1) Adult awareness of the dangers to children if iron is accidentally swallowed in excess, (2) Reclose the child-resistant package after every use, and, (3) Keep iron-containing products out of the reach of children. NDMA and CPSC began the educational campaign by distributing video and print news releases, radio news releases in English and Spanish, and public service announcements emphasizing the three-pronged message. The public service announcements are also being sent to consumer, health, and women's magazines. 2. Agency Response FDA agrees with the petitioners that the public needs to be informed of the dangers of pediatric iron poisoning through public education efforts. Such efforts can be one important element in combating a cause of injury and deaths that has affected thousands of children over the last approximately 10 years. Thus, FDA commends NDMA and CPSC for their joint efforts in developing and distributing a national educational campaign targeting accidental iron poisoning, to coincide with the voluntary packaging and labeling measures for iron-containing products that have been undertaken by the members of NDMA and NNFA. FDA believes that the themes of this campaign are appropriate and are responsive to a fundamental need that exists for more awareness among adults of the dangers of pediatric iron poisoning and of the means to prevent these poisonings. Because of the seriousness of the problem, i.e., accidental iron ingestion is the leading cause of poisoning deaths among children, FDA intends to contribute to educating the public. Accordingly, FDA is developing materials for a public information campaign that would address AAPCC's request and complement NDMA and CPSC's educational efforts by emphasizing the same awareness and prevention elements as the NDMA/CPSC campaign, as follows: (1) Iron-containing products can seriously injure or even kill young children who accidentally swallow them. (2) Reclose the child-resistant package completely and every time iron-containing products are opened. (3) Keep all containers of iron-containing products out of reach of children all the time. FDA's campaign will also address steps that should be taken by adults if an accidental ingestion of iron occurs: (4) When children accidentally ingest iron-containing products, the attending person should quickly call a poison control center and follow their instructions, or take the child to an emergency room. (5) Although the first symptoms, vomiting and diarrhea, may occur within 30 minutes, and these symptoms may be followed by an appearance of recovery, the child may still be in danger. Therefore, immediate professional consultation is critical. The FDA materials will include print pieces available for distribution to different audiences, such as a backgrounder, a flyer, an FDA Consumer magazine article, and camera-ready newspaper columns. The FDA Medical Bulletin, which has 1,000,000 physician subscribers, is another vehicle that can be used to publicize this message. The diversity of the audiences to be targeted by FDA's information campaign will include the AAPCC's suggested target populations. The FDA backgrounder will be a detailed handout for health professionals and consumer organizations. The flyer will be a short piece conveying the elements of FDA's message in a simple and concise manner for use in the home by parents, grandparents, and babysitters. The FDA Consumer article will reach the 23,000 subscribers to the magazine, a group that includes physicians and other health professionals, educators, reporters, and consumers. The camera-ready newspaper columns will be distributed to 10,000 smaller-circulation newspapers nationwide. In addition, FDA intends to provide information to consumer newsletter editors and consumers through ``Dear Editor'' letters and ``Dear Consumer'' letters about the efforts to prevent accidental pediatric iron poisoning. Different offices in FDA, such as the Office of Public Affairs and the Office of Consumer Affairs, and offices of the Department of Health and Human Services will assist with the distribution of these materials. FDA intends to utilize its staff of public affairs specialists to distribute these materials to the widely varied constituencies with whom these specialists frequently interact, such as other government agencies at the Federal, State, and local levels, advocacy organizations, trade associations, consumer groups, health professional organizations, and other interested groups. V. Environmental Impact The agency has carefully considered the potential environmental effects of this action. FDA has concluded that the action will not have a significant impact on the human environment, and that an environmental impact statement is not required. The agency's finding of no significant impact and the evidence supporting that finding, contained in an environmental assessment, may be seen in the Dockets Management Branch (address above) between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday.
