FR941028-2-00190 FR941028-2-00109 Supplement 3: Engineering Controls I. Introduction This supplement provides information regarding the use of ventilation (Section II) and UVGI (Section III) for preventing the transmission of M. tuberculosis in health-care facilities. The information provided is primarily conceptual and is intended to educate staff in the health-care facility concerning engineering controls and how these controls can be used as part of the TB infection-control program. This supplement should not be used in place of consultation with experts, who can assume responsibility for advising on ventilation system design and selection, installation, and maintenance of equipment. The recommendations for engineering controls include (a) local exhaust ventilation (i.e., source control), (b) general ventilation, and (c) air cleaning. General ventilation considerations include (a) dilution and removal of contaminants, (b) airflow patterns within rooms, (c) airflow direction in facilities, (d) negative pressure in rooms, and (e) TB isolation rooms. Air cleaning or disinfection can be accomplished by filtration of air (e.g., through HEPA filters) or by UVGI. II. Ventilation Ventilation systems for health-care facilities should be designed, and modified when necessary, by ventilation engineers in collaboration with infection-control and occupational health staff. Recommendations for designing and operating ventilation systems have been published by ASHRAE ( 47 ), AIA ( 48 ), and the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, Inc. ( 98 ). As part of the TB infection-control plan, health-care facility personnel should determine the number of TB isolation rooms, treatment rooms, and local exhaust devices (i.e., for cough-inducing or aerosol-generating procedures) that the facility needs. The locations of these rooms and devices will depend on where in the facility the ventilation conditions recommended in this document can be achieved. Grouping isolation rooms together in one area of the facility may facilitate the care of TB patients and the installation and maintenance of optimal engineering controls (particularly ventilation). Periodic evaluations of the ventilation system should review the number of TB isolation rooms, treatment rooms, and local exhaust devices needed and the regular maintenance and monitoring of the local and general exhaust systems (including HEPA filtration systems if they are used). The various types and conditions of ventilation systems in health-care facilities and the individual needs of these facilities preclude the ability to provide specific instructions regarding the implementation of these recommendations. Engineering control methods must be tailored to each facility on the basis of need and the feasibility of using the ventilation and air-cleaning concepts discussed in this supplement. A. Local Exhaust Ventilation Purpose: To capture airborne contaminants at or near their source (i.e., the source control method) and remove these contaminants without exposing persons in the area to infectious agents ( 98 ). Source control techniques can prevent or reduce the spread of infectious droplet nuclei into the general air circulation by entrapping infectious droplet nuclei as they are being emitted by the patient (i.e., the source). These techniques are especially important when performing procedures likely to generate aerosols containing infectious particles and when infectious TB patients are coughing or sneezing. Local exhaust ventilation is a preferred source control technique, and it is often the most efficient way to contain airborne contaminants because it captures these contaminants near their source before they can disperse. Therefore, the technique should be used, if feasible, wherever aerosol-generating procedures are performed. Two basic types of local exhaust devices use hoods: (a) The enclosing type, in which the hood either partially or fully encloses the infectious source; and (b) the exterior type, in which the infectious source is near but outside the hood. Fully enclosed hoods, booths, or tents are always preferable to exterior types because of their superior ability to prevent contaminants from escaping into the HCW's breathing zone. Descriptions of both enclosing and exterior devices have been published previously ( 98 ). 1. Enclosing Devices The enclosing type of local exhaust ventilation device includes laboratory hoods used for processing specimens that could contain viable infectious organisms, booths used for sputum induction or administration of aerosolized medications (e.g., aerosolized pentamidine) (Figure S3&hyph;1), and tents or hoods made of vinyl or other materials used to enclose and isolate a patient. These devices are available in various configurations. The most simple of these latter devices is a tent that is placed over the patient; the tent has an exhaust connection to the room discharge exhaust system. The most complex device is an enclosure that has a sophisticated self-contained airflow and recirculation system. Both tents and booths should have sufficient airflow to remove at least 99% of airborne particles during the interval between the departure of one patient and the arrival of the next ( 99 ). The time required for removing a given percentage of airborne particles from an enclosed space depends on several factors. These factors include the number of ACH, which is determined by the number of cubic feet of air in the room or booth and the rate at which air is entering the room or booth at the intake source; the location of the ventilation inlet and outlet; and the physical configuration of the room or booth (Table S3&hyph;1). E:GRAPHICSEN28OC94.004
