FR940314-0-00014 FR940314-0-00003 §1703.19 General requirements for grant funding. (a) Grants made under §1703.18(a), establishment and operation of a revolving loan program by Borrowers, will be limited to Borrowers and can be made without zero-interest loans. Grants made under §1703.18 (b) through (h) will be made only in conjunction with zero-interest loans, and on a pass-through basis. (b) Pass-through grant funding for projects under §1703.18 (b), (c), (f), (g) and (h) will be available for non-profit and for-profit entities. Pass-through grant funding for projects under §1703.18 (d) and (e) will be available only for non-profit entities. (c) All projects funded with zero-interest loans and grants will require supplemental funding in accordance with §1703.23. For grants made under §1703.18(a), the portion eligible for REA funding may be fully funded with grant funds. For all other grants funded under 1703.18, the portion of project costs eligible for REA funding may be funded up to 20 percent with grant funds. (d) Grant funding will be provided only to the extent necessary for a feasible project. A feasible project is a project which expects to generate sufficient income to pay operating expenses and debts and compensate for depreciation of equipment and facilities for the project which is to be funded by REA. Depreciation must be based on allowable depreciation schedules as set forth by the United States Internal Revenue Service. Borrowers whose analyses of projects show feasibility without grant funds should not apply for grant funding. Borrowers requesting pass-through grant funds will base grant funding requests on borrower projected income and expense projections for the project, and documentation regarding depreciation of the equipment and facilities for the project. The Administrator will determine whether the Borrower's projections of income, expenses and depreciation are reasonable. (e) For projects that project insufficient operating revenue the first two years to show feasibility, borrowers should first consider the deferral provisions set forth in §1703.29(b) before determining the appropriate level of requested grant funding. Zero-interest loan and grant funding will be approved in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section based on the option which results in the lowest required grant percentage. (f) The owner of the pass-through project that receives grant funds will be encouraged to commit that the project will be a demonstration project. (g) Borrowers or project owners must demonstrate the availability and commitment of other sources of funding needed to complete a project in addition to REA loan and/or grant funds, prior to the first advance of REA funds. (h) Feasibility studies and/or technical assistance funded with grants under §1703.18 (b) and (c) must be performed by entities which are independent of the Borrower and qualified to provide such services. The project owner, if deemed qualified in accordance with this paragraph, may furnish a feasibility study under §1703.18(b). Entities furnishing technical assistance under §1703.18(c), must be independent of the project owner. To be deemed qualified, entities providing feasibility studies and/or technical assistance must: (1) Provide sufficient documentation evidencing their proven ability, background and experience to furnish such services; and (2) Provide sufficient documentation evidencing their legal authority and capacity to furnish such services. 5. Section 1703.20 is revised to read as follows: §1703.20 Ineligible uses of zero-interest loans and grants. (a) Zero-interest loans and grants must not be used: (1) To fund or assist projects of which any director, officer, general manager or significant stockholder of the Borrower, or close relative thereof, is an owner, stockholder, partner or director, or which would, in the judgment of the Administrator, create a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest. The Borrower must disclose to the Administrator information regarding any conflict of interest, potential conflict of interest or any appearance of a conflict of interest. The Administrator will determine whether there is a conflict of interest or whether any potential conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest may adversely affect REA's interests. A Borrower organized as, or consisting of a cooperative, widely held mutual corporation, tribal government, municipal power corporation, public power district, or a similar widely held organization would ordinarily be able to have an ownership interest in or manage a project operated on either a for-profit or non-profit basis. A Borrower organized as a closely held, for-profit corporation with more than 5 percent of its stock held by one legal person, its subsidiary or an affiliate, would ordinarily be able to own or manage a project operated on a non-profit basis only;
