FR940207-1-00022 FR940207-1-00002 •Adverse changes to terms such as the interest rate, annual percentage yield, or compounding frequency for funds remaining on deposit •Reclamation of bonuses 3. Relation to rules for IRAs or similar plans. Penalties imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for certain withdrawals from IRAs or similar pension or savings plans are not early withdrawal penalties. (b)(6)(iv) Renewal Policies 1. Rollover time accounts. Institutions offering a grace period on rollover time accounts that automatically renew need not state whether interest will be paid if the funds are withdrawn during the grace period. 2. Nonrollover time accounts. Institutions that pay interest on funds following the maturity of time accounts that do not renew automatically need not state the rate (or annual percentage yield) that may be paid. Section 230.5_Subsequent Disclosures (a) Change in Terms (a)(1) Advance Notice Required 1. Form of notice. Institutions may provide a change-in-term notice on or with a regular periodic statement or in another mailing. If an institution provides notice through revised account disclosures, the changed term must be highlighted in some manner. For example, institutions may state that a particular fee has been changed (also specifying the new amount) or use an accompanying letter that refers to the changed term. 2. Effective date. An example of a disclosure that complies is: •``As of May 11, 1994'' 3. Terms that change upon the occurrence of an event. Institutions that offer terms such as a fee waiver for employee account holders during their employment or for students enrolled at a local university need not send advance notice of a change resulting from termination of employment or enrollment if: •The account-opening disclosures given (to the employee, for example) describe the term and the event that would cause the term to change (such as the consumer's leaving the institution's employment), and •Notices are sent when the term is changed for other account holders, even though the term remains unchanged for the consumer while employment or enrollment continues. (a)(2) No Notice Required (a)(2)(ii) Check Printing Fees 1. Increase in fees. A notice is not required even if an increase in check printing fees includes an amount added by the institution to the price charged by a vendor. (b) Notice Before Maturity for Time Accounts Longer Than One Month That Renew Automatically 1. Maturity dates on nonbusiness days. For determining the term, institutions may ignore the fact that the disclosed maturity falls on a nonbusiness day and the term is extended beyond the disclosed number of days. For example, a holiday or weekend may cause a ``one-year'' time account to extend beyond 365 days (or 366, in a leap year), or a ``one-month'' time account to extend beyond 31 days. 2. Disclosing when rates will be determined. Disclosures that illustrate when the annual percentage yield will be available include: •A specific date, such as ``October 28'' •A date that is easily discernable, such as ``the Tuesday prior to the maturity date stated on the notice'' or ``as of the maturity date stated on this notice'' Institutions must indicate when the rate will be available if the date falls on a nonbusiness day. 3. Alternative timing rule. To illustrate the alternative timing rule: An institution that offers a 10-day grace period must provide the disclosures at least 10 days prior to the scheduled maturity date. 4. Club accounts. Club accounts that are time accounts are covered by this paragraph, even though funds may be withdrawn at the end of the current club period. For example, if the consumer has agreed to the transfer of payments from another account to the time account for the next club period, the institution must comply with the requirements for automatically renewable time accounts.
