FR940302-2-00096 FR940302-2-00069 Coast Guard [CGD 94&hyph;013] National Fire Protection Association Technical Committee on Fire Protection of Merchant Vessels AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard announces it will be participating in a new National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) technical committee on Fire Protection of Merchant Vessels. The goal of this technical committee will be the development of codes and standards applicable to fire protection of merchant vessels. The committee is intended for technical experts knowledgeable in the field who are interested in volunteering to participate in the development effort. DATES: Completed applications for committee membership should be submitted directly to the NFPA before June 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Persons interested in applying for membership on the NFPA Technical Committee on Fire Protection of Merchant Vessels may obtain an application form by writing to the Secretary, Standards Council, National Fire Protection Association, One Batterymarch Park, PO Box 9101, Quincy, MA 02269&hyph;9101. Alternatively, you may obtain a membership application from Commandant (G&hyph;MTH&hyph;4), U.S. Coast Guard, 2100 Second Street SW, Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001, or by calling the point of contact in the following paragraph. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Morgan J. Hurley, Fire Protection Engineer, telephone (202) 267&hyph;2997, facsimile (202) 267&hyph;4816. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) recently established a new technical committee on fire protection of merchant vessels. The NFPA has a long and successful history of developing codes and standards which cover a broad range of fire protection subjects for land based occupied structures. Additionally, the NFPA has developed maritime standards pertaining to recreational craft, control of gas hazards aboard ships, and fire protection of vessels during shipbuilding, repair, and lay-up. With this new committee the NFPA will develop codes and standards for fire protection of merchant vessels. The committee may also develop marine supplements to existing land based standards for application aboard ships. All merchant vessel types currently regulated by the Coast Guard will be considered by this committee in developing codes and standards. The Coast Guard may determine that the codes and standards developed by the committee would provide a level of safety greater or equal to current regulations. If so, the Coast Guard may allow vessel owners and operators the option to comply with the codes and standards in lieu of current regulations. The Coast Guard may also adopt all or part of the standard(s) developed by the committee through future rulemaking projects. The information, codes, and standards developed by the committee will also be of value in developing U.S. positions at the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and at the International Standards Organization (ISO). The Committee may meet as often as three to four times per year within the United States. The NFPA typically limits membership on a technical committee to 30. However, additional specialized subcommittees may be created in the future to deal specifically with certain vessel types. All members serve without compensation (neither travel nor per diem) from the Federal Government. Dated: February 23, 1994. A.E. Hann, Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4766 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
