FR940505-1-00389 FR940505-1-00012 (C) Records of the oxygen concentration measured at the inlet to the control device before adding combustion air (readings on at least four days per week). (D) Records of all surface monitoring including the date, time, weather conditions, areas sampled, calibration records, and test results. Test results shall include the approximate location of each detected leak, the date of detection, the date of correction, and the repair method used. (E) A map indicating the location of areas with intermediate cover and areas with final cover. The map shall indicate the date of cover placement for each area with intermediate cover. (F) All records of perimeter well testing. (G) Where an owner subject to the provisions of this paragraph seeks to demonstrate compliance with paragraph (g)(3)(i)(H) of this section: (1) The calculated maximum expected gas generation flowrate using the method described in paragraph (g)(3)(i)(H)( 1 ) of this section. (2) The calculated area of influence of the extraction wells. (3) Gauge pressure in the gas collection header at the point where each well is connected to the gas collection header pipe. (H) Where an owner subject to the provisions of this paragraph seeks to demonstrate compliance through use of an enclosed combustion device: (1) The average combustion temperature measured every 15 minutes and averaged over the same time period of the performance testing. (2) The percent reduction of NMOC achieved by the control device. (I) Where an owner subject to the provisions of this paragraph seeks to demonstrate compliance through use of a boiler: (1) A description of the location at which the process vent stream is introduced into the boiler or process heater; (2) The average combustion temperature of the boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of less than 44 MW (150 million Btu/hr) measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the same time period of the performance testing. (J) Where an owner subject to the provisions of this paragraph seeks to demonstrate compliance through use of an open flare, the flare type (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or nonassisted), all visible emission readings, heat content determination, flowrate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the performance test, continuous records of the flare pilot flame monitoring, and records of all periods of operations during which the pilot flame is absent. (K) Source test reports showing the NMOC destruction/treatment efficiency and emissions in units of pounds per million BTU of heat input for the control device. (viii) Operation and maintenance plan. The owner shall prepare and adhere to an operation and maintenance plan. The plan shall be revised at least once every six months to reflect operating experience and changing site conditions. The plan shall be submitted to EPA upon request. This plan shall at a minimum contain: (A) An engineering evaluation of the expected landfill gas generation rate, and design specifications for the gas collection system. Data concerning waste type, volume, tonnage and age shall be included if available. (B) A map showing the location, spacing and depths of collection wells and/or trenches, and the direction of flow through the header system to the control device. (C) A map indicating areas of steep slopes and any other safety hazards to personnel performing the surface emissions testing. (D) Sampling and analysis methods to be used by the owner to meet the requirements of this section. (E) Specific techniques to ensure that overdraw is minimized. These may include a schedule for periodic temperature measurements at wellheads and a schedule for periodic gas sampling including gas analysis methods.
