FR941107-0-00027 FR941107-0-00010 The Commission proposed Rule 3a12&hyph;11(a) in response to concerns voiced by various market participants that Section 8(a) is overly restrictive and competitively unfair. 18 According to these participants, broker-dealers' discretion in financing their positions is unduly constrained once a debt security is traded on an exchange. In addition, at least one national securities exchange was informed by its members that they may advise an issuer against listing bonds due to the restrictions in Section 8(a). 19 In the Proposing Release, the Commission questioned whether existing regulatory distinctions may have unnecessarily affected the structure and development of the corporate bond market, without any benefit to investors. 18 See, e.g., letter from Donald J. Solodar, Executive Vice President, Fixed Income, Options & Administration, NYSE, to Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission, and Linda C. Quinn, Director, Division of Corporation Finance, Securities and Exchange Commission, dated July 19, 1993 (``NYSE letter''); letter from Marc E. Lackritz, President, Securities Industry Association (``SIA''), to William W. Wiles, Secretary, Federal Reserve Board, dated December 23, 1992 (``SIA letter''). 19 See NYSE letter, n. 18, above. After careful consideration of the issues raised in the Proposing Release and in the comment letters, the Commission has concluded that differential treatment of listed and OTC debt securities for loan purposes is no longer warranted, given developments in the OTC market since Congress amended the Exchange Act in the 1960s, 20 the current structure of the bond market, 21 and the nature of debt financing. The Commission believes that it is appropriate to eliminate this disparity by exempting listed debt securities from the borrowing restrictions of Section 8(a). 22 Accordingly, Rule 3a12&hyph;11(a) will enable a broker-dealer to pledge listed debt securities, like debt securities traded exclusively in the OTC market, to any lender. 20 See 1968 Amendments to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Pub. L. No. 90&hyph;437, 82 Stat. 452 (1968). 21 Most secondary trading in debt securities (including listed debt securities) currently takes place in the OTC market; exchange trading of corporate bonds accounts for a relatively small percentage of the daily trading volume in such securities and is often in ``odd-lot'' size. United States Securities and Exchange Commission, Division of Market Regulation, The Corporate Bond Markets: Structure, Pricing and Trading 1, 13 (January 1992). Although these circumstances may change as a result of Rule 3a12&hyph;11(a), the Commission believes that, at this time, Section 8(a) places a competitive burden on exchange markets by subjecting them to more restrictive regulation than the primary market for the trading of debt securities, the OTC market. 22 Section 8(a) specifically excludes exempted securities from the restrictions on the sources of credit available to broker-dealers borrowing against listed securities. Under Section 3(a)(12) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(12)], the term ``exempted securities'' includes such securities as the Commission may exempt from the operation of any one or more provisions of the Exchange Act. All 15 commenters that address the restrictions on borrowing, including staff of the Federal Reserve Board, support an exemption for listed debt securities. Several commenters state that Rule 3a12&hyph;11(a) will provide broker-dealers with greater flexibility and help them to obtain inventory financing on the most favorable terms. For instance, one commenter predicts that the new exemption will result in lower financing rates due to an increase in competition among sources of credit, such as corporations, insurance companies and other currently ineligible lenders. 23 Others note that broker-dealers will be able to enter into repurchase agreements and other arrangements with non-bank institutional investors. 24 Commenters also believe that Rule 3a12&hyph;11(a) will reduce the current disincentive for issuers to list their debt on a national securities exchange. For these reasons, commenters strongly support exempting listed debt securities from Section 8(a)'s restrictions on borrowing. Certain commenters, moreover, recommend that the potential benefits of the exemption be extended to all listed securities, including listed equity securities. 23 See letter from Laura L. Inman, Vice President and Senior Counsel, Debt Markets Group, Office of General Counsel, Merrill Lynch, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, dated August 17, 1994. Merrill Lynch also states that the permissible counterparties under Section 8(a) are not viable lenders, because broker-dealers are reluctant to disclose their inventory positions to competitors and because banks have higher financing rates than other kinds of lenders. Id . 24 See, e.g., letter from Goldman Sachs to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, dated August 12, 1994. Finally, several commenters suggest that further action may be needed to eliminate the restriction in Regulation T that parallels the statutory restriction in Section 8(a). 25 Commenters recommend that the Commission work with the Federal Reserve Board to clarify this matter, and suggest modifications to the text of the proposed rule to resolve the uncertainty. 26 25 Under Regulation T, a broker-dealer may not borrow in the ordinary course of business using as collateral any registered nonexempted security, except from a member bank of the Federal Reserve System; a non-member bank that has filed an agreement that conforms to the requirements of Section 8(a); or another broker-dealer if the loan is permissible under Regulation T. See 12 CFR 220.15(a). For purposes of Regulation T, ``nonexempted security'' means any security other than an exempted security as defined in Section 3(a)(12) of the Exchange Act. See 12 CFR 220.2(r). In addition, Regulation U requires that a non-member bank file an agreement conforming to the requirements of Section 8(a) before extending credit on any nonexempt security registered on an exchange. See 12 CFR 221.4(a). 26 In particular, commenters suggest that the Commission should expressly designate listed debt securities as ``exempted securities'' for purposes of Section 8(a) and any rules thereunder. See, e.g., letter from Anthony J. Leitner, Co-Chairman, Ad Hoc Committee on Regulation T, SIA, and Robert F. Price, Chairman, Federal Regulation Committee, SIA, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, dated August 17, 1994.
