FR940110-1-00081 FR940110-1-00006 Section 960.19(a)(1) of the proposed rule provides that if a Bank finds that the contributions required pursuant to proposed ยง960.18 are contributing to the financial instability of the Bank, the Bank shall notify the Board promptly, and may apply in writing to the Board for a temporary suspension of such contributions. Section 960.19(a)(2) of the proposed rule provides that a Bank's application for a temporary suspension of contributions shall: (i) State the period of time for which the Bank seeks a suspension; (ii) State the grounds for a suspension; (iii) Include a plan for returning the Bank to a financially stable position; and (iv) Be accompanied by the Bank's preceding year's annual financial report, if available, and the Bank's most recent quarterly and monthly financial statements and any other financial data the Bank wishes the Board to consider. The requirement in paragraph (ii) above is not explicitly required in the Board's existing AHP regulation. See 12 CFR 960.11(a). Paragraph (iv) above adds to the Board's existing regulation that the Bank may include any other financial data it wishes the Board to consider. 2. Board Review of Application for Temporary Suspension a. Grounds for approval of application. Section 960.19(b)(1) of the proposed rule provides that, in reviewing a Bank's application for a temporary suspension of contributions to determine the Bank's financial instability, the Board shall consider the following factors: (i) Whether the Bank's earnings are severely depressed. This language was added to track the statutory standard in section 10(j)(6) of the Act. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(6). In addition, the Board shall consider the extent to which the Bank's quarterly or annual net earnings have decreased from the preceding quarter or year, and whether such decline is projected to continue; (ii) Whether there has been a substantial decline in the Bank's membership capital. The Board shall consider the extent to which the Bank's paid-in membership capital has declined in any given quarter or year, and whether such decline is projected to continue;
