FR940907-2-00024 FR940907-2-00013 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Recognition of Accrediting Agencies, State Agencies for Approval of Public Postsecondary Vocational Education, and State Agencies for Approval of Nurse Education AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Request for comments on Agencies applying to the Secretary of Initial Recognition or Renewal of Recognition. DATES: Commentors should submit their written comments by October 24, 1994 to the address below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Carl S. Person, Chief, Accrediting Agency Evaluation Branch, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, SW., room 3036 ROB&hyph;3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5171, telephone: (202) 708&hyph;7417. SUBMISSION OF THIRD-PARTY COMMENTS: The Secretary of Education recognizes, as reliable authorities as to the quality of education offered by institutions or programs within their scope, accrediting agencies and State approval agencies for public postsecondary vocational education and nurse education that meet certain criteria for recognition. The purpose of this notice is to invite interested third parties to present written comments on the agencies listed in this notice that have applied for initial or continued recognition. The National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity (the ``Advisory Committee'') advises the Secretary of Education on the recognition of accrediting agencies and State approval agencies. The Advisory Committee is scheduled to meet December 5&hyph;6, 1994 in Washington, DC. All written comments received regarding the agencies listed in this Notice will be considered by both the Advisory Committee and the Secretary. The following agencies will be reviewed during the December 1994 meeting of the Advisory Committee: Nationally Recognized Accrediting Agencies and Associations Petitions for Initial Recognition 1. American Board for Accreditation in Psychoanalysis (requested scope of recognition: the accreditation of free-standing psychoanalytic training institutes that confer postgraduate certificates in psychoanalysis). 2. National Environmental Health Science and Protection Accreditation (requested scope of recognition: the accreditation of baccalaureate programs in environmental health science and protection). Petitions for Renewal of Recognition 1. Accrediting Council for Continuing Education and Training, Accrediting Commission (requested scope of recognition: the accreditation of non-collegiate continuing education institutions and programs). 2. Distance Education and Training Council (formerly the National Home Study Council) (requested scope of recognition: the accreditation of institutions whose programs are designed for distance learning or training in a discipline or skill that leads to either a certificate or an academic degree from the associate to the master's level). Interim Reports (An interim report is a follow-up report on an accrediting agency's compliance with specific criteria for recognition that was requested by the Secretary when the Secretary granted recognition to the agency)_ 1. American Bar Association, Council of the Section of Legal Education and Admission to the Bar 2. Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges of Technology [formerly the National Association of Trade and Technical Schools] 3. American Optometric Association, Council on Optometric Education 4. American Psychological Association, Committee on Accreditation 5. American Veterinary Medical Association, Committee on Veterinary Technician Education and Activities 6. American Veterinary Medical Association, Council on Education 7. Commission on Opticianry Accreditation 8. Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Secondary Schools 9. National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education 10. North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Schools State Agencies Recognized for the Approval of Public Postsecondary Vocational Education Petitions for Renewal of Recognition 1. Oklahoma State Board of Vocational and Technical Education 2. Oklahoma State Regents of Higher Education 3. Utah State Board of Vocational Education State Agencies Recognized for the Approval of Nurse Education Petitions for Renewal of Recognition 1. Maryland State Board of Nursing In accordance with the Federal policy governing the granting of academic degrees by Federal agencies (approved by letter from the Director, Bureau of the Budget, to the Secretary, Health, Education, and Welfare, dated December 23, 1954), the Secretary of Education is required to establish a review committee to advise the Secretary concerning any legislation that may be proposed which would authorize the granting of degrees by a Federal agency. The review committee forwards its recommendation concerning a Federal agency's proposed degree-granting authority to the Secretary, who then forwards the committee's recommendation and the Secretary's recommendation to the Office of Management and Budget for review and transmittal to the Congress. The Secretary uses the Advisory Committee as the review committee required for this purpose. Accordingly, the Advisory Committee will review the following institution at its December meeting: Proposed Master's Degree-Granting Authority 1. Command and Staff College, Marine Corps University, Quantico, Virginia (for the Master of Military Studies degree) Public Inspection of Petitions and Third-Party Comments All petitions and interim reports, and those third-party comments received in advance of the meeting, will be available for public inspection at the U.S. Department of Education, ROB&hyph;3, Room 3036, 7th and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5171, telephone (202) 708&hyph;7417 between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. David A. Longanecker, Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21985 Filed 9&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;M
