FR941220-0-00057 FR941220-0-00010 Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary propose critical habitat at the time a species is determined to be endangered or threatened. The Service's regulations (50 CFR 424.12(a)(1)) state that designation of critical habitat is not prudent when one or both of the following situations exist: (1) The species is threatened by taking or other activity and the identification of critical habitat can be expected to increase the degree of threat to the species or (2) such designation of critical habitat would not be beneficial to the species. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not prudent for these species. Such a determination would result in no known benefit to these species, and designation of critical habitat could further threaten them. Section 7(a)(2) and regulations codified at 50 CFR part 402 require Federal agencies to ensure, in consultation with and with the assistance of the Service, that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of listed species or destroy or adversely modify their critical habitat, if designated. (See ``Available Conservation Measures'' section for a further discussion of Section 7.) As part of the development of this final rule, Federal and State agencies were notified of the darters' general distribution, and they were requested to provide data on proposed Federal actions that might adversely affect the two species. Should any future projects be proposed in areas inhabited by these fishes, the involved Federal agency will already have the general distributional data needed to determine if the species may be impacted by their action; and if needed more specific distributional information would be provided. Regulations promulgated for implementing Section 7, referenced above, provide for both a jeopardy standard, based on listing alone, and for a destruction or adverse modification standard, in cases where critical habitat has been designated. The Cherokee and Etowah darters occupy very restricted stream reaches. Any significant adverse modification or destruction of their habitat would likely jeopardize their continued existence. Under these conditions the two standards are essentially equivalent. Therefore, no additional protection for the species would accrue from critical habitat designation that would not also accrue from listing these species. Once listed, the Service believes that protection of their habitat can be accomplished through the Section 7 jeopardy standard, and through Section 9 prohibitions against take. These two fish are very rare. Therefore, taking for scientific purposes and private collections could pose a threat to their continued existence if site specific information were released to the general public. The publication of critical habitat maps in the Federal Register and local newspapers and other publicity accompanying critical habitat designation could increase the collection threat and also increase the potential for vandalism during the often controversial critical habitat designation process. The potential for future habitat disruption within one or both of these species' ranges resulting from the rapidly expanding Atlanta metropolitan area makes designation of critical habitat potentially more contentious and controversial, increasing the possibility for vandalism to occur. The locations of these species' populations have consequently been described only in general terms in this rule. Any existing precise locality data would be available to appropriate Federal, State, and local governmental agencies from the Service office described in the ADDRESSES section; from the Service's Brunswick Field Office, Federal Building, Room 334, 801 Gloucester Street, Brunswick, Georgia 31520; and from the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, and Georgia Natural Heritage Program. For the foregoing reasons the Service believes that critical habitat designation is not prudent for these species, and that their protection can be adequately accomplished through the Section 7 jeopardy standard and Section 9 prohibitions against take. Available Conservation Measures
