FR940902-0-00139 FR940902-0-00010 ยง628.205 Governor's coordination and special services plan. (a)(1) Submittal . By a date established by the Secretary, each State seeking financial assistance under the Act shall submit to the Secretary, biennially, the Governor's coordination and special services plan (GCSSP) encompassing two program years (section 121(a)). (2) The GCSSP shall address the requirements of section 121(b) of the Act, including a description of the Governor's coordination criteria; the measures taken by the State to ensure coordination and prevent duplication with the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills (JOBS) program; the certification of the implementation of the procurement system, as required at section 164(a)(6) of the Act; the technical assistance and training plan; goals, and the efforts to accomplish such goals, for the training and placement of women in nontraditional employment and apprenticeship; the projected use of resources, including oversight of program performance; program administration; program financial management and audit resolution procedures; capacity building; priorities and criteria for State incentive grants; and performance goals for State supported programs (section 121(b)). (b) GCSSP review . The Secretary shall review the GCSSP for overall compliance with the provisions of the Act. If the GCSSP is disapproved, the Secretary shall notify the Governor, in writing, within 45 days of submission of the reasons for disapproval so that the Governor may modify the plan to bring it into compliance with the Act (section 121(d)). (c) Information to SDA's . (1) In the year preceding the program years for which the plan is developed, the State shall make available to the SDA's in the State information on its plans to undertake State activities in program areas including education coordination grants, services to older workers, and capacity building. (2) The information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be provided to SDA's in sufficient time for SDA's to take it into consideration in developing local job training plans. ยง628.210 State Job Training Coordinating Council. (a) The Governor shall appoint a State Job Training Coordinating Council (SJTCC) pursuant to section 122 of the Act. In lieu of a SJTCC, the Governor may establish and utilize a State Human Resource Investment Council (HRIC) pursuant to section 701 of the Act and in accordance with ยง628.215 of this part. (b) Consistent with section 122(a)(3) of the Act, the SJTCC shall be composed as follows: 30 percent, business and industry representatives; 30 percent, State and local government and local education agency representatives; 30 percent, organized labor and community-based organization representatives; and 10 percent, representatives from the general public. The SJTCC shall have the specific functions and responsibilities outlined in sections 122, 317, and 501 of the Act. (c) Funding for the SJTCC shall be provided pursuant to sections 202(c)(1)(A) and 262(c)(1)(A) of the Act. (d) The SJTCC shall: (1) Analyze the SDAs' reports made pursuant to section 104(b)(13) of the Act and make recommendations for technical assistance and corrective action, and (2) Prepare a summary of such reports and disseminate them to SDA's and service providers in the State and to the Secretary (section 122(a)(5) and (6)). ยง628.215 State Human Resource Investment Council. (a) Establishment and responsibilities . The State may, in accordance with sections 701, 702, and 703 of the Act, establish a State Human Resource Investment Council (HRIC). The HRIC's responsibilities are described at section 701(a) of the Act. The HRIC shall carry out the following responsibilities: (1) Review the provision of services and the use of funds and resources under applicable Federal human resource programs and advise the Governor on methods of coordinating such provision of services and use of funds and resources consistent with the laws and regulations governing such programs; (2) Advise the Governor on the development and implementation of State and local standards and measures relating to applicable Federal human resource programs and coordination of such standards and measures; and (3) Carry out the duties and functions prescribed for existing State councils described under the laws relating to the applicable Federal human resource programs, including the responsibilities of the State Council on Vocational Education (SCOVE) under Section 112 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act. (4) Perform other functions as specified by the Governor (section 701). (b) Applicable Programs . For the purposes of this section, the programs included are those listed at section 701(b)(2) of the Act. A program shall be included only if the Governor and the head of the State agency responsible for the administration of the program jointly agree to include such program. In addition, programs under the Carl Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Act shall require the agreement of the State council on vocational education (section 701(b)(1)(B)). (c) Composition. (1) The Governor shall establish procedures to ensure appropriate representation on the HRIC from among the categories of representation specified in section 702 of the Act.
