FR940606-1-00035 FR940606-1-00008 Organic HAP emissions occur through evaporation of the solvent as the chemical milling maskant is applied and while it cures. 2. Adhesive Bonding (Adhesives and Adhesive Bonding Primers) Adhesive bonding involves the joining together of two or more metal parts, such as the parts of a honeycomb core. This process is typically performed when the joints being formed are essential to the structural integrity of the aircraft. The surfaces to be bonded are first coated with an adhesive bonding primer to promote adhesion and protect from subsequent corrosion. Structural adhesives are applied as either a thin film or as a paste, and can be oven cured or cured in an autoclave. Organic HAP emissions occur from the evaporation of solvents contained in the adhesive bonding primer and adhesive during their application, as well as during the curing step. 3. Cleaning Operations a. Hand-wipe and flush cleaning. Aerospace components are cleaned frequently during manufacturing to remove contaminants such as dirt, grease, and oil, and to prepare the components for the next operation. Cleaning is typically performed by a hand wiping process using a wide variety of cleaning solvents. Assemblies and parts with concealed or inaccessible areas may be flush cleaned by pouring the cleaning solvent over or into the part. The cleaning solvent is then drained from the part and the procedure is repeated as many times as necessary to ensure the required cleanliness. Organic HAP emissions from hand-wipe and flush cleaning operations occur from the evaporation of cleaning solvents during the cleaning process, including evaporation of the solvent from open containers and from solvent-soaked cloth and paper. Organic HAP emissions also occur from storage tanks used to store cleaning solvents. b. Spray gun cleaning. Spray guns and other components of coating units must be cleaned when switching from one coating to another and when they are not going to be immediately reused. The cleaning of spray guns can be performed either manually or with enclosed spray gun cleaners. Manual cleaning involves disassembling the gun and placing the parts in a vat containing an appropriate cleaning solvent. The residual paint is brushed or wiped off the parts. After reassembling, the cleaning solvent may be sprayed through the gun for a final cleaning. Enclosed spray gun cleaners are self-contained units that pump the cleaning solvent through the gun within a closed chamber. After the cleaning cycle is complete, the guns are removed from the chamber and typically undergo some manual cleaning to remove coating residue from areas not exposed to the cleaning solvent, such as the seals under the atomizing cap. Organic HAP emissions from spray gun cleaning occur from the evaporation of cleaning solvents during the cleaning cycle, such as while hand cleaning the guns in an open vat. Organic HAP emissions also occur from enclosed spray gun cleaners when they are opened to remove the guns. 4. Metal Finishing and Electrodeposition Metal finishing processes are used to prepare the surface of a part for better adhesion, improved surface hardness, and improved corrosion resistance. Typical metal finishing operations include conversion coating, anodizing, desmutting, descaling, and any operation that chemically affects the surface layer of a part.
