FR940725-2-00119 FR940725-2-00071 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20410; File No. 812&hyph;8928] Preferred Life Insurance Company of New York, et al. July 18, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of Application for an Amended Order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: Preferred Life Insurance Company of New York (``Company''), Preferred Life Variable Account C (``Variable Account''), and NALAC Financial Plans, Inc. RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Amended Order requested under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act for exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an Amended Order to permit the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge under certain variable annuity contracts from the assets of the Variable Account, or any other separate account established by the Company in the future to support materially similar variable annuity contracts. FILING DATE: Applicants initially filed an application on February 7, 1989. Notice of the Application for Exemption was published on March 22, 1989 (Release No. IC&hyph;16890, File No. 812&hyph;7238) and an Order Granting Exemptions was issued on April 20, 1989 (Release No. IC&hyph;16934). The Applicants filed this Application for an Amended Order on April 7, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the Application for an Amended Order and superseding the existing Order will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on August 12, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: 152 West 57th Street, 18th Floor, New York, NY 10019. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: W. Thomas Conner, Attorney, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management, at (202) 942&hyph;0670. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Company is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of the state of New York. The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America (``Allianz''). Allianz is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of Minnesota. 2. The Variable Account is a segregated investment account of the Company and is registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. The Variable Account was established to fund certain variable annuity contracts (``Contracts'') issued by the Company. The Variable Account is subdivided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in a fund of the Franklin Valuemark Funds, a Massachusetts business trust registered under the 1940 ``Act'' as a diversified open-end management investment company. 3. NALAC Financial Plans, Inc., a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, is the distributor of the Contracts. 4. The Contracts are individual flexible payment deferred variable annuity contracts (``Deferred Contracts'') or individual immediate variable annuity contracts (``Immediate Contracts''). The Contracts are available in connection with retirement plans that qualify for Federal tax advantages and for plans that do not so qualify. 5. The Contracts provide for certain charges. Any premium taxes or other taxes payable to a state or other governmental entity will be charged against the Contract values. The Company may, in its sole discretion, pay taxes when due and deduct that amount from the Contract at a later date. 6. Owners of Deferred Contracts may transfer all or a part of their interest in a sub-account to another sub-account. The Company reserves the right to charge, per transfer, the lesser of $25 or 2% of the amount transferred. Prior to the date annuity payments begin (``Annuity Date''), there is no charge for the first three transfers per Contract year. Currently, the Company permits twelve transfers per Contract year without a transfer fee. Owners of Immediate Contracts may transfer all or part of their interest in a sub-account to another sub-account without the imposition of any transfer fee. 7. For Deferred Contracts, the Company will deduct an annual contract maintenance charge of $30. Applicants represent that this charge has not been set at a level greater than actual cost and contains no element of profit. There is no contract maintenance charge for Immediate Contracts. 8. The Company deducts an administrative expense charge that is equal on an annual basis to .15% of the average daily net assets of the Variable Account. This charge, together with the contract maintenance charge, is designed to reimburse the Company for the expenses it incurs in the establishment and maintenance of the Contracts and the Variable Account. The Company does not intend to profit from this charge. Should this charge be insufficient, the Company will not increase this charge and will incur the loss. Applicants rely on Rule 26a&hyph;1 to deduct the contract maintenance charge and the administrative expense charge. Applicants represent that the administrative expense charge will be reduced in the future to the extent that the amount of this charge is in excess of that necessary to reimburse the Company for its administrative expenses.
