FR940526-1-00003 FR940526-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;SW&hyph;03&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives: Terra Corporation TRT 250 Series Transponder AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to the Terra Corporation TRT 250 series transponder (transponder). This proposal would require removing the transponder from the aircraft, inspecting it to determine if the AD applies, and replacing any affected transponder with a modified Terra Corporation transponder or another transponder that responds properly to Mode S interrogations from both an ATCRBS/Mode S ground station and TCAS II airborne equipment. This proposal is prompted by FAA tests that show that the transponder does not reply to certain interrogations by a Mode S or Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) II signal. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent failure of the transponder to reply to Mode S interrogations from both Mode S ground stations and TCAS II airborne equipment which could result in loss of airspace separation. DATES: Comments must be received by June 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;SW&hyph;03&hyph;AD, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, room 663, Fort Worth, Texas 76137&hyph;4298. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Terra Corporation, 3520 Pan American Freeway NE, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87107&hyph;4796. This information may be examined at the FAA, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, room 663, Fort Worth, Texas. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. George R. Hash, Aerospace Engineer, Airplane Certification Office, FAA, Rotorcraft Directorate, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, Texas 76137, telephone (817) 222&hyph;5134, fax (817) 222&hyph;5959. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained is this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;SW&hyph;03&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;SW&hyph;03&hyph;AD, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, room 663, Fort Worth, Texas 76137&hyph;4298. Discussion This notice proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD), that is applicable to the Terra Corporation TRT 250 transponder, part number (P/N) 0900&hyph;0250&hyph;00, with serial numbers (S/N) 4194 and below, Modification Level (Mod Level) 4 and below; 3-inch ATI-mounted TRT 250 push-button transponders, P/N 0900&hyph;0250&hyph;20, with S/N 5324 and below, Mod Level 4 and below; and, TRT 250 D digital display transponders, P/N 0900&hyph;0250&hyph;30, with S/N 1155 and below, Mod Level 1 and below (transponder). Recent FAA tests have shown that these transponders do not reply to Air Traffic Control Radio Beacon System (ATCRBS) only or ATCRBS/Mode S ``all-call'' interrogations by a Mode S ground sensor. The affected transponder processes interrogation data beyond the P 3 pulse as an invalid interrogation, which causes it to suppress the reply. The Mode S ground stations and the TCAS II airborne equipment interrogates beyond the P 3 pulse. This inability of the affected transponder to reply to valid interrogations creates an unsafe condition. This condition, if not corrected, could result in failure of the transponder to reply to Mode S interrogations from Mode S ground stations and TCAS II airborne equipment, which could result in loss of airspace separation. The FAA has reviewed and approved Terra Corporation Mandatory Service Bulletin SB&hyph;104, dated March 14, 1994, that describes procedures for modifying the transponder and then performing a final test procedure on the transponder unit. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would require, within 6 months after the effective date of this AD, removal of the transponders to determine the P/N, S/N, and Mod Level. This proposal would also require replacement of any affected transponder with an appropriately modified Terra Corporation transponder or another transponder that responds properly to Mode S interrogations from both an ATCRBS/Mode S ground station and TCAS II airborne equipment. The FAA has temporarily altered the Mode S ground sensors to permit the affected transponder to function normally. However, in order to make the Mode S ground sensors operational in support of the new national digital communication data link implementation, this temporary alteration will be removed following the replacement of all the affected transponders. The AD proposes to allow 6 months for replacement of the affected transponders.
