FR941012-2-00110 FR941012-2-00076 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. IC&hyph;20601; File No. 812&hyph;9162] First ING Life Insurance Company of New York et al. October 5, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' of ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemptions under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: First ING Life Insurance Company of New York (``First ING Life''), First ING of New York Separate Account Al (the ``Account''), any other separate account established by First ING Life in the future to support certain deferred variable annuity contracts issued by First ING Life (``Other Account''; together with the Account, the ``Separate Account,'' unless the context otherwise requires), and SLD Equities, Inc. (``SLD Equities''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under Section 6(c) for exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to permit the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Account in connection with the offering of certain deferred variable annuity contracts issued by First ING Life through the Account (the ``Account Contracts''). Applicants also seek an order to permit the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Account and of any Other Account in connection with the offering of deferred variable annuity contracts issued by First ING Life through the Account or any Other Account, respectively, which contracts are offered on a basis that is similar in all material respects to the basis on which the Account Contracts are offered (the ``Other Contracts''; together with the Account Contracts, the ``Contracts,'' unless the context otherwise requires). FILING DATE: The application was filed on August 15, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the Application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on October 31, 1994 and must be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reasons for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 225 Broadway, Suite 1901, New York, New York 10017. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: C. Christopher Sprague, Senior Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, or Brenda D. Sneed, Assistant Director, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the Application. The complete Application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. First ING Life is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of New York, and is the depositor and sponsor of the Account. First ING Life may establish one or more Other Accounts in the future, for which it will serve as sponsor and depositor. 2. First ING Life established the Account on March 15, 1994 under the laws of New York pursuant to a resolution of its Board of Directors. The Account is a segregated asset account of First ING Life, and is registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. The underlying investment media for the Account will be Neuberger & Berman Advisers Management Trust, Van Eck Investment Trust, Fidelity Variable Insurance Products Fund, Fidelity Variable Insurance Products Fund II, Alger American Fund and INVESCO Variable Investment Funds (each, a ``Fund''). Each Fund is registered under the 1940 Act as an open-end management investment company. 3. SLD Equities, a registered broker-dealer, will be the principal underwriter of the Account Contracts. SLD Equities may act as a principal underwriter for any Other Contracts issued by First ING Life in the future.
