FR940405-2-00065 FR940405-2-00037 D. Management and Staffing The extent to which the applicant identifies staff and other entities having the responsibility and authority to carry out program activities, as evidenced by job descriptions, resumes, organizational charts, and letters of support. (Core 15 Points_Enhanced 10 Points) E. Capacity The extent to which the applicant demonstrates the organizational capacity and ability to address the identified needs and to develop and conduct program activities. (Core 20 Points_Enhanced 10 Points) F. Evaluation The feasibility of the evaluation methods or procedures to monitor proposed activities, and the evaluation criteria to measure program accomplishments. (Core 15 Points_Enhanced 10 Points) G. Budget The extent to which the budget and justification are consistent with the stated objectives and program purpose. (Not Weighted) Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 set up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive the necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted CDC, they should send them to Edwin L. Dixon, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Atlanta, GA 30305, no later than 60 days after the application deadline date. The Program Announcement Number and Program Title should be referenced on the document. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' State process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.945. Other Requirements HIV/AIDS Requirements Recipients must comply with the document entitled: Content of AIDS-Related Written Materials, Pictorials, Audiovisuals, Questionnaires, Survey Instruments, and Educational Sessions (June 1992), a copy of which is included in the application kit. To meet the requirements for a program review panel, recipients are encouraged to use an existing program review panel, such as the one created by the State health department's HIV/AIDS prevention program. If the recipient forms its own program review panel, at least one member must be an employee (or a designated representative) of a State or local health department. The names of the review panel members must be listed on the Assurance of Compliance Form CDC 0.1113, which is also included in the application kit. The recipient must submit the program review panel's report that indicates all materials have been reviewed and approved. Application Submission and Deadline The original and two copies of the application PHS Form&hyph;5161&hyph;1 (Rev. 7/92) must be submitted to Edwin L. Dixon, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Room 314, Mailstop E&hyph;18, Atlanta, GA 30305, on or before May 9, 1994.
