FR940803-1-00045 FR940803-1-00010 Within 2 months after a competency review, the operator would be required to have identified and implemented appropriate revisions, if any are identified, in the qualification program to reduce the likelihood of the reoccurrence of a similar accident or event. Sections 192.819 and 195.519 would require the operators to prepare and maintain records showing that personnel have been trained and tested as required. Additionally, the operator would be required to sign and date certification statements specifying the covered functions for which each person is qualified. The date of the certification statement becomes the date of the persons qualification for the specified covered functions. Records would be kept for a minimum of 3 years after a person is no longer employed by the operator in a capacity that requires qualification. Relation to Other Qualification Rules Except for the removal of §195.403 discussed above, RSPA does not intend that the qualification rules proposed by this notice substitute for any of the existing requirements of parts 192 and 195 governing the qualification of personnel to perform specific functions. Consequently, individuals who perform functions requiring qualification under the existing pipeline safety regulations such as welding, nondestructive testing, corrosion control, or plastic pipe joining as part of a regulated operation, maintenance, or emergency-response function on a pipeline would have to meet both the existing job-specific qualification requirements, and the additional qualification standards put forth in this notice. Contractor Personnel The proposed regulations apply to persons performing covered functions and supervisory persons directly overseeing persons performing covered functions. The persons may be employed by the operator, be a contractor engaged by the operator, or be employed by the contractor. Thus, contractor and subcontractor personnel performing covered functions for an operator on the pipeline would be required to be qualified, as prescribed in this notice. The pipeline operator is responsible for assuring that contractor personnel performing covered functions comply with the proposed qualification requirements. To comply with this requirement, operators may elect to implement the following steps: (1) include appropriate ``qualification of personnel'' clauses in contracts with contractors; (2) require contractors to prepare and keep current records demonstrating that personnel performing covered functions receive training, testing and refresher training and, if required, competency reviews as required by the proposed requirements in this notice; and (3) monitor onsite contractor personnel to ensure that persons performing covered functions are qualified and certified as proposed in this notice. Proposed Compliance Deadlines RSPA proposes, under §§192.821(a)&hyph;(b) and 195.521(a), that all pipeline operators be given 6 months to prepare a qualification training and testing schedule. However, operators of small gas systems would be given 3 years and all other pipeline operators would be given 2 years to comply with all other requirements for personnel qualification under the proposed §§192.821 and 195.521. Based on the recommendations of the joint advisory committees made on September 23, 1987, that the regulations be sensitive to the limited financial and technical resources of operators of small gas distribution systems, the proposed §§192.821(b)(2)&hyph;(b)(4) would allow operators of such systems an additional year to comply with all the regulations except the requirement for preparation of the qualification training and testing schedule as set out in §192.821(b)(1). This extra year should provide a reasonable time period for small gas distribution operators to utilize the state, Federal, and gas association training aids to develop the relevant training and testing required to qualify personnel to whom these proposed rules would apply. All the compliance dates begin at the date of promulgation of the final rule in the Federal Register . Operators of pipelines subject to part 195 remain subject to §195.403 until the proposed subpart G becomes effective. Rulemaking Analyses E.O. 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This proposed rule is considered a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, is subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The proposal is considered significant under the Department of Transportation Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979), because of the substantial interest expressed by the pipeline industry, state and Federal agencies, and Congress. A regulatory evaluation is available for review in the docket. Federalism Assessment The proposed rulemaking action would not have substantial direct effects on states, on the relationship between the Federal Government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612 (52 FR 41685; October 30, 1987), RSPA has determined that this notice does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Regulatory Flexibility Act Based on the facts available about the impact of this rulemaking action, I certify pursuant to section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C 601&hyph;612) that the action will not, if adopted as final, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
