FR940919-0-00053 FR940919-0-00016 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Table of Contents I. Background A. Summary of the Statutory Requirements of the 1984 Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments, and Requirements of the 1993 Settlement Agreement with the Environmental Defense Fund B. Pollution Prevention Benefits C. Relationship of Best Demonstrated Available Technology (BDAT) Treatment Standards To Initiatives To Strengthen Federal Controls Governing Hazardous Waste Combustion Devices D. Relationship of LDR Treatment Standards to Risk-based Treatment Standards E. Treatment Standards for Hazardous Soil II. Summary of Rule A. Treatment Standards for Newly Identified Organic Toxicity Characteristic (TC) Wastes B. Prohibition of Dilution of High TOC Ignitable and of TC Pesticide Wastes Injected Into Class I Deep Wells C. Treatment Standards for Newly Listed Wastes D. Universal Treatment Standards E. Modifications to Hazardous Waste Recycling Regulations III. Improvements to the Existing Land Disposal Restrictions Program A. Background B. Universal Treatment Standards 1. Identification of Wastes to Which Universal Treatment Standards Apply 2. Differences in Universal Treatment Standards and Previous Treatment Standards 3. Universal Treatment Standards for Organic Hazardous Constituents a. Analyte Combinations b. Organics_Nonwastewaters c. Organics_Wastewaters 4. Universal Treatment Standards for Metal Hazardous Constituents a. Nonwastewaters b. Wastewaters 5. Universal Treatment Standards for Cyanide Wastes a. Cyanide Nonwastewaters b. Cyanide Wastewaters C. Consolidation of Equivalent Technology-Specific Combustion Standards D. Incorporation of Newly Listed Wastes Into Lab Packs and Changes to Appendices E. Changes in the LDR Program In Response to the LDR Roundtable 1. Consolidated Treatment Table 2. Simplified LDR Notification Requirements IV. Treatment Standards for Toxicity Characteristic Waste A. Introduction_Content and Scope 1. Waste Management Systems Affected by Today's Rule 2. Categories of TC Wastes Affected by Today's Rule 3. Soil Contaminated by Underground Storage Tanks 4. Metal TC Wastes Are Not Affected by Today's Rule B. Background 1. Legal and Policy Basis for Today's TC Standards 2. Ongoing Management Practices for TC Wastes C. Treatment Standards for New TC Organic Constituents (D018&hyph;D043) 1. Nonwastewaters 2. Wastewaters 3. Radioactive Mixed Waste D. Treatment Standards for Pesticide Wastes Exhibiting the Toxicity Characteristic 1. Newly Identified Pesticide Nonwastewaters 2. Pesticide Wastewaters E. Exemptions for De Minimis Losses of Commercial Chemical Product or Chemical Intermediates That Exhibit the Toxicity Characteristic (TC), and for TC Laboratory Wastes Discharged to CWA Wastewater Treatment Systems V. Treatment Standards for Newly Listed Wastes A. Treatment Standards for Coke By-product Production Wastes B. Treatment Standards for Chlorotoluenes VI. Debris Contaminated With Newly Listed or Identified Wastes A. Debris Treated to Meet the Phase II Treatment Standards B. Debris Treated to Meet the Alternative Debris Treatment Standards VII. Response to Comments Regarding Exclusion of Hazardous Debris That Has Been Treated by Immobilization Technologies A. Background B. Roundtable Discussion C. EPA Investigations D. Specific Questions for Which Comments Were Solicited E. Comments Received and Conclusions VIII. Deep Well Injection Issues A. Prohibition of Dilution of High TOC Ignitable and of TC Pesticide Wastes Injected Into Class I Deep Wells B. Request for Comment on Petition from Chemical Manufacturer's Association Regarding Deep Well Injection of Ignitable and Corrosive Characteristic Wastes IX. Modifications to Hazardous Waste Recycling Regulations A. Introduction B. Modification of the Existing ``Closed-loop'' Recycling Exclusion and Related Case-specific Variance 1. ``Closed-loop'' Recycling Exclusion and Related Variance 2. Storage Prior to Recycling X. Compliance Monitoring and Notification A. Compliance Monitoring B. LDR Notification 1. Constituents to be Included on the LDR Notification 2. Management in Subtitle C-Regulated Facilities 3. Potential Management of Decharacterized Wastes at a Subtitle D Waste Management Facility XI. Implementation of the Final Rule XII. Guidance to Applicants for Treatability Variances for As-Generated Wastes XIII. Clarifications and Corrections to Previous Rules A. Corrections to the Interim Final Rule Establishing Land Disposal Restrictions for Certain Ignitable and Corrosive Wastes B. Corrections to the Phase I Rule Establishing Land Disposal Restrictions for Newly Listed Wastes and Hazardous Debris C. Amendment of Boiler and Industrial Furnace Rules for Certain Mercury-containing Wastes 1. The Proposal 2. Comments and the Final Rule XIV. Capacity Determinations A. Capacity Analysis Results Summary B. Analysis of Available Capacity C. Surface Disposed Newly Identified and Listed Wastes 1. Required Capacity for Newly Identified TC Organics (D018&hyph;D043) 2. Used Oil 3. Required Capacity for Other Newly Listed Organic Wastes a. Surface Disposed Coke By-product Wastes b. Surface Disposed Chlorinated Toluene Wastes 4. Newly Identified TC Wastes That Were Not Previously Hazardous by the Old EP Leaching Procedure D. Required and Available Capacity for Newly Listed and Identified Wastes Mixed with Radioactive Components 1. Waste Generation a. Non-soil and Non-debris Mixed Radioactive Wastes b. Mixed Radioactive Soil c. Mixed Radioactive Debris 2. Available Capacity and Capacity Implications a. Non-soil and Non-debris Mixed Radioactive Wastes b. Mixed Radioactive Soil c. Mixed Radioactive Debris E. Required and Available Capacity for High TOC Ignitable, TC Pesticide, and Newly Listed Wastes Injected Into Class I Deep Wells F. Required and Available Capacity for Hazardous Soil and Debris Contaminated with Newly Listed and Identified Wastes 1. Waste Generation a. Hazardous Soil b. Hazardous Debris 2. Current Management Practices 3. Available Capacity and Capacity Implications a. Hazardous Soil b. Hazardous Debris XV. State Authority A. Applicability of Rules in Authorized States B. Effect on State Authorization XVI. Regulatory Requirements A. Regulatory Impact Analysis Pursuant to Executive Order 12866 1. Methodology Section a. Methodology for Estimating the Affected Universe b. Cost Methodology c. Waste Minimization Methodology d. Economic Impact Methodology e. Benefits Methodology 2. Results Section a. Volume Results b. Cost Results c. Waste Minimization d. Economic Impact Results e. Benefit Estimate Results
