FR940318-2-00025 FR940318-2-00023 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Federal Assistance Award to American Society of Advanced Fuels Technology AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of noncompetitive financial assistance award. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR 600.7, is announcing its intention to award a cooperative agreement to the American Society of Advanced Fuels Technology for the development of training, testing, and certifying programs for advanced fuels technician training in support of the Office of Transportation Technologies (OTT) programs at DOE, including the implementation of Section 411 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct). The OTT programs seek to improve transportation energy efficiency and to reduce the nation's dependence on imported fuels. This is not a notice for solicitation of proposals or financial assistance applications. ADDRESSES: Questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden, Colorado 80401, Attention: Ms. Ruth E. Adams, Contract Specialist. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: For the past year, the applicant has been organizing the stakeholders in the alternative fuels industry to pursue the improvement of training for automotive technicians who install and maintain alternative-fueled vehicles. The applicant in a non-profit corporation formed by and for members of the alternative fuels industry. It includes equipment manufacturers, fuel suppliers, automotive technicians, educators, and other interested parties. The applicant has conducted preliminary information-gathering activities and has developed preliminary materials for developing training program standards, a training program certification process, and model gaseous fuels curriculum outlines. This project will complete the development of these materials and will provide a preliminary plan for their dissemination, as well as achieving Congressionally established goals as set out in section 411 of EPAct. In accordance with 10 CFR 600.7, it has been determined that the activity to be funded is necessary to the satisfactory completion of an activity that will enhance the public benefit derived and for which competition would have a significant adverse effect on completion of the activity. The applicant has exclusive domestic capability to perform the activity successfully, based upon its organizational membership and its unique technical expertise. DOE knows of no other organization which is conducting or is planning to conduct development of training program materials as proposed by the applicant. Funding in the amount of $100,000 is to be provided by DOE. The anticipated term of the proposed grant shall be twelve months from the effective date of the award. Issued in Chicago Illinois on March 3, 1994. Timothy S. Crawford, Assistant Manager for Human Resources and Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6428 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
