FR941013-1-00041 FR941013-1-00005 (8) The identification of any information on the application which is considered by the applicant to be a trade secret or confidential and entitled to protection under U.S. laws restricting the public disclosure of such information. (d) The Administrator may require the applicant to submit such additional documents or written statements of fact relevant to the application which he deems necessary for determining if the application should be granted. (e) Within a reasonable period of time after the receipt of a completed application for an exemption under this section, the Administrator shall notify the applicant of acceptance or non-acceptance of the application. If the application is not accepted, an explanation will be provided. The Administrator is not required to accept an application if any information required pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section or requested pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section is lacking or not readily understood. The applicant may, however, amend the application to meet the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. If the application is accepted for filing, the Administrator shall issue and publish in the Federal Register an order on the application, which shall include a reference to the legal authority under which the order is based. This order shall specify the date on which it shall take effect. The Administrator shall permit any interested person to file written comments on or objections to the order. If any comments or objections raise significant issues regarding any findings of fact or law upon which the order is based, the Administrator shall immediately suspend the effectiveness of the order until he may reconsider the application in light of the comments and objections filed. Thereafter, the Administrator shall reinstate, revoke, or amend the original order as deemed appropriate. (f) The Administrator may at any time revoke or modify any exemption granted pursuant to this section by following the procedures set forth in paragraph (e) of this section for handling an exemption application which has been accepted for filing. §1310.13 Exempt chemical mixtures. (a) The chemical mixtures listed in paragraph (e) of this section have been exempted by the Administrator from application of sections 302, 303, 310, 1007, and 1008 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 822&hyph;3, 830, and 957&hyph;8 to the extent described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. (b) Records and reports: All regulated persons who manufacture an exempt chemical mixture must keep complete and accurate records and file all reports required under §§1310.05 and 1310.06 on all listed chemicals used in manufacturing the exempt chemical mixture. Transactions involving approved exempt chemical mixtures contained in paragraph (e) of this section are not regulated transactions and thus records and reports are not required to be kept for listed chemicals once they become part of an exempt chemical mixture. (c) No exemption granted pursuant to §1310.12 affects the criminal liability for illegal possession or distribution of listed chemicals contained in the exempt chemical mixture. (d) Changes in chemical mixture compositions: Any change in the quantitative or qualitative composition, trade name or other designation of an exempt chemical mixture listed in paragraph (e) of this section requires a new application for exemption. (e) The following chemical mixtures, in the form and quantity listed in the application submitted (indicated as the ``date'') are designated as exempt chemical mixtures for the purposes set forth in this section: Exempt Chemical Mixtures 1Supplier 1Product name 1Form 1Date [Reserved] §1310.14 Exemption of drug products containing ephedrine and therapeutically significant quantities of another active medicinal ingredient. (a) Any manufacturer of a drug product containing ephedrine in combination with another active medicinal ingredient, the product formulation of which is not listed in the compendiums set forth in §1310.01(f)(1)(iv)(A), may request that the Administrator exempt the product as one which contains ephedrine together with a therapeutically significant quantity of another active medicinal ingredient. (b) An application for an exemption under this section shall contain the following information: (1) The name and address of the applicant; (2) The exact trade name of the drug product for which exemption is sought;
