FR940217-1-00116 FR940217-1-00014 (c) Special review of third-party servicer. (1) The Secretary may review a third-party servicer to determine that it meets the administrative capability and financial responsibility standards in this section. (2) In response to a request from the Secretary, the servicer shall provide evidence to demonstrate that it meets the administrative capability and financial responsibility standards in this section. (3) The servicer may also provide evidence of why administrative action is unwarranted if it is unable to demonstrate that it meets the standards of this section. (4) Based on the review of the materials provided by the servicer, the Secretary determines if the servicer meets the standards in this part. If the servicer does not, the Secretary may initiate an administrative proceeding under subpart G. (d) Past performance of third-party servicer or persons affiliated with servicer. Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, a third-party servicer is not financially responsible if_ (1) (i) The servicer; its owner, majority shareholder, or chief executive officer; any person employed by the servicer in a capacity that involves the administration of a Title IV, HEA program or the receipt of Title IV, HEA program funds; any person, entity, or officer or employee of an entity with which the servicer contracts in a capacity that involves the administration of a Title IV, HEA program or the receipt of Title IV, HEA program funds has been convicted of, or has pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of Federal, State, or local government funds, or has been administratively or judicially determined to have committed fraud or any other material violation of law involving such funds, unless_ (A) The funds that were fraudulently obtained, or criminally acquired, used, or expended have been repaid to the United States, and any related financial penalty has been paid; (B) The persons who were convicted of, or pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of the funds are no longer incarcerated for that crime; and (C) At least five years have elapsed from the date of the conviction, nolo contendere plea, guilty plea, or administrative or judicial determination; or (ii) The servicer, or any principal or affiliate of the servicer (as those terms are defined in 34 CFR part 85), is_ (A) Debarred or suspended under Executive Order (E.O.) 12549 or the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; or (B) Engaging in any activity that is a cause under 34 CFR 85.305 or 85.405 for debarment or suspension under E.O. 12549 or the FAR, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; and (2) Upon learning of a conviction, plea, or administrative or judicial determination described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the servicer does not promptly remove the person, agency, or organization from any involvement in the administration of the servicer's participation in Title IV, HEA programs, including, as applicable, the removal or elimination of any substantial control, as determined under 34 CFR 668.13, over the servicer. (e) Independent audits. (1) A third-party servicer shall arrange for an independent audit of its administration of the FFEL program loan portfolio unless_ (i) The servicer contracts with only one lender or guaranty agency; and (ii) The audit of that lender's or guaranty agency's FFEL programs involves every aspect of the servicer's administration of those FFEL programs. (2) The audit must_ (i) Examine the servicer's compliance with the Act and applicable regulations; (ii) Examine the servicer's financial management of its FFEL program activities; (iii) Be conducted in accordance with the standards for audits issued by the United States General Accounting Office's (GAO's) Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions. Procedures for audits are contained in an audit guide developed by and available from the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Education; and
