FR940207-2-00133 FR940207-2-00068 [Release No. 34&hyph;33549; File No. SR&hyph;OCC&hyph;89&hyph;4] Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Options Clearing Corporation; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change To Convert OCC's Index Option Escrow Receipt Program From Pilot to Permanent Status January 31, 1994. On May 2, 1989, The Options Clearing Corporation (``OCC'') filed a proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;OCC&hyph;89&hyph;04) under Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 to convert OCC's index option escrow receipt program from pilot to permanent status, 2 to revise portions of OCC's index option escrow receipt form, and to amend certain OCC rules concerning index option escrow receipts. The Commission published notice of the proposal in the Federal Register on June 26, 1989. 3 OCC amended the proposal on February 28 and July 3, 1990. 4 No public comments were received. For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is approving the proposal. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 The Commission approved the program on a pilot basis on August 13, 1985. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 22324 (August 13, 1985), 50 FR 33443. 3 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26951 (June 21, 1989), 54 FR 27840. 4 These amendments made technical, non-substantive revisions to OCC's proposal and, therefore, were not published for comment. I. Description A. Background The program permits OCC clearing members to deposit index option escrow receipts with OCC to satisfy the margin requirements arising from short call positions on index options in their customers' accounts. An OCC-approved custodian bank that holds an escrow deposit issues an index option escrow receipt to acknowledge that it holds a specific deposit of assets for the account of a specific customer of an OCC clearing member and to acknowledge that it will not release the property without OCC's written consent. An index option escrow receipt covers specific index options and obligates the issuing bank to hold the escrow deposit until OCC releases the escrow receipt or until OCC directs the issuing bank to make payment on the escrow receipt. B. The Proposal The proposal converts the index option escrow receipt program from pilot to permanent status with several amendments. First, the proposal increases the cap on the value of index option escrow receipts an issuing bank may have outstanding. The index option escrow receipt currently requires the issuing bank to certify that the value of the cash and securities held by it pursuant to outstanding index option escrow receipts or the intrinsic value of all options covered by its outstanding index option escrow receipts does not exceed 25% of the equity attributable to that bank's outstanding capital stock. The proposal increases that cap from 25% to 100% of the issuing bank's outstanding capital stock. Second, the proposal alters requirements regarding the type of property acceptable as an escrow deposit. The proposal eliminates certificates of deposit and banker's acceptances as permissible escrow deposits and adds as a permissible escrow deposit U.S. government securities having one year or less until maturity. 5 5 Cash, common stocks listed on a national securities exchange, and marginable over-the-counter stocks also are permissible escrow deposits. Third, the proposal gives OCC the authority to close out short option positions of a suspended member covered by index option escrow receipts and to draw on the proceeds of the escrow receipt to cover costs associated with such closing transactions. 6 OCC may exercise this authority if the value of collateral deposited under the escrow receipt falls below a certain maintenance level, OCC requests an additional margin deposit to cover the deficit, and OCC suspends the member. 6 Currently, OCC must maintain short positions of a suspended member covered by an index option escrow receipt until it receives instructions from that suspended member or its representative. Fourth, the proposal eliminates from the index option escrow receipt a clause requiring issuing banks to certify that they will not permit customers to subject the escrow deposit to any lien or encumbrance. The proposal adds language to the escrow receipt which precludes the issuing bank from subjecting the escrow deposit to any right (including any right of set-off), charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the issuing bank or any person claiming through the issuing bank. Fifth, the proposal revises the index option escrow receipt to permit issuing banks to value escrow deposits at the end of the day rather than throughout the day in connection with their obligation to request additional customer collateral or to notify OCC of a collateral deficiency. Currently, an issuing bank must (1) request from the customer a supplemental escrow deposit if at any time the value of the escrow deposit decreases below 55% of the underlying index option's value and (2) notify OCC if at any time the value of the escrow deposit decreases below 50% of the underlying index option's value. Under the proposal, these obligations will not be triggered unless the applicable thresholds are hit at the close of any business day rather than at any time. Banks have represented to OCC that they are unable to conduct intraday monitoring of the value of escrow deposits.
