FR940511-0-00062 FR940511-0-00015 Socioeconomic Comment: The FEIS/MP must contain a socioeconomic impact study of the regulations on the affected coastal communities and Tribes. Failure to consider and mitigate these impacts violates the NEPA and Federal Trust responsibility to Indians. Response: An economic analysis has been included within the FEIS/MP. NOAA is not promulgating regulations that will unduly burden the tribes. The regulations have provisions that recognize treaty secured rights. In addition, NOAA will consult with the Tribes when considering permits affecting proposed development activities in the Sanctuary. NOAA believes that the regulations do not conflict with the economic interests of the Tribes since the regulations offer increased protection for those natural resources critical to the tribal economy. Comment: The Federal government should investigate the possibility of tax breaks to offset economic impacts of the management plan. Response: NOAA's actions do not add economic burdens to the area. The issue of tax breaks should be addressed to an individual's representatives in Congress. NOAA does not have the legislative authority to address tax laws. Supplemental Draft Environmental Impact Statement Comment: NOAA should submit a supplemental Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the following reasons: (1) The DEIS/MP lacks a satisfactory examination of the socioeconomic impacts of the regulations on the coastal communities; (2) the DEIS/MP contains erroneous information related to port activities in Grays Harbor; (3) some information is missing, outdated, or inaccurate; (4) inadequate definition of the unique environment deserving protection that is identified by the SEL. Response: NOAA has determined that the matters for which an SEIS has been requested can be addressed in the FEIS/MP. The FEIS/MP addresses the socioeconomic impacts of regulations that could potentially affect the coastal communities in the alternatives and consequences section. Further, the vessel traffic section has been amended substantially to provide a detailed description of the significance of vessel traffic to the coastal communities. Additionally, the description of the marine environment under consideration has been expanded greatly. Management Comment: NOAA needs to address or recognize a number of current local and state regulatory controls in place within the shoreline areas. Response: NOAA has addressed local and state regulatory controls within the shoreline areas. These controls are listed in appendix J.
