FR940805-1-00114 FR940805-1-00013 (2) Training curriculum approval . The Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, in conjunction with the Indian Police Academy, shall approve training programs and curriculum required by these standards. (3) Outside resources . The facility shall support the integration of IHS-approved training and other training with the approval of the administrator. (4) Cultural awareness . Orientation training shall include a component on cultural issues relative to the local tribe(s). (5) Officer orientation training . All new full or part-time officers assigned to the holding facility shall receive the number of hours of orientation training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, during their first year of employment. Employees shall complete forty of these hours prior to being independently assigned to work in the facility. (6) Officer in-service training . All full or part-time officers assigned to the holding facility shall receive an additional forty hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (7) Clerical and support staff orientation training . All new clerical and support employees who have minimal inmate contact shall receive the number of hours of orientation training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, within their first year of employment. (8) Clerical and support staff in-service training . All clerical and support persons shall receive an additional sixteen hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (9) Administrative and managerial orientation training . All new administrative and managerial staff shall receive at least the number of hours of training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, within their first year of employment in this position. (10) Administrative and managerial staff in-service training . Administrative and managerial staff shall receive at least twenty-four hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (11) Specialized training . At least one officer assigned to the holding facility per shift shall receive specialized training in the management of inmates with health and behavioral problems, including substance abuse and suicide. At least one officer assigned to the holding facility per shift shall be certified as an emergency medical technician. All staff who have contact with inmates shall receive training in advanced first aid and CPR. The health authority shall identify health-related training needs. (e) Facility records _(1) Compliance . The facility shall comply with 5 U.S.C. 552 (the Freedom of Information Act), 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974), as amended, 43 CFR 2.79(a) and 16 BIAM (Records and Disposition Handbook) or comparable tribal regulations. (2) Records management . The facility shall have a system for the management, dissemination, retrieval, storage, archiving and (when appropriate) destruction of information and detention records. (3) Law enforcement sensitive information . Law enforcement sensitive records and information shall be marked privileged. The administrator or designee shall keep these records in a locked cabinet or file room. (4) Release of information and consent . Inmates shall sign a Release of Information Consent Form in compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974) as amended prior to the release of privileged information. The administrator or designee shall keep a copy of the signed release in the inmate's record. (5) Separation of record contents . The administrator or designee shall identify and separate contents of inmate records according to an established format which, at a minimum, shall separate privileged from public information. (6) Access to information . The administrator shall define clearly personnel who have access to inmate records. (7) Daily report . The administrator or designee shall maintain a daily report and provide a copy of it to the appropriate court(s). The daily report shall identify: (i) the names of inmates in custody, including inmates on temporary release or in other locations; (ii) names of inmates admitted and released; (iii) the legal status of each inmate; and (iv) the number of days each inmate has been in custody. (8) Identification and location record . The facility shall maintain a system that identifies all inmates in custody and their actual physical location. (9) Custody record . The facility shall maintain custody records of all inmates held at the facility. The record shall include, but not be limited to: (i) initial booking form; (ii) documented legal authority to detain the inmate; (iii) health and suicide screening forms; (iv) dates of court appearances; (v) signed release of information forms; (vi) an on-going record of cash and valuables; (vii) dates and times of temporary releases; (viii) names of visitors and dates of visits; (ix) facility rules and disciplinary policy signed by the inmate; (x) classification interview and subsequent classification actions; (xi) reports of major disciplinary actions, significant incidents or crimes committed while in custody; (xii) records of program participation including work release or inmate work programs; (xiii) good time accumulated (if applicable); and (xiv) final release or transfer report. (10) Booking information . The administrator or designee shall record booking information for every person admitted to the facility. The record shall include at least the following data: (i) booking number; (ii) name and known aliases; (iii) current or last known address; (iv) date and time of confinement;
