FR940323-0-00038 FR940323-0-00020 Formula Allocation of AmeriCorps Program Funds and Educational Awards to Territories In fiscal year 1994, the Corporation has set aside $1,550,000 and up to 112 educational awards to be distributed to U.S. Territories on a formula basis. The amount of a Territory's program funds allocation is determined by multiplying the total amount of money available by the ratio of that Territory's population to the population of all the Territories. (Population figures are taken from the 1990 Census, the most recent official figures available.) The maximum number of educational awards for which a Territory may apply is determined by dividing that Territory's formula funds allocation by the expected average Federal share of program costs per participant ($13,800). Formula Allocation of AmeriCorps Program Funds and Educational Awards to Territories 1Territory 1Program funds 1Educational awards American Samoa $213,104 15 Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands 197,485 14 Guam 606,685 44 Palau 68,898 5 Virgin Islands 463,855 34 Competitive Distribution of AmeriCorps Program Funds and Educational Awards to Indian Tribes The Corporation has set aside $1,550,000 and up to 112 educational awards for competitive distribution to Indian tribes. II. Regulations Issues General Comments (1) Multiple applications. Several commenters asked for clarification of the multiple applications rule. This rule states that the Corporation will reject any application for a project if an application requesting funding for that project is already pending before the Corporation. In other words, a program can only submit one application at a time for Corporation funds (either directly or indirectly) for a given project. Confusion sometimes arises over the difference between a program and a project. For the Corporation's purposes, a program recruits and selects participants, trains them, and places them in projects; a project is a specific set of related activities carried out by a program. A program may conduct or undertake more than one project and receive Corporation funding from different pools for those projects. A program is allowed, for example, to propose one project in a national direct application and another project in a State formula application. However, an applicant may not propose the same project for funding in more than one application at the same time. Thus if a program submits an application for a project in the national direct competition, that project may not also be included in a State application. (Once an applicant is notified that a proposal has been rejected, however, the applicant is free, if time permits, to resubmit the proposal in a different Corporation grant competition.) Change: §§2516.730, 2517.730, 2519.730 and 2522.320 have been revised. (2) Reinventing government. One commenter urged the Corporation to include regulatory provisions that would encourage States to minimize administrative burdens on grantees by streamlining reimbursement and contracting procedures, as well as by providing cash advances to grantees when possible. The Corporation will issue separate administrative regulations that will require States and other grantmaking entities receiving grants from the Corporation to provide cash advances and prompt expense reimbursements to subgrantees. Contracting procedures for supplies and services are governed primarily by State regulations and OMB Circulars 102 and 110. Part 2510_Overall Purposes and Definitions Definition of administrative costs (§2510.20). A number of commenters requested clarification of and suggested changes for the definition of administrative costs. One commenter stated that insurance costs should not count as administrative costs in certain instances; another argued that costs such as rent, utilities, travel, supplies, etc. should be allocated through an approved joint cost allocation plan; another stated that indirect costs that directly support programs should not be treated as administrative costs. The Corporation agrees that the definition of administrative costs was not sufficiently clear and it has been rewritten in response to these comments. Change: §2510.20 has been revised. Part 2513_State Plan (1) Coordination. Some commenters recommended including a requirement that States include in their State Plans a description of how their activities will be coordinated with those of the State agency responsible for administering the Community Service Block Grant Act and with other State agencies. The Corporation encourages each State to develop a truly comprehensive and coordinated national and community service effort. However, the Corporation declines to require such coordination. (2) Consideration of State Plan. One commenter requested that the Corporation state in the regulations what weight the State Plan will have in the evaluation of State applications. The Corporation agrees that this is an important piece of information for States as they put together applications. The applications will indicate the extent to which the State Plan will be considered. However, because the Corporation wishes to maintain flexibility on this issue, it has not been incorporated into the regulations. (3) Consolidation. One commenter suggested consolidating the SEA and State Commission plans into one. Again, the Corporation encourages coordination of efforts, and a consolidated plan perhaps would be a good means for a State to accomplish this. However, due to the separation between State Education Departments and other agencies in many States, this will not be established as a requirement.
