FR940920-2-00154 FR940920-2-00089 Do the set-asides (e.g., 10 percent for criminal offenders in corrections education and other institutionalized individuals) required by the Adult Education Act further the purposes of the Act? Are they overly prescriptive? Should the reauthorized program continue to draw a distinction between adult basic education and adult secondary education and specify the maximum amount of funds that may be used for high school equivalency programs? Should the Gateway Grants program be continued? •Special Experimental Demonstration Projects and Teacher Training. For many years States have reserved formula grant funds to undertake special projects and to train adult educators. Has this set-aside been an effective means of spurring innovation and ensuring a trained adult education workforce, or should other means of achieving those objectives be considered? If this set-aside is retained, should States be required to establish mechanisms for the dissemination of effective practices? •English-as-a-Second Language. The National Evaluation of Adult Education Programs found that enrollments in English-as-a-Second-Language (ESL) courses are outpacing enrollments in Adult Basic Education (ABE) and Adult Secondary Education (ASE); during 1992, approximately 46 percent of all clients served in the Basic State Grants program were enrolled in ESL courses. The study also found that the characteristics of ESL clients vary considerably from those served in ABE and ASE. For example, about 50 percent of new ESL clients had a secondary school diploma or its equivalent, while 89 percent of new ABE/ASE students lacked such a credential. Given the above findings, is the Adult Education program structured properly to address the English language instruction needs of limited English proficient individuals? If so, should the funding formula be changed, or should a new formula be added, to reflect the characteristics of this population? •Achievement. Should the Adult Education Act be amended to provide a greater focus on learner outcomes? What would be appropriate types and measures of learner outcomes? Should the Act prescribe creation of national program performance indicators? Should the Department, or States, use those outcomes in making resource allocation decisions? •Client Persistence. Although the amount and type of instruction adult learners need to meet their education goals varies because of their diverse characteristics and abilities, findings from the National Evaluation of Adult Education Programs reveal that about 15 percent of clients who register for adult education programs do not receive any instruction. How can the Federal Government promote the development of adult education programs that both attract and retain clients? According to the National Evaluation of Adult Education Programs, the employment of at least some full-time staff and the provision of support services are two ways programs can increase client persistence and improve outcomes. However, over 80 percent of adult education instructors work part-time, and, although the vast majority of program directors reported meeting their clients' needs for counseling or job assistance, far fewer were able to meet other important support service needs. For example, 42 percent of female clients and 32 percent of male clients have children under the age of six, but only 43 percent of programs reported meeting their clients' child care needs ``somewhat'' or ``fully.'' Does the Adult Education Act provide programs with sufficient flexibility or incentive to offer these services? •Technology.
