FR940202-0-00052 FR940202-0-00006 (ii) Step two: Determine the accrual periods. An accrual period is an interval of time over which the accrual of OID is measured. Accrual periods may be of any length and may vary in length over the term of the debt instrument, provided that each accrual period is no longer than 1 year and each scheduled payment of principal or interest occurs either on the final day of an accrual period or on the first day of an accrual period. In general, the computation of OID is simplest if accrual periods correspond to the intervals between payment dates provided by the terms of the debt instrument. In computing the length of accrual periods, any reasonable counting convention may be used (e.g., 30 days per month/360 days per year). (iii) Step three: Determine the OID allocable to each accrual period. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the OID allocable to an accrual period equals the product of the adjusted issue price of the debt instrument (as defined in §1.1275&hyph;1(b)) at the beginning of the accrual period and the yield of the debt instrument, less the amount of any qualified stated interest allocable to the accrual period. In performing this calculation, the yield must be stated appropriately taking into account the length of the particular accrual period. Example 1 in paragraph (j) of this section provides a formula for converting a yield based upon an accrual period of one length to an equivalent yield based upon an accrual period of a different length. (iv) Step four: Determine the daily portions of OID. The daily portions of OID are determined by allocating to each day in an accrual period the ratable portion of the OID allocable to the accrual period. The holder of the debt instrument includes in income the daily portions of OID for each day during the taxable year on which the holder held the debt instrument. (2) Exceptions. Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to_ (i) A debt instrument to which section 1272(a)(6) applies (certain interests in or mortgages held by a REMIC, and certain other debt instruments with payments subject to acceleration); (ii) A debt instrument that provides for contingent payments, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section or in regulations under section 1275(d); or (iii) A variable rate debt instrument to which §1.1275&hyph;5 applies, except as provided in §1.1275&hyph;5. (3) Modifications. The amount of OID includible in income by a holder under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is adjusted if_ (i) The holder purchased the debt instrument at a premium or an acquisition premium (within the meaning of §1.1272&hyph;2); or (ii) The holder made an election for the debt instrument under §1.1272&hyph;3 to treat all interest as OID. (4) Special rules for determining the OID allocable to an accrual period. The following rules apply to determine the OID allocable to an accrual period under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. (i) Unpaid qualified stated interest allocable to an accrual period. In determining the OID allocable to an accrual period, if an interval between payments of qualified stated interest contains more than 1 accrual period_ (A) The amount of qualified stated interest payable at the end of the interval (including any qualified stated interest that is payable on the first day of the accrual period immediately following the interval) is allocated on a pro rata basis to each accrual period in the interval; and (B) The adjusted issue price at the beginning of each accrual period in the interval must be increased by the amount of any qualified stated interest that has accrued prior to the first day of the accrual period but that is not payable until the end of the interval. See Example 2 of paragraph (j) of this section for an example illustrating the rules in this paragraph (b)(4)(i). (ii) Final accrual period. The OID allocable to the final accrual period is the difference between the amount payable at maturity (other than a payment of qualified stated interest) and the adjusted issue price at the beginning of the final accrual period. (iii) Initial short accrual period. If all accrual periods are of equal length, except for either an initial shorter accrual period or an initial and a final shorter accrual period, the amount of OID allocable to the initial accrual period may be computed using any reasonable method. See Example 3 in paragraph (j) of this section. (iv) Payment on first day of an accrual period. The adjusted issue price at the beginning of an accrual period is reduced by the amount of any payment (other than a payment of qualified stated interest) that is made on the first day of the accrual period. (c) Yield and maturity of certain debt instruments subject to contingencies_ (1) Applicability. This paragraph (c) provides rules to determine the yield and maturity of a debt instrument that provides for an alternative payment schedule (or schedules) applicable upon the occurrence of a contingency (or contingencies). This paragraph (c) applies, however, only if the timing and amounts of the payments that comprise each payment schedule are known as of the issue date. A debt instrument does not provide for an alternative payment schedule merely because there is a possibility of impairment of a payment (or payments) by insolvency, default, or similar circumstances. See regulations under section 1275(d) for the treatment of debt instruments with payments that are otherwise contingent as to timing or amount. See §1.1273&hyph;1(c) to determine whether stated interest on a debt instrument subject to this paragraph (c) is qualified stated interest. (2) General rule. In general, the yield and maturity of a debt instrument subject to this paragraph (c) are determined by assuming that the payments will be made according to the instrument's stated payment schedule.
