FR940506-2-00114 FR940506-2-00067 Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore Advisory Commission; Meeting Notice is hereby given in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act that a meeting of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore Advisory Commission will be held at 1:30 p.m. (PDT) on Saturday, May 14, 1994, at the Dance Palace, corner of 5th and B Streets, Point Reyes Station, California to hear presentations on issues related to management of the Point Reyes National Seashore and adjoining Golden Gate National Recreation lands. The Advisory Commission was established by Public Law 92&hyph;589 to provide for the free exchange of ideas between the National Park Service and the public and to facilitate the solicitation of advice or other counsel from members of the public on problems pertinent to the National Park Service systems in Marin, San Francisco and San Mateo Counties. Members of the Commission are as follows: Mr. Richard Bartke, Chairman Ms. Amy Meyer, Vice Chair Mr. Ernest Ayala Dr. Howard Cogswell Brig. Gen. John Crowley, USA (ret) Mr. Margot Patterson Doss Mr. Neil D. Eisenberg Mr. Jerry Friedman Mr. Steve Jeong Ms. Daphne Greene Ms. Gimmy Park Li Mr. Gary Pinkston Mr. Merritt Robinson Mr. R. H. Sciaroni Mr. John J. Spring Dr. Edgar Wayburn Mr. Joseph Williams Mr. Mel Lane Included on the agenda for this public meeting will be: 1. Point Reyes issues. A. National Parks Week (May 15&hyph;21). B. International Migratory Bird Day. C. Report on Range Conditions. D. Report on Proposed Environmental Education Center Annex and the Completion of Bull Point and Estero Trailheads. E. Report on Preliminary Plan for Revamping Bear Valley Trailhead Parking Area and Replacing South Beach Restroom. 2. GGNRA issues: Presentation of Staff Report on Giacomini Wetlands Restoration Feasibility Study. Public officials are invited to express their views in person at the May 14 public meeting. This meeting will be recorded for documentation and transcribed for dissemination. Minutes of the meeting will be available to the public after approval of the full Advisory Commission. A transcript for this meeting will be available after June 3, 1994. For copies of the minutes contact the Office of the Staff Assistant, Golden Gate National Recreation Area, Building 201, Fort Mason, San Francisco, California 94123. Dated: April 28, 1994. Stanley T. Albright, Regional Director, Western Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10876 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;P
