FR941011-0-00051 FR941011-0-00013 On November 12, 1993 the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted to the EPA a revision that provided for an I/M program in Western Michigan (i.e., the Grand Rapids and Muskegon nonattainment areas). Under the requirements of the EPA completeness review procedures (40 CFR Part 51, appendix V) and the requirements of section 110(k) of the Act, the submittal, as it applies to Western Michigan, was deemed complete by the EPA on April 18, 1994. In its original review, the EPA found several areas in the State's submittal that did not meet the requirements of the I/M rule. The sections of the State's submittal found to be insufficient included: Motorist compliance enforcement program oversight; enforcement against contractors, stations, and inspectors; public information and consumer protection; improving repair effectiveness; and compliance with recall notices. While the EPA found the State's submittal deficient in several respects, the EPA published on July 15, 1994 at 59 FR a document 36123 proposing to approve the majority of the State's submittal, and to conditionally approve or disapprove the insufficient sections of the original submittal unless necessary, appropriate, and approvable materials were submitted by the State 2 weeks prior to the close of the public comment period. III. State's Supplemental Submittal On July 19, 1994 the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) submitted supplementary materials to the EPA related to the I/M program in Western Michigan. The supplementary submittal was made to remedy the deficiencies in the State's original submittal. IV. The EPA's Analysis of the State's Supplemental Submittal The EPA has reviewed the State's supplemental submittal for consistency with the statutory requirements of the EPA regulations. A summary of the EPA's analysis is provided below. The following summary is limited to the sections of the State's original submittal that were deficient. For a discussion of the rest of the State's submittal, see the July 15, 1994 (59 FR 36123) NPRM. A. Motorist Compliance Enforcement Program Oversight While the original submittal addressed some of the required elements of this section (40 CFR 51.362), it did not fully satisfy all the elements, in particular procedures through which the activities of enforcement personnel are quality-controlled. However, the State's original and supplemental submittals taken together provide an approvable basis for this section. The original and supplemental submittals provide for regular auditing of the State's enforcement program and the following of effective management practices, including adjustments to improve the program when necessary. These program oversight and information management activities are described in the State's submittals and include: the establishment of written procedures for personnel engaged in I/M document handling and processing and an I/M database which will be compared to the registration database to determine program effectiveness. B. Enforcement Against Contractors, Stations and Inspectors While the initial SIP submittal established an innovative Total Quality Management (TQM) program for ensuring that the I/M program will be run effectively, the submittal did not satisfy all the elements of the I/M rule, 40 CFR 51.364. The State's supplemental submittal together with the original submittal, however, includes sufficient materials to approve this section. The original and supplemental submittals, in addition to the TQM program, include specific penalties for offenses committed by contractors, stations, and inspectors in accordance with the Federal I/M rule. The SIP also includes the State's enforcement procedures. The MDOT has the authority to immediately suspend a station inspector for violations that directly affect emission reduction benefits. The enforcement procedures also include the authority to immediately dismiss inspectors that intentionally cause a vehicle to improperly pass or fail.
