FR940822-0-00065 FR940822-0-00019 (2) The railroad has a terminal at the system headquarters and at each division headquarters; (3) Each such terminal has a desk-top computer ( i.e. , monitor, central processing unit, and keyboard) and either a facsimile machine or a printer connected to the computer to retrieve and produce information in a usable format for immediate review by FRA representatives; (4) The railroad has a designated representative who is authorized to authenticate retrieved information from the electronic system as true and accurate copies of the electronically kept records; and (5) The railroad provides representatives of the Federal Railroad Administration with immediate access to these records for inspection and copying during normal business hours and provides printouts of such records upon request. 5. Section 217.11 is amended by revising the heading and by revising paragraphs (a), (b) introductory text, (b)(4), and (c) to read as follows: §217.11 Program of instruction on operating rules; recordkeeping; electronic recordkeeping. (a) To ensure that each railroad employee whose activities are governed by the railroad's operating rules understands those rules, each railroad to which this part applies shall periodically instruct each such employee on the meaning and application of the railroad's operating rules in accordance with a written program retained at its system headquarters and at the division headquarters for each division where the employee is instructed. (b) On or after November 21, 1994, or 30 days before commencing operations, whichever is later, each railroad to which this part applies shall retain one copy of its current program for the periodic instruction of its employees as required by paragraph (a) of this section and one copy of each subsequent amendment to that program. The system headquarters of the railroad shall retain one copy of all these records; the division headquarters for each division where the employees are instructed shall retain one copy of all portions of these records that the division applies and enforces. These records shall be made available to representatives of the Federal Railroad Administration for inspection and copying during normal business hours. This program shall_*␣*␣* (4) Begin within 30 days after November 21, 1994, or the date of commencing operations, whichever is later; and * * * * * (c) Each railroad to which this part applies is authorized to retain by electronic recordkeeping its program for periodic instruction of its employees on operating rules provided that the requirements stated in §217.9(e)(1) through (5) of this part are satisfied. 6. Section 217.13, ``Annual report,'' is removed, and §217.15, ``Information collection,'' is redesignated as §217.13. 7. Redesignated §217.13 is amended by removing paragraph (b)(4).
