FR940503-1-00026 FR940503-1-00010 This preamble discusses the major issues raised by today's proposed action, and EPA's justification for each proposed provision. Sections II and III, which follow this introduction, contain a brief outline of the proposal s statutory authority and background. Section IV outlines the major program considerations and the rationale for EPA's proposal on each, while Section V presents a section-by-section analysis of the proposed rule. The final section in this preamble, Section VI, outlines specific regulatory impact analyses. II. Statutory Authority Today's rule is proposed under authority of sections 113(d) and 301(a) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7413(d) and 7601(a)). III. Background of Proposed Rule Prior to the passage of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, 1 EPA enforced Clean Air Act provisions through civil or criminal judicial enforcement actions and the issuance of administrative orders for compliance. 2 The 1990 Amendments expanded EPA's range of enforcement tools by authorizing EPA to issue administrative penalty orders (section 113(d)(1) of the Act) and to administratively assess civil penalties through field citations issued for minor violations (section 113(d)(3) of the Act). EPA expects that these new enforcement options will enhance the Agency's ability to enforce the Act. Where appropriate, EPA will be able to respond quickly to a violation by issuing an administrative penalty order or a field citation, rather than commencing a civil judicial enforcement action for penalties. While civil and criminal judicial enforcement actions will remain an important component of EPA's enforcement program, EPA's new administrative authorities will enable it to effectively pursue a broad range of violations without the expenditure of resources associated with judicial action. 1 Pub. L. No. 101&hyph;549, 104 Stat. 2399 (1990) 2 See CAA sections 113 (c)(1), (c)(2), and (b), prior to their amendment in 1990. Section 113(d)(3) of the Act authorizes EPA to implement a field citation program to enforce the Act through regulations which establish appropriate minor violations for which field citations may be issued. The Act requires that the Agency consult with the Attorney General and the States, that the maximum civil penalty for a minor violation not exceed $5,000 per day of violation, and that field citations be issued only by EPA officers or employees designated by the Administrator. Section 113(d)(3) of the Act also provides that any person to whom a field citation is issued may elect either to pay the proposed penalty or to request a hearing in accordance with procedures specified in the regulations. It further provides that the penalty assessed in the field citation becomes final if a request for a hearing is not made within the time specified in the implementing regulations. The Act specifies that hearings shall not be subject to the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. 554 or 556, but shall provide a reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present evidence. The Act also specifies that payment of a field citation penalty shall not be a defense to further enforcement by the United States or a State to correct a violation, or to assess the statutory maximum penalty pursuant to other authorities in the Act, if the violation continues. IV. Program Considerations A. Appropriate Minor Violations for Issuance of Field Citations EPA expects the field citation program to exhibit several important characteristics. First, field citations should be issued for violations that are clear cut and truly minor in nature. Second, field citations should, in general, be issued shortly after a violation is discovered, if not upon discovery. Third, the amount of the penalty assessed and other aspects of the program should induce quick correction of the violation and payment of the penalty. As required by section 113(d)(3), EPA is proposing a definition of minor violation for which field citations may be issued. This definition is designed to help implement these goals. EPA considered several regulatory options for establishing appropriate minor violations as directed in the statute. One option was inclusion in the rule of a comprehensive list of all possible violations suitable for field citations. This approach would appear to have several advantages. Explicitly listing each minor violation in the rule would provide clear, objective criteria for the issuance of field citations, thereby limiting inspector discretion. An inspector would need only check the list of appropriate minor violations to determine whether a field citation could be issued. This approach would appear to both streamline the program and help to achieve national consistency in its application. A major problem with this option became clear, however, when attempts were made to develop such a list of ``minor violations.'' Almost any violation might be considered significant or minor depending on the circumstances. A regulatory list of all or nearly all possible minor violations would therefore be too long to be of any real use, or in the alternative, would exclude violations which, given the right circumstances, would properly be considered minor.
