FR940930-0-00035 FR940930-0-00006 Notes: 1. MT controls apply to all items described in this entry, except those in 1B01.d.4. 2. NP controls apply to the following items: a. Filament winding machines described in 1B01.a that are capable of winding cylindrical rotors having a diameter between 75 mm (3 in.) and 400 mm (16 in.) and lengths of 600 mm (24 in.) or greater; and b. Coordinating and programming controls and precision mandrels for these filament winding machines. List of Items Controlled a. Filament winding machines of which the motions for positioning, wrapping and winding fibers can be coordinated and programmed in three or more axes, specially designed for the manufacture of ``composite'' structures or laminates from ``fibrous or filamentary materials''; b. Tape-laying or tow-placement machines of which the motions for positioning and laying tape, tows or sheets can be coordinated and programmed in two or more axes, specially designed for the manufacture of ``composite'' airframe or ``missile'' structures; c. Multi-directional, multidimensional weaving machines or interlacing machines, including adapters and modification kits, for weaving, interlacing or braiding fibers to manufacture ``composite'' structures, except textile machinery not modified for the above end-uses; d. Equipment specially designed or adapted for the production of ``fibrous or filamentary materials'', as follows: d.1. Equipment for converting polymeric fibers (such as polyacrylonitrile, rayon, pitch or polycarbosilane) into carbon fibers or silicon carbide fibers, including special equipment to strain the fiber during heating; d.2. Equipment for the chemical vapor deposition of elements or compounds on heated filamentary substrates to manufacture silicon carbide fibers; d.3. Equipment for the wet-spinning of refractory ceramics (such as aluminum oxide); d.4. Equipment for converting aluminum containing precursor fibers into alumina fibers by heat treatment; e. Equipment for producing prepregs controlled by 1C10.e by the hot melt method; f. Non-destructive inspection equipment capable of inspecting defects three dimensionally, using ultrasonic or X-ray tomography and specially designed for ``composite'' materials; Related ECCNs: See 1B21B for MT controls on equipment, not controlled by 1B01A, for the production of fibers, prepregs, preforms, or composites. See 1B41B for NP controls on filament winding machines not controlled by 1B01A. 1B21B Other equipment for the production of fibers, prepregs, preforms or composites. Requirements Validated License Required: QSTVWYZ Unit: $ Value Reason for Control: MT GLV: $0 GCT: No GFW: No
