FR940720-0-00081 FR940720-0-00006 1. Multiple-Refinery Requirement The final reformulated gasoline rule also promulgated baseline adjustment provisions for multi-refinery refiners where each refinery produced JP&hyph;4 in 1990. This adjustment provision assumes that multi-refinery refiners are predominantly in the business of fuel production and thus possess the means to offset the refinery's JP&hyph;4 volume and associated fuel parameter increases with fuels volumes at other locations. The adjustment also assumes that refiners with multiple-refineries have process units offering various processing options which support an average (or typical) fuel production operation. Today's action modifies the JP&hyph;4 baseline adjustment multiple refinery requirement. Every refinery of a multiple-refinery is no longer required to have produced JP&hyph;4. Such multi-refinery refiners are allowed to average their 1990 JP&hyph;4 production to 1990 gasoline production ratio across all of their refineries. However, all refineries of a multi-refiner must still meet the other two criteria specified for the JP&hyph;4 baseline adjustment in the reformulated gasoline final regulations. Specifically, only refiners that will not produce reformulated gasoline and that meet the 1990 JP&hyph;4 to gasoline production ratio are allowed to make a JP&hyph;4 baseline adjustment. The Agency is amending the requirement stipulating that each refinery of multiple-refineries produced JP&hyph;4 in 1990 because, essentially, the same environmental impact and economic hardship is expected regardless of whether a single refinery or all refineries of a multiple-refinery produced JP&hyph;4. 2. JP&hyph;4 Baseline Adjustment Ratio The final reformulated gasoline rule promulgated baseline adjustment provisions which stipulate that 1990 JP&hyph;4 production must have constituted a specified portion of a refiner's 1990 fuel production in order for a significant enough burden to exist to justify permiting baseline adjustments. Additionally, a baseline is neither unrepresentative of 1990, nor incalculable, because of post-1990 changes in crude availability, fuel specifications, fuel markets, etc. EPA is permitting baseline adjustments for certain refiners which produced JP&hyph;4 jet fuel in 1990 because, as discussed in the Regulatory Impact Analysis for the reformulated gasoline final rule, EPA believes that it has a limited authority to allow such adjustments in certain extreme cases. The final reformulated gasoline regulations require that the ratio of the refinery's 1990 JP&hyph;4 production to its 1990 gasoline production equal or exceed 0.5. Upon further evaluation of the baseline adjustment provisions, the Agency has concluded that the JP&hyph;4 to gasoline production ratio, as promulgated in the RFG final rule (0.5), is unnecessarily restrictive. Based on responses from affected refiners, under the December 1993 criteria only two refiners in the United States would likely qualify for the adjustment. In other words, very few refiners under contract to produce JP&hyph;4 will have the relief intended by the provision. Today's action alters the refiner's 1990 JP&hyph;4 production to 1990 gasoline production ratio from 0.5 to 0.2. EPA believes this revised ratio indicates that a significant amount of the refinery feedstock used for JP&hyph;4 production would have to be converted in order to produce gasoline. Altering the JP&hyph;4 to gasoline production ratio will allow additional small refiners to qualify for the adjustment and not be forced to operate from a drastically less competitive position or be driven out of business. Based on feedback EPA has received, changing the ratio from 0.5 to 0.2 raises the number of affected refiners from 2 to 6. If large refineries had such a ratio also, the regulatory burden would be just as great. Also, it would be more difficult to argue de minimis environmental impact for large refiners. In reality none do, such that the ratio is only an issue for small refiners. Several different ratio options were suggested by commenters during the reformulated gasoline rulemaking as to what minimum portion of a refinery's 1990 production JP&hyph;4 should have constituted for the circumstance to be extenuating, as follows: JP&hyph;4 production to total refinery production, 20%; JP&hyph;4 production to gasoline production, 5%; JP&hyph;4 production to gasoline production, 75%; and, JP&hyph;4 production to gasoline plus JP&hyph;4 production, 10%. EPA's 0.2 JP&hyph;4 to gasoline ratio is in line with some of the commenters suggestions. At less than a 1990 JP&hyph;4 to gasoline production ratio of 0.2, EPA believes the impact on benzene and aromatics may make it more costly for refiners to comply with the regulations, though it is unlikely that such refiners will be forced out of business or experience some similar extreme burden. For example, it is expected that no economic hardship will occur at a JP&hyph;4 to gasoline ratio of 0.1. Thus, the Agency discretion recognized in Alabama 9 to grant variances or even dispensation from a rule where imposition of the requirement would result in minimal environmental benefit but would extremely burden a regulated party, would not apply. 9 Alabama Power Company vs. Costle, 636 F.2d 323.357 (D.C. Cir 1979). While the adjusted emission baselines of those approved for both amended JP&hyph;4 adjustments are likely to be higher than their actual 1990 baselines (primarily due to increased benzene and aromatics) EPA expects minimal negative environmental affects. First, the number of refineries meeting the criteria is still expected to be quite small. Second, the total production of all such refineries is also small. Thus, not very much additional gasoline will be affected by any baseline adjustments for JP&hyph;4 than if the criteria were less stringent or adjustments were not allowed at all. The modification of the multi-refinery requirement and the reduction of the ratio requirement to 0.2 both provide necessary flexibility to refiners and allow additional refiners (that are simultaneously burdened by the JP&hyph;4 phaseout and the anti-dumping provisions) regulatory relief. As stated in the Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) for the reformulated gasoline final rule, JP&hyph;4 baseline adjustments will be allowed only for those refiners which will not produce reformulated gasoline, which is the most critical factor in assessing environmental impact. While the anti-dumping requirements, in general, apply to all conventional gasoline whether or not reformulated gasoline is also produced, in these specific cases no dumping will occur due to reformulated gasoline production. The intent of Congress with regard to the anti-dumping program will be met while not unduly burdening those that meet the specified criteria. Since both the unadjusted and adjusted baselines must be determined, if a refiner granted such an adjustment subsequently produces reformulated gasoline, its conventional gasoline compliance would immediately be subject to its original unadjusted baseline.
