FR940110-1-00016 FR940110-1-00001 §701.210 Payment approval. The COC is authorized to approve payments not to exceed $10,000 per person per disaster. The STC is authorized to approve payments not to exceed $20,000 per person per disaster. Cost-share assistance in excess of $20,000 must be approved by the Deputy Administrator. §§701.211&hyph;701.299 [Reserved] Subpart D_Forestry Incentives Program §701.300 Program objective. The objective of the FIP is to help ensure a future supply of timber will be accomplished by encouraging landowners to apply forestry practices for: (a) Production of softwood and hardwood timber and other associated forest resources to increase afforestation of suitable open lands. (b) Reforestation of cutover and understocked forest lands. (c) Timber stand improvement. (d) Intensive multipurpose management. (e) Protection of forest resources. §701.301 Designated counties. The STC in consultation with the State Forester will designate the counties or parts of counties in which FIP will be operated. The following will be considered in making the designations: (a) The total acreage in the county devoted to desirable types of softwood and hardwood timber. (b) The estimated area in the county that is under eligible ownership. (c) The estimated acreage suitable for the production of forest products. (d) The availability of funds. (e) The enhancement of other forest resources. §701.302 Eligible person, land, and ownerships. (a) An eligible person is a private individual, group, Native American Tribe or other native group, association, corporation excluding corporations whose stocks are publicly traded, or other legal entity which owns eligible land. Firms principally engaged in the manufacture of wood products are not eligible. However, forest landowners who manufacture forest products on a part-time or irregular basis are eligible. (b) Eligible land is nonindustrial private forest land capable of producing at least fifty (50) cubic feet of wood per acre per year. (c) Eligible farms are those not exceeding a total of 1,000 acres of eligible private nonindustrial forest land in the United States or any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States. The STC with the concurrence of the State Forester may approve cost-share assistance with landowners owning more than 1,000 acres but not more than 5,000 acres of eligible forest land where it is deemed to be to the public's significant benefit. (d) Significant public benefits are primarily those resulting from cost-effective timber production with related benefits to aesthetics, recreation, wildlife habitat, watershed protection, erosion reduction, and other resource values. §701.303 Program funds. (a) Each designated State and county will receive a share of the funds provided for the program. Funds will be distributed on the basis of the forest production opportunities in each State, considering the acreage of private nonindustrial forest lands, the number of eligible owners, the potential productivity of such lands and the need for reforestation, timber stand improvement, other forestry management needs, and the enhancement of other forest resources. The Deputy Administrator will allocate funds after consultation with representatives of the FS and a committee of not less than five State foresters or equivalent State officials selected by a majority of the State foresters or equivalent State officials. The STC will consult with the State forester when determining the allocation of such funds to the designated counties. (b) A limitation on the amount of funds which may be obligated under long-term agreements shall be established by the STC according to guidelines provided by the Deputy Administrator. §701.304 Eligible practices and cost-share assistance requirements. (a)(1) Cost-share assistance may be available for the following National practices and authority: (i) Planting Trees. (ii) Improving a Stand of Forest Trees. (iii) Special Forestry Practices. (2) The Deputy Administrator after consultation with the FS, may approve special forestry practices needed to solve a significant and unique local condition for which the National practices are not adequate. Such practices may be approved for inclusion in a county program after consultation with the program development group and the recommendation of the COC, the service forester, the STC, and the State forester. (b) A forest management plan is required as a condition for cost-share assistance. The Forest Management plan will be developed in consultation with the landowner, approved by the service forester, and will contain information for accurate evaluation of practice effectiveness. The participant will be required to perform those measures in the Forest Management plan which are essential to the effectiveness of the practice for which costs are shared. In the development of the Forest Management plan, consideration will be given to wildlife, watershed protection, recreation, erosion control, aesthetics, and other associated forest resources values as well as cost-effective timber production. §701.305 The National FIP. The National FIP is jointly developed by ASCS, the FS and the committee of State foresters provided for in §701.303. §701.306 Development of State FIP. (a) A State FIP shall be developed in each applicable State or territory according to the provisions contained in this part and in the National FIP. The State FIP shall be developed by the State forestry committee as provided in §701.303. (b) The State FIP shall be: (1) Recommended by the STC and State forester; and (2) Approved by the Deputy Administrator after consulting with the FS.
