FR940106-0-00161 FR940106-0-00022 ( 2 ) Planned recall. For the purpose of determining whether the recall or reemployment of an individual is reasonably foreseeable (for the purposes of this section and §617.22), either a specific or general type of recall (as set out) shall be deemed to be sufficient. ( i ) Specific recall. A specific recall is where an individual or group of individuals who was separated from employment is identified and notified by the employer to return to work within a specified time period. ( ii ) General recall. A general recall is where the employer announces an intention to recall an individual or group of individuals, or by other action reasonably signals an intent to recall, without specifying any certain date or specific time period. ( iii ) Reasonably foreseeable. For purposes of determining whether training should be denied and a training waiver granted, because of a planned recall that is reasonably foreseeable, such a planned recall includes a specific recall and also includes a general recall (as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)( 2 ) of this section) if the general recall in each individual's case is reasonably expected to occur before the individual exhausts eligibility for any regular UI payments for which the individual is or may become entitled. A general recall, in which the timing of the recall is reasonably expected to occur after the individual's exhaustion of any regular UI to which the individual is or may become entitled, shall not be treated as precluding approval of training, but shall be treated as any other worker separation for these purposes. (B) The duration of training suitable for the individual exceeds the individual's maximum entitlement to basic and additional TRA payments and the individual cannot assure financial responsibility for completing the training program, (C) The individual possesses skills for ``suitable employment'' and there is a reasonable expectation of employment in the foreseeable future, or (D) Other (explain). (3) Waivers and able and available. An individual who has been furnished a written notice of waiver under paragraph (a)(2) of this section (or denial of waiver under paragraph (a)(3) of this section) shall be subject to all of the requirements of §617.17(a), which shall continue until the individual is enrolled in a training program as required by paragraph (a)(2)(vii) of §617.11. (c) Waiver review and revocations. (1) State agencies must have a procedure for reviewing regularly (i.e., every 30 days or less) all waivers issued under this section to individuals, to ascertain that the conditions upon which the waivers were granted continue to exist. In any case in which the conditions have changed_i.e., training has become feasible and appropriate_then the waiver must be revoked, and a written notice of revocation shall be furnished to the individual involved. (2) In addition to the periodic reviews required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, State agencies must have a procedure for revoking waivers in individual cases promptly whenever a change in circumstances occurs. For example, a written notice of revocation shall be issued to the individual concurrent with the approval of the training in which the individual has enrolled (if such training is scheduled to commence within 30 days), and shall not be issued prior to such approval. (3) State agencies may incorporate a revocation section in the waiver form or on a separate revocation form. Any determination under paragraph (c) of this section shall be a determination to which §§617.50 and 617.51 apply. The information included in a written notice of revocation issued under this paragraph (c) shall include all of the information required for written notices issued under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (d) Recordkeeping and reporting. (1) State agencies must develop procedures for compiling and reporting on the number of waivers issued and revoked, by reason, as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and report such data to the Department of Labor as requested by the Department. (2) State agencies are not required to forward copies of individual waiver and revocation notices to the Department of Labor, unless specifically requested by the Department. However, each State agency shall retain a copy of every individual waiver and revocation notice issued by the State, for such period of time as the Department requires. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205&hyph;0016). 14. Section 617.20 is revised to read as follows: §617.20 Responsibilities for the delivery of reemployment services. (a) State agency referral. Cooperating State agencies shall be responsible for: (1) Advising each adversely affected worker to apply for training with the State agency responsible for reemployment services, while the worker is receiving UI payments, and at the time the individual files an initial claim for TRA; and (2) Referring each adversely affected worker to the State agency responsible for training and other reemployment services in a timely manner. (b) State agency responsibilities. The responsibilities of cooperating State agencies under subpart C of this part include, but are not limited to: (1) Interviewing each adversely affected worker regarding suitable training opportunities reasonably available to each individual under subpart C of this part, reviewing such opportunities with each individual, informing each individual of the requirement for participation in training as a condition for receiving TRA, and accepting each individual's application for training. Such training may be approved for any adversely affected worker at any time after a certification is issued and the worker is determined to be covered without regard to whether the worker has exhausted all rights to unemployment insurance;
