FR940106-1-00031 FR940106-1-00008 Several years of experience implementing the Order have revealed some areas where the organization of the Order can be improved, and certain provisions that require amendment or clarification or both. The statement of the purpose of the Order in section I.B. is proposed to be amended to remove the reference to the assessments and penalties imposed as a result of noncompliance or the failure to correct noncompliance, because the Order does not set forth such assessments and penalties. The purpose statement also is proposed to be amended to include the purpose that measurements be accurate. There are no amendments proposed in the definitions included in the existing Order. However, one new definition (meter uncertainty) would be added in this proposed rule. Section III.A. on Required Recordkeeping is proposed to be amended by adding requirements for the retention of data generated by electronic flow computers. The revised Order would set forth specifically the kinds of data required to be retained, without prescribing an exhaustive list. Article III. would be reorganized in the proposed Order. Two new sections would be added to cover minimum standards specific to the secondary element of the orifice meter and to allow the use of other types of secondary elements, and to cover other requirements not specific to orifice meters or the secondary element. Requirements included in section C. on orifice meters are proposed to be moved, and in some cases amended, as part of the new section D. on secondary elements or section E. on other requirements, and several new requirements have been added as part of section C. and new section D. These changes are stated in table form below. ␣ 1Existing order citations 1Proposed order citations III.C. Gas Measurement by Orifice Meter III.C Primary Element_Orifice Meters. C.1 C.1. C.2 C.2. C.3 C.3. C.4 D.10.a. C.5 D.10.b. C.6 C.4. C.7 D.1. C.8 C.5. ␣ C.6. (new). C.9 C.7. C.10 C.8. C.11 C.9. C.12 C.10. C.13 (removed). ␣ D. Secondary Element (new). ␣ D.2. (new). C.14 D.10.c. C.15 D.3. ␣ D.4. (new). ␣ D5. (new). C.16 D.10.d. C.17 D.6. C.18 D.7. C.19 D.8. ␣ D.11.a., b., and c. (new). ␣ E. Other Requirements (new). C.20 E.1. C.21 C.11. C.22 Removed. C.23 E.2. C.24 D.9. C.25 E.3. C.26 E.4. D. Gas Measurmeent by Other Methods F. Gas Measurement by Other Methods. D.1 F.1. D.2 F.2. The automatic exemption from some requirements for meters measuring 100 Mcf per day or less on a monthly basis would be expanded to include 3 additional standards. These added exemptions would include the existing requirement that the static element be sized to make the pen that records the static pressure operate in the outer 2/3 of the chart range for the majority of the flowing period, the new requirement that electronic flow computers be installed, operated, and maintained to achieve an overall meter uncertainty of plus or minus 3 percent, and the new requirement for inspecting meter tubes every 5 years. Language has been added to the Order identifying the applicable standards for the exemption. The following requirements proposed to be amended in revised Order No. 5 are discussed below in the order they appear in this proposed rule. III.C.5. (formerly C.8.) is proposed to be amended purely for clarification. It is the difference between the internal diameters of the meter tube pipe and the orifice fittings that is to be within AGA tolerance limits, not the diameters themselves, as the existing Order seems to provide. III.C.6. (new) is added to ensure that the meter tubes conform with AGA Committee Report No. 3. Proper meter tube condition is essential for accurate measurement. It is intended that all meter tube inspections would be conducted within the first 5 years after the effective date of the final rule, and every 5 years thereafter. Meters measuring 100 Mcf per day or less on a monthly basis would be exempt from this new requirement. III.C.8. (formerly C.10.) is proposed to be amended for precision in stating the requirement. As stated in this rule, orifice plates would be required to be inspected during calibration of the secondary element.
