FR940202-0-00004 FR940202-0-00002 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Part 231 Regulation EE; Docket No. R&hyph;0801] Netting Eligibility for Financial Institutions AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Board has adopted a rule to include certain entities under the definition of ``financial institution'' in section 402 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 so that they will be covered by the Act's netting provisions. The Act authorizes the Board to expand the definition of ``financial institution'' to the extent consistent with the purposes of enhancing efficiency and reducing systemic risk in the financial markets. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Oliver Ireland, Associate General Counsel (202/452&hyph;3625), or Stephanie Martin, Senior Attorney (202/452&hyph;3198), Legal Division. For the hearing impaired only : Telecommunications Device for the Deaf, Dorothea Thompson (202/452&hyph;3544). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (Act) (Pub. L. 102&hyph;242, sections 401&hyph;407; 105 Stat. 2236, 2372&hyph;3; 12 U.S.C. 4401&hyph;4407) validates netting contracts among financial institutions. Parties to a netting contract agree that they will pay or receive the net, rather than the gross, payment due under the netting contract. The Act provides certainty that netting contracts will be enforced, even in the event of the insolvency of one of the parties. The Act's netting provisions, effective December 19, 1991, are designed to promote efficiency and reduce systemic risk within the banking system and financial markets. The netting provisions apply to bilateral netting contracts between two financial institutions and multilateral netting contracts among members of a clearing organization. Section 402(9) of the Act defines ``financial institution'' to include a depository institution, a securities broker or dealer, a futures commission merchant, and any other institution as determined by the Board. In addition, the Act's definition of ``broker or dealer'' (section 402(1)(B)) includes any affiliate of a registered broker or dealer, to the extent consistent with the Act, as determined by the Board. Proposed Rule In May 1993, the Board requested comment on a proposed regulation that would expand the application of the Act's netting provisions to a broader range of financial market participants (58 FR 29149, May 19, 1993). The Board proposed that persons meeting certain tests based on market activity would qualify as ``financial institutions'' under the Act. The proposed tests were designed to capture institutions that are significant market participants whose coverage could enhance market liquidity and whose failure without coverage could have systemic risk implications. The Board chose the activity-based tests instead of tests based on an institution's status as a regulated entity, its affiliation with a defined financial institution, or its class of charter. As these three latter tests likely would be both over- and under-inclusive, the Board believed they were not as appropriate as an activity-based test. The test proposed by the Board had both a qualitative and a quantitative aspect. First, to qualify as a financial institution under the proposed rule, a person 1 would have to participate actively in a financial market for its own account and hold itself out as a counterparty that will engage in transactions both as a buyer and a seller in the financial market. Second, the person would have to meet one of two quantitative thresholds: It must have either (1) had one or more financial contracts of a total gross dollar value of $1 billion in notional principal amount outstanding on any day during the previous 15-month period with counterparties that are not its affiliates, or (2) incurred total gross mark-to-market positions of $100 million (aggregated across counterparties) in one or more financial contracts on any day during the previous 15-month period with counterparties that are not its affiliates. 1 ``Person'' is defined broadly to include any legal entity, such as a corporation, partnership, or individual. Final Rule The final rule adopted by the Board retains the qualitative test, in a modified form, as well as the quantitative test. Under the final rule, a person would qualify as a financial institution if it represents that it will engage in financial contracts as a counterparty on both sides of one or more financial markets and meets one of the quantitative thresholds, which are largely unchanged from the proposal. The operation of the rule is prospective, i.e., the Act's netting provisions will apply only to those netting contracts entered into after a person qualifies as a financial institution. The final rule clarifies that a person will continue to be considered a financial institution for the purposes of any contract entered into during the period in which it qualifies, even if the person subsequently fails to qualify during the life of the contract. In addition, the Board has grandfathered those netting contracts in existence on the effective date of the final rule. If a person qualifies as a financial institution on the effective date, that person will be considered a financial institution for the purposes of any outstanding contract entered into prior to that date. The Board also made various revisions to the proposed definitions. Those revisions are discussed in the comment summary below. Summary of Comments The Board received 32 comment letters (from 30 commenters) on proposed Regulation EE. The commenters were distributed as follows:
