FR940124-2-00009 FR940124-2-00005 Proposed Crystal Creek Timber Sale within the Council Mountain Roadless Area, Payette National Forest, Adams County, ID AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of Intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed Crystal Creek Timber Sale, Council Ranger District, Payette National Forest, Idaho. The proposed sale would construct road and harvest timber within a portion of the Council Mountain Roadless area that the Payette National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (1988) allocated to multiple use management. The agency gives notice of the environmental analysis and decision-making process that is beginning on the proposal so that interested and affected people know how they may participate and contribute to the final decision. The agency invites comments and suggestions on the scope of the analysis, including issues to be addressed during the analysis. A scoping meeting will be held to gather comments from the public on the proposed action. The meeting will be Thursday, February 3, 7 p.m. at the Council Ranger District office conference room in Council, Idaho. Forest Service officials will explain the proposed action and planning process, and accept public input. A scoping document explaining the proposed action and analysis process is also available from the contacts identified below. DATES: Comments on the scope of the analysis should be received by February 14, 1994, to assure timely consideration. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Pete L. Johnston, District Ranger, Council Ranger District, Payette National Forest, P.O. Box 567, Council, ID 83629. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Pete Johnston, District Ranger, or Tracy Beck, EIS Team Leader, phone 208&hyph;253&hyph;4215. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The USDA Forest Service is proposing to construct 10.0 miles of road and harvest about 14.9 million board feet of timber from 1,145 acres of suitable timber lands within the Crystal Creek timber sale area. A mix of silvicultural treatments is proposed, including 8 acres of commercial thinning, 101 acres of shelterwood (about 35 percent crown canopy closure), 643 acres of reserve tree (about 5 trees per acre), and 393 acres of sanitation/salvage. This mix of silvicultural prescriptions seeks to retain suitable habitat for sensitive species within all treatment units where it currently exists, improve forest health (resilience and resistance to insect and disease), and increase dominance of seral ponderosa pine and douglas-fir. Helicopter logging is proposed for 354 acres (31 percent of the treatment acreage). Skyline logging is proposed for 322 acres (28 percent of the treatment acreage). Tractor logging is proposed for 469 acres (41 percent of the treatment acreage). The proposed mix of logging systems seeks to protect leave stands and regenerate stands in a cost efficient and cost effective manner. This sale lies within the council Mountain Roadless Area, Adams County, Idaho. Crystal Creek and Lake Creek are the two drainages within the proposed timber sale area; both are tributaries of the Middle Fork Weiser River. The proposal follows direction in the Payette National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan, 1988 (Forest Plan). The decision to be made is whether the sale area should be entered at this time for timber harvest and associated activities, and, if so, the specific conditions of entry. Preliminary issues include the proposal's effect on roadless characteristics, vegetation, water quality, biological diversity, fisheries, soils, wildlife habitat, and economics. Preliminary alternatives being considered include no action, an alternative that seeks to achieve forest Plan objectives to maximize timber growth and yield, and the proposed action alternative that modifies timber management intensity in response to the preliminary issues. A draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) considering the proposed action and a reasonable range of alternatives will be prepared. The DEIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency and to be available for public review by March 1995. The comment period on the DEIS will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency's notice of availability appears in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers early notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of that proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewers position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could have been raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel , 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Circut, 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris , 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. The final environmental impact statement is scheduled to be completed by July 1995. The Responsible Official is David F. Alexander, Forest Supervisor, Payette National Forest, McCall, ID 83638. Dated: January 10, 1994. David F. Alexander, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1502 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:00 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
