FR940224-2-00121 FR940224-2-00077 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Public Workshop: Reliability of Reactor Designs Proposing To Use Passive Safety Systems AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Notice of public workshop. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is announcing a public workshop on reliability assessments of safety system designs having passive features. The purpose of the workshop is to review the present status of available methodology for assessing safety systems having passive features, to discuss possible improvements in these methods and to develop guidelines for performing meaningful assessments of such systems. This action is being taken to initiate a dialogue on this important topic and to provide the opportunity for early public participation in the development of review methods and criteria for passive safety systems. In addition to open public participation in this workshop, the NRC is inviting all known interested parties to attend. DATES: The workshop will be held on Tuesday, March 1 and on Wednesday, March 2, 1994, from 8:30 am to 5 pm. ADDRESSES: The workshop will be held at the Cliffside Inn, P.O. Box 786, Harpers Ferry, West Virginia 25425. Phone: (304) 535&hyph;6302. Reservations may be made by calling: 1&hyph;800&hyph;782&hyph;9437. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Brad Hardin, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. Telephone (301) 492&hyph;3733. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The purpose of this workshop is to initiate a dialogue on practical approaches for assessing the reliability of engineering systems comprised partially or completely of passive components and/or subsystems such as for example gravity fed emergency water supplies. Even though the workshop focus will be on the generic issues associated with nuclear reactor safety systems having passive features, it is also intended to draw on relevant experience in engineering fields other than nuclear such as the chemical industry or NASA's space programs. Another objective of this workshop is to discuss ways for improving our understanding of the sensitivity of functional success of passive systems to changes in controlling system parameters. Examples of such changes include variations in heat transfer coefficient and driving pressure ( D P) across check valves under conditions of natural circulation and low driving head. Due to the preliminary nature of the NRC's reviews of the advanced reactor designs planning to utilize passive safety features, the workshop will not include discussions of specific proprietary design information. The results of the workshop will provide an input to assessing the need for additional research into understanding passive system reliability in integral designs. Specific Topics: The proceedings of this meeting will address issues pertinent to the assessment of reactor safety systems having passive features including such topics as: 1. Regulatory needs for assessments of passive safety system reliability. What ingredients must logically be included in the quantification of functional reliability of passive systems? What results (e.g., uncertainty analysis) should be presented and documented? 2. What is meant by the reliability of a passive safety system and by the uncertainty in its reliability? What is the best way of determining this uncertainty and of incorporating experimental information to reduce the uncertainty? 3. Discussion of past efforts to assess the reliability of reactor systems that utilize passive features. What methods have proven successful in past efforts in light of stated needs (Item I) and what were their shortcomings? 4. Which assessment methods are good candidates for improvement and what might those improvements be? Other questions on the proposed approach to the assessment of passive safety systems will be entertained if time permits. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 17th day of February 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Joseph Murphy, Acting Director, Division of Safety Issue Resolution, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4132 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
