FR940817-2-00056 FR940817-2-00043 Section 211(f)(4) of the Act provides that upon application by any fuel or fuel additive manufacturer, the Administrator of EPA may waive the prohibitions of section 211(f)(1) if the Administrator determines that the applicant has established that such fuel or fuel additive will not cause or contribute to a failure of any emission control device or system (over the useful life of any vehicle in which such device or system is used) to achieve compliance by the vehicle with the emissions standards to which it has been certified pursuant to section 206 of the Act. If the Administrator does not act to grant or deny a waiver within 180 days of receipt of the application, the statute provides that the waiver shall be treated as granted. The subject of this notice is an application by Ethyl under section 211(f)(4) of the Act for a waiver for the fuel additive methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl (MMT), commercially labeled by Ethyl as HiTEC 3000, to be blended in unleaded gasoline resulting in a level of 0.03125 (1/32) gram per gallon manganese (gpg Mn). This Agency action is a reconsideration of Ethyl's fourth application for a waiver for MMT. Ethyl's first application was submitted on March 17, 1978 for concentrations of MMT resulting in 1/16 and 1/32 gpg Mn in unleaded gasoline. Ethyl's second application was submitted on May 26, 1981 for concentrations of MMT resulting in 1/64 gpg Mn in unleaded gasoline. The Administrator denied these requests for waivers due to concerns regarding increases in exhaust hydrocarbon emissions resulting from MMT use. The decisions and justifications thereof may be found in the September 18, 1978 Federal Register , 43 FR 41424, and the December 1, 1981 Federal Register , 46 FR 58630. Ethyl's third application was submitted on May 9, 1990, for concentrations of MMT resulting in a level of 0.3125 (1/32) gpg Mn in unleaded gasoline (the same levels which are requested in the application which is the subject of today's notice). Ethyl withdrew its third application on November 1, 1990, before the deadline for the Administrator to make a determination on the application. Because no determination had been made at the time Ethyl withdrew that application, EPA accepted the withdrawal and immediately terminated the proceeding without action on the application. Ethyl's fourth application was submitted on July 12, 1991. This application was, from a practical standpoint, an extension of the third application, the entire record of which was incorporated by Ethyl into the current proceeding. On January 8, 1992, the Administrator of EPA denied Ethyl's fourth application for a waiver (57 FR 2535, January 22, 1992). The application was denied based in part upon data submitted by Ford Motor Company (Ford) which indicated that, for the model groups tested by Ford and, for the conditions under which Ford tested its vehicles, the increases in hydrocarbon exhaust emissions as a result of the use of MMT were substantially greater than those observed in the Ethyl test program. The Agency stated in its decision that a likely factor which might account for the differences observed between the Ethyl and Ford test programs was the severity of the driving cycle. However, the Agency also concluded that other factors might be responsible for the observed differences. In the denial decision, the Agency stated that it had always accepted data from test programs which ``model'' the fleet in support of waiver applications, but that if an interested party were to present data indicating that a potentially significant subset of the fleet, not tested by the applicant, was especially susceptible to the negative effects of the additive, the Agency could reasonably require specific testing on representative models of that sub-fleet. In its decision, the Agency also stated that it believes it is reasonable to consider the effect of a fuel on vehicles' ability to meet future emissions standards. (The ``Tier I'' tailpipe standards prescribed by section 202(g) of the Act began to take effect in model year 1994, which began approximately in September 1993. 1 ) Therefore, regarding the Ford data mentioned above, the Agency stated in its decision that the concerns raised by that data related to both current and future standards. 1 56 FR 25724&hyph;25790 (June 5, 1991). Although not the basis of the 1992 denial, another important issue arose during the consideration of Ethyl's third and fourth applications. The Agency, as well as several commentors, expressed concerns regarding the possible adverse health effects of an increase in airborne manganese resulting from MMT use. These concerns were centered around: (1) The known severe neurotoxic effects of high-level exposure to manganese through inhalation, (2) the lack of data regarding the chronic effects of low-level inhalation exposure to manganese in humans, and (3) the lack of knowledge regarding potential exposures due to MMT use. It was repeatedly pointed out by commenters that neurotoxic damage could occur prior to the onset of overt symptoms. In those proceedings, Ethyl also submitted comments regarding manganese emissions. Ethyl indicated that the manganese emissions resulting from the use of MMT in unleaded gasoline would be so small as to not materially affect human exposure to airborne manganese. In support of its view, Ethyl submitted analyses and data on exposure modeling and monitoring in both its 1990 and 1991 applications (and in subsequent submissions associated with the remand discussed below). (The issue of manganese emissions and public health is discussed in more detail in Section VI of this document.)
