FR940505-1-00355 FR940505-1-00012 Swimming pool coatings are coatings specifically formulated to coat the interior of swimming pools and to resist swimming pool chemicals. Swimming pool repair coatings are chlorinated rubber based coatings used for the repair and maintenance of swimming pools over existing chlorinated rubber based coatings. Tint base is an architectural coating to which colorants are added. Traffic coatings are coatings formulated for and applied to public streets, highways, and other surfaces including, but not limited to curbs, berms, driveways, and parking lots. Undercoaters are coatings formulated and applied to substrates to provide a smooth surface for subsequent coats. Varnishes are clear wood finishes formulated with various resins to dry by chemical reaction on exposure to air. Waterborne coating means a coating that contains more than five percent water by weight in its volatile fraction. Waterproofing sealers are colorless coatings which are formulated for the sole purpose of preventing penetration of porous substrates by water and which do not alter surface appearance or texture. (c) Requirements . (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section, no person shall manufacture, supply, sell, offer for sale, blend, repackage, apply, or solicit the application for use within California any architectural coating which contains more than 250 grams of volatile organic compounds per liter of coating (excluding water and exempt solvents, and any colorant added to tint bases). (2) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3), (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section, no person shall manufacture, supply, sell, offer for sale, blend, repackage, apply, or solicit the application for use within California any architectural coating listed in the Table of Standards which contains volatile organic compounds (less water and exempt solvents, and excluding any colorant added to tint bases) in excess of the corresponding limit and date specified in the table.
