FR940524-2-00049 FR940524-2-00030 DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3777; FR&hyph;3729&hyph;N&hyph;01] Privacy Act of 1974; Notice of a Computer Matching Program AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, (HUD). ACTION: Notice of a Computer Matching Program_HUD and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended by the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, as amended, (Pub. L. 100&hyph;503), and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Guidelines on the Conduct of Matching Programs (54 FR 25818 (June 19, 1989)), and OMB Bulletin 89&hyph;22, ``Instructions on Reporting Computer Matching Programs to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Congress and the Public,'' the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is issuing a public notice of its intent to conduct a recurring computer matching program with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to utilize a computer information system of HUD, the Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), with USDA's debtor files. In addition to HUD Data, the CAIVRS data base included delinquent debt information from the Department of Education, Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Small Business Administration. This match will allow prescreening of applicants for loans or loans guaranteed by the Federal Government to ascertain if the applicant is delinquent in paying a debt owed to or insured by the Federal Government for HUD or USDA direct or guaranteed loans. Before granting a loan, the lending agency and/or the authorized lending institution will be able to interrogate the CAIVRS debtor file which contains the Social Security Numbers (SSNs) of HUD's delinquent debtors and defaulters and defaulted debtor records of the USDA and verify that the loan applicant is not in default or delinquent on direct or guaranteed loans of participating Federal programs of either agency. Authorized users place a telephone call to the system. The system provides a recorded message followed by a series of instructions, one of which is a requirement for the SSN of the loan applicant. The system then reports audibly whether the SSN is related to delinquent or defaulted Federal obligations for HUD or USDA direct or guaranteed loans. As a result of the information produced by this match, the authorized users may not deny, terminate, or make a final decision of any loan assistance to an applicant or take other adverse action against such applicant, until an officer or employee of such agency has independently verified such information. In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(o)(2), copies of the matching agreement are being sent by HUD to both houses of Congress. The match is expected to commence not sooner than 40 days after the agreement by the parties is submitted to Congress and not sooner than 30 days from the date of publication of this notice or 40 days from the date this notice was approved, whichever is later. The match may be extended by the involved Data Integrity Boards for a twelve-month period provided all agencies involved certify to their Data Integrity Boards, within three months of the termination date of the original match, that the matching programs will be conducted without change and have been conducted in compliance with the original matching agreement. The match will not continue past the date the legislative authority to obtain this information expires. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding this notice to the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of General Counsel, room 10276, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410. Communications should refer to the above docket number and title. A copy of each communication submitted will be available for public inspection and copying between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. weekdays at the above address. FOR PRIVACY ACT INFORMATION AND FURTHER INFORMATION FROM RECIPIENT AGENCY CONTACT: Jeanette Smith, Departmental Privacy Act Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., room 4176, Washington, DC 20410, telephone number (202) 708&hyph;2374. [This is not a toll-free telephone number.]
