FR941102-0-00033 FR941102-0-00005 (3) Engaging in or acquiring company to engage in unlisted activities. A bank holding company seeking to commence or to engage de novo , or to acquire or control voting securities or assets of a company engaged in, any activity not listed in ยง225.25 shall file a notice containing the following: (i) Evidence that the proposed activity is so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto; (ii) A commitment to comply with all conditions and limitations that have been established by the Board governing the proposed activity; and (iii) The information required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, as appropriate. (b) Notice provided to Board. The Reserve Bank shall immediately send to the Board a copy of any notice received under paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section. (c) Notice to public _(1) Listed activities and activities approved by order. A Reserve Bank that receives a notice involving an activity listed in ยง225.25 or previously approved by the Board by order shall immediately send notice of receipt of the proposal to the Board for publication in the Federal Register . The Federal Register notice shall invite public comment on the proposal for a period of 15 days. (2) New activities _(i) In general. In the case of a notice under this section involving an activity that is not listed in ยง225.25 and that has not been previously approved by the Board by order, the Board shall send notice of the proposal to the Federal Register for publication, unless the Board determines that the notificant has not demonstrated that the activity is so closely related to banking or to managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The Federal Register notice shall invite public comment on the proposal for a reasonable period of time, generally for 30 days. (ii) Time for publication. The Board shall send the notice required under this paragraph to the Federal Register within 10 business days of acceptance by the Reserve Bank. The Board may extend the 10-day period for an additional 30 calendar days upon notice to the notificant. In the event notice of a proposal is not published for comment, the Board shall inform the notificant of the reasons for the decision. (d) Action on notices _(1) Reserve Bank action._ (i) In general. Within 30 calendar days after receipt by the Reserve Bank of a notice filed pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, the Reserve Bank shall: (A) Approve the notice; or (B) Refer the notice to the Board for decision because substantive adverse comment has been received or because action under delegated authority is not appropriate. (ii) Return of incomplete notice. Within 15 calendar days of receipt, the Reserve Bank may return any notice as informationally incomplete that does not contain all of the information required by this subpart. The return of such a notice shall be deemed action on the notice. (iii) Extension of period for action. The Reserve Bank may, within the 30-day period provided in this paragraph for action on a notice, extend such 30-day period for an additional 15 calendar days. (iv) Notice of action. The Reserve Bank shall promptly notify the bank holding company of any action, referral or extension under this paragraph. (v) Close of public comment period. The Reserve Bank shall not approve any notice under this paragraph prior to the fifth business day after the close of the public comment period, unless an emergency exists that requires expedited or immediate action. (2) Board action _(i) Internal schedule. The Board seeks to act on every notice referred to it for decision within 60 days of the date that the notice is filed with the Reserve Bank. If the Board is unable to act within this period, the Board will notify the notificant and explain the reasons and the date by which the Board expects to act. (ii) Required time limit for Board action. The Board shall act on any notice under this section that is referred to it for decision within 60 calendar days after the submission of a complete notice. (iii) Extension of required period for action _(A) In general. The Board may extend the 60-day period required for Board action under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section for an additional 30 days upon notice to the notificant.
