FR940606-1-00033 FR940606-1-00008 Total nationwide capital costs range from $503 million to $714 million, depending on which chemical milling maskant control option is used. b. Annual costs. All of the control options will result in some annual costs being incurred by the affected sources. However, the annualized cost figures presented below reflect the net cost to implement the control options after taking into account the costs that would have been incurred for baseline. This net cost (MACT cost minus baseline cost) resulted in net annual savings for primers, topcoats, and high transfer efficiency application methods; spray gun cleaning; and the use of chemical strippers that do not contain organic HAP. All other options resulted in net annual costs to the affected sources. The net cost (or savings) for all control options reflects the maximum cost (or savings) that would be incurred assuming all affected sources implemented the specific control option. Only one cost analysis was completed for primers, topcoats, and high transfer efficiency application methods due to the interrelationship between these operations. For example, high transfer efficiency application methods will result in a lower volume of primers and topcoats being applied. In addition, the organic HAP and VOC limits on primers and topcoats will, due to higher solids content, also result in a lower volume of the coatings being applied. The reduction in coating usage due to the lower organic HAP and VOC content had to be taken into account first, then the reduction in coating usage due to high transfer efficiency application methods was applied to this reduced coating volume to obtain the true overall reduction in coating usage. After factoring in the annualized cost of the coating equipment, the analysis showed a nationwide savings of $71 million for commercial sources and $18 million for military sources. The savings for primers, topcoats, and high transfer efficiency application methods are due primarily to labor savings that would result from the reduced volume of coatings to be applied. For example, if it would have taken 15 gallons of primer under baseline conditions to coat an aircraft and only 12 gallons under MACT conditions, then the cost analysis assumes a labor savings for the 3 gallons of primer that were not applied. The EPA has received some evidence, however, that the labor stays the same or may even increase with the use of high transfer efficiency application methods (specifically HVLP spray guns). The EPA requests comments from facilities that have converted from conventional spray guns to HVLP spray guns regarding the labor hours per gallon of coating applied for each application method. For spray gun cleaning, the proposed standards would result in a nationwide savings of approximately $56 million. This is due primarily to reduced solvent usage and associated spent solvent disposal. The use of chemical strippers that do not contain organic HAP would result in a nationwide savings of approximately $2 million. While the cost of non-HAP strippers is generally higher than the cost of conventional strippers, this cost is offset by the reduced disposal costs incurred with non-HAP strippers. Since non-HAP strippers do not contain methylene chloride, they can typically be treated on-site. This eliminates the disposal costs incurred with the conventional strippers, which are typically shipped off-site for disposal. Nationwide annual costs are estimated to be $14 million for hand-wipe and flush cleaning, $111 million for waterborne chemical milling maskants, $2 million for inorganic HAP emissions from primer and topcoat application operations, and $0.3 million for inorganic HAP emissions from blast depainting operations.
