FR940325-2-00002 FR940325-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Cedar Gulch Timber Sale; Kootenai National Forest, Sanders County, MT AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice; intent to prepare environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The USDA, Forest Service, will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) to disclose the environmental effects of timber harvest, reforestation, improvement of harlequin duck, mule deer and grizzly bear habitat, road reconstruction, road construction, and road closure in the vicinity of Big Cedar Gulch, Orr Creek and Rock Creek drainages. The area is located near the southwest corner of the Cabinet Mountains Wilderness, Kootenai National Forest, Cabinet Ranger District, Sanders County, Montana. Part of the proposed project's activities are within the McKay Creek Roadless Area ( # 676). There are a variety of purposes for management activities in the Cedar Gulch area; the primary purposes are: (1) Repair the unsafe and sediment producing Orr Creek road ( # 2285) by installing and improving drainage structures and turnouts and improving the road surface, (2) Improve limited mule deer habitat by increasing the quantity and quality of browse, (3) Improve harlequin duck habitat in Rock Creek by reducing the height of the debris jams and constructing additional debris jams, (4) Salvage dead and dying trees, (5) Provide timber to the local economy, (6) Improve white bark pine habitat for grizzly bears. To meet Kootenai Forest Plan standards for open road densities in the project area and surrounding area, 6.9 miles of roads presently open at least part of the year would be closed year-round to reduce open road density to maintain or improve grizzly bear habitat security. This project-level EIS will tier to the Kootenai National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (Forest Plan) and Final EIS (September, 1987), which provides overall guidance of all land management activities on the Kootenai National Forest, including wildlife, timber and road management. DATES: Oral comments and suggestions should be received and written comments and suggestions should be post marked within 30 days following publication of this notice. ADDRESSES: I am the responsible official, please submit written comments and suggestions on the proposed management activities or a request to be placed on the project mailing list to James I. Mershon, District Ranger, Cabinet Ranger District, Kootenai National Forest, 2693 Highway 200, Trout Creek, Montana, 59874, (406) 827&hyph;3533 or 847&hyph;2462. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael Giesey, EIS Team Leader, Cabinet Ranger District. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The project area consists of approximately 2700 acres of National Forest land located in T26N; R32W; Sections 10&hyph;15, 22&hyph;24; and T26N; R31W, Sections 7, 18; P.M. Timber harvest is proposed on approximately 184 acres of forested land which has been designated as suitable for timber management by the Kootenai Forest Plan. The timber harvest operations and general administration of National Forest lands would require reconstruction of approximately 6.6 miles of existing system roads and 1.0 mile of temporary road, and construction of approximately 0.5 mile of temporary road. About 0.6 mile of temporary road would be obliterated after use. Also, road closures involve closing 6.9 miles of existing system roads to motorized vehicles year-round in and adjacent to the Cedar Gulch project area. Even-aged management would be used in the majority of the areas proposed for harvest. Seed tree, shelterwood and clearcut regeneration harvests (all with permanent reserve trees) are general prescriptions that are to be applied. Patch clearcuts in the higher elevations are recommended for mule deer habitat improvement and to enhance white bark pine habitat for grizzly bears. Where timber harvest is used for wildlife habitat enhancement, prescribed burning would also occur. Logging systems include skyline and helicopter. Of the 184 acres proposed for harvest: 25 acres are mule deer and grizzly bear habitat improvement; 95 acres are to salvage trees affected by root rot or mountain pine beetle and improve big game browse; 32 acres are to improve big game browse while maintaining the ponderosa pine type; and 32 acres are to improve the spring-time forage for grizzly bear and improve forage for big game. The decision to be made is what, if anything, should be done in the Cedar Gulch Project Area to: (a) Improve the condition of Orr Creek road to reduce erosion and provide a safe travel way, (b) dispose of slash and reforest harvested lands, (c) improve mule deer, harlequin duck and grizzly bear habitat, (d) provide timber to the local economy, and (e) develop and manage the road system to facilitate removal of timber, reforest stands, and maintain access to the Engle Peak trailhead (located at the end of Orr Creek Road) while maintaining grizzly bear security. The Kootenai Forest Plan provides guidance for management activities within the potentially affected area through its goals, objectives, standards and guidelines, and management area direction. The areas of proposed timber harvest, reforestation and road construction would occur within Management Area 14 which is areas suitable for timber production and important grizzly bear habitat.
