FR940505-1-00048 FR940505-1-00012 California's motor vehicle control program (CMVCP) predates the first federal statute regulating motor vehicle emissions, the Motor Vehicle Air Pollution Control Act of 1965. In the Air Quality Act of 1967 (Pub. L. 90&hyph;148), Congress allowed California a waiver of the Air Quality Act's preemption section on motor vehicle emissions control because of California's pioneering efforts and unique problems. The 1977 amendments to the CAA expanded the flexibility granted to California in order ``to afford California the broadest possible discretion in selecting the best means to protect the health of its citizens and the public welfare.'' H.R. Rep. No. 294, 95th Cong., 1st Sess. 301&hyph;2 (1977). So long as California demonstrates that its motor vehicle standards are ``in the aggregate'' at least as protective of public health and welfare as applicable federal standards, section 209(b) of the Act requires the Administrator to waive the Act's general prohibition on state adoption of standards relating to the control of emissions from new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines, unless the Administrator finds that California's determination was arbitrary and capricious, that California does not need the standard to meet ``compelling and extraordinary conditions,'' or that the California standards and accompanying enforcement procedures are not consistent with section 202(a) of the Act. 18 Section 211(c)(4)(B) also provides that a state that has received a section 209 waiver (i.e., California) may prescribe controls or prohibitions respecting fuels or fuel additives. 18 In section 209 waiver decisions EPA has explained that California standards are inconsistent with section 202(a) if there is inadequate lead time to permit the development and application of requisite technology, giving appropriate consideration to the cost of compliance within such period. In addition, the Agency has held that to avoid inconsistency with section 202(a), California's procedures may not impose inconsistent certification requirements such that manufacturers would be unable to meet both the California and Federal requirements with the same test vehicle. The 1990 CAAA further expanded the California waiver provisions to cover nonroad vehicles or engines (except for certain preempted engines), and also established a special California clean-fuel vehicle program to be implemented in California (the California Pilot Test Program). See sections 209, 211(c)(4), and 249. California law reserves to CARB most authorities for adopting and enforcing motor vehicle emission controls (including restrictions on fuels and fuel content) and standards for nonroad engines and consumer products. Under this authority, particularly as strengthened by the California Clean Air Act of 1988 (Chapter 1568, Statutes of 1988), CARB has adopted many new provisions with the potential for vast VOC and NO X emission reductions. CARB regulations adopted through the first half of 1990 are described at length in EPA's 1990 proposed FIP for the South Coast. See 55 FR 36470&hyph;36479. More recently adopted State measures include: Low Emissions Vehicles (LEV) and Clean Fuels Program; Utility and Lawn and Garden Equipment Engine Exhaust Emission Standards and Test Procedures; Standards for Consumer Products (CARB regulations adopted thus far cover approximately 30 consumer product categories); and Emission Standards for Construction and Farm Equipment. EPA is not generally assigning credit in the attainment demonstration for State (or local) regulations that have not already been approved as part of the SIP or are not now undergoing SIP approval. EPA's policy restricts State credit in either their attainment demonstrations or progress plans for reductions from measures that have not been submitted as approvable elements of the SIP. The principal reason for this policy has been to comply with section 110(a)(2)(A) of the Act, which requires that each SIP ``include enforceable emission limitations and other control measures, means, or techniques (including economic incentives such as fees, marketable permits, and auctions of emissions rights), as well as schedules and timetables for compliance, as may be necessary or appropriate to meet the applicable requirements of this Act␣*␣*␣*.'' In general, EPA policy has been to require that reductions used in attainment demonstrations be submitted for incorporation in the SIP, to ensure that the reductions are enforceable directly by EPA in the event that the responsible State and local agencies fail to perform their implementation responsibilities. It is for this reason that EPA is proposing in this NPRM to promulgate consumer product regulations comparable to rules which CARB has previously adopted and already enforces, but which the State has not yet submitted as a SIP revision.
