FR940617-1-00042 FR940617-1-00012 8. Several comments requested that certain warnings required in the labeling of OTC drug products marketed for the general public should not be required on such products distributed only to health professionals and labeled primarily for use in health-care facilities as in proposed §333.99 ``Professional labeling'' (43 FR 1210 at 1248 and 1249). Examples cited were the cautionary statements for ``skin antiseptic'' and ``skin wound protectant'' in proposed §§333.90(c)(3) and 333.93(c)(3) ``Do not use this product for more than 10 days. If the infection (condition) worsens or persists, see your physician,'' and for ``skin wound protectant'' in proposed §333.93(c)(7) ``Do not use on chronic skin conditions such as leg ulcers, diaper rash, or hand eczema.'' The comments stated that the professional use of these products sometimes differs from consumer use and that products which are marketed only to health-care institutions and are dispensed and administered by professionals should only contain warnings that apply to professional use. One comment concluded that requiring professional labeling to contain a caution such as in proposed §333.93(c)(7) could possibly subject the health-care facility and the physician to unwarranted product liability claims, although the particular use of the product under medical supervision is entirely justified and necessary for proper treatment of the patient. One of the comments stated that flexibility should be provided so that manufacturers can utilize only those warnings that are appropriate for professional personnel when packages are restricted to health-care facilities or where a topical antimicrobial product is used as part of a course of treatment selected by the clinician. In the Federal Register of November 12, 1973 (38 FR 31260), the agency published the tentative final monograph for OTC antacid drug products, in which the concept of ethical labeling for OTC drug products was first discussed in comment 56 at 38 FR 31264. There, the agency stated that the warning statements appearing on OTC drug products should be included in ethical (professional) labeling. Subsequently, in the previous tentative final monograph for OTC topical antimicrobial drug products, published in the Federal Register of January 6, 1978 (43 FR 1210), the agency proposed §333.99 (``Professional labeling'') which stated that the labeling of products (covered by the monograph) that is provided only to health professionals and the labeling for those products primarily used in health-care facilities shall include all of the warnings required in each subsection of the monograph, e.g., those in §333.90 for ``skin antiseptic'' or §333.93 for ``skin wound protectant.'' As described in the first aid antiseptic segment of the tentative final monograph for OTC antimicrobial drug products, published in the Federal Register of July 22, 1991 (56 FR 33644), the agency has proposed deletion of the categories cited by the comments, i.e., ``skin antiseptic'' and ``skin wound protectant,'' as separate drug categories and included them in a single drug product category identified as ``first aid antiseptic.'' The cautionary statements referred to by the comments are addressed in that document. In this document, the agency is addressing the uses other than first-aid, i.e., health-care antiseptic uses, of topical antimicrobial drug products. These products may contain the same antiseptic active ingredient(s) as the first aid antiseptic drug products, but they are labeled and marketed for different uses. The cautionary statements previously proposed in §§333.90(c)(3) and 333.93(c)(3) addressed short-term first aid uses of products primarily proposed as ``consumer products.'' These products were not principally intended to be marketed for hospital or professional use. Therefore, the agency agrees with the comments that such cautionary statements do not apply to professional use of antiseptic drug products and need not appear in the labeling of antiseptic products marketed as antiseptic handwashes or health-care personnel handwashes, patient preoperative skin preparations, and surgical hand scrubs. Likewise the agency believes that health-care antiseptic drug products, marketed principally to health-care professionals, do not need to bear a cautionary statement not to use the product on chronic skin conditions such as leg ulcers, diaper rash, or hand eczema. As the comment pointed out, professional use of these products is different than consumer use and, in some instances, use of the product on the above-mentioned skin conditions under medical supervision may be justified and necessary for proper treatment of the patient. Therefore, this cautionary statement is not being included in this tentative final monograph.
