FR940810-0-00308 FR940810-0-00021 If there is a question whether a fiber is asbestos or not, follow the rule: ``WHEN IN DOUBT, COUNT.'' 6.8. Analytical Recommendations_Quality Control System 6.8.1. All individuals performing asbestos analysis must have taken the NIOSH course for sampling and evaluating airborne asbestos or an equivalent course. 6.8.2. Each laboratory engaged in asbestos counting shall set up a slide trading arrangement with at least two other laboratories in order to compare performance and eliminate inbreeding of error. The slide exchange occurs at least semiannually. The round robin results shall be posted where all analysts can view individual analyst's results. 6.8.3. Each laboratory engaged in asbestos counting shall participate in the Proficiency Analytical Testing Program, the Asbestos Analyst Registry or equivalent. 6.8.4. Each analyst shall select and count prepared slides from a ``slide bank''. These are quality assurance counts. The slide bank shall be prepared using uniformly distributed samples taken from the workload. Fiber densities should cover the entire range routinely analyzed by the laboratory. These slides are counted blind by all counters to establish an original standard deviation. This historical distribution is compared with the quality assurance counts. A counter must have 95% of all quality control samples counted within three standard deviations of the historical mean. This count is then integrated into a new historical mean and standard deviation for the slide. The analyses done by the counters to establish the slide bank may be used for an interim quality control program if the data are treated in a proper statistical fashion. 7. Calculations 7.1. Calculate the estimated airborne asbestos fiber concentration on the filter sample using the following formula: E:GRAPHICSER10AU94.033 where: AC=Airborne fiber concentration FB=Total number of fibers greater than 5 m m counted FL=Total number of fields counted on the filter BFB=Total number of fibers greater than 5 μm counted in the blank BFL=Total number of fields counted on the blank ECA=Effective collecting area of filter (385 mm2 nominal for a 25-mm filter.) FR=Pump flow rate (L/min) MFA=Microscope count field area (mm2). This is 0.00785 mm2 for a Walton-Beckett Graticule. T=Sample collection time (min) 1,000=Conversion of L to cc Note: The collection area of a filter is seldom equal to 385 mm2. It is appropriate for laboratories to routinely monitor the exact diameter using an inside micrometer. The collection area is calculated according to the formula: Area= (d/2)2 7.2. Short-Cut Calculation Since a given analyst always has the same interpupillary distance, the number of fields per filter for a particular analyst will remain constant for a given size filter. The field size for that analyst is constant (i.e. the analyst is using an assigned microscope and is not changing the reticle). For example, if the exposed area of the filter is always 385 mm2 and the size of the field is always 0.00785 mm 2 the number of fields per filter will always be 49,000. In addition it is necessary to convert liters of air to cc. These three constants can then be combined such that ECA/(1,000×MFA)=49. The previous equation simplifies to: E:GRAPHICSER10AU94.034 7.3. Recount Calculations As mentioned in step 13 of Section 6.6.2., a ``blind recount'' of 10% of the slides is performed. In all cases, differences will be observed between the first and second counts of the same filter wedge. Most of these differences will be due to chance alone, that is, due to the random variability (precision) of the count method. Statistical recount criteria enables one to decide whether observed differences can be explained due to chance alone or are probably due to systematic differences between analysts, microscopes, or other biasing factors. The following recount criterion is for a pair of counts that estimate AC in fibers/cc. The criterion is given at the type-I error level. That is, there is 5% maximum risk that we will reject a pair of counts for the reason that one might be biased, when the large observed difference is really due to chance.
