FR940503-1-00049 FR940503-1-00010 (1) Carry out his duties as required by this part; (2) Oversee and direct the activities of the Hearing Clerk in an action under this part; (3) Schedule activities of the parties pursuant to the requirements of this part; and (4) Take any other action necessary for the maintenance of order and for the efficient and impartial adjudication of allegations arising in an action under this part. (c) The Presiding Officer shall not: (1) Have any prior connection with the action before him, including the performance or supervision of investigative or prosecutorial functions; (2) Have any interest in the outcome of the action; (3) Grant an extension, delay or continuance to a party based on a party's request for information pursuant to law outside the scope of this part; (4) Allow the introduction of any document or testimony into the administrative record relating to settlement of the instant action; or (5) Dismiss the field citation. §59.9 Hearing clerk. The Regional Administrator shall designate a Hearing Clerk. After the filing of a field citation by the Complainant with the Regional Hearing Clerk, the Hearing Clerk shall: (a) Timely notify each party in writing of the name of the Presiding Officer designated to preside over the case; (b) Record the date of receipt of each document received regarding the action; (c) Timely notify the Presiding Officer of the receipt of any document filed with the Clerk by either party; (d) Perform such other functions as required by the Presiding Officer to assist him in carrying out his responsibilities under this part; and (e) Perform such ministerial and clerical functions as required by the Regional Administrator or by the Environmental Appeals Board to assist each in carrying out its responsibilities under this part. §59.10 Representation by counsel. The respondent has the right to be represented at all stages of the proceedings by counsel. Following notification that a respondent is represented by counsel, all further communications regarding the proceedings shall be directed to that counsel. §59.11 Preliminary matters. (a) Within 30 days after receipt of the field citation, the respondent, or counsel for the respondent, may: (1) Request a hearing; (2) Provide any written evidence and arguments in lieu of a hearing; or (3) Pay the penalty proposed in the citation. A hearing must be requested in writing and must specify the issues which are in dispute. Any request for hearing shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk. (b) The right to a hearing is waived if the respondent fails to submit the request to the Hearing Clerk within thirty (30) days after service of the field citation. (c) If the respondent fails to respond to the field citation in accordance with the provisions of this section, the penalty proposed in the field citation shall be final and immediately payable. The Agency shall file with the Hearing Clerk, no later than ten (10) days following the respondent's failure to respond, a written explanation supporting the penalty amount requested by the field citation. (d) The Presiding Officer shall promptly schedule all hearings. The Presiding Officer shall grant such delays or continuances as may be necessary or desirable in the interest of fairly resolving the case. (e) The respondent may amend the response no later than ten (10) days prior to the scheduled hearing date. Issues raised later than ten (10) days before the scheduled hearing may be presented only at the discretion of the Presiding Officer. §59.12 Revocation of field citation. At any time before the penalty proposed by the field citation becomes final, the Complainant may revoke the field citation, in whole or in part, without prejudice. §59.13 Request for confidential treatment.
