FR941202-0-00107 FR941202-0-00011 EPA believes it would be inappropriate to delay action on Oregon's program, perhaps for several months, until final action is taken on the interim approval revisions. EPA also believes it would be inappropriate to grant interim approval to Oregon on this issue before final action is taken to revise the current interim approval criteria of 40 CFR ยง70.4(b) to provide a legal basis for such approval. Until the revision to the interim approval criteria is promulgated, EPA's choices are to either fully approve or to disapprove the narrower definition of ``title I modification'' in States such as Oregon. For the reasons set forth below, EPA believes that disapproving such programs at this time solely because of this issue would be inappropriate. First, EPA has not yet conclusively determined that a narrower definition of ``title I modification'' is inappropriate and thus a bar to full approval. The Agency has received numerous comments on this issue as a result of the August 29, 1994 Federal Register notice, and EPA obviously cannot make a final decision on this issue until it has evaluated all of the comments. As such, EPA will address the concerns regarding its interpretation of ``title I modification'' which were raised by the commenters on EPA's proposed interim approval of the Oregon program within the context of the final rulemaking for revisions to part 70. Second, EPA believes that the Oregon program should not be disapproved because EPA itself has not yet completed rulemaking to resolve this issue. Moreover, disapproving programs from States such as Oregon that submitted their program to EPA on or before the November 15, 1993 statutory deadline could lead to the inequitable result that these States would receive disapprovals, while States which were late in submitting programs could take advantage of revised interim approval criteria if and when these criteria become final. In effect, States would be severely penalized for having made timely program submissions to EPA. Finally, disapproval of a State program for a potential problem that primarily affects permit revision procedures would delay the initial issuance of Part 70 permits, hampering State and Federal efforts to improve environmental protection through the operating permits programs. Therefore, for the reasons described above, EPA is approving Oregon's use of a narrower definition of ``title I modification'' at this time. 4 However, should EPA in the interim approval criteria rulemaking make a final determination that such a narrow definition of ``title I modification'' is inappropriate and that a revision of the interim approval criteria is warranted, the Agency will propose further action on Oregon's program so that the State's definition of ``title I modification'' would become grounds for interim approval. 5 A State program like Oregon's that receives full approval of its narrower ``title I modification'' definition pending completion of EPA's rulemaking must ultimately be placed on an equal footing with States that receive interim approval in later months under any revised interim approval criteria because of the same issue. Converting the full approval on this issue to an interim approval after EPA completes its rulemaking will avoid this inequity. EPA anticipates that an action to convert the full approval on the ``title I modification'' issue to an interim approval would be done through an additional rulemaking to ensure that there is adequate notice of the change in approval status of Oregon's title V program. 4 For similar reasons, EPA will not construe 40 CFR section 70.7(e)(2)(i)(A)( 3 ) to prohibit ODEQ and LRAPA from allowing minor new source review changes to be processed as minor permit modifications. See 59 FR 44573&hyph;44574. 5 State programs with a narrower ``title I modification'' definition that are acted upon by EPA after an Agency decision that such a narrower definition is inappropriate would be considered deficient, but would be eligible for interim approval under revised 40 CFR section 70.4(b). c. Section 112(g) Modifications. Two commenters stated that, because EPA has not yet issued final regulations to implement section 112(g) of the Act and no such final regulations are expected for several months, it was inappropriate for EPA to require Oregon to take delegation of section 112(g) authority as a condition of title V approval. These commenters also objected to EPA's transitional policy of allowing permitting authorities to use their existing State air toxics permitting rules, upon EPA approval, as an interim mechanism for implementing section 112(g) of the Act.
