FR940203-2-00037 FR940203-2-00017 Once the State has issued the required Section 401 Water Quality Certification and/or concurred with your CZM consistency determination or the dates above have passed without the State acting, and you agree to the terms and conditions of the provisional permit, you should sign and date both copies and return them to us along with your $100.00/$10.00 permit fee]. Your DA permit will not be valid until we have returned a copy to you bearing both your signature and the signature of the appropriate Corps official. If the State denies the required Section 401 Water Quality Certification and/or nonconcurs with your CZM consistency determination, then the DA permit is denied without prejudice. If you should subsequently obtain a Section 401 Water Quality Certification and/or a CZM consistency determination concurrence, you should contact this office to determine how to proceed with your permit application. If you have any questions concerning your State Section 401 Water Quality Certification, please contact (State 401 certification contact). If you have any questions concerning your CZM consistency determination, please contact (State CZM contact). If you have any other questions concerning your application for a DA permit, please contact [Corps contact] at [Corps contact telephone number]. Provisional Permit Not Valid; Do Not Begin Work This PROVISIONAL PERMIT is NOT VALID until: (1) You obtain: XXX a Section 401 Water Quality Certification from State Agency) XXX a Coastal Zone Consistency determination concurrence from (State Agency) (2) You sign and return the enclosed provisional permit with the State Section 401 Water Quality Certification and/or CZM concurrence and the appropriate permit fee as indicated below: XXX $10.00 XXX $100.00 XXX No fee required (3) The Corps signs the permit and returns it to you. Your permit is denied without prejudice, if the State denies your Section 401 Water Quality Certification and/or nonconcurs with your Coastal Zone Management consistency determination. (Do Not Begin Work) Regulatory Guidance Letter, (RGL 93&hyph;2) RGL 93&hyph;2 Date: 23 August 1993, Expires: 31 December 1998 Subject: Guidance on Flexibility of the 404(b)(1) Guidelines and Mitigation Banking. 1. Enclosed are two guidance documents signed by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) and the Environmental Protection Agency. The first document provides guidance on the flexibility that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers should be utilizing when making determinations of compliance with the Section 404(b)(1) Guidelines, particularly with regard to the alternatives analysis. The second Document provides guidance on the use of mitigation banks as a means of providing compensatory mitigation for Corps regulatory Decisions. 2. Both enclosed guidance documents should be implemented immediately. These guidance documents constitute an important aspect of the President's plan for protecting the Nation's wetlands, ``Protecting America's Wetlands: A Fair, Flexible and Effective Approach'' (published on 24 August 1993). 3. This guidance expires 31 December 1998 unless sooner revised or rescinded. For the Director of Civil Works. John P. Elmore, Chief, Operations, Construction and Readiness Division, Directorate of Civil Works. Memorandum to the Field Subject: Appropriate Level of Analysis Required for Evaluating Compliance with the Section 404(b)(1) Guidelines Alternatives Requirements 1. Purpose: The purpose of this memorandum is to clarify the appropriate level of analysis required for evaluating compliance with the Clean Water Act Section 404(b)(1) Guidelines' (Guidelines) requirements for consideration of alternatives. 40 CFR 230.10(a). Specifically, this memorandum describes the flexibility afforded by the Guidelines to make regulatory decisions based on the relative severity of the environmental impact of proposed discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States.
