FR940513-2-00110 FR940513-2-00047 Public Health Service Final Notice Regarding Section 602 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 Entity Guidelines AGENCY: Public Health Service, HHS. ACTION: Final notice. INFORMATION: Section 602 of Public Law 102&hyph;585, the ``Veterans Health Care Act of 1992,'' enacted section 340B of the Public Health Service Act, ``Limitation on Prices of Drugs Purchased by Covered Entities.'' Section 340B provides that a manufacturer who sells covered outpatient drugs to eligible entities must agree to charge a price that will not exceed the amount determined under a statutory formula. The purpose of this notice is to inform interested parties of final program guidelines regarding eligible covered entities. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marsha Alvarez, R.Ph., Director, Drug Pricing Program, Bureau of Primary Health Care, Health Resources and Services Administration, East West Towers rm 10&hyph;3A1, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, Phone: (301) 594&hyph;4353. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 13, 1994. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: (A) Background Proposed entity guidelines were announced in the Federal Register at 58 FR 68922 on December 29, 1993. A comment period of 30 days was established to allow interested parties to submit comments. The Office of Drug Pricing received 7 letters with comments concerning confidential drug pricing information, retroactive discounts,drug diversion, audit requirements, entity participation, group purchasing, purchasing agents, manufacturer contracts, and 4 general comments. The following section presents a summary of all major comments, grouped by subject, and a response to each comment. All comments were considered in developing this final notice. Changes were also made to increase clarity and readability. (B) Comments and Responses Confidential Drug Pricing Information Comment: Establish specific sanctions for entities which knowingly make unauthorized disclosures. Response: No change. The quoted price or the actual price given by the manufacturer to the covered entity is not confidential. Covered entities do not have access to confidential drug pricing information (i.e., average manufacturer price and best price). Eligibility for Retroactive Discounts Comment: Do not impose a deadline on requesting retroactive discounts. Response: No change. It is a reasonable administrative decision to establish a time limit for requesting refunds. Manufacturers were given sufficient time in which to implement the discount program, and entities were given an adequate opportunity to elect whether to participate in the program. An entity may preserve its right to retroactive discounts, after the deadline, by sending each manufacturer a letter requesting such refunds and providing adequate documentation of drug purchases. Comment: Exclude from eligibility for retroactive discounts any disproportionate share hospital (DSH) which purchased its outpatient drugs through a group purchasing organization (GPO). Response: No change. The Office of Drug Pricing considers the outpatient drug purchases of DSHs bought through a GPO or any group purchasing arrangement ineligible for retroactive discounts. Comment: Allow covered entities to request an extension of the deadline for retroactive discounts for good cause (e.g., offsite DSH clinics whose eligibility has not yet been determined). Response: We have amended part 3 of the notice to permit a DSH outpatient clinic which was not participating in a GPO or any group purchasing arrangement during the period for which it is requesting retroactive discounts to preserve its right by sending manufacturers a letter requesting such refunds and providing adequate documentation of purchases. Comment: Extend the deadline for those manufacturers which have refused to give PHS pricing to the date on which the manufacturer begins discounting its covered outpatient drugs in accordance with the law. Response: No change. At every opportunity, the Office of Drug Pricing has communicated its willingness to assist entities with problems of accessing PHS pricing. It has responded to all entity complaints dealing with manufacturer noncompliance. We believe that one year is a reasonable time in which to have resolved any difficulty with pricing access. Comment: Require manufacturers to respond within 30 days to requests for retroactive discounts, even if the response is just a request for additional information, or face possible termination from the Medicaid program. Response: No change. Because this issue deals with manufacturer guidelines, it is beyond the scope of this notice. However, should a covered entity have difficulty obtaining retroactive discounts, we encourage the entity to contact the Office of Drug Pricing for assistance. Comment: Establish that a DSH, which did not submit its Medicaid provider number for the period for which it is requesting retroactive discounts, would be ineligible for the refund. Response: No change. A DSH which did not submit its Medicaid provider number may still be eligible for retroactive discounts if it (1) did not bill Medicaid for the drugs, (2) billed for covered outpatient drugs using an all-inclusive rate, or (3) has adequate documentation proving that drugs for which retroactive discounts are being requested did not generate Medicaid rebates. Drug Diversion Comment: Develop and publish a mechanism whereby manufacturers can report to the Office of Drug Pricing when they suspect an entity of diversion.
