FR940830-2-00124 FR940830-2-00057 Most importantly, it is difficult to see how permitting EPS to restrict its member banks from putting the logos of NYCE and other networks on their smart cards in those states where EPS has market power will encourage innovation or technological competition. While NYS recognizes that, under certain conditions, a restriction on co-branding of a product may stimulate interbrand competition (thereby stimulating innovation), this benefit is achievable only where the firm imposing the restriction is in fact subject to interbrand competition. The Complaint, however, makes clear that EPS has no competition in at least five states; in those states, EPS has the ability to lock financial institutions into use of a single smart card, thereby excluding any competition. In sum NYS believes that the smart-card exception will not promote innovation in the development of smart-card technology, even if the scope of the exception is confined to smart cards only. It is certain that an ambiguous exception which would permit evasion of the decree would not be not be justified on that basis. Conclusion The intent and scope of the smart-card exception contained in Paragraph IV.H of the proposed decree are ambiguous. The exception is susceptible to an interpretation by which EPS could continue the exclusionary practices which the decree seeks to redress simply by adding the smart-card function to its ATM cards. surely the Department did not intend to create such a device for evasion of the decree. NYS respectfully submits that the exception should be amended to clarify that the exception applies only to the banding of stand-alone, single-function smart cards (those with stored value functionality provided by an integrated computer chip) and not to any type of multiple-function or hybrid ATM cards (those that use magnetic stripe technology). To repeat, NYS supports the general thrust of the proposed decree and greatly appreciates the efforts of the Department to open the MAC network to competition. Even so, the ambiguity of the smart-card exception and the potential for circumvention of the decree compel the submission of these comments and concerns. ␣␣␣Very truly yours, Gary S. Roboff, President, The New York Switch Corporation. cc: Mr. Richard Liebeskind, Assistant Chief, Communications and Finance Section.
