FR940512-2-00163 FR940512-2-00078 DATES: The deadlines or closing dates for receipt of applications for new grants under this announcement are as follows: ␣ 1Programs 1Closing dates BCP June 15, 1994. TLP June 28, 1994. DAPP July 12, 1994. T&TA July 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Application receipt point: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Aerospace Building, 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20447. Attn: Maiso Bryant, ACF&hyph;94&hyph;ACYF/RHYP. Envelopes containing applications must clearly indicate the specific program that the application is addressing: Basic Center Program (BCP), Drug Abuse Prevention Program (DAPP), Transitional Living Program (TLP), or Training and Technical Assistance Grants (T&TA). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Family and Youth Services Bureau, PO Box 1182, Washington, DC 20013; Telephone: 1&hyph;800&hyph;351&hyph;2293. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This program announcement consists of six parts. Part I provides general information for potential applicants who wish to apply to operate programs serving runaway and homeless youth. Part II contains the evaluation criteria against which all applications will be competitively reviewed, evaluated and rated. Part III contains specific information necessary to apply for funds under each of the three service programs and the Training and Technical Assistance grants. Part IV describes the application process. Part V provides instructions on the assembly and submission of applications. Part VI contains appendices to be consulted in preparation of applications. All forms needed to prepare applications for any of the programs are found in Part VI, Appendix I, of this announcement. The following outline is provided to assist in the review of this Federal Register announcement: Part I: General Information A. Background on Runaway and Homeless Youth B. Legislative Authority C. Program Purpose, Goals, and Objectives of the Federal Runaway and Homeless Youth Grant Programs 1. Basic Center Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth 2. Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth 3. Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth 4. Training and Technical Assistance Grants D. Definitions E. Final Priorities 1. Public Comments in Response to the Proposed Priorities 2. Final Program Priorities for Fiscal Year 1994 a. Direct Service Grants for Runaway and Homeless Youth (1) Basic Center Program Grants (2) Transitional Living Program Grants b. National Communications System c. Program Support (1) Training and Technical Assistance Grants (2) National Clearinghouse on Runaway and Homeless Youth (3) Management Information System (MIS) (4) Monitoring Support for FYSB Programs d. Research and Demonstration Initiatives e. Evaluation Studies (1) Evaluation of the Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth (2) Development of Evaluation Manuals for Use in ACYF Programs F. Eligible Applicants
