FR940318-2-00115 FR940318-2-00076 [RIN&hyph;0905&hyph;ZA08 PN 2180] Junior National Health Service Corps/Junior Health Careers Opportunity Program AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds. SUMMARY: The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), Bureau of Primary Health Care (BPHC) and Bureau of Health Professions (BHPr), jointly announce that fiscal year 1994 funds are available for awards to federally-funded community and migrant health centers, health care for the homeless programs, and public housing primary care programs for Junior National Health Service Corps/Junior Health Careers Opportunity Program (JrNHSC/JrHCOP) demonstration programs. This program will be conducted under the authority of section 301 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act. The goal of the JrNHSC/JrHCOP initiative is to increase the number of primary care professionals who come from disadvantaged backgrounds. In order to increase the numbers of individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds pursuing primary care health careers, interventions must begin early to enable students to develop the prerequisite skills, academic competence and motivation to pursue a career as a health professional. These grants are intended to demonstrate the merit of early introduction to and involvement of students in community oriented primary health care settings; academic enrichment experiences in mathematics, science and communication skills (i.e., reading, writing, and oral skills); and in sustained interaction with mentors and role models. The objectives of the JrNHSC/JrHCOP program are to: (1) Identify and recruit students who reside within the Health Center's service area and expose them to primary health care service and service to the underserved; (2) work with students to increase their interest and knowledge in their own good health and the health of others; (3) encourage educational preparation and development of prerequisite skills through academic enrichment programs; and (4) nurture and encourage students to pursue primary care health careers by developing a corps of peer counselors and exposing participants to role models, mentors and practicing primary care health professionals. The projects will target students in the 6th through 12th grades. Working with students of these ages will, in the long run, significantly increase the numbers of disadvantaged individuals in the health professions dedicated to serving the underserved.
