FR940527-1-00094 FR940527-1-00014 These applications have not been clearly set forth in the regulations. Therefore, we propose to revise §§413.134(e) and 413.153(d) to clearly address both situations. We are also proposing to make a technical change to §413.134(d)(1) to correct a reference. VI. Proposed Changes for Hospitals Excluded From the Prospective Payment Systems A. New Requirements for Certain Long-Term Care Hospitals Excluded From the Prospective Payment Systems (§412.23) Section 1861(e) of the Act and the regulations at 42 CFR part 482 define a hospital as an institution that qualifies to participate in Medicare because it meets certain health and safety standards, known as ``conditions of participation'' (COPs). A hospital must be surveyed for compliance with the COPs by State agencies that work under agreement with HCFA unless, under section 1865 of the Act and regulations at 42 CFR part 488, the hospital is presumed to meet the COPs on the basis of accreditation by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations or the American Osteopathic Association. Recently, some entities have discovered that the process for becoming a provider under the COPs can be manipulated to permit them to receive exclusion from the prospective payment systems. Specifically, hospitals have begun to organize themselves under what they themselves refer to as the ``hospital within a hospital'' model. Under this model, an entity may operate in space leased from a hospital, and have most or all services furnished under arrangements by employees of the lessor hospital. The newly organized entity may be operated by a corporation formed and controlled by the lessor hospital, or by a third entity that controls both. In either case, the new entity seeks State licensure and Medicare participation as a hospital, demonstrates that it has an average length of stay of over 25 days, and obtains an exclusion from the prospective payment systems. The effect of this process is to extend the long-term care hospital exclusion to what is for all practical purposes a long-term care hospital unit. We believe it may not be appropriate for a long-term care ``hospital within a hospital'' to receive an exclusion from the prospective payment systems. The considerations underlying exclusions from the prospective payment systems may not apply to these entities. Under the prospective payment systems, hospitals are paid for inpatient services on the basis of prospectively determined rates. Under section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act, certain hospitals and units are excluded from the prospective payment systems including, psychiatric, rehabilitation, children's, and long-term care hospitals, and psychiatric and rehabilitation units. These hospitals and units are excluded because they could not be paid appropriately under the prospective payment systems. The statute does not exclude ``long-term care units'' of general hospitals. The prospective payment systems are based on an averaging concept which recognizes that some patients will stay longer and consume more resources than expected, while others will have shorter, less costly stays. We expect that an efficiently operated hospital will be able to deliver quality care to Medicare patients at an aggregate cost no greater than its aggregate Medicare payments under the prospective payment systems for each cost reporting period. The DRG system does not, however, apply well to long-stay hospitals. Those hospitals have few short-stay or low-cost cases, and might be systematically underpaid if the prospective payment method applied. Thus, exclusion of entire long-term care hospitals from the prospective payment systems is appropriate. However, if an entity that provides long-term care is part of a larger hospital, the reasons for exclusion may not apply. A long-term care ``hospital within a hospital'' is essentially a long-term care hospital unit which accounts for only a part of the larger hospital's patient load. The principles underlying the prospective payment systems do apply to the larger hospital, unlike entire long-term care hospitals. Exclusion of long-term care units could inadvertently encourage hospitals to try to abuse the prospective payment systems, by diverting all long-stay cases to the excluded unit, leaving only the shorter, less costly cases to be paid for under the prospective payment systems. In such cases, hospitals would profit inappropriately from prospective payments. For these reasons, we believe it may be inappropriate to grant an exclusion to a long-term care ``hospital within a hospital.'' Moreover, exclusion of long-term care ``units'' is inconsistent with the statutory scheme. Section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act clearly provides for exclusions from the prospective payment systems for long-term care hospitals, and also for psychiatric units and rehabilitation units, but the statute does not provide for exclusion of long-term care units. Also, we note that section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act begins with the phrase ``as used in this section'' in referring to hospitals; we believe this language suggests that the definition of ``hospital'' for prospective payment purposes may be different from other definitions. Furthermore, section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act provides that excluded from the definition of prospective payment systems hospital is a psychiatric or rehabilitation unit of a hospital that is a distinct part of the hospital ``as defined by the Secretary.'' We believe these distinctions were intended to be meaningful, and that it would undermine the distinctions if we allowed exclusion of long-term care units. Because we believe such exclusions are contrary to the purpose and scheme of section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act, we are proposing to revise the regulations to prevent inappropriate exclusions. Section 1871 of the Act provides that the Secretary ``shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the administration of the insurance programs under this title,'' and section 1102 of the Act authorizes the Secretary to ``make and publish such rules and regulations *␣*␣* as may be necessary to the efficient administration of the functions with which [the Secretary] is charged under this Act.''
