FR940912-2-00131 FR940912-2-00091 The amendments relating to use of an automated system for transferring mutual fund positions and residual credit processing will become effective 180 calendar days after Commission approval of the amendments. All other amendments referred to above will become effective ninety days after Commission approval. B. Comments As noted above, two comments were received in support of the proposed rule change. One letter addressed only that portion of the rule change dealing with the mandatory participation in NSCC's ACAT service. 11 The commenter noted that the ACAT service benefits broker-dealers and mutual fund companies, but the retail investor is the ultimate benefactor of the process. The commenter also stated that unless the Commission makes participation mandatory, the process of transferring mutual fund assets will continue to be done manually in some instances and possibly will take months to complete. According to the commenter, this subjects the beneficial shareholders of mutual fund shares to market fluctuation due to the inability to redeem or exchange their shares. 11 Letter from John E. Nolan, Senior Vice President, Operations and Compliance, Raymond James & Associates, Inc., supra note 3. The second letter strongly recommends adopting the proposed rule change citing the changes pertaining to ACAT as its primary concern. 12 According to this commenter, the benefits of ACAT-Fund/Serv are twofold. The first advantage is the timely, high quality customer service provided through ACAT. The second advantage is the cost savings arising from its efficiency compared to the highly inefficient manual means used to effect the transfer of mutual fund accounts from one broker-dealer to another. 12 Letter from Kevin Farragher, Director of Operations, Distribution & Service, The Investment Company Institute, supra note 3. This commenter cited the standardized settlement cycle and the decrease in the amount of work the fund ultimately has to do as one of the most important aspects of ACAT-Fund/Serv transfers. A standardized settlement cycle safeguards shareholder accounts from market fluctuation by limiting the duration of the ``fail to receive'' period during which shares are unavailable for redemption or exchange. II. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and particularly with the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). 13 Section 6(b)(5) requires, among other things, that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities. 14 For reasons set forth below, the Commission believes that the NYSE's amendments are consistent with the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). 13 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 14 Id. Shortening the time period for transferring accounts from ten days to seven days is appropriate because of the enhanced automation of the process by member organizations and clearing agencies. The shortened time period should be beneficial to both customers and member organizations. In addition, reducing the time allowable for account transfers is consistent with Commission Rule 15c6&hyph;1 mandating a three business day settlement cycle effective June 1, 1995. 15 15 For a complete description of Rule 15c6&hyph;1, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33023 (October 13, 1993), 58 FR 52891 [File No. S7&hyph;5&hyph;93] (adopting Commission Rule 15c6&hyph;1). The development by registered clearing agencies of automated systems to transfer mutual funds positions and residual credit balances and their mandatory use should benefit both customers and member organizations by increasing efficiency, reducing paperwork, and providing significant cost savings. Permitting partial account transfers to be accomplished through automated account transfer systems should allow member organizations to provide more efficient and expeditious transfers. The use of NYSE's more explicit reject codes should help reduce unnecessary back office operations functions and should allow members to determine the exact reason for rejections of customer account transfers. The new reject codes also will allow the NYSE to better monitor its members' rejections. The amendments requiring the resolution or denial of claim letters within five business days should help provide a regulatory framework in an area where no specific requirements currently exist and should expedite resolution of such claims. III. Conclusion The Commission finds that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the Act and particularly with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;21) be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 16 16 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22469 Filed 9&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
