FR941021-0-00131 FR941021-0-00020 ยง600.151 Monitoring and reporting program performance. (a) Recipients are responsible for managing and monitoring each project, program, subaward, function or activity supported by the award. Recipients shall monitor subawards to ensure subrecipients have met the audit requirements as delineated in ยง600.126. (b) The terms and conditions of the award will prescribe the frequency with which the performance reports shall be submitted. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, performance reports shall not be required more frequently than quarterly or less frequently than annually. Annual reports shall be due 90 calendar days after the award year; quarterly or semi-annual reports shall be due 30 days after the reporting period. DOE may require annual reports before the anniversary dates of multiple year awards in lieu of these requirements. The final performance reports are due 90 calendar days after the expiration or termination of the award. (c) If inappropriate, a final technical or performance report shall not be required after completion of the project. (d) When required, performance reports shall generally contain, for each award, brief information on each of the following. (1) A comparison of actual accomplishments with the goals and objectives established for the period, the findings of the investigator, or both. Whenever appropriate and the output of programs or projects can be readily quantified, such quantitative data should be related to cost data for computation of unit costs. (2) Reasons why established goals were not met, if appropriate. (3) Other pertinent information including, when appropriate, analysis and explanation of cost overruns or high unit costs. DOE may specify in the award that the recipient provide this information on the Federal Assistance Program/Project Status Report (DOE F 4600.6), the technical reporting formats, or the Federal Assistance Management Summary Report. DOE may require that the Federal Assistance Management Summary Report be used as a performance report only when such use is authorized by program rule or the need for this form is explained in the solicitation. The requirements of this section concerning reporting frequency and deadlines shall apply to the Federal Assistance Management Summary Report. (See also Section 600.112 with regard to use of this form as part of the award application.) (e) Recipients shall not be required to submit more than the original and two copies of performance reports. (f) Recipients shall immediately notify DOE of developments that have a significant impact on the award-supported activities. Also, notification shall be given in the case of problems, delays, or adverse conditions which materially impair the ability to meet the objectives of the award. This notification shall include a statement of the action taken or contemplated, and any assistance needed to resolve the situation. (g) DOE may make site visits, as needed. (h) DOE shall comply with applicable clearance requirements of 5 CFR Part 1320 when requesting performance data from recipients. (i) Recipients may place performance reporting requirements on subawards consistent with the provisions of this section and shall require interim reporting in accordance with ยง600.151(f). ยง600.152 Financial reporting. (a) The following forms or such other forms as may be approved by OMB are authorized for obtaining financial information from recipients. (1) SF&hyph;269 or SF&hyph;269A, Financial Status Report. (i) Recipients shall use the SF&hyph;269 or SF&hyph;269A to report the status of funds for all nonconstruction projects or programs, except that DOE has the option of not requiring the SF&hyph;269 or SF&hyph;269A when the SF&hyph;270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement, or SF&hyph;272, Report of Federal Cash Transactions, is determined to provide adequate information to meet DOE needs. However, a final SF&hyph;269 or SF&hyph;269A shall be required at the completion of the project when the SF&hyph;270 is used only for advances. (ii) The terms and conditions of award shall prescribe whether the report shall be on a cash or accrual basis. DOE may require accrual reporting only if such reporting is required by program statute or rule. If the award requires accrual information and the recipient's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis, the recipient shall not be required to convert its accounting system, but shall develop such accrual information through best estimates based on an analysis of the documentation on hand.
