FR940304-0-00087 FR940304-0-00019 Of the four species of rodents that have been introduced to the Hawaiian Islands, the species with the greatest impact on the native flora and fauna is probably roof or black rat ( Rattus rattus ), which now occurs on all the main Hawaiian Islands around human habitations, in cultivated fields, and in dry to wet forests. Roof rats, and to a lesser extent house mouse ( Mus musculus ), Polynesian rat ( R. exulans ), and Norway rat ( R. norvegicus ) eat the fruits of some native plants, especially those with large, fleshy fruits. Many native Hawaiian plants produce their fruit over an extended period of time, and this produces a prolonged food supply which supports rodent populations. Rodents damage fruit of Pritchardia affinis (Beccari and Rock 1921). It is probable that rats damage the fruit of Ochrosia kilaueaensis , which has fleshy fruits and occurs in areas where rats are found. Rats feed on Clermontia peleana , and, since rats are found in remote areas of most islands in Hawaii, it is likely that predation occurs on the other taxa of Clermontia and Cyanea , potentially affecting Clermontia lindseyana, Clermontia pyrularia, Cyanea copelandii ssp. copelandii, Cyanea hamatiflora ssp. carlsonii, Cyanea shipmanii, and Cyanea stictophylla (HPCC 1990a; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1990). Black twig borer ( Xylosandrus compactus ) is a small beetle about 0.06 in (1.6 mm) in length which burrows into branches, introduces a pathogenic fungus as food for its larvae, and lays its eggs. Twigs, branches, and even the entire plant can be killed from such an infestation. Black twig borer is known to attack Colubrina oppositifolia and is a threat to this species (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, HHP 1991e9, 1991e16). Pritchardia affinis is known to be susceptible to lethal yellows, which is a bacteria-like organism producing disease in many palms. This disease is not yet in Hawaii, but if it ever is accidentally introduced on plant material brought into the State, it is a potential threat to this species. Cultivated loulu specimens in areas outside Hawaii may be affected by the disease (Hull 1980). D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms Hawaii's Endangered Species Act states, ``Any species of aquatic life, wildlife, or land plant that has been determined to be an endangered species pursuant to the [Federal] Endangered Species Act shall be deemed to be an endangered species under the provisions of this chapter␣*␣*␣*'' (HRS, sect. 195D&hyph;4(a)). Federal listing would automatically invoke listing under Hawaii State law, which prohibits taking of endangered plants in the State and encourages conservation by State agencies (HRS, sect. 195D&hyph;4). None of the 21 taxa in this rule are presently listed as an endangered species by the State of Hawaii. Fifteen of the 21 taxa in this rule have populations located on privately owned land. Two taxa, Cyanea shipmanii and Cyanea stictophylla, are found exclusively on private land. At least one population of each taxon except Cyanea shipmanii, Cyanea stictophylla, Silene hawaiiensis, and Zanthoxylum hawaiiense occurs on State land. Colubrina oppositifolia, Cyanea copelandii ssp. copelandii, Cyrtandra giffardii, Cyrtandra tintinnabula, and Ischaemum byrone each have one or more populations located in State parks, Natural Area Reserves, or the State seabird sanctuary, which have rules and regulations for the protection of resources (Hawaii DLNR 1981; HRS, sects. 183D&hyph;4, 184&hyph;5, 195&hyph;5, and 195&hyph;8). However, the regulations are difficult to enforce because of limited personnel. One or more populations of at least 18 of the 21 taxa included in this rule are located on land classified within conservation districts and owned by the State of Hawaii or private companies or individuals. Regardless of the owner, lands in these districts, among other purposes, are regarded as necessary for the protection of endemic biological resources and the maintenance or enhancement of the conservation of natural resources. Activities permitted in conservation districts are chosen by considering how best to make multiple use of the land (HRS, sect. 205&hyph;2). Some uses, such as maintaining animals for hunting, are based on policy decisions, while others, such as preservation of endangered species, are mandated by both Federal and State laws. Requests for amendments to district boundaries or variances within existing classifications can be made by government agencies and private landowners (HRS, sect. 205&hyph;4). Before decisions about these requests are made, the impact of the proposed reclassification on ``preservation or maintenance of important natural systems or habitat'' (HRS, sects. 205&hyph;4, 205&hyph;17) as well as the maintenance of natural resources is required to be taken into account (HRS, sects. 205&hyph;2, 205&hyph;4). For any proposed land use change that will occur on county or State land, will be funded in part or whole by county or State funds, or will occur within land classified as conservation district, an environmental assessment is required to determine whether or not the environment will be significantly affected (HRS, chapt. 343). If it is found that an action will have a significant effect, preparation of a full Environmental Impact Statement is required. Hawaii environmental policy, and thus approval of land use, is required by law to safeguard ``*␣*␣*␣the State's unique natural environmental characteristics␣*␣*␣*'' (HRS, sect. 344&hyph;3(1)) and includes guidelines to ``Protect endangered species of individual plants and animals␣*␣*␣*'' (HRS, sect. 344&hyph;4(3)(A)). Federal listing, because it automatically invokes State listing, would also trigger these other State regulations protecting the plants.
