FR940203-0-00024 FR940203-0-00009 In §206.12, the definition of perishable agricultural product is simplified to take into account the fact that certain monitoring is required by statute (section 316 of the NAFTA Implementation Act). Also, reference is made to citrus products to reflect the amendment made by section 315 of the NAFTA Implementation Act to section 202(d) of the Trade Act. Section 206.14, concerning the contents of petitions, is amended in several minor respects. The introductory paragraph is amended at the end to provide that the petition is to include certain information ``to the extent that such information is publicly available from governmental or other sources, or best estimates and the basis therefor if such information is not available''. This amendment conforms §206.14 with paragraph 3 of NAFTA Annex 803.3. A new paragraph (3) is added to subsection (e) to state that the petition is to contain data relating to changes in the level of prices, production, and productivity, also conforming §206.14 with paragraph 3(e) of NAFTA Annex 803.3 regarding the contents of petitions. Also, a new subsection (i) is added to state that petitions are to include data indicating the share of imports accounted for by imports from each NAFTA country, and petitioner's view concerning the extent to which such imports are contributing importantly to the serious injury or threat thereof. This conforms §206.14 with paragraph 3(g) of NAFTA Annex 803.3. Finally, a new subsection (j) is added to set out the dates by which any allegations of critical circumstances must be included within the petition. Subpart C is new, and the title states that it pertains to investigations relating to a surge in imports from a NAFTA country. Section 206.21 states that subpart C applies to investigations under section 312(c) of the NAFTA Implementation Act, which provides for Commission investigations and determinations when there has been a surge in imports of an article from Canada or Mexico that has been excluded from a U.S. global safeguard action with respect to such article. Section 206.22 defines the term ``surge'' to mean a significant increase in imports over the trend for a recent representative base period. This definition tracks the definition in section 312(c)(3) of the NAFTA Implementation Act and Article 805 of the NAFTA. Section 206.23 states that a request for an investigation under this Subpart may be filed by any entity that is representative of the industry for which the global action is being taken. Section 206.24 describes the information that a request for an investigation is to contain, including the identity of the requestor, the article and its tariff provision, the name of the country or countries from which the surge is coming, information with respect to representativeness, and data and information supporting the allegation that a surge in imports has occurred and that such surge undermines the effectiveness of the relief action. Section 206.25 states that the Commission will submit its findings to the President no later than 30 days after receiving the request for an investigation, as required by section 312(c)(2) of the NAFTA Implementation Act. Section 206.26 states that the Commission will make its report to the President available to the public (with the exception of confidential business information) and cause a summary thereof to be published in the Federal Register . Subpart D is new, and the title states that it pertains to investigations relating to bilateral safeguard actions. Section 206.31 states that subpart D applies to investigations under section 302(b) of the NAFTA Implementation Act. Section 206.32 defines the terms ``critical circumstances'' and ``perishable agricultural product'' in the same manner as in §206.12 of the rules. Section 206.33 states who may file a petition. Subsection (a) states that a request for an investigation under this Subpart may be filed by any entity that is representative of a domestic industry producing an article like or directly competitive with a Canadian or Mexican article that is allegedly, as a result of the reduction or elimination of a duty provided for under the NAFTA, being imported in such increased quantities and under such conditions so that imports of the article alone constitute a substantial cause of serious injury or threat thereof to such industry. Subsection (b) states who may file a petition with respect to imports from Canada or Mexico of a perishable agricultural product. Subsection (c) makes reference to the fact that the President is authorized to take a bilateral action with respect to an article from Canada or Mexico during the appropriate period provided for in section 305(a) of the NAFTA Implementation Act, or thereafter but only if the Government of Canada or Mexico, as the case may be, consents to such provision (see section 305(b) of the NAFTA Implementation Act). The periods set out in section 305(a) are the transition periods for tariff elimination in the U.S. schedules in the CFTA and NAFTA. Section 206.34 describes the information that is to be included in a petition for an investigation. This section generally tracks §206.14 of these rules concerning contents of petitions, except that the introductory paragraph tracks the wording of the standard applicable in a bilateral safeguard investigation involving a NAFTA country, the import data section requires data concerning Canadian or Mexican imports as appropriate, and the statement called for in §206.14(i) concerning imports from NAFTA countries is not included. Section 206.35 implements the time requirements for Commission determinations and reports in section 303(a) and (c) of the NAFTA Implementation Act, and states that the Commission will make its injury determination within 120 days of the initiation of an investigation, and submit its report to the President no later than 30 days thereafter. Time requirements for determinations in investigations involving imports of perishable agricultural products or allegations of critical circumstances are also specified. Section 206.36 states that the Commission will make its report to the President available to the public (with the exception of confidential business information) and cause a summary thereof to be published in the Federal Register . Subparts E and F, relating to investigations for relief from market disruption, and monitoring and advice as to effect of extension, reduction, modification, or termination of relief, respectively, are unchanged from previous subparts C and D. However, the various rule sections have been renumbered to reflect the revised order in part 206.
