FR940303-2-00020 FR940303-2-00016 Corps of Engineers Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Levisa Fork Basin Flood Damage Reduction Plan, Kentucky and Virginia AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The Huntington District, currently has underway a study of potential flood damage reduction alternatives for the Levisa Fork Basin of the Big Sandy River Drainage, Kentucky and Virginia. The possibility of significant environmental and socio-economic impacts as the result of the implementation of these potential flood damage reduction alternatives, necessitates the preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) on the Levisa Fork Basin Flood Damage Reduction Plan, Kentucky and Virginia, to analyze these potential impacts. DATES AND LOCATION: The Huntington District is scheduling a public scoping meeting on the Levisa Fork Basin Flood Damage Reduction Plan DEIS for 28 February 1994, at 6:30 p.m. The meeting will be held at the Birchleaf Elementary School in Birchleaf, Virginia. All interested parties are encouraged to attend and participate in this meeting. This meeting will be held to determine the scope and significant issues to be analyzed in depth in the DEIS. Notice of this meeting will be published in local papers. Written comments concerning the scope of the analysis must be received by 31 March 1994. ADDRESSES: Planning Division, Huntington District Corps of Engineers, 502 8th Street, Huntington, West Virginia 25701&hyph;2070. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Richard G. Drum, (304) 529&hyph;5644 or Mr. Wallace E. Dean, (304) 529&hyph;5712. 1. Location and Description of Proposed Action The project area includes those floodplain areas that would be affected by a recurrence of the April 1977 flood within the Levisa and Russell Forks of the Big Sandy River Basin in Kentucky and Virginia. These floodplain areas extend from the confluence of Indian Creek and Russell Fork in Dickerson County, Virginia downstream on the Russell Fork to the confluence of the Russell Fork and Levisa Fork at Millard, Kentucky (a distance of approximately 50 miles) and from the downstream extent of the incorporated limits of the Town of Grundy, Virginia on the Levisa Fork to Louisa, Kentucky a distance of approximately 138 miles (excluding the area included within the Government property boundary of the Fishtrap Lake project in Pike County, Kentucky). Also included are the floodplain areas located along tributaries of the Russell and Levisa Forks that would be affected by backwater flooding from a recurrence of the April 1977 flood including mainstream and tributaries a total of approximately 220 stream miles are being investigated under the study. Approximately 4,500 structures are located within the floodplain areas being investigated under this study. 2. Components of Proposed Action A total of five (5) project alternatives have been formulated for reducing flood related damages in the Levisa Fork Basin. These five alternatives will be further studied under the authority of Section 202 of the Energy and Water Resources Development Appropriations Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;367) to determine the most cost-effective method of reducing flood related damages in the basin. Project alternatives being evaluated under this study include a flood control dam with permanent pool located approximately 4.6 miles upstream from the Town of Haysi, Virginia on the Russell Fork, a ``dry'' flood control dam (no permanent pool) located approximately 4.6 miles upstream from the Town of Haysi, Virginia on the Russell Fork, voluntary nonstructural measures (floodproofing by raising structures in-place, ringwalls or veneer walls or permanent relocation of floodplain structures to flood-safe sites), no action and a flood control dam with permanent pool located approximately 4.6 miles upstream of the Town of Haysi, Virginia on the Russell Fork, that would include seasonal storage to facilitate downstream whitewater recreation uses in the Breaks of the Russell Fork. Flood warning and emergency evacuation systems will be included for all floodplain areas where nonstructural measures are proposed. 3. Draft General Plan Supplement (GPS) A draft General Plan Supplement (GPS) containing a summary of investigations with specific recommendations is currently scheduled for completion by February 1995, with a final report to be completed by January 1996. Public involvement will continue throughout the development of the DEIS in the form of workshops and information furnished to the local media. Federal, State, and local agencies, as well as, other affected and concerned organizations will be notified of all scheduled meetings through published notices in local newspapers and direct notification with concerned parties. 4. Potentially Significant Impacts Several potentially significant impacts have been identified and studies have been designed and are presently underway to assess and qualify the significance of each. Potentially significant impacts are: a. Impacts on the present aquatic and terrestrial resources. b. Impacts on lifestyle and traditional values. c. Impacts on cultural resources. d. Socio-economic impacts. e. Impacts on the possibility of Endangered and Threatened species being present in the project area. In addition to the above potential impacts any significant impacts developed during the environmental impact analysis or brought out as part of the scoping meeting shall be addressed and presented in the DEIS. 5. The DEIS The DEIS will be developed under guidance, requirements, and format in 40 CFR 1502.10, ``Recommended Format''. Consultation will be conducted with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and Environmental Protection Agency during the DEIS process, pursuant to the requirements of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 16 U.S.C. 661 et seq. (Pub. L. 85&hyph;624), the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. (Pub. L. 93&hyph;205), the Heritage Conservation and Recreation Service and State Historical Preservation Act of 1966 (80 Stat. 915), (Pub. L. 89&hyph;655), and the Preservation of Historic and Archaeologic Data (88 Stat. 174), (Pub. L. 93&hyph;291) and E.O. 11593. In addition, any other interested groups or organizations will be welcomed as active participants in the DEIS process. It is anticipated that the DEIS will be made available for public review during Fiscal Year 1995. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4789 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;FM&hyph;M
