FR940323-2-00136 FR940323-2-00105 The Plan provides for the automatic annual grant of 100 shares of Restricted Stock to each non-employee director following the annual shareholders meeting on the date of such meeting. Each non-employee director granted Restricted Stock shall be entitled to receive dividends on such Restricted Stock, to vote such Restricted Stock, and shall have all other rights of a shareholder of CNG, except that until restrictions on such stock expire, the Restricted Stock cannot be sold or otherwise transferred. Restrictions on a director's Restricted Stock shall lapse in 25% installments on the anniversary date of each grant, or shall lapse in total upon: (1) The director's retirement at age 70; or (2) the director's ceasing to serve due to death or disability, whichever first occurs. In the event of a ``change of control'' of CNG, as that term is defined in CNG's 1991 Stock Incentive Plan, all restrictions on outstanding Restricted Stock will lapse and CNG will repurchase all such shares which were awarded more than six months prior to the change of control at the then fair market value. The affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the shares of CNG's Common Stock outstanding on March 23, 1994 is required to authorize CNG: (1) To issue up to 15,000 shares of common stock to the Plan; (2) to acquire previously awarded shares of the Restricted Stock, through the forfeiture and repurchase provisions of the Plan; and (3) to adjust the number and par value of the common stock that may be issued under the Plan to implement the anti-dilution or anti-enlargement of rights provisions of the Plan. CNG intends to submit the proposals to its shareholders for their approval at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 17, 1994. CNG requests authority to solicit proxies from its stockholders for approval of the Plan at the meeting. CNG has filed its proxy solicitation material and requests that the effectiveness of its declaration with respect to the solicitation be permitted to become effective as provided in rule 62(d). It appearing to the Commission that CNG declaration regarding the proposed solicitation of proxies should be permitted to become effective forthwith, pursuant to rule 62: It is ordered, that the declaration regarding the proposed solicitation of proxies, be, and it hereby is, permitted to become effective forthwith, under rule 62, and subject to the terms and conditions prescribed in rule 24 under the Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6775 Filed 3&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
