FR940602-2-00071 FR940602-2-00038 provided, further, that compliance with the obligations of this paragraph I.C. in no way relieves respondents of the requirement under paragraph I.A. of this Order to substantiate any representation about the success of participants on any weight loss program in maintaining weight loss. D. Representing, directly or by implication, in short broadcast advertisements, that participants of any weight loss program have successfully maintained weight loss, unless respondents: (1) Include, clearly and prominently, and in immediate conjunction with such representation, the statement: ``Check at our centers for details about our maintenance record''; (2) For a period of time beginning with the date of the first broadcast of any such advertisement and ending no sooner than thirty days after the last broadcast of such advertisement, comply with the following procedures upon the first presentation of any form asking for information from a potential client, but in any event before such person has entered into any agreement with respondents: (a) Give to each potential client a separate document entitled ``Maintenance Information,'' which shall include all the information required by paragraph I.B. and subparagraphs I.C. (1)&hyph;(3) of this Order and shall be formatted in the exact type size and style as the example form below, and shall include the heading (Helvetica 14 point bold), lead-in (Times Roman 12 point), disclosures (Helvetica 14 point bold), acknowledgment language (Times Roman 12 point), and signature block therein; provided, further, that no information in addition to that required to be included in the document required by this subparagraph I.D. (2) shall be included therein; Maintenance Information You may have seen our recent ad about maintenance success. Here's some additional information about our maintenance record. [Disclosure of maintenance statistics goes here XXXXX . For many dieters, weight loss is temporary. I have read this notice. (Client Signature) ␣␣␣(Date) (b) Require each potential client to sign such document; and (c) Give each client a copy of such document; and (3) Retain in each client file a copy of the signed maintenance notice required by this paragraph; provided, further, that: (i) Compliance with the obligations of this paragraph I.D. in no way relieves respondents of the requirement under paragraph I.A. of this Order to substantiate any representation about the success of participants on any weight loss program in maintaining weight loss; (ii) Respondents must comply with both paragraph I.D. and paragraph I.C. of this Order if respondents include in any such short broadcast advertisement a representation about maintenance success that states a number or percentage, or uses descriptive terms that convey a quantitative measure such as ``most of our customers maintain their weight loss long-term''; provided, however, that the provisions of paragraph I.D. shall not apply to endorsements or testimonials referred to in paragraph I.E. herein.
