FR940506-1-00075 FR940506-1-00014 (g) Written notice of subcontractor withholding . A written notice of any withholding shall be issued to a subcontractor (with a copy to the Contracting Officer of any such notice issued by the Contractor), specifying_ (1) The amount to be withheld; (2) The specific causes for the withholding under the terms of the subcontract; and (3) The remedial actions to be taken by the subcontractor in order to receive payment of the amounts withheld. (h) Subcontractor payment entitlement . The Contractor may not request payment from the Government of any amount withheld or retained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause until such time as the Contractor has determined and certified to the Contracting Officer that the subcontractor is entitled to the payment of such amount. (i) Prime-subcontractor disputes . A dispute between the Contractor and subcontractor relating to the amount or entitlement of a subcontractor to a payment or a late payment interest penalty under a clause included in the subcontract pursuant to paragraph (c) of this clause does not constitute a dispute to which the United States is a party. The United States may not be interpleaded in any judicial or administrative proceeding involving such a dispute. (j) Preservation of prime-subcontractor rights . Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this clause, this clause shall not limit or impair any contractual, administrative, or judicial remedies otherwise available to the Contractor or a subcontractor in the event of a dispute involving late payment or nonpayment by the Contractor or deficient subcontract performance or nonperformance by a subcontractor. (k) Non-recourse for prime contractor interest penalty . The Contractor's obligation to pay an interest penalty to a subcontractor pursuant to the clauses included in a subcontract under paragraph (c) of this clause shall not be construed to be an obligation of the United States for such interest penalty. A cost reimbursement claim may not include any amount for reimbursement of such interest penalty. (End of clause) 15. Section 52.232&hyph;28 is revised to read as follows: 52.232&hyph;28 Electronic Funds Transfer Payment Methods. As prescribed in 32.908(d), insert the following clause: Electronic Funds Transfer Payment Methods (Date) Payments under this contract will be made by the Government either by check or electronic funds transfer (through the Treasury Fedline Payment System (FEDLINE) or the Automated Clearing House (ACH), at the option of the Government. No later than 14 days before an invoice or contract financing request is submitted, the Contractor shall designate a financial institution for receipt of electronic funds transfer payments, and shall submit this designation to the Contracting Officer or other Government official, as directed. (a) FEDLINE information . For payment through FEDLINE, the Contractor shall provide the following information: (1) Name, address, and telegraphic abbreviation of the financial institution receiving payment. (2) The American Bankers Association 9-digit identifying number for wire transfer of the financing institution receiving payment if the institution has access to the Federal Reserve Communications System. (3) Payee's account number at the financial institution where funds are to be transferred. (4) If the financial institution does not have access to the Federal Reserve Communications System, name, address, and telegraphic abbreviation of the correspondent financial institution through which the financial institution receiving payment obtains wire transfer activity. Provide the telegraphic abbreviation and American Bankers Association identifying number for the correspondent institution. (b) ACH information . For payment through ACH, the Contractor shall provide the following information: (1) Routing transit number of the financial institution receiving payment (same as American Bankers Association identifying number used for FEDLINE). (2) Number of account to which funds are to be deposited. (3) Type of depositor account (``C'' for checking, ``S'' for savings). (4) If the Contractor is a new enrollee to the ACH system, a ``Payment Information Form,'' SF 3881, must be completed before payment can be processed. (c) Change of institution . In the event the Contractor, during the performance of this contract, elects to designate a different financial institution for the receipt of any payment made using electronic funds transfer procedures, notification of such change and the required information specified above must be received by the appropriate Government official 30 days prior to the date such change is to become effective. (d) Contractor documents . The documents furnishing the information required in this clause must be dated and contain signature, title, and telephone number of the contractor official authorized to provide it, as well as the Contractor's name and contract number. (e) Delay of payment . Contractor failure to properly designate a financial institution or to provide appropriate payee bank account information may delay payments of amounts otherwise properly due. (f) Prompt payment . (1) Payments made by electronic funds transfer shall be specified (see 32.902 definition of specified payment date ) for settlement at a Federal Reserve Bank by the established due date. (2) When payment by electronic funds transfer cannot be made because the Contractor furnished incorrect or incomplete data, no interest penalty is due for the period between the date of the attempted transfer and the date on which the Contractor furnishes correct data; provided , the Government notifies the Contractor within 7 days after the Government receives notice that the transfer could not be completed because of defective data. (End of clause) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10802 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;34&hyph;M
