FR941102-2-00082 FR941102-2-00063 Probabilistic Risk Assessment (PRA) Implementation Plan Workshop AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Notice of public workshop. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) will conduct a public workshop on December 2, 1994, to discuss the Commission's Probabilistic Risk Assessment (PRA) Implementation Plan. The PRA Implementation Plan was developed to ensure that the increased use of PRA methods and technology in nuclear regulatory activities would be implemented in a consistent and predictable manner that promotes regulatory stability and efficiency. The purpose of the workshop is to inform the public of NRC activities related to increasing the use of PRA methods and techniques in regulatory applications and receive public comments on these activities. The principal focus of this workshop will be PRA applications for commercial power reactors and while the NRC presentations will be broad in nature, NRC staff representatives will be present to address specific areas of concern or specific line items in the PRA Implementation Plan. DATES: November 28, 1994_Advance notification of intent to attend the workshop, desire to comment or make a presentation during the workshop, or both, is requested by the NRC. Participants are encouraged to submit written comments, presentation summaries, or both to the staff by this date. December 2, 1994_The workshop will be held at the NRC Auditorium from 8:30 am to 4:30 pm. January 20, 1995_All written comments on matters covered by the workshop received by this date will be considered by the staff. Written comments received after January 20, 1995, will be considered to the extent practical. Written comments on the PRA Implementation Plan will be accepted before, during, and after the workshop. Advance comments, which could serve to enhance the effectiveness of the workshop are particularly solicited. ADDRESSES: The workshop will be held in the NRC Auditorium. The NRC Auditorium is located on an underground level between the One White Flint North Building and the Two White Flint North Building at 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852. The NRC buildings are located across from the entrance to the White Flint Metro Station. Notification of intent to attend, desire to make a statement or presentation should be sent to Thomas G. Hiltz, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, Mail Stop O&hyph;11&hyph;F&hyph;23, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555&hyph;0001. These notifications can also be transmitted via facsimile or telephone. The facsimile number is (301) 504&hyph;2279 and the telephone number is (301) 504&hyph;1105. The facsimile cover sheet should contain the address information listed above. 1 1 Letter or facsimile notifications should contain, and people giving notification via telephone should be prepared to provide, the following pre-registration information: full name of participants/attendees, name of organization or business, mailing address, daytime telephone, facsimile number, a statement concerning whether the person or organization will provide comments or a presentation during the workshop, a statement concerning whether the person or organization intents to provide written comments before or after the workshop, and any specific questions or comments that the participant or organization would like to be considered and/or addressed at the workshop.
