FR940216-0-00090 FR940216-0-00010 A fuel meeting the combined requirements of 6.5 psi RVP and 138 ppm sulfur would achieve a VOC reduction of 28.4% (in VOC control region 2) and a NO X reduction of 6.9%. Standards based on this fuel formulation could severely restrict the flexibility for some refiners, and pose an undue burden on others. For example, refiners with various parameter levels above the statutory baseline would need additional VOC control to offset the VOC impact of these parameters. Under the above scenario, these refiners would be limited in achieving further RVP control, since the ability to further reduce RVP and sulfur and/or increase olefins would be limited. This would significantly increase the cost-effectiveness of the VOC control. Upon consideration of these concerns, among other issues, EPA decided to set a VOC standard derived based on a fuel RVP of 6.7 psi to allow refiners some flexibility to meet the performance-based VOC standard through control of RVP without the need to go below 6.5 psi. By setting a concurrent NO X standard based largely on additional sulfur control, which also achieves some small additional VOC reductions, refiners will not need to go as low as 6.5 psi to meet the equivalent level of VOC control. The cost-effectiveness of a 6.8% (on average) NO X reduction standard when credit is given for the additional level of VOC control obtained at this level of sulfur reduction is approximately $5,000/ton NO X reduced. b. Costs and emissions reductions. The overall cost of the Phase II reformulated gasoline VOC standards and NO X standards for Phase II RFG is approximately 1.2 cents per gallon (incremental to Phase I RFG). This value appears to be reasonable, as the less stringent Phase I reformulated gasoline cost is estimated to be about 3&hyph;5 cents per gallon, as discussed in section V. EPA does not expect non-production related costs, such as distribution costs, recordkeeping and reporting costs, etc., to increase relative to Phase I reformulated gasoline. A complete discussion of the development of these costs is found in the RIA. As a result of today's standards, VOC emissions will be reduced by about 10,000 tons in VOC control region 1 (southern) areas each summer and 32,000 tons in VOC control region 2 (northern) areas. In addition, southern areas will experience a reduction of about 8,300 tons NO X and northern areas will experience a reduction of 13,800 tons NO X . The emissions reductions experienced in southern areas are smaller than experienced in northern areas due to the fact that southern areas are already required to use fuels with lower Reid vapor pressures, and thus the emissions reduction benefits of RFG use in these areas is smaller. c. Compliance margin consideration. Several commenters expressed a desire for looser standards to account for compliance margins. The optional provision for averaging standards allows refiners to meet the standards in the manner which is most cost-effective for their refinery in exchange for meeting a standard that is considered at least or more stringent as the per gallon standard plus a compliance margin. The VOC and NO X reduction standards have both been based in part on a cost-effectiveness analysis that implicitly is based on an averaging standard. In that case, a compliance margin becomes much less relevant, if at all, because of the flexibility introduced through averaging. d. Local selection of VOC or VOC and NO X control. EPA requested comments on an option to allow nonattainment areas to select between either VOC control or combined VOC and NO X control, depending on the air quality needs of that area. A potential problem with this option is that it would require production of another type of reformulated gasoline in one or more grades. Distribution problems and complications already expected with implementation of the reformulated gasoline requirements could increase. Many commenters opposed this option, citing added costs and complications to the distribution system which would likely result. No commenters appeared to be strongly in favor of it. Hence, the Agency has chosen not to allow local selection of a VOC and/or NO X control program. The standards for VOC and NO X emissions will apply to all reformulated gasoline areas.
