FR940627-0-00228 FR940627-0-00019 (5) Specimen and data storage facilities. Space shall be secured for archives for the storage and retrieval of all raw data and specimens from completed studies. (d) Equipment _(1) Equipment design. Equipment used in the generation, measurement, or assessment of data and equipment used for facility environmental control shall be of appropriate design and adequate capacity to function according to the protocol and shall be suitably located for operation, inspection, cleaning, and maintenance. (2) Maintenance and calibration of equipment. (i) Equipment shall be adequately inspected, cleaned, and maintained. Equipment used for the generation, measurement, or assessment of data shall be adequately tested, calibrated, and/or standardized. (ii) The written standard operating procedures required under ยง79.60(e)(1)(ii)(K) shall set forth in sufficient detail the methods, materials, and schedules to be used in the routine inspection, cleaning, maintenance, testing, calibration, and/or standardization of equipment, and shall specify, when appropriate, remedial action to be taken in the event of failure or malfunction of equipment. The written standard operating procedures shall designate the person responsible for the performance of each operation. (iii) Written records shall be maintained of all inspection, maintenance, testing, calibrating, and/or standardizing operations. These records, containing the date of the operation, shall describe whether the maintenance operations were routine and followed the written standard operating procedures. Written records shall be kept of non-routine repairs performed on equipment as a result of failure and malfunction. Such records shall document the nature of the defect, how and when the defect was discovered, and any remedial action taken in response to the defect. (e) Testing Facilities Operation _(1) Standard operating procedures. (i) A testing facility shall have standard operating procedures in writing, setting forth study methods that management is satisfied are adequate to insure the quality and integrity of the data generated in the course of a study. All deviations in a study from standard operating procedures shall be authorized by the study director and shall be documented in the raw data. Significant changes in established standard operating procedures shall be properly authorized in writing by management. (ii) Standard operating procedures shall be established for, but not limited to, the following: (A) Test system room preparation; (B) Test system care; (C) Receipt, identification, storage, handling, mixing, and method of sampling of test fuels and fuel/additive mixtures and reference substances; (D) Test system observations; (E) Laboratory or other tests; (F) Handling of test animals found moribund or dead during study; (G) Necropsy or postmortem examination of test animals; (H) Collection and identification of specimens; (I) Histopathology (J) Data handling, storage and retrieval. (K) Maintenance and calibration of equipment. (L) Transfer, proper placement, and identification of test systems.
