FR940620-1-00057 FR940620-1-00009 (d) Examples of works which may be procured under the ``Rights in Special Works'' clause include, but are not limited, to audiovisual works, computer data bases, computer software documentation, scripts, soundtracks, musical compositions, and adaptations; histories of departments, agencies, services or units thereof; surveys of Government establishments; instructional works or guidance to Government officers and employees on the discharge of their official duties; reports, books, studies, surveys or similar documents; collections of data containing information pertaining to individuals that, if disclosed, would violate the right of privacy or publicity of the individuals to whom the information relates; or, investigative reports. 227.407 Contracts for architect-engineer services. This section sets forth policies and procedures, pertaining to data, copyrights, and restricted designs unique to the acquisition of construction and architect-engineer services. 227.407&hyph;1 Architectural designs and data clauses for architect-engineer or construction contracts. (a) Except as provided in 227.407&hyph;1(b), use the clause at 252.227&hyph;7022, ``Government Rights (Unlimited)'', in solicitations and contracts for architect-engineer services and for construction involving architect-engineer services. (b) When the purpose of a contract for architect-engineer services or for construction involving architect-engineer services is to obtain a unique architectural design of a building, a monument, or construction of similar nature, which for artistic, aesthetic or other special reasons the Government does not want duplicated, the Government may acquire exclusive control of the data pertaining to the design by including the clause at 252.227&hyph;7023, ``Drawings and Other Data to Become Property of Government'', in solicitations and contracts. (c) The Government shall obtain unlimited rights in shop drawings for construction. In solicitations and contracts calling for delivery of shop drawings, include the clause at 252.227&hyph;7033, Rights in Shop Drawings. 227.407&hyph;2 Contracts for construction supplies and research and development work. The provisions and clauses required by 227.407&hyph;1 shall not be used when the acquisition is limited to_ (a) Construction supplies or materials; (b) Experimental, developmental, or research work, or test and evaluation studies of structures, equipment, processes, or materials for use in construction; or, (c) Both. 227.407&hyph;3 Approval of restricted designs. The clause at 252.227&hyph;7024, ``Notice and Approval of Restricted Designs'', may be included in architect-engineer contracts to permit the Government to make informed decisions concerning noncompetitive aspects of the design. 227.408 Contractor data repositories. (a) Contractor data repositories may be established when permitted by agency procedures. The contractual instrument establishing the data repository must require, as a minimum, the data repository management contractor to_ (1) Establish and maintain adequate procedures for protecting technical data delivered to or stored at the repository from unauthorized release or disclosure; (2) Establish and maintain adequate procedures for controlling the release or disclosure of technical data from the repository to third parties consistent with the Government's rights in such data; (3) When required by the contracting officer, deliver data to the Government on paper or in other specified media; (4) Be responsible for maintaining the currency of data delivered directly by Government contractors or subcontractors to the repository;
