FR940627-0-00247 FR940627-0-00019 (i) The duration of exposure shall be at least six hours daily, allowing appropriate additional time for chamber equilibrium. (ii) Where an exposure chamber is used, its design shall minimize crowding of the test animals. This is best accomplished by individual caging. (iii) Pregnant animals shall not be subjected to beyond the minimum amount of stress. Since whole-body exposure appears to be the least stressful mode of exposure, it is the preferred method. In general oronasal or head-only exposure, which is sometimes used to avoid concurrent exposure by the dermal or oral routes, is not recommended because of the associated stress accompanying the restraining of the animals. However, there may be specific instances where it may be more appropriate than whole-body exposure. The tester shall provide justification/reasoning for its selection. (iv) Measurements shall be made at least every other day of food consumption for all animals in the study. Males and females shall be weighed on the first day of exposure and 2&hyph;3 times per week thereafter, except for pregnant dams. (v) The test animal housing, mating, and exposure chambers shall be operated on a twenty-four hour lighting schedule, with twelve hours of light and twelve hours of darkness. Test animal exposure shall only occur during the light portion of the cycle. (vi) Signs of toxicity shall be recorded as they are observed including the time of onset, degree, and duration. (vii) Females showing signs of abortion or premature delivery shall be sacrificed and subjected to a thorough macroscopic examination. (viii) Animals that die or are euthanized because of morbidity will be necropsied promptly. (2) Vaginal cytology. (i) For a two week period before the mating period starts, each female in the to-be-bred population shall undergo a daily saline vaginal lavage. Two wet cell smears from this lavage shall be examined daily for each subject to determine a baseline pattern of estrus. Testers shall avoid excessive handling and roughness in obtaining the vaginal cell samples, as this may induce a condition of pseudo-pregnancy in the test animals. (ii) This will continue for four weeks or until day 0 of a rat's pregnancy is confirmed by the presence of sperm in the cell smear. (3) Mating and fertility assessment. (i) Beginning nine weeks after the start of exposure, each exposed and control group female (exclusive of the histology group females) shall be paired during non-exposure hours with a male from the same exposure concentration group. Matings shall continue for a period of two weeks, or until all mated females are determined to be pregnant. Mating pairs shall be clearly identified. (ii) Each morning, including weekends, cages shall be examined for the presence of a sperm plug. When found, this shall mark gestation day 0 and pregnancy shall be confirmed by the presence of sperm in the day's wet vaginal cell smears. (iii) Two weeks after mating is begun, or as females are determined to be pregnant, bred animals are returned to pre-mating housing. Daily exposures continues through gestation day 15 for all pregnant females or through the balance of the exposure period for non-pregnant females and all males. (iv) Those pairs which fail to mate shall be evaluated in the course of the study to determine the cause of the apparent infertility. This may involve such procedures as additional opportunities to mate with a proven fertile partner, histological examination of the reproductive organs, and, in males, examination of the spermatogenic cycles. The stage of estrus for each non-pregnant female in the breeding group will be determined at the end of the exposure period. (4) All animals in the histology group shall be subject to histopathologic examination at the end of the study's exposure period. (g) Treatment of results. (1) All observed results, quantitative and incidental, shall be evaluated by an appropriate statistical method. The specific methods, including consideration of statistical power, shall be selected during the design of the study. (2) Data and reporting. In addition to the reporting requirements specified under §§79.60 and 79.61, the final test report must include the following information: (i) Gross necropsy. (A) All animals shall be subjected to a full necropsy which includes examination of the external surface of the body, all orifices, and the cranial, thoracic, and abdominal cavities and their contents. Special attention shall be directed to the organs of the reproductive system. (B) The liver, kidneys, adrenals, pituitary, uterus, vagina, ovaries, testes, epididymides and seminal vesicles (with coagulating glands), and prostate shall be weighed wet, as soon as possible after dissection, to avoid drying.
