FR941102-0-00021 FR941102-0-00004 §5.47 Subordinated debt as capital. (a) Authority. 12 U.S.C. 93a. (b) Licensing requirements. Unless the OCC has previously notified a national bank that prior approval is required, or unless prior approval is required by law, a national bank does not need prior OCC approval to issue or prepay subordinated debt, regardless of whether the bank intends to count the debt as Tier 2 capital. A national bank that is not required to obtain prior approval must notify the OCC after issuing subordinated debt that is to be counted as Tier 2 capital. (c) Scope. This section sets forth the procedures for OCC review and approval of applications to issue or prepay subordinated debt. (d) Definitions. (1) Capital plan means a plan describing the means and schedule by which a national bank will attain specified capital levels or ratios, including a plan to achieve minimum capital ratios filed with the appropriate district office under §3.7 of this chapter and a capital restoration plan filed with the OCC under 12 U.S.C. 1831o and §6.5 of this chapter. (2) Tier 2 capital has the same meaning as set forth in §3.2(d) of this chapter. (e) Qualification as regulatory capital. (1) A national bank's subordinated debt qualifies as Tier 2 capital if the subordinated debt meets the requirements in part 3 of this chapter, appendix A to part 3, section 2(b)(4), and complies with the ``OCC Guidelines for Subordinated Debt Instruments'' in the Comptroller's Manual for Corporate Activities (Manual). (2) If the OCC notifies a national bank that it must obtain OCC approval before issuing subordinated debt, the subordinated debt will not qualify as Tier 2 capital until the bank obtains OCC approval for its inclusion in capital. (f) Prior approval procedure. (1) Application. A national bank required to obtain OCC approval before issuing or prepaying subordinated debt must submit an application to the appropriate district office. The application must include: (i) A description of the terms and amount of the proposed issuance or prepayment; (ii) A statement of whether the bank is subject to a capital plan or required to file a capital plan with the OCC and, if so, how the proposed change conforms to the capital plan; (iii) A copy of the proposed subordinated note format and note agreement; and (iv) A statement of whether the debt issue complies with all laws, regulations, and the ``OCC Guidelines for Subordinated Debt Instruments'' in the Manual. (2) Approval. (i) General. The OCC approves, conditionally approves, or denies an application to issue or prepay subordinated debt on or before the 30th day after the complete application is received by the OCC. The application is deemed approved by the OCC as of the 30th day after the filing is received by the OCC unless the OCC notifies the bank prior to that date that the filing presents significant supervisory or compliance concerns, or raises significant legal or policy issues. (ii) Notification. When the OCC notifies the bank that the OCC approves the bank's application to issue or prepay the subordinated debt, it also notifies the bank whether the debt qualifies as Tier 2 capital. (iii) Expiration of approval. Approval expires if a national bank does not complete the sale of the subordinated debt within one year of approval. (g) Notice procedure. If a national bank is not required to obtain approval before issuing subordinated debt, the bank must notify the appropriate district office in writing within ten days after issuing subordinated debt that is to be counted as Tier 2 capital. The notice must include: (1) The terms of the issuance; (2) The amount and date of receipt of funds; (3) A copy of the final subordinated note format and note agreement; and (4) A statement that the issue complies with all laws, regulations, and the ``OCC Guidelines for Subordinated Debt Instruments'' in the Manual. (h) Exceptions to rules of general applicability. Sections 5.8, 5.10 and 5.11 do not apply to the issuance of subordinated debt. (i) Issuance of subordinated debt. A national bank must comply with the Securities Offering Disclosure Rules in part 16 of this chapter when issuing subordinated debt even if the bank is not required to obtain prior approval to issue subordinated debt. PART 16_SECURITIES OFFERING DISCLOSURE RULES 5. Part 16 is revised to read as follows: PART 16_SECURITIES OFFERING DISCLOSURE RULES Sec. 16.1␣Authority, purpose, and scope. 16.2␣Definitions. 16.3␣Registration statement and prospectus requirements. 16.4␣Communications not deemed an offer. 16.5␣Exemptions. 16.6␣Sales of nonconvertible debt. 16.7␣Nonpublic offerings. 16.8␣Small issues. 16.15␣Form and content. 16.16␣Effectiveness.
