FR941220-0-00078 FR941220-0-00013 The relief from reconciliation permitted under the adopted rule is applicable only to differences in the amortization period as it applies to aggregate amount of goodwill or negative goodwill that would be determined under U.S. GAAP. For example, negative goodwill under IAS 22 (the amount by which the fair value of acquired net assets exceeds the purchase price) must be reconciled to negative goodwill determined under U.S. GAAP (the amount remaining after the excess over the purchase price has been applied to reduce the carrying value of non-monetary noncurrent assets). In response to commenter's suggestion, Items 17 and 18 of Form 20&hyph;F have been modified to clarify that point. IV. Implementation and Transition Issuers will be permitted by the adopted rule to elect to apply the provisions of IAS 22 in the determination of the method of accounting for business combinations but not adopt its provisions for amortization of goodwill and negative goodwill. Similarly, issuers could adopt the provisions of IAS 22 with respect to goodwill amortization periods, but need not adopt that standard with respect to any other aspect of accounting for business combinations. Transition guidance in the 1993 amendment of IAS 22 calls for its new provisions to be implemented in financial statements for periods beginning on or after January 1, 1995, with retroactive application encouraged but not required. As originally proposed, the relief from reconciliation afforded by the rule would be available only to an issuer that implemented IAS 22, as amended, in its financial statements with respect to all current and prior business combinations for all financial reporting periods presented. At the suggestion of a commenter and in consideration of the difficulty of retroactive implementation of IAS 22, the rule as adopted would also provide relief from reconciliation for business combinations consummated on or after January 1, 1995, if, commencing by that date, the issuer accounts for all business combinations in its primary financial statements in accordance with IAS 22. For an issuer that does not retroactively implement IAS 22, full reconciliation to U.S. GAAP would be required with respect to business combinations consummated prior to January 1, 1995. As requested by several commenters, the adopted rules clarify how issuers and their auditors should describe the balance sheet and income statement amounts which do not reflect full reconciliation to U.S. GAAP. Amounts reported in the reconciliation should be referred to as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP except for the specific items for which there is a deviation; exceptions should be stated to be in accordance with Item 17 or 18 of Form 20&hyph;F, as applicable, and different than that required by U.S. GAAP. 5 5 The accommodation provided under the adopted rule is an exception to the requirement to reconcile to U.S. GAAP that is similar to the accommodation that had been provided previously to foreign private issuers that prepare price level adjusted financial statements. See Securities Act Release No. 7117. The reconciliation provided pursuant to Item 17 or 18 of Form 20&hyph;F must be included in notes to the financial statements and, accordingly, must be considered by the auditor when expressing an opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole. The auditor's report is required to comply with Rule 2&hyph;02 of Regulation S&hyph;X, and need not refer specifically to the note containing the reconciliation. However, if the reconciliation furnished in the notes to the financial statements fails to include disclosure of all material departures from U.S. GAAP or the quantification of the effects of accounting differences is materially misstated, or, where applicable, is incorrectly stated to be determined pursuant to the special provisions afforded under Item 17 or 18 by the rules adopted today, the financial statements would be presumed to be materially misleading and an exception should be cited in the auditor's report. V. Cost-Benefit Analysis No specific data were provided in response to the Commission's request regarding the costs and benefits of the amendment being adopted today. Several commenters noted that the proposal would address to a large extent the time and cost of additional recordkeeping and reporting resulting from having to reconcile different accounting methods for business combinations. The Commission believes costs will be reduced by this amendment. The Commission believes that the adoption of these rules will be beneficial to U.S. investors, as it will encourage more foreign companies to list their securities and raise capital in the United States and will be consistent with investor protection. VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 Act U.S.C. 605(b)), the Chairman of the Commission has certified that the proposed amendments will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Members of the public who wish to obtain a copy of the Regulatory Flexibility Certification should contact Wayne E. Carnall, (202) 942&hyph;2960, Deputy Chief Accountant, Division of Corporation Finance, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. VII. Statutory Bases The Commission's rules and forms are amended pursuant to section 19 of the Securities Act of 1933 and sections 3(b), 4A, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 23 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. VIII. Effective Date The amendment to Form 20&hyph;F shall be effective immediately upon publication in the Federal Register , in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, which allows effectiveness in less than 30 days after publications for, inter alia, ``a substantive rule which grants or recognizes an exemption or relieves a restriction.'' 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(1). List of Subjects in 17 CFR Part 249 Accounting, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities. Text of Rule and Form Amendments In accordance with the foregoing, Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 249_FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 1. The authority citation for part 249 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a, et seq., unless otherwise noted; ยง249.220f [Amended] 2. By amending Form 20&hyph;F (referenced in ยง249.220f) by adding paragraph (viii) to Item 17(c)(2) and adding Instruction (6) to Item 17 and adding paragraph (viii) to Item 18(c)(2) and adding Instruction (5) to Item 18 to read as follows: Note: The Form 20&hyph;F does not appear and the amendments will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
