FR940505-1-00493 FR940505-1-00012 Proposed emissions means emissions based on the potential to emit for the new or modified emissions unit. Quantifiable means the ability to estimate emission reductions in terms of both their amount and characteristics. The same method of estimating emissions shall be used to quantify the emission levels before and after the reduction. Quarterly means calendar quarters beginning in January, April, July, and October. Quarterly emissions limitation means one or a combination of permit conditions specific to an emissions unit which restricts its maximum emissions, in pounds per quarter, at or below the emissions associated with the maximum design capacity. A quarterly emissions limitation must be: (1) Contained in the latest Authority to Construct and contained in or enforceable by the latest Permit to Operate for the emission unit; and (2) Enforceable on a quarterly basis. Reactive organic compound means any compound containing carbon except methane, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, ammonium carbonates, and halogenated hydrocarbons. Real means actually occurring, implemented, and not artificially devised. Reasonably available control technology (RACT) means the lowest emission limitation that a particular source is capable of meeting by the application of emission control technology that is reasonably available considering technical and economic feasibility. The criteria for RACT are specified in ``California Clean Air Act Guidance for the Determination of Reasonably Available Control Technology and Best Available Retrofit Control Technology,'' California Air Resources Board, April 1990 and in the General Preamble to Title I, April 16, 1992. 45 45 Proposed rule published in the Federal Register of April 16, 1992 (57 FR 13498). Reconstructed source means any stationary source or emissions unit undergoing physical modification where the fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable, entirely new stationary source or emissions unit. Fixed capital cost means the capital that is needed to provide all the depreciable components. A reconstructed source shall be treated as a new stationary source or emissions unit. Register means a document maintained pursuant to a district banking rule which records all ERC deposits, withdrawals, transfers, and transactions. Regulated air pollutant means any pollutant that is emitted into or otherwise enters the ambient air, and for which the EPA has adopted an emission limit, standard, or other requirement. Regulated air pollutants include: (1) Oxides of nitrogen and volatile organic compounds; (2) Any pollutant for which a national ambient air quality standard has been promulgated pursuant to section 109 of the Clean Air Act; (3) Any pollutant subject to a new source performance standard promulgated pursuant to section 111 of the Clean Air Act; (4) Any ozone-depleting substance specified as a Class I (chlorofluorocarbons) or Class II (hydrofluorocarbons) substance pursuant to Title VI of the Clean Air Act; (5) Any pollutant subject to a standard or requirement promulgated pursuant to section 112 of the Clean Air Act, including: (i) Any pollutant listed pursuant to section 112(r) of the Clean Air Act (Prevention of Accidental Releases), which shall be considered a ``regulated air pollutant'' upon promulgation of the list. (ii) Any hazardous air pollutant subject to a standard or other requirement promulgated by the EPA pursuant to section 112(d) or adopted by the district pursuant to 112(g) and (j) of the Clean Air Act which shall be considered a ``regulated air pollutant'' for all sources or categories of sources upon promulgation of the standard or requirement or 18 months after the standard or requirement was scheduled to be promulgated pursuant to section 112(e)(3) of the Clean Air Act. (iii) Any HAP subject to a district case-by-case emissions limitation determination for a new or modified source, prior to the EPA promulgation or scheduled promulgation of an emissions limitation, which shall be considered a ``regulated air pollutant'' when the determination is made pursuant to section 112(g)(2) of the Clean Air Act. In case-by-case emissions limitation determinations, the HAP shall be considered a ``regulated air pollutant'' only for the individual source for which the emissions limitation determination was made. Replacement equipment means: (1) Routine replacement : The replacement or modification of emission units(s) where the replacement unit(s) serves the identical function as the unit(s) being replaced, and the maximum rating and the potential to emit any pollutant will not be greater from the new or modified emissions unit(s) than the replaced unit(s), when the emissions unit(s) is operated at the same permitted conditions. The EPA will determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether a project to replace an emissions unit in whole or part with functionally equivalent equipment is a routine repair, commonly made in the industry. Projects intended to extend the expected useful life of the unit may not be considered routine replacements. (2) Identical replacement : The total or partial replacement of an emissions unit where the replacement is the same as the original unit in all respects except for serial number. Responsible official means an individual with the authority to certify that a source complies with all applicable requirements, including the conditions of permits issued to sources. A ``responsible official'' means one of the following: (1) For a corporation, a president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decisionmaking functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities applying for or subject to a permit and either: (i) The facilities employ more than 250 persons or have gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second quarter 1980 dollars); or (ii) The delegation of authority to such representative is approved in advance by the EPA; or (2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship, a general partner or the proprietor, respectively; or (3) For a municipality, state, federal, or other public agency, either a principal executive officer or a ranking elected official; or (4) For an acid rain unit subject to Title IV (Acid Deposition Control) of the Clean Air Act, the ``responsible official'' is the designated representative of that unit for any purposes under Title IV. Sacramento Valley air basin means that portion of Placer County which lies west of Range 9 east, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian (M.D.B. & M.), as established pursuant to section 39606 of the Health & Safety Code of the State of California and as described in title 17, California Code of Regulations, ยง60106(k). Shutdown means the earlier of either the permanent cessation of emissions from a source or an emission unit or the surrender of that unit's or source's operating permit.
