FR940613-0-00108 FR940613-0-00015 STATE: NORTH DAKOTA COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 2 trailing units_LCV LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 103 feet MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 105,500 pounds OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: WEIGHT: The Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW) of any vehicle or combination of vehicles is determined by the Federal Bridge Formula, including the exception for two sets of tandems spaced 36 feet apart. No single axle shall carry a gross weight in excess of 20,000 pounds. Axles spaced 40 inches or less apart are considered one axle. Axles spaced 8 feet or more apart are considered as individual axles. The gross weight of two individual axles may be restricted by the weight formula. Spacing between axles shall be measured from axle center to axle center. Axles spaced over 40 inches but less than 8 feet apart shall not carry a gross weight in excess of 17,000 pounds per axle. The gross weight of three or more axles in a grouping is determined by the measurement between the extreme axle centers. During the spring breakup season or on otherwise posted highways, reductions in the above axle weights may be specified. The weight in pounds on any one wheel shall not exceed one-half the allowable axle weight. Dual tires are considered one wheel. The weight per inch of tire width shall not exceed 550 pounds. The width of tire shall be the manufacturer's rating. DRIVER: The driver must have a commercial driver's license with the appropriate endorsement. VEHICLE: The cargo length of a two trailing unit combination may not exceed 100 feet (when the power unit is a truck tractor) or 103 feet (when the power unit is a truck) when traveling on the NN or local highways designated by local authorities. All hitches must be of a load-bearing capacity capable of bearing the weight of the towed vehicles. The towing vehicle must have a hitch commonly described as a fifth wheel or gooseneck design, or one that is attached to the frame. The hitch on the rear of the vehicle connected to the towing vehicle must be attached to the frame of the towed vehicle. All hitches, other than a fifth wheel or gooseneck, must be of a ball and socket type with a locking device or a pintle hook. The drawn vehicles shall be equipped with brakes and safety chains adequate to control the movement of, and to stop and hold, such vehicles. When the drawn vehicle is of a fifth wheel or gooseneck design, safety chains are not required. In any truck or truck tractor and two trailer combination, the lighter trailer must always be operated as the rear trailer, except when the gross weight differential with the other trailer does not exceed 5,000 pounds. The power unit shall have adequate power and traction to maintain a minimum speed of 15 miles per hour on all grades. PERMIT: No permits are required for GVW of 80,000 pounds or less. Single-trip permits are required for GVW exceeding 80,000 pounds. Weather restrictions (37&hyph;06&hyph;04&hyph;06, NDAC), weight distribution on trailers (37&hyph;06&hyph;04, NDAC), and signing requirements (37&hyph;06&hyph;04&hyph;05, NDAC) are applicable. Movements of LCV's are prohibited when: 1. Road surfaces, due to ice, snow, slush, or frost present a slippery condition which may be hazardous to the operation of the unit or to other highway users; 2. Wind or other conditions may cause the unit or any part thereof to swerve, whip, sway, or fail to follow substantially in the path of the towing vehicle; or 3. Visibility is reduced due to snow, ice, sleet, fog, mist, rain, dust, or smoke. The North Dakota Highway Patrol may restrict or prohibit operations during periods when in its judgment traffic, weather, or other safety conditions make travel unsafe. The last trailer in any combination must have a ``LONG LOAD'' sign mounted on the rear. It must be a minimum of 12 inches in height and 60 inches in length. The lettering must be 8 inches in height with 1-inch brush strokes. The letters must be black on a yellow background. Legal width_8 feet 6 inches on all highways. Legal height_13 feet 6 inches. ACCESS: Access for vehicles with cargo-carrying length of 68 feet or more is 10 miles off the NN. Vehicles with a cargo-carrying length less than 68 feet may travel on all highways in North Dakota. ROUTES: All NN routes. LEGAL CITATIONS: North Dakota Century Code, section 38&hyph;12&hyph;04; North Dakota Administrative Code, article 37&hyph;06.
