FR940721-2-00107 FR940721-2-00065 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Adequacy and Compatibility for NRC and Agreement State Radiation Control Programs Necessary to Protect Public Health and Safety; Draft Statement of Policy AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Draft statement of policy. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is revising its general statement of policy regarding the review of Agreement State radiation control programs. This action is necessary to clarify the meaning and use of the terms ``adequate'' and ``compatible'' as applied to an Agreement State radiation control program. This draft policy statement would not be intended to have the force and effect of law or binding effect; it is intended as guidance to the Agreement States, NRC staff, and the public to make clear how the Commission intends to evaluate the adequacy and compatibility of NRC and Agreement State programs. Comments are solicited on the draft policy statement and specific questions contained in this notice. DATES: Comments are due on or before October 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, D.C. 20555, Attention: Docketing and Services Branch. Deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm on Federal workdays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Cardelia Maupin, State Agreements Program, Office of State Programs, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 504&hyph;2312. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Table of Contents I. Background Results of Discussions with Various Groups A. States B. Regulated Community C. Environmental Group II. Discussion A. Adequate B. Compatibility C. Compatibility and Adequacy Determination of Agreement States D. Termination of Agreements E. Specific Questions for Public Comment III. Policy Statement A. Definitions B. Elements of an Adequate Program C. Elements of a Compatible Program D. Compatibility Criteria E. Implementation F. Examples for the Compatibility Criteria G. Examples of More Stringent Requirements IV. Paperwork Reduction Act Statement I. Background The terms ``compatible'' and ``adequate'' constitute core concepts in the Commission's Agreement State program under Section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act (AEA) of 1954, as amended, in 1959. Subsection 274d. states that the Commission shall enter into an Agreement under subsection b., discontinuing NRC's regulatory authority over certain materials in a State, if the State's program is both adequate to protect public health and safety and compatible with the Commission's regulatory program. Subsection 274g. authorizes and directs the Commission to cooperate with the States in the formulation of standards to assure that State and Commission standards will be coordinated and ``compatible.'' Subsection 274(j)(1) requires the Commission to periodically review the Agreements and actions taken by the States under the Agreements to ensure compliance with the provisions of section 274. Although the terms ``compatible'' and ``adequate'' are fundamental requirements in the Agreement State program under Section 274 of the AEA, these terms are not defined in the Act. Neither has the Commission provided a formal definition or formal comprehensive guidance on how the terms should be interpreted in implementing Section 274. The guiding concept over the years since the beginning of the Agreement State program in the area of compatibility has been to encourage uniformity to the maximum extent practicable while allowing flexibility, where possible, to accommodate local regulatory concerns. This concept has been implemented in case-by-case decisions by the Commission and in internal procedures developed by the staff to assign designations of degrees of ``compatibility'' (i.e. uniformity), from ``essentially verbatim'' to ``no degree of uniformity required,'' to sections of the Commission's regulations. More recently, the Commission has attempted to involve the States earlier in the process of developing new regulations and determining what level of ``compatibility'' (i.e. uniformity) will be required of the Agreement States. The Commission's approach to making compatibility determinations has evolved slowly over the life of the Agreement State program. At the same time, since 1962, the Agreement State program has expanded and developed significantly both in the number of Agreement States, as well as depth of experience and expertise of State regulators. To clarify the matter of compatibility, the Commission has directed the staff to develop a comprehensive interpretation and application of compatibility.
