FR940503-2-00169 FR940503-2-00103 Comments: Three commenters recommend that the priority use more explicit language to identify the ``other'' potential project partners. One commenter believes the priority should explicitly identify national organizations or associations as potential partners or applicants. Another commenter requests the inclusion of non-profit organizations. Discussion: The Secretary supports extensive collaboration. The priority states that partnerships must be formed that involve LEAs, IHEs, and others. The examples of other potential partners does not preclude national organizations, associations, or non-profit entities. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter requests that the National Staff Development Council (NSDC) be cited as a resource to applicants on staff development standards in the Supplementary Information section of the priority. This same commenter encouraged inclusion of the NSDC's Standards for Staff Development under the Required Activities Section of the priority. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes that many organizations have already developed and recommended, or are in the process of developing and recommending guidelines and standards for professional development. The NSDC is a national organization representing a key professional development audience and can appropriately be included as an example in the Supplementary Information section of the priority. The priority requires that projects consider the applicability of several types of standards, including those for teacher preparation and continuing development. The Secretary does not wish to specify particular documents or sources in the text of the priority. Changes: The National Staff Development Council has been added under the Supplementary Information section of the priority. Comments: Two commenters find the examples of possible ways to build upon existing strategies listed in the Supplementary Information section of the priority either too limiting or not specific enough, e.g., model professional development school, model school, and teacher sabbaticals. Discussion: The Secretary used these terms in the Supplementary Information section to give examples of possible strategies for an applicant. The examples are illustrative only. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter recommends that districts and States be allowed to align professional development with performance outcomes in order to allow districts to continue to upgrade teacher skills to improve student performance in locally developed performance outcomes. Discussion: As stated, the priority allows a project to propose this type of activity. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter recommends that grants up to $1 million be awarded for up to three years. Discussion: The Secretary expects that a project could receive up to $1 million over a three-year period. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter recommends that methodology for teaching and understanding the dynamics of at-risk youth be emphasized more. Discussion: The priority permits projects to address the needs of at-risk youth through this sort of focus. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter recommends that the Secretary support model schools located in the inner city to demonstrate existing or newly designed strategies. Discussion: The priority does not preclude such projects provided they have a professional development focus and other requirements of the priority are met. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter recommends changing the language of the required activity to allow an LEA to form a partnership with either one or more institutions of higher education or with other qualified educational institutions. Discussion: The Secretary intends that projects funded under this program form cross-institutional partnerships that will enable sites to address the career-long development of teachers and other educators in an integrated fashion. Therefore, collaboration among those entities which influence educator development from recruitment through retirement is essential. Changes: None.
