FR941122-0-00013 FR941122-0-00005 Executive Associate Commissioner for Policy and Planning The Office of Plans and Analysis is renamed Policy and Planning and moved under the new EAC for Policy and Planning. This organization serves as a clearinghouse for Service policy and is responsible for a wide spectrum of policy activities, including policy formulation, codification, and dissemination within the agency. To this end, the Office of Policy Directives and Instructions is absorbed by the new organization. Strategic planning, annual priorities development, statistics, research and development, and cross-program initiatives, all functions now performed in the Office of Plans and Analysis, are subsumed in the new organization. Executive Associate Commissioner for Management The Executive Associate Commissioner for Management will be responsible for the duties now extant in the Management and Information Systems components of the Service, and will exercise this responsibility through Headquarters Offices of Security, Equal Employment Opportunity, Files and Forms Management, Human Resources and Administration, Finance, Information Resources Management, and the four Administrative Centers (new position; see discussion below). Director, Administrative Center The reorganization further establishes four new Director of Administrative Center positions. The directors will be responsible for administrative services, program oversight, and liaison functions at their respective locations. Specifically, they will manage personnel, administrative, information systems, financial, security, and equal employment opportunity aspects of the offices in their respective geographical areas, subject to oversight and direction from Headquarters. The directors will report to the Executive Associate Commissioner for Management in the exercise of these responsibilities. Executive Staff Offices In addition, the reorganization consolidates existing functions and establishes new offices to oversee and supervise their operation. The Office of Internal Audit, the Office of Congressional Relations, and the Office of Public Affairs are such offices. They will be located in the Office of the Commissioner, and each will be headed by a Director. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605 (b)), has reviewed this regulation and, by approving it, certifies that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This regulation deals with an internal reorganization within the Service, as discussed in the Supplemental section of this document. Executive Order 12866 This rule is considered by the Department of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization Service, to be a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, section 3(f), Regulatory Planning and Review and has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget. As noted in the supplementary section of the rule, the Service has realigned functions and responsibilities to increase overall operational efficiency. The organizational realignments, decentralization and redelegation of specific programmatic responsibility and accountability, as well as empowerment of staff, are critical changes being implemented by the reorganization. These initiatives are deemed by the Service to be significant actions which are in conformance with the Administration's priorities as outlined by the National Performance Review. Executive Order 12612 This regulation will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the National Government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Executive Order 12606 The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service has reviewed this rule and, by signing it, certifies that she has assessed the rule in light of the criteria in Executive Order 12606 and has determined the regulation will have no bearing on family well-being. List of Subjects 8 CFR Part 100 Organizations and functions (Government agencies). 8 CFR Part 103 Administrative practice and procedure, Authority delegations (Government agencies), Freedom of information, Privacy, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surety bonds. Accordingly, chapter I of title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 100_STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION 1. The authority citation for Part 100 continues to read as follows: Authority: 8 U.S.C. 1103; 8 CFR part 2. 2. Section 100.2 is revised to read as follows: ยง100.2 Organization and functions.
