FR940405-2-00069 FR940405-2-00038 3. Professional Education A plan for conducting an assessment of the health care providers to determine important practice information useful in developing an education program. This could include: (1) Screening behaviors in their practices; (2) Knowledge of screening guidelines; (3) Use of screening reminder systems; (4) Laboratories used for reading Pap smears; and (5) Sites of mammography referrals. After the health care provider assessment has been conducted, States should collaborate with appropriate professional groups and organizations to develop a provider education program. The development of a health provider education program would transmit information on the efficacy and appropriate use of screening procedures and reminder systems for providers. Participate in the CDC sponsored training workshops and meetings by ensuring that appropriate representatives attend using travel funds provided through this cooperative agreement. 4. Quality Assurance In preparation for developing a statewide quality assurance component: (1) Conduct a statewide assessment to determine the current status and identify areas of need in mammography and cervical cytology quality assurance; and (2) Develop the components of a comprehensive quality assurance program based on guidelines developed by CDC. a. Mammography The achievement of mammography's full potential contribution to the process of early breast cancer detection requires that quality assurance procedures be systematically applied in routine practice. Mammography quality assurance encompasses the importance of the design, function, and operation of equipment, patient and provider communication, image quality, interpretation of the mammogram, communication of the radiologist's interpretation, and record keeping. The minimal quality level for mammography shall include the following criteria: (1) Properly trained and experienced personnel. (2) Proper use of appropriate, well-maintained, dedicated equipment. (3) Periodic performance evaluation tests of the imaging system following guidelines recommended by the American College of Radiology. b. Cervical Cytology The minimal quality level for cervical cytology shall include the following criteria: (l) Properly trained, accredited, and certified personnel. (2) Licensed laboratories that maintain an ongoing quality assurance program, to include provisions for alternative cervical cancer screening techniques if such systems are used by the participating laboratories. (3) Appropriate reporting and communication of results. 5. Surveillance States should assess current capabilities and develop a plan to ensure that changes in disease burden and screening behavior can be adequately monitored. To do this, a surveillance system should:
