FR940217-1-00054 FR940217-1-00013 The watersheds of the six creeks upstream (west) of the recharge zone span about 684 square kilometers (264 square miles). This area is referred to as the contributing zone and includes portions of Travis, Hays, and Blanco counties. The recharge and contributing zones make up the total area that provides water to the aquifer, which equals about 917 square kilometers (354 square miles) (Slade et al. 1986). Based on streamflow studies, Onion Creek and Barton Creek contribute the greatest percentages of total recharge to the aquifer (34 percent and 28 percent, respectively). Williamson, Slaughter, Bear, and Little Bear creeks each contribute 12 percent or less to total recharge. Owing to the amount of recharge contributed by Barton Creek and its proximity to Barton Springs, this creek has a greater impact on the water quality at the springs than any other recharge source in the Barton Springs segment (Slade et al. 1986). The potential of the Edwards Aquifer to rapidly transmit large volumes of water with little filtration makes it highly susceptible to pollution (Slade et al. 1986). The Edwards Aquifer is a ``karst'' aquifer, characterized by subsurface features such as caves, sinkholes, and other conduits. The aquifer is made up of limestones that have high localized permeability and porosity. Dissolution of calcium carbonate along faults and fractures in the bedrock forms solution channels similar to an underground network of pipes. Because these subsurface ``pipes'' are not uniformly distributed, groundwater movement in the aquifer is highly variable, being rapid in areas where the ``pipes'' are large and extensive and slow where permeability and porosity are low. Transmissivity (the rate at which groundwater is transmitted through the aquifer) values for the Barton Springs segment have been estimated at 0.3 to 4,000 square meters (3 to 47,000 square feet) per day and tend to increase as one moves northward toward the springs (Slade et al. 1985). Karst aquifers are also more prone to pollution than other aquifers because few materials (such as sand, gravel, and organic matter) are present to filter out pollutants (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 1990). Furthermore, waters entering from the surface receive little filtration from the typically thin soils overlying the aquifer (Slade et al. 1986). As a result, increasing urban development over the area supplying recharge waters to the Barton Springs segment can threaten water quality within the aquifer. The Texas Water Commission (TWC) has identified the Edwards Aquifer as being one of the most sensitive aquifers in Texas to groundwater pollution (TWC 1989; Margaret Hart, TWC, in litt ., 1991). The Barton Springs salamander has been a Category 2 candidate species on the Service's candidate notices of review since December 30, 1982 (47 FR 58454; September 18, 1985&hyph;50 FR 37958; January 6, 1989&hyph;54 FR 554; and November 21, 1991&hyph;56 FR 58804), meaning that information then available indicated that a proposal to determine endangered or threatened status was possibly appropriate, but conclusive data on biological vulnerability and threats were not then available to support such a proposal. Through publication of the candidate notices, the Service requests any additional status information that may be available. On January 22, 1992, the Service received a petition from Dr. Mark Kirkpatrick and Ms. Barbara Mahler to list the Barton Springs salamander. The Service evaluated this petition and on November 25, 1992, determined that the petition presented information on threats indicating that the requested action may be warranted. A notice of that finding was published in the Federal Register on December 11, 1992 (57 FR 58779). The Service continued its status review of the species and solicited information regarding the status of the salamander. Although the Federal Register notice requested that comments be submitted by January 11, 1993, the Service sent out numerous notification letters indicating that it recognized additional time may be needed and requesting that pertinent information be submitted by February 10, 1993. This proposed rule constitutes the final finding on the petitioned action for the Barton Springs salamander. Summary of Comments and Recommendations The Service received 205 letters from individuals and agencies providing information and comments on the petition and the 90-day finding. Of the letters received, 104 were form letters stating opposition to listing, 80 were other letters opposing listing, 14 supported listing, and 7 were neutral. Some of the letters provided additional new, substantive information, which was considered in making a final determination on the petition. Major comments of a similar nature or point are grouped into a number of general issues and are presented and discussed here. Issue 1: Several commenters requested that the Service delay or preclude listing the Barton Springs salamander because too little is known about the salamander's biology, including factors such as its range, population size and status, dietary needs, predators, longevity, reproductive success, and sensitivity to contaminants and other water quality constituents. Response: The known range of the Barton Springs salamander is based on the most recent information available, including status surveys conducted by the University of Texas at Austin and TPWD pursuant to section 6 of the Act, and through personal communication with biologists who conducted surveys at other springs in central Texas. No new information was provided to contradict the finding that the salamander is endemic to the immediate vicinity of Barton Springs. Regarding other aspects of the species' biology, such as its population status, the Act requires a species to be determined endangered or threatened if one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1) causes it to qualify under the Act's definition. Absolute population number may not be as significant in determining whether a species is endangered or threatened as knowledge that the species' entire range is threatened and cannot be preserved (see Factor A, ``The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range,'' and Factor D, ``The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms''). Although there are still biological questions regarding the Barton Springs salamander, the Service believes that the available scientific information is sufficient for status determination and strongly supports the need to designate the salamander as an endangered species. The data that support this conclusion are presented and discussed in the ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species'' section of this rule, particularly under Factor A (loss of habitat). Available information on the sensitivity of the salamander and its prey base (amphipods) to water quality deterioration is discussed under Factors A and E (``Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence''). Once a species becomes listed as threatened or endangered, section 4(f) of the Act directs the Service to develop and implement a recovery plan for that species. Recovery is the process by which the decline of a listed species is arrested or reversed, and threats to its survival are eliminated or neutralized, so that its long-term survival in nature can be ensured. Further research is very often an essential component of recovery plans. The Service envisions that conducting research on the salamander's biology and other factors, such as those mentioned in this comment, will be an important part of the recovery process for this species (see Available Conservation Measures).
