FR940810-2-00126 FR940810-2-00076 [Investment Company Act Release No. 20442; 812&hyph;8908] Lord, Abbett & Co., et al.; Notice of Application August 4, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Lord, Abbett & Co. (``Lord Abbett'') Affiliated Fund, Inc., Lord Abbett Developing Growth Fund, Inc., Lord Abbett Value Appreciation Fund, Inc., Lord Abbett Fundamental Value Fund, Inc., Lord Abbett Global Fund, Inc., Lord Abbett Bond-Debenture Fund, Inc., Lord Abbett U.S. Government Securities Fund, Inc., Lord Abbett Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc., Lord Abbett California Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc., Lord Abbett Tax-Free Income Trust, Lord Abbett Investment Trust (``Investment Trust''), Lord Abbett U.S. Government Securities Money Market Fund, Inc. (``Money Market Fund''), Lord Abbett Securities Trust (``Securities Trust''), and other existing or future registered open-end management investment companies for whom Lord Abbett or an entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with Lord Abbett serves as principal underwriter. 1 . 1 Certain existing investment companies which currently do not intend to rely on the requested relief are not named as parties to the application, but may in the future rely on any exemption granted pursuant to the application if they determine to impose a contingent deferred sales charge in accordance with the representations and condition in the application. RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Conditional order requested under section 6(c) for exemption from the provisions of sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 22(c), and 22(d), and rule 22c&hyph;1. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to permit the Funds, as defined below, to assess a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') on certain redemptions of shares. FILING DATE: The application was filed on March 21, 1994, and amended on May 17, 1994, July 29, 1994, and August 3, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on August 29, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 James J. Dwyer, Staff Attorney at (202) 942&hyph;0581, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. All of the applicants other than Lord Abbett are registered open-end management investment companies that offer shares in one or more series. The term ``Fund'' refers to any series of such an applicant that offers shares in multiple series, or to such an applicant that offers shares only in one series. Lord Abbett serves as investment adviser to each Fund, and acts as principal underwriter of the shares of each Fund. 2. Shares of Money Market Fund and the Funds comprising Securities Trust are offered at net asset value. Shares of the other Funds (each an ``FESC Fund'') are offered to investors at their net asset value plus a front-end sales charge. However, there is no front-end sales charge on reinvestment of dividends and distributions, and sales that involve an investment above $1 million. 2 Also, shares of the FESC Funds and Money Market Fund may be exchanged freely, one for the other, without a sales charge, except on exchanges from Money Market Fund into an FESC Fund when Money Market Fund shares were originally purchased without a sales charge. In addition, shares of the Securities Trust Funds are freely exchangeable with shares of other Securities Trust Funds but are not currently exchangeable for shares of any other Fund. 2 To reach the $1 million breakpoint, investments in all Funds except Money Market Fund (unless such investment has been exchanged into Money Market Fund from an FESC Fund) are taken into account, as are amounts covered by statements of intention with any FESC Funds.
