FR940426-2-00115 FR940426-2-00075 Tuesday April 26, 1994 Part IV Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner Section 8 Community Investment Demonstration Program; Funding Availability for Fiscal Year 1994; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 80␣/␣Tuesday, April 26, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3729; FR&hyph;3623&hyph;N&hyph;01] Funding Availability (NOFA) for Fiscal Year 1994, Section 8 Community Investment Demonstration Program AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, HUD. ACTION: Notice of funding availability (NOFA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 1994. SUMMARY: This NOFA announces the availability of $100 million in FY 1994 section 8 budget authority for a national competition to be administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to section 6 of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993. That section directs the Secretary to carry out ``a demonstration program to attract pension fund investment in affordable housing through the use of project-based rental assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.'' This NOFA invites pension funds (public or private) or their affiliates to submit applications to participate in this new demonstration program. Under this demonstration, selected pension funds will receive a set-aside of section 8 funding authority. They will select projects to be assisted, within guidelines established by HUD, and submit them to the Department for approval. New construction and substantial rehabilitation projects are eligible. At least 50 percent of the set-aside must be for HUD-owned properties or properties with HUD-held mortgages. No more than 50 percent of the units in any project (except HUD-owned or HUD-held) may be assisted; however, HUD may provide exceptions to this rule for limited special circumstances such as meeting the needs of the homeless, disabled or displaced. In the case of HUD-owned properties, the number of units required to be assisted will be determined in the disposition plan in accordance with statutory requirements. The pension fund will provide assistance from its set-aside for one-half the number of units to be assisted as determined in the disposition plan; HUD will provide the other one-half from its property disposition set-aside. If the project-specific proposal is approved by HUD, a portion of the pension fund's section 8 set-aside will be assigned to the project. After completion of construction or rehabilitation, pursuant to an agreement between HUD and the project owner, a Housing Assistance Payments Contract will be executed between the owner and HUD. Under this Contract, the owner will be responsible for all management and operation of the project, including determining eligibility of and leasing to low-income families. The NOFA contains information for the applicants regarding the allocation of section 8 budget authority, the application process, including the application requirements and the deadline for filing applications; pension fund selection criteria; and the selection criteria for selecting specific projects to be funded. Detailed instructions and guidelines implementing this demonstration are contained in HUD Notice 94&hyph;19. Prospective applicants should request a copy of the Notice from the address below before submitting an application to participate in the demonstration. DATES: This NOFA will remain open until all Section 8 authority has been allocated or reallocated. HUD will accept applications no earlier than 30 days after publication of this NOFA. Processing of applications will commence in order of receipt. Applications received during each 15 calendar day period, beginning 30 days after publication of this NOFA, will be evaluated against each other. Initial approval will be given no earlier than 45 days after publication. ADDRESSES: The HUD headquarters is the official place of receipt of all applications. The address is Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Insured Multifamily Housing Development, room 6134, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20401&hyph;8000. Each submission should be clearly identified on the exterior as a ``Section 8 Community Investment Demonstration Program Application.''
