FR941103-2-00014 FR941103-2-00011 CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION Notification of Proposed Collection of Information; Structured Group Interviews Regarding the Use of Baby Walkers and the Acceptability of Alternate Products AGENCY: Consumer Product Safety Commission. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1981 (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35), the Consumer Product Safety Commission has submitted to the Office of Management and Budget a request for approval of a proposed collection of information in the form of a series of structured interviews of parents and adult caretakers of young children concerning use of baby walkers and the acceptability of alternative products. The requested expiration date is April 1, 1995. A baby walker is a device that supports a child so that the child can use its feet to move about before or while learning to walk. Typically, a baby walker consists of a fabric seat which has leg openings and is mounted to a rigid plastic deck. The deck is attached to a base which usually is mounted on wheels to allow mobility. Earlier this year, the Commission published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to announce that the agency is considering whether mandatory design, performance, or labeling requirements may be needed to eliminate risks of death and injuries to young children associated with baby walkers. In 1993, an estimated 25,000 children were treated in emergency rooms for injuries associated with baby walkers. The majority of these injuries resulted from falls down stairs or steps. To issue a mandatory safety rule for baby walkers, the Commission is required by law to make and support findings about the expected effects of the rule on the cost, utility, and availability of the products which would be subject to those requirements. The Commission plans to interview six groups of approximately 12 persons each. The individuals in these groups will be parents or adult caretakers of young children. The participants will be asked to describe their perceptions of the benefits, if any, and disadvantages, if any, of conventional baby walkers. Participants will also be asked about the acceptability of various products which might be substituted for conventional baby walkers. The Commission will use this information to assess the utility of baby walkers to consumers; to determine if mandatory performance, design, or labeling requirements would diminish the utility of baby walkers, and if so, to what extent; and to evaluate consumer acceptance of alternatives to baby walkers. The Commission has requested clearance of this request for approval of a collection of information within 30 days in accordance with provisions of regulations implementing the Paperwork Reduction Act (5 CFR 1320.18). Additional Details About the Request for Approval of a Collection of Information Agency address: Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207. Title of information collection: Structured Group Interviews Regarding the Use of Baby Walkers and the Acceptability of Alternate Products. Type of request: Approval of a new plan. Frequency of collection: One time. General description of respondents: Parents and adult caretakers of young children. Total number of respondents: 69. Number of responses per respondent: 1. Hours per response: 2. Total hours for all respondents: 138. Comments: Comments about this request for approval of a collection of information should be addressed to Donald Arbuckle, Desk Officer, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503; telephone (202) 395&hyph;7340. Copies of the request for approval of a collection of information are available from Francine Shacter, Office of Planning and Evaluation, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207; telephone (301) 504&hyph;0416, extension 2245. This is not a proposal to which 44 USC 3504(h) is applicable. Dated: October 31, 1994. Sadye E. Dunn, Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27314 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6355&hyph;01&hyph;P
