FR940317-1-00195 FR940317-1-00016 §240.15c2&hyph;12 Municipal securities disclosure. Preliminary Note: For a discussion of disclosure obligations relating to municipal securities, issuers, brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers should refer to Securities Act Release No. 7049, Exchange Act Release No. 33741, FR&hyph;42 (March 9, 1994). For a discussion of the obligations of underwriters to have a reasonable basis for recommendations of municipal securities, brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers should refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26100 (Sept. 22, 1988) and Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26985 (June 28, 1989). * * * * * (b) Requirements . *␣*␣* (5)(i) A Participating Underwriter shall not purchase or sell municipal securities in connection with an Offering unless the Participating Underwriter has reasonably determined that the issuer or its designated agent has undertaken in a written agreement or contract for the benefit of holders of such securities, to provide to a nationally recognized municipal securities information repository: (A) At least annually, current financial information concerning the issuer of the municipal securities and any significant obligors, including annual audited financial statements and pertinent operating information; and (B) In a timely manner, notice of any of the following events, if material: ( 1 ) Principal and interest payment delinquencies; ( 2 ) Non-payment related defaults; ( 3 ) Unscheduled draws on debt service reserves reflecting financial difficulties; ( 4 ) Unscheduled draws on credit enhancements reflecting financial difficulties; ( 5 ) Substitution of credit or liquidity providers, or their failure to perform; ( 6 ) Adverse tax opinions or events affecting the tax-exempt status of the security; ( 7 ) Modifications to rights of security holders; ( 8 ) Bond calls; ( 9 ) Defeasances; ( 10 ) Matters affecting collateral; and ( 11 ) Rating changes. (ii) Such written agreement or contract for the benefit of holders of such securities shall also specify: (A) The accounting principles pursuant to which the audited financial statements will be prepared; (B) The financial and pertinent operating information to be provided on an annual basis, in addition to audited financial statements; and (C) The time within which the annual information for the preceding year will be provided to the repository. (c) Recommendations without specified information . As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices, it shall be unlawful for any broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer to recommend the purchase or sale of a municipal security unless such broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer has reviewed the information the issuer of the municipal security has undertaken to provide pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section. (d) Exemptions . (1) This section shall not apply to a primary offering of municipal securities in authorized denominations of $100,000 or more, if such securities: (i) Are sold to no more than thirty five persons each of whom the Participating Underwriter reasonably believes: (A) Has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the prospective investment; and (B) Is not purchasing for more than one account or with a view to distributing the securities; or (ii) Have a maturity of nine months or less; or (iii) At the option of the holder thereof may be tendered to an issuer of such securities or its designated agent for redemption or purchase at par value or more at least as frequently as every nine months until maturity, earlier redemption, or purchase by an issuer or its designated agent. (2) Paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall not apply to an Offering of municipal securities if, at such time as the issuer of municipal securities delivers the securities to the Participating Underwriters: (i) The issuer will have less than $10,000,000 in aggregate amount of municipal securities outstanding, including the offered securities; and (ii) The issuer will have issued less than $3,000,000 in aggregate amount, in the 48 months preceding the Offering. (3) The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to a primary offering of municipal securities: (i) Not sold in an Offering to which paragraph (b)(5) of this section applied; or (ii) Sold in an Offering exempt under paragraph (d)(1) or paragraph (d)(2) of this section. * * * * * (f) Definitions. *␣*␣* (3) The term final official statement means a document or set of documents prepared by the issuer of municipal securities or its representatives setting forth, among other matters, information concerning the terms of the proposed issue of securities, and financial and operating information adequate to provide a fair presentation of the issuer's and any significant obligor's current financial condition and results of operations, and cash flows, including audited financial statements, that is complete as of the date delivered to the Participating Underwriter. * * * * * (9) The term significant obligor means any person who, directly or indirectly, is the source of 20 percent or more of the cash flow servicing the obligations on the municipal securities. (g) Transitional Provision. *␣*␣* Paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall not apply to a Participating Underwriter that has contractually committed to act as an underwriter in an Offering of municipal securities before [effective date of final rule]. By the Commission. Dated: March 9, 1994. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5927 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;P
