FR941011-1-00005 FR941011-1-00002 As do all biologics, reference bacterins may lose potency and immunogenicity with the passage of time. The loss of potency and immunogenicity is not constant for all biologics because of differences between master seeds, production methods, adjuvants, diluents, conditions of storage and other variables used in the manufacture of biologics. Therefore the proposed amendment in ยง113.124(b) describes the testing that must be conducted on an E. coli Master Reference to determine if it is still sufficiently potent and immunogenic after its date of expiration to permit extending the date of expiration. Potency Different potency tests are currently used for E. coli bacterns. Potency tests used to compare serials of product to a reference bacterin are: mouse tests, guinea pig tests, and enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). As proposed, new ยง113.124(c) would require the use of a standard in vitro method for testing serials of E. coli bacterins. The proposed standard method is a parallel line immunoassay that compares, for both the unknown and the reference, the linear regression of the optical density (OD) versus the logarithm of antigen concentration determined by ELISA. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has proposed use of this standard in vitro potency test for E. coli bacterins because its use provides three advantages: (1) It ensures the use of a valid test method and makes potency testing more uniform; (2) it ensures that serials of product are potent before release; and (3) it reduces significantly the number of laboratory animals required for testing E. coli bacterins. If adopted, this standard test would require that manufacturing firms have personnel proficient in performing the ELISA procedure and the equipment necessary to perform the tests. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. This proposed rule, if adopted, would aid firms manufacturing E. coli bacterins. The proposal contains Standard Requirements for immunogenicity testing which would provide uniformity among firms instead of each firm having to meet the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service requirements by its own designed methods. This would reduce a firm's cost of research and development needed to design a method to test immunogenicity. The proposed rule would prescribe in vitro potency testing of serials of product with minimal costs to manufacturing firms since the National Veterinary Services Laboratories of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service have developed and standardized the tests and would provide the critical reagents needed to perform the tests. The manufacturers producing E. coli bacterins would need to have personnel proficient in conducting ELISA tests. The necessary equipment and personnel, however, should already be available for other routine procedures in most biologic, research and diagnostic laboratories. Also, the ELISA in vitro potency test is less expensive than the mouse potency test now used by the majority of firms producing E. coli bacterins. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. If this proposed rule is adopted: (1) All State and local laws and regulations that are in conflict with this rule will be preempted; (2) no retroactive effect will be given to this rule; and (3) administrative proceedings will not be required before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule.
