FR940819-2-00129 FR940819-2-00074 Date and Place _January 27, 1994; Alexandria Hospital; Alexandria, Virginia. Nature and Probable Consequences _On January 27, 1994, a patient was scheduled to receive a 500 centigray (cGy) (500 rad) brachytherapy treatment to the trachea using a Nucletron high-dose-rate (HDR) remote afterloader system. A single catheter was used for this endobronchial treatment and the licensee performed a routine simulated treatment. During this simulation, the oncologist established a 3 centimeter (cm) (1.2 inch) tumor treatment site and added a 1 cm (0.4 inch) margin on both ends of the tumor site. Normally, at this time the medial physicist and the dosimetrist plot distances, measured in centimeters along the length of the catheter shown in the simulation film, in order to program the HDR for precise treatment at the prescribed treatment site. This step was not performed and the procedure was initiated without the HDR being properly programmed. The unprogrammed source was allowed to travel beyond the treatment site into the left lung area where the catheter ended. The treatment resulted in the prescribed 500 cGy (500 rad) effective dose equivalent being delivered to the left lung instead of the trachea target site. Prior to administering the dose, the treatment plan and treatment console printout were reviewed by the dosimetrist, the medical physicist, and the oncologist. All three individuals failed to identify the failure to plot the treatment site. Immediately following the treatment, the licensee's medical physicist realized that the plotting and programming of the treatment site were not performed. After discovery of the treatment error, the oncologist determined that the patient should be treated again using the correct treatment parameters. The licensee has advised NRC that no adverse effects to the patient are anticipated as a result of this misadministration. The licensee has informed the patient of the misadministration. Cause or Causes _The licensee's radiation therapy staff failed to follow the licensee's normal protocol for treatment with the HDR remote afterloader. The failure to administer the treatment as prescribed resulted from performing the treatment planning and independent verification in the vicinity of the HDR console, where there were a number of distractions. Actions Taken to Prevent Recurrence Licensee _The licensee's corrective actions included immediate retraining of all personnel involved in brachytherapy treatments and the addition of a checklist for each step in the treatment process. The licensee also added steps to its Quality Management program for HDR brachytherapy. These steps now require the use of the treatment planning computer with manual verification of the input parameter and the use of the treatment parameter card generated by the planning computer to program the HDR rather than programming the HDR treatment parameters manually. NRC _NRC conducted a special inspection from February 2 to 4, 1994, to review the circumstances associated with the misadministration, the licensee's Quality Management program, and the licensee's immediate corrective actions. In addition, on February 25, 1994, NRC employed a medical consultant to provide an assessment of the potential clinical effects of this misadministration and the events that led to it. The inspection report, medical consultant's assessment, and enforcement actions for the misadministration are being completed. Dated at Rockville, MD this 15th day of August, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Acting Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20423 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
