FR940222-0-00031 FR940222-0-00011 Comment: The proposed rule would also permit mental health counselors and pastoral counselors to be certified and removed from physician supervision and referral requirements. There certainly is no legislative authority for the proposed expansion for others than marriage and family therapists, and we think this effort is misguided. Response: Neither the proposed nor final rules permit mental health or pastoral counselors to practice without physician supervision and referral. Both rules keep the requirement for physician supervision and referral for mental health and pastoral counselors. Comment: We believe it inappropriate that OCHAMPUS has gone ahead and promulgated federal criteria that would recognize independent practice and payment under CHAMPUS for practitioners that are not permitted such legal right under state law. We do not believe that OCHAMPUS should be usurping the traditional state role and responsibility to regulate individual professions. This permits unregulated practice without any quality assurance to protect patients. Response: CHAMPUS requires all providers comply with state licensure and certification requirements, and to practice within the parameters of their scope of licensure. This means that if a state requires a certified marriage and family therapist to practice with physician involvement, OCHAMPUS would also require the provider to practice within the state standard. Comment: We strongly request that you add mental health counselors as mental health providers not needing physician referral. Response: The legislation which mandated the removal of physician supervision and referral only authorized removal of the requirement for one category of provider, that is, certified marriage and family therapists. By law, the physician supervision and referral requirement is still required for services rendered by pastoral counselors and mental health counselors under CHAMPUS. Comment: We recommend correcting the national organization which offers clinical membership for marriage and family therapists to the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy rather than the American Association of Marriage and Family Counselors which was listed in proposed paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(D)( 2 ). Response: We have revised the regulatory language to reflect the correct name of the national organization which offers clinical membership for marriage and family therapists. Comment: The experience requirements delineated in ยง199.6(c)(3)(iv)(A)( 2 ) are outdated and cumbersome to administer given the many specific requirements detailed. We recommend that CHAMPUS change the experience requirement to reflect current American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy clinical membership criteria. Such a change would be consistent not only with the current standards established by the nationally recognized credentialing organization for marriage and family therapy, but it would also establish criteria consistent with other independent CHAMPUS providers. Response: We do not find this argument persuasive. A comparison of the requirements shows that the hours of training for marriage and family therapists are identical. However, the American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy standards do not include the requirement for psychotherapy experience even though psychotherapy is one of the major services certified marriage and family therapists provide. Since the CHAMPUS benefit does not include counseling services and certified marriage and family therapists will primarily be providing psychotherapy services to CHAMPUS beneficiaries, we feel a requirement for psychotherapy experience is critical.
