FR940627-0-00091 FR940627-0-00015 Other Issues Reciprocity 29. The Commission declined to impose reciprocal signalling obligations on interconnectors at this time. It found, first, that requests for reciprocal obligations are beyond the scope of this proceeding. The Notice proposed that LECs provide signalling information to third parties. The Commission stated that it did not propose to impose reciprocal requirements on these third parties, and that it declined to broaden this proceeding to consider such requirements here. The Commission stated that second, LEC requests for reciprocity seem to assume that only CAPs will purchase signalling information. As noted, this information must be made available to any interested party, including IXCs. LECs requesting reciprocity fail to address the implications of their proposal with respect to these other types of TSPs. The Commission stated that third, except in the few instances where CAPs have end offices, interconnectors simply do not have the signalling information to provide to the LECs, and the LECs have not demonstrated specific, present needs for such information. The Commission found furthermore, that TSPs do not possess market power. It stated, for example, that the Commission had previously declined to impose reciprocal obligations on interconnectors, noting, inter alia, that CAPs and other interconnectors do not control bottleneck facilities. Jurisdictional Measurement and Reporting 30. The Commission found that most parties agree that the customer of record should be responsible for reporting the PIU factor for terminating traffic when the LEC cannot itself measure jurisdiction. The Commission stated that this is consistent with existing reporting arrangements that have worked satisfactorily. If the customer of record is a TSP, it shall be the responsibility of that TSP to compile PIU reports based on data from those to whom it provides tandem-switching. If the customer of record is an IXC or other purchaser of access, that entity shall continue to provide PIU reports directly to the LEC providing terminating access. Separations Issues 31. The Commission concluded that the signalling information requirement does not raise separations issues that should be referred to a Joint Board. The record does not show that providing signalling information will raise any significant issues beyond those already referred to the Joint Board in the Switched Transport Expanded Interconnection Order. As noted, the costs associated with LEC provision of CIC and OZZ codes from equal access end offices should be minimal. The Commission found that therefore, these costs or the revenues derived from providing signalling information do not require Joint Board consideration. The Notice stated that the Commission did not intend to refer to the Joint Board broader separations issues. The Commission stated that these matters would be more properly addressed in the context of a comprehensive separations review proceeding. Conclusion 32. The Commission concluded that in this Order, it took another step in its ongoing effort to promote competition in the interstate access market. Tier 1 LECs (except NECA members) are required to provide signalling information from equal access end offices to interested third parties. This measure will allow third parties to provide tandem switching and thereby promote development of alternatives to LEC-provided tandem-switched transport service. CAPs may develop their own tandem-switching networks; other TSPs may use tandem-switching to achieve scale economics attending the aggregation of traffic. The Commission found that by promoting access to diverse facilities and providers, this action should permit more efficient use and deployment of interstate access services, increase network reliability and redundancy, encourage innovation, and exert downward pressure on access charges and long-distance rates. These benefits should, in turn, contribute to economic growth and the creation of new job opportunities. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 33. The Commission stated that in the Notice, it certified that the proposed rule changes would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small business entities, as defined by §601(3) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. 5 It also stated that the Notice provided that to the extent that a PIU reporting requirement would apply to small entities, it would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small business entities. The Commission found that no commenting party disagreed with its analysis. The Secretary shall send a copy of this Report and Order, including the certification, to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration in accordance with §605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, Public Law 96&hyph;354, 94 Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. §§ 601 et seq. 5 Notice, 7 FCC Rcd at 7749, ¶57. Ordering Clauses 34. Accordingly, it is ORDERED, pursuant to authority contained in Sections 1, 4(i), 201&hyph;205, and 214(d) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 151(i), 154, 201&hyph;205, and 214(d), that Parts 61 & 69 of the Commission's rules, 47 CFR §§61, 64, and 69, are AMENDED as set forth below. 35. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the policies, rules, and requirements set forth herein ARE ADOPTED, effective eighty days after publication in the Federal Register .
