FR940620-2-00122 FR940620-2-00063 What Are the Risks From These Vaccines? As with any medicine, there are very small risks that serious problems, even death, could occur after getting a vaccine. The risks from the vaccine are much smaller than the risks from the diseases if people stopped using vaccine. Below is a list of problems that may occur after getting the vaccine. If your child ever had one of the moderate or severe problems listed below or any other serious problem after DTP, DTaP, or DT, discuss it with your doctor or nurse before this vaccination. ␣Mild Problems If these problems occur, they usually start within hours to a day or two after vaccination. They usually last up to 1&hyph;2 days: _Soreness, redness, or swelling where the shot was given _Fever _Fussiness, drowsiness, less appetite Acetaminophen or ibuprofen (non-aspirin) may be used to prevent or reduce fever and soreness. This is especially important for children who have had seizures or have a parent, brother or sister who has had seizures. ␣Moderate Problems Once for every 100&hyph;1,000 doses: _On-going crying for 3 hours or more _Fever of 105 ○F or higher _An unusual, high-pitched cry Once for every 1,750 doses: _A seizure (jerking and staring spell) usually caused by fever _Shock-collapse (becomes blue or pale, limp, and faints) ␣Severe Problems These problems happen very rarely: _Serious allergic reaction after DT or DTP _A long seizure _Decreased consciousness or coma There is disagreement about whether or not DTP causes lasting brain damage. If it does, it is very rare. What to do if there is a serious reaction: •Call a doctor or get the person to a doctor right away. •Write down what happened and the date and time it happened. •Ask your doctor, nurse, or health department to file a Vaccine Adverse Event Report form or call: (800) 822&hyph;7967 (toll-free). The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program gives compensation (payment) for some persons thought to be injured by vaccines. For details call: (800) 338&hyph;2382 (toll-free). If you want to learn more, ask your doctor or nurse. She/he can give you the vaccine package insert or suggest other sources of information: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, DTP 6/10/94, 42 U.S.C. §300aa&hyph;26.
