FR940505-1-00132 FR940505-1-00012 (f) Authority. As explained above, in promulgating a FIP under section 110 (c) of the Act, EPA may take any actions that the state could take. As section 209 of the CAA provides that California is not preempted from adopting and implementing a motor vehicle emissions control program provided its program satisfies the criteria of section 209(b), EPA believes that it, acting on behalf of California in the context of a FIP, may adopt a motor vehicle program or supplement California's own motor vehicle program provided that EPA's actions would satisfy the criteria of section 209(b) for a waiver of Federal preemption. Moreover, EPA believes that it, acting on behalf of California in the context of a FIP, may adopt a nonroad engine program or supplement California's nonroad engine program provided that EPA's actions satisfy the criteria of section 209(e)(2) for a waiver of Federal preemption and provided that the program does not establish emission standards or accompanying enforcement procedures for any new nonroad engines that California, under section 209(e)(1) is precluded from regulating (i.e., new locomotive and new engines used in locomotives and new engines used in construction equipment or vehicles or used in farm equipment or vehicles and which are smaller than 175 horsepower). Section 209 provides that EPA is to grant California a waiver of preemption if the State determines that its standards ``will be, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as applicable Federal standards.'' Section 209 further provides that no waiver or authorization is to be granted if EPA finds that: (A) the determination of the State that the standards are, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as otherwise applicable Federal standards is arbitrary and capricious; (B) State standards are not needed to meet compelling and extraordinary conditions; or (C) the State standards and accompanying enforcement procedures are not consistent with section 202(a) (or are not consistent with section 209, as is the case of nonroad engines under section 209(e)). EPA has interpreted the consistency criterion as meaning that California standards and accompanying enforcement procedures must be technologically feasible within the leadtime provided, taking into account the cost of compliance, and that they not impose inconsistent certification test procedure requirements such that the same vehicle or engine could not be used to comply with both State and Federal certification requirements. EPA believes that the on-highway and nonroad motorcycle program that would be applicable to vehicles and engines in California under the proposed FIP would satisfy the section 209 waiver criteria. Thus, California could undertake the on-highway and nonroad motorcycle program described above, and, therefore, EPA has authority under section 110(c) to undertake the proposed programs. With respect to the protectiveness of the standards, all of the proposed standards are at least as protective as the otherwise applicable Federal standards. With respect to the need to meet compelling and extraordinary conditions, EPA has repeatedly found that California's air quality problems satisfy the need criterion of section 209. Moreover, the magnitude of the reductions in emissions needed to reach attainment in the FIP areas, including mobile source emissions, provides ample evidence of the need for more stringent motor vehicle emission standards in California. Finally, with respect to the criterion of consistency with section 202(a) or section 209, EPA believes that its proposed enhanced nonroad program is consistent with both the technological feasibility and certification elements of that criterion. EPA believes that the various elements of the program are technologically feasible within the leadtime provided, taking into account the cost of compliance. Moreover, no aspect of the program establishes any new certification test procedures that are inconsistent with either existing Federal or California test procedure requirements. Consequently, EPA believes that its proposed on-highway and nonroad motorcycle program satisfies this prong of section 209 as well. In addition, as none of the classes of nonroad equipment EPA is regulating under this program are new farm or construction equipment or new locomotives, this program meets the requirements of section 209(e)(1). (2) Fee on Marine Pleasure Craft. Although the new national emission standards for spark ignition engines in marine pleasure craft described above will result in substantial emissions reductions per engine, overall reductions in emissions from this category will depend primarily on the amount of fleet turnover after the new standards are introduced. Under conditions of normal turnover, EPA expects that approximately one half of the total fleet of marine pleasure craft will meet the new standard by 2005. However, even normal turnover may not result in enough emission reduction to accomplish the goals of this FIP. EPA believes that additional measures are needed to strongly encourage the use of only cleaner engines in the FIP areas. Therefore, EPA proposes to require that all owners of marine pleasure craft with spark ignition engines obtain an emission permit before operating their boats in the FIP areas during each area's ozone season beginning in 2004.
