FR940228-1-00028 FR940228-1-00003 21. Section §34.27 is revised to read as follows: §34.27 Leak testing and replacement of sealed sources. (a) The replacement of any sealed source fastened to or contained in a radiographic exposure device and leak testing of any sealed source must be performed only by persons specifically authorized by the Commission or an Agreement State to do so. (b) Testing and recordkeeping requirements. (1) Each licensee who uses a sealed source shall have the source tested for leakage at intervals not to exceed 6 months. (2) The licensee shall maintain records of the leak tests in accordance with §34.67. (3) In the absence of a certificate from the transferor that a leak test has been made within the 6 months before the transfer, the sealed source may not be used until tested. (c) Method of testing. The wipe of a sealed source must be performed using a leak test kit or method approved by the Commission or an Agreement State. The wipe sample must be taken from the nearest accessible point to the sealed source where contamination might accumulate. The wipe sample must be analyzed for radioactive contamination. The analysis must be capable of detecting the presence of 185 Bq (0.005 microcurie) of radioactive material on the test sample and must be performed by a person specifically authorized by the Commission or an Agreement State to perform the analysis. (d) Any test conducted pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section which reveals the presence of 185 Bq (0.005 microcurie) or more of removable radioactive material must be considered evidence that the sealed source is leaking. The licensee shall immediately withdraw the equipment involved from use and shall have it decontaminated and repaired or disposed of, in accordance with Commission regulations. A report must be filed with the Director of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, within 5 days of any test with results that exceed the threshold in this subsection, describing the equipment involved, the test results, and the corrective action taken. A copy of the report must be sent to the Administrator of the appropriate Nuclear Regulatory Commission's Regional Office listed in Appendix D of part 20 of this chapter ``Standards for Protection Against Radiation.'' (e) A sealed source which is not fastened to or contained in a radiographic exposure device must have permanently attached to it a durable tag at least one (1) inch square bearing the prescribed radiation caution symbol in conventional colors, magenta, purple or black on a yellow background, and at least the instructions: ``Caution (or Danger)_Radioactive Material_Do Not Handle_Notify Civil Authorities (or Name of Company).'' (f) Each exposure device using depleted uranium (DU) shielding and an ``S'' tube configuration must be periodically tested for DU contamination. This test can be performed by the licensee using available test kits or method approved by the Commission or an Agreement State, or the exposure device could be returned to the manufacturer for such testing. The analysis must be capable of detecting the presence of 185 Bq (0.005 microcuries) of radioactive material on the test sample and must be performed by a person specifically authorized by the Commission or an Agreement State to perform the analysis. This test must be undertaken at intervals not to exceed 12 months and should such testing reveal the presence of DU contamination, the exposure device must be removed from use and arrangements for repair or proper disposal in a facility licensed under 10 CFR part 61 must be made. A record of the DU leaktest must be made in accordance with §34.67. §34.28 [Removed] 22. Section 34.28 is removed. 23. Section 34.29 is revised to read as follows: §34.29 Quarterly inventory. (a) Each licensee shall conduct a quarterly physical inventory to account for all sealed sources received and possessed under this license. (b) The licensee shall maintain records of the quarterly inventory in accordance with §34.69. §34.30 [Removed] 24. Section 34.30 is removed. 25. Section 34.31 is revised to read as follows: §34.31 Inspection and maintenance of radiographic exposure devices, storage containers, associated equipment, and source changers. (a) The licensee shall visually check for obvious defects in radiographic exposure devices, storage containers, associated equipment, and source changers before use each day the equipment is used to ensure that the equipment is in good working condition and that required labeling is present. If defects are found, the equipment must be removed from service until repaired, and a record must be made in accordance with §34.73.
