FR941007-1-00008 FR941007-1-00001 Second, current regulatory programs, whatever their form, have a significant influence on ambient concentrations of pollutants. In general, the marginal damage associated with changes in net emissions due to alternative appliance standards is sensitive to base level of pollutant loading. The Department notes that existing programs, notably implementation of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, could result in significant changes in emissions loadings, and therefore change marginal damages, before the standards promulgated pursuant to this rulemaking take effect. Economic growth over time would, in itself, tend to have the opposite effect. The Department is currently considering how best to assess the marginal damages that should be associated with any variation in emissions due to alternative appliance standards under these changing circumstances. Issue 3: The geographic scope of environmental externalities that will be considered within the analysis. Environmental externalities associated with energy-related emissions arise on all geographic scales. For example, attainment of ambient air quality standards for criteria pollutants is assessed at the level of an air quality control region, generally a county or regional metropolitan area airshed. Concentrations of the criteria pollutants Nitrous Oxide (NO X ), Sulfur Oxide (SO X ), and ozone, the latter for which non-attainment remains a widespread problem, may be influenced by emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs), NO X and SO X from the energy sector. Acid precipitation, for which NO X and SO X emissions from the utility sector are important precursors, is a pollution issue in which regional transport plays a major role. In some parts of the country, the same is also true for smog. Some issues involving energy-related emissions can even transcend national boundaries. Increasing attention has turned to the possibility of climate change due to increasing atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Carbon dioxide, primarily from the combustion of fossil fuels, is the single most important greenhouse gas. Because atmospheric concentrations are driven by global emissions trends, concern with greenhouse gas emissions is truly global in nature. The Department believes that emissions impacts on all geographic scales are relevant to the development of externality values for use in the context of this rulemaking. However, because appliance efficiency standards are implemented at the national level, environmental externalities should be evaluated from a net national perspective. Thus, for example, based on our current understanding, if variation in a standard increases environmental damage in some areas while reducing it in others, only the change in net damage to the nation would be relevant to the comparison of alternative standards. b. The Role of Damage-based and Cost-based Measures Issue 4: The role of damage-based and cost-based measures in the development of externality values. The Department believes that both types of measures may play a role in estimating the net national benefits of selecting alternative energy efficiency standards. The Department does not view itself as facing a choice between damage-based and cost-based measures; rather, different measures are applicable in different cases. Three different cases are described below. Regardless of which case applies, in all cases the Department's aim is to use economic analyses to quantify the change in net national benefits attributable to different appliance efficiency standards. Case 1: Changes in the efficiency standard selected will change national emission levels. In this case, selecting a more energy-efficient standard will reduce emissions into the environment. The Department believes that damage-based measures are the preferred means of valuing the external effects of these reductions. Damaged-based estimates are a direct measure of the external effect of variations in emissions levels. Reductions in damage due to reduced emissions could encompass reduced human morbidity or illness, reduced property damage, and/or improved environmental resources.
