FR941004-1-00052 FR941004-1-00015 One small population of Calyptridium pulchellum occurs on lands administered by the Sierra National Forest and is fenced to protect it from livestock trampling and grazing (J. Clines, pers. comm., 1993). However, the remaining populations are not protected. E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting their continued existence. Low seedling establishment, trampling, competition from native brush, off-road vehicle (ORV) activity, potential realignment of a preserve boundary fence, fire suppression, illegal dumping, and stochastic extinction variously affect some populations of Brodiaea pallida, Clarkia springvillensis, Fritillaria striata, and Carpenteria californica. ORV use has destroyed some plants in the past at one population of Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus, however, recent damage is not evident (CDFG 1989a). An ORV road bisects one population of Mimulus shevockii and a gravel road bisects another population (CNDDB 1993). Ongoing ORV activity threatens this plant. Two populations of Allium tuolumnense were partially destroyed by ORV use in the Red Hills (The Nature Conservancy 1987), which is currently closed to ORVs. ORV use threatens four populations of Carpenteria californica (CNDDB 1993). One population of Navarretia setiloba in Kern County has received some disturbance from ORV use (CNDDB 1993), and another population is bisected by an ORV road (CNDDB 1993). The single, small population of Brodiaea pallida is restricted to an intermittent drainage that is fed by some small springs. Any disruption to the hydrology of the springs or the upslope watershed would threaten this population of B. pallida. Local catastrophic events such as floods, disease outbreak, extended drought, landslides, or a combination of several such events could destroy a part or all of the population of B. pallida. Any local catastrophe could significantly decrease this population to so few individuals that the risk of extirpation due to genetic problems associated with small populations would increase. Plants at one population of Fritillaria striata in Kern County have been trampled by cattle, and an additional population is potentially threatened by trampling (CNDDB 1993). Because no seedlings of Fritillaria striata have been observed in nature, it is unknown to what degree this species is reproducing sexually (Stebbins 1989). The distribution of F. striata may be limited partially by its apparent reliance on vegetative reproduction (Stebbins 1989). The populations of this plant are discontinuously distributed throughout its range, making sexual reproduction difficult. By relying solely on vegetative reproduction, the genetic diversity of the species can be reduced, weakening the long-term viability of the species. Fritillaria striata also faces threats from nonnative grasses such as Avena and Bromus that compete with the subject plant for space, light, and nutrients (Stebbins 1989). Fire suppression on private lands is a threat to the long-term survival of Carpenteria californica (J. Clines, pers. comm., 1993). Carpenteria californica exhibits low seedling establishment (CDFG 1991). The germination and seedling establishment of C. californica in nature was not observed or documented prior to 1989. However, a 1989 wildfire in Fresno County stimulated vigorous regrowth of the plant and the first recorded seedling establishment (J. Clines, in. litt ., 1993). Overgrazing and trampling by cattle directly after a wildfire, when seedlings are vulnerable, adversely affects the plant. Carpenteria californica requires more frequent fire than that is currently being experienced for successful sexual reproduction to occur (J. Clines, in. litt ., 1993). Fire is also important for maintaining the vigor of established individual shrubs of C. californica , by preventing associated species such as Quercus wislizenii, Arctostaphylos mariposa , and Ceanothus leucodermis from outcompeting C. californica for light, space, and nutrients (J. Clines, in. litt ., 1993). Because the private lands containing the populations of Carpenteria californica consist of many small ranchettes and multiple landowners, it is unlikely that a controlled burn over an area large enough to effectively promote necessary sexual reproduction of C. californica could be successfully organized and carried out. Continued fire suppression and the inability to conduct needed controlled burns on private lands threaten all populations of C. californica that occur on private lands. The necessity of fire for sexual reproduction and for the long-term survival of this plant is understood by the Sierra National Forest. The policy of continued fire suppression to protect upslope timber stands is a threat to populations of C. californica on public lands. Illegal dumping has been reported at two populations of Carpenteria californica (Stebbins 1988). Trash dumping destroys individual plants and degrades the habitat by introducing a wide variety of pollutants that inhibit seed germination and plant growth.
