FR941017-1-00025 FR941017-1-00001 (c) Physical characteristics of the site, including seismology, meteorology, geology, and hydrology. (1) §100.23, ``Geologic and seismic siting factors,'' of this part describes the criteria and nature of investigations required to obtain the geologic and seismic data necessary to determine the suitability of the proposed site and the plant design bases. (2) Meteorological characteristics of the site that are necessary for safety analysis or that may have an impact upon plant design (such as maximum probable wind speed and precipitation) must be identified and characterized. (3) Factors important to hydrological radionuclide transport such as soil, sediment, and rock characteristics, adsorption and retention coefficients, ground water velocity, and distances to the nearest surface body of water) must be obtained from on-site measurements. The maximum probable flood along with the potential for seismically induced floods discussed in §100.23(d)(3) of this part must be estimated using historical data. §100.21 Non-seismic siting criteria. Applications for site approval for commercial power reactors shall demonstrate that the proposed site meets the following criteria: (a) Every site must have an exclusion area and a low population zone, as defined in §100.3; (b) The population center distance, as defined in §100.3, must be at least one and one-third times the distance from the reactor to the outer boundary of (the low population zone. In applying this guide, the boundary of the population center shall be determined upon consideration of population distribution. Political boundaries are not controlling in the application of this guide; (c) Site atmospheric dispersion characteristics must be evaluated and dispersion parameters established such that: (1) Radiological effluent release limits associated with normal operation from the type of facility proposed to be located at the site can be met for any individual located offsite; and (2) Radiological dose consequences of postulated accidents shall meet the criteria set forth in §50.34(a)(1) of this chapter for the type of facility proposed to be located at the site; (d) The physical characteristics of the site, including meteorology, geology, seismology, and hydrology must be evaluated and site parameters established such that potential threats from such physical characteristics will pose no undue risk to the type of facility proposed to be located at the site; (e) Potential hazards associated with nearby transportation routes, industrial and military facilities must be evaluated and site parameters established such that potential hazards from such routes and facilities will pose no undue risk to the type of facility proposed to be located at the site; (f) Site characteristics must be such that adequate security plans and measures can be developed; (g) Site characteristics must be such that adequate plans to take protective actions for members of the public in the event of emergency can be developed: (h) Reactor sites should be located away from very densely populated centers. Areas of low population density are, generally, preferred. However, in determining the acceptability of a particular site located away from a very densely populated center but not in an area of low density, consideration will be given to safety, environmental, economic, or other factors, which may result in the site being found acceptable. 3 3 Examples of these factors include, but are not limited to, such factors as the higher population density site having superior seismic characteristics, better access to skilled labor for construction, better rail and highway access, shorter transmission line requirements, or less environmental impact on undeveloped areas, wetlands or endangered species, etc. Some of these factors are included in, or impact, the other criteria included in this section. §100.23 Geologic and seismic siting factors. This section sets forth the principal geologic and seismic considerations that guide the Commission in its evaluation of the suitability of a proposed site and adequacy of the design bases established in consideration of the geologic and seismic characteristics of the proposed site, such that, there is a reasonable assurance that a nuclear power plant can be constructed and operated at the proposed site without undue risk to the health and safety of the public. Applications to engineering design are contained in appendix S to part 50 of this chapter. (a) Applicability. The requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section apply to applicants for an early site permit or combined license pursuant to part 52 of this chapter, or a construction permit or operating license for a nuclear power plant pursuant to Part 50 of this chapter on or after [EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE]. However, if the construction permit was issued prior to [EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE], the operating license applicant shall comply with the seismic and geologic siting criteria in appendix A to part 100 of this chapter. (b) Commencement of construction. The investigations required in paragraph (c) of this section are within the scope of investigations permitted by §50.10(c)(1) of this chapter. (c) Geological, seismological, and engineering characteristics. The geological, seismological, and engineering characteristics of a site and its environs must be investigated in sufficient scope and detail to permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed site, to provide sufficient information to support evaluations performed to arrive at estimates of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion, and to permit adequate engineering solutions to actual or potential geologic and seismic effects at the proposed site. The size of the region to be investigated and the type of data pertinent to the investigations must be determined based on the nature of the region surrounding the proposed site. Data on the vibratory ground motion, tectonic surface deformation, nontectonic deformation, earthquake recurrence rates, fault geometry and slip rates, site foundation material, and seismically induced floods and water waves must be obtained by reviewing pertinent literature and carrying out field investigations. However, each applicant shall investigate all geologic and seismic factors (for example, volcanic activity) that may affect the design and operation of the proposed nuclear power plant irrespective of whether such factors are explicitly included in this section.
