FR940228-0-00032 FR940228-0-00004 Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule without change. Effective Date This is a substantive rule that relieves restrictions and, pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, may be made effective less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . This rule removes restrictions on the importation of hoofs by allowing hoofs that have been processed in their country of origin to be imported into the United States without further processing. We have determined that approximately 2 weeks are needed to ensure that Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service personnel at ports of entry receive official notice of this change in the regulations. Therefore, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this rule should be made effective 15 days after publication in the Federal Register . Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act We are issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. Based on information compiled by the Department, we have determined that this rule: (1) Will have an effect on the economy of less than $100 million; (2) will not adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (3) will not create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (4) will not alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or rights and obligations of recipients thereof; and (5) will not raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. We have required certain hoofs imported into the United States to be consigned directly from the port of entry to an approved establishment that has facilities for their disinfection. This rule will allow hoofs to be imported into the United States without further processing if the hoofs have been disinfected using an approved method in their country of origin. We believe that adding this option will have little or no economic impact on U.S. importers of hoofs because it will not significantly decrease their cost of doing business. The primary impact on these importers will be the added convenience of having two importation options from which to choose. The primary use of disinfected hoofs appears to be in the production of dog chews, but that industry is still in its infancy and is rather small in terms of production and numbers of producers. Based on information available to the Department, we estimate that there are currently fewer than 10 importers of hoofs and approximately 6 producers of dog chews made from hoofs. Using the Small Business Administration's size criteria of fewer than 100 employees, all of these businesses would be considered small entities. We believe that a few of these businesses receive hoofs from both foreign and domestic sources. Because the industry is small and relatively new, however, there are no records available concerning the number of hoofs imported into the United States or the levels of dog chew production. The facilities in which hoofs are disinfected handle a variety of items, with hoofs making up only a small percentage of the total volume of products processed. Therefore, we anticipate that allowing hoofs to be processed in their country of origin will have little, if any, economic impact on domestic processors in terms of lost volume and revenue. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12778 This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule: (1) Preempts all State and local laws and regulations that are inconsistent with this rule; (2) has no retroactive effect; and (3) does not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the information collection or recordkeeping requirements included in this final rule will be submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget. List of Subjects in 9 CFR Part 95 Imports, Livestock, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Accordingly, 9 CFR part 95 is amended as follows: PART 95_SANITARY CONTROL OF ANIMAL BYPRODUCTS (EXCEPT CASINGS), AND HAY AND STRAW, OFFERED FOR ENTRY INTO THE UNITED STATES 1. The authority citation for part 95 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 111, 136, and 136a; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.51, and 371.2(d). 2. Section 95.11 is amended as follows: a. The section heading is revised as set forth below. b. The undesignated text of the section is designated as paragraph (a). c. A new paragraph (b) is added to read as set forth below. §95.11 Bones, horns, and hoofs for trophies or museums; disinfected hoofs. * * * * * (b) Clean, dry hoofs disinfected in the country of origin may be imported without other restrictions if the following conditions are met: (1) The hoofs have been disinfected using one of the following methods: (i) Dry heat at 180 ○F (82.2 ○C) for 30 minutes; (ii) Soaking in boiling water for 20 minutes; (iii) Soaking in a 0.1 percent chlorine bleach solution for 2 hours; (iv) Soaking in a 5 percent acetic acid solution for 2 hours; or (v) Soaking in a 5 percent hydrogen peroxide solution for 2 hours. (2) The hoofs are accompanied by a certificate issued by the national government of the country of origin and signed by an official veterinary inspector of that country stating that the hoofs have been disinfected and describing the manner in which the disinfection was accomplished. Done in Washington, DC, this 18th day of February 1994. Patricia Jensen, Acting Assistant Secretary, Marketing and Inspection Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4486 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;34&hyph;P
