FR940323-0-00042 FR940323-0-00020 Because national nonprofits are by definition nonprofit organizations, they are eligible to apply as subgrantees to States, Federal agencies, and other grantmaking organizations. In addition, in fiscal year 1994 they are eligible to apply for national direct funding. (18) Operating grant definition. One commenter noted that the description of operating grants in §2521.20 of the regulations refers only to new or expanded programs. The commenter suggested adding on-going support for existing high-quality programs. The Corporation agrees that the statute authorizes on-going support to operate programs. Change: §2521.20 has been revised. (19) National direct coordination. Several commenters were concerned that the requirement that programs coordinate with the State commissions places too much power in the State Commissions. One commenter suggested that the regulations be revised to require national program applicants to meet and consult with State Commissions and to encourage, but not require, coordination of their efforts. The Corporation did not intend the coordination requirement to require State Commission approval. The regulations have been revised to clarify the extent of coordination that is required. Change: §2522.100 has been revised. (20) Dissemination of information. (§2522.210) The regulations list a number of entities through which the Corporation will disseminate information regarding available AmeriCorps positions. Several commenters suggested adding community-based organizations to this list. This change has been made. Change: §2522.210 has been revised. (21) Training investment. One commenter suggested that the Corporation require the grantees to spend between 5 and 10% of any grant on staff and participant training activities. The Corporation agrees that adequate training_for both staff and participants_is a critical component of any high-quality program. In order to receive a grant, a program will have to demonstrate the existence of an appropriate training program. But because the training and capacity-building needs of the various other entities eligible to apply for AmeriCorps grants vary widely, the Corporation is not setting regulatory guidelines on what percentage of those grants must be spent on training and capacity building. However, the Corporation reserves the right to set such guidelines in the applications. (22) Disaster Grants. §2524.50. One commenter suggested that we require disaster relief grants to go through the State Commissions. The commenter argued that this would better ensure the coordination of activities. The Corporation wishes to maintain flexibility on this issue and thus is not changing the regulations. For a given disaster, disaster grants may in fact flow through a State Commission. However, there also may be instances during a disaster when the Corporation would wish to distribute disaster funds directly to programs. (23) Replication grants. One commenter wondered why the term ``replication'' does not occur in the regulations although it occurred in the preamble. Replication grants are allowable and they have been added to the regulations. Change: §2521.20 has been amended. (24) Matching requirements. One commenter requested clarification as to whether the general 25% match was inclusive or exclusive of the 15% living allowance and health care match. The corporation agrees that the matching guidelines require further clarification, and the regulations have been amended to provide clarification. For the purposes of calculating matching requirements, there are two broad budget categories: participant support costs and other costs. Participant support costs are comprised of living allowances, health care benefits, and child care costs, each of which has a different matching requirement as specified below: Health Care: Corporation funds may be used to pay for no more than 85% of total health care costs. Child Care: Corporation funds may be used to pay for 100% of child care costs. Living Allowances: Corporation and other Federal funds may be used to pay for no more than 85% of living allowance costs.
