FR941102-0-00068 FR941102-0-00020 (2) An amateur service license issued to the person by the Government of Canada. The person must be a Canadian citizen. (d) A person who has been granted a station license of the type listed in paragraph (b) of this section, or who holds an unexpired document of the type listed in paragraph (c) of this section, is authorized to use in accordance with the FCC Rules all transmitting apparatus under the physical control of the station licensee at points where the amateur service is regulated by the FCC. 3. Section 97.7 is revised to read as follows: ยง97.7 Control operator required. When transmitting, each amateur station must have a control operator. The control operator must be a person who has been granted an amateur operator/primary station license, or who holds an unexpired document of the following types: (a) A reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee (FCC Form 610&hyph;AL) issued to the person by the FCC, or (b) An amateur service license issued to the person by the Government of Canada. The person must be a Canadian citizen. 4. Section 97.9 is revised to read as follows: ยง97.9 Operator license. (a) The classes of amateur operator licenses are: Novice, Technician, Technician Plus (until such licenses expire, a Technician Class license granted before February 14, 1991, is considered a Technician Plus Class license), General, Advanced, and Amateur Extra. A person who has been granted an operator license is authorized to be the control operator of an amateur station with the privileges of the operator class specified on the license. (b) A person who has been granted an operator license of Novice, Technician, Technician Plus, General, or Advanced class and who has properly submitted to the administering VEs an application document, FCC Form 610, for an operator license of a higher class, and who holds a CSCE indicating that the person has completed the necessary examinations within the previous 365 days, is authorized to exercise the rights and privileges of the higher operator class until final disposition of the application or until 365 days following the passing of the examination, whichever comes first. 5. Section 97.17 is revised to read as follows: ยง97.17 Application for new license or reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee. (a) Any qualified person is eligible to apply for an amateur service license. (b) Each application for a new amateur service license must be made on the proper document: (1) FCC Form 610 for a new operator/primary station license; (2) FCC Form 610&hyph;A for a reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee; and (3) FCC Form 610&hyph;B for a new amateur service club or military recreation station license. (c) Each application for a new operator/primary station license must be submitted to the VEs administering the qualifying examination. (d) Any eligible person may apply for a reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee. The application document, FCC Form 610&hyph;A, must be submitted to the FCC, 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, PA 17325&hyph;7245. (1) The person must be a citizen of a country with which the United States has arrangements to grant reciprocal operating permits to visiting alien amateur operators is eligible to apply for a reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee. (2) The person must be a citizen of the same country that issued the amateur service license. (3) No person who is a citizen of the United States, regardless of any other citizenship also held, is eligible for a reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee. (4) No person who has been granted an amateur operator license is eligible for a reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee. (e) No person shall obtain or attempt to obtain, or assist another person to obtain or attempt to obtain, an amateur service license or reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee by fraudulent means. (f) One unique call sign will be shown on the license of each new primary station. The call sign will be selected by the sequential call sign system. (g) No new license for a club, military recreation, or RACES station will be granted. ยง97.19 [Removed and reserved] 6. Section 97.19 is removed and reserved.
