FR940621-2-00004 FR940621-2-00003 Appalachian Power Company Transmission Line Construction-Cloverdale, Virginia, to Oceana, West Virginia. Jefferson National Forest, Appalachian National Scenic Trail, the New River, and R.D. Bailey Lake Flowage Easement Land. Virginia Counties of Botetourt, Roanoke, Craig, Montgomery, Pulaski, Bland, and Giles and the West Virginia Counties of Monroe, Summers, Mercer, and Wyoming AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Revised Notice_Revises the publication date for the draft and final environmental impact statements; establishes the date, time and location of four public meetings; changes the telephone number and address of the USDA Forest Service, Jefferson National Forest; defines the study area the agencies are using in developing alternatives to the proposed action; and changes the responsible official for the National Park Service. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare a draft and final environmental impact statement on a proposed action to authorize the Appalachian Power Company to construct a 765,000-volt transmission line across approximately twelve miles of the Jefferson National Forest, as well as portions of the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, the New River (at Bluestone Lake) and R.D. Bailey Lake Flowage Easement Land (at Guyandotte River). The federal agencies have identified a study area in which alternatives to the proposed action will be developed. The study area includes land located in the Virginia counties of Botetourt, Roanoke, Craig, Montgomery, Pulaski, Bland and Giles and the West Virginia counties of Monroe, Summers, Mercer and Wyoming. The Appalachian Power Company proposal involves federal land under the administrative jurisdiction of the USDA Forest Service (Jefferson National Forest), the USDI National Park Service (Appalachian National Scenic Trail) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (New River and R.D. Bailey Lake Flowage Easement Land). The Forest Service will be the lead agency and is responsible for the preparation of the environmental impact statement. The National Park Service and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will be cooperating agencies in accordance with 40 CFR ยง1501.6. In initiating and conducting the analysis the federal agencies are responding to the requirements of their respective permitting processes and the need for the Appalachian Power Company to cross federal lands with the proposed transmission line. The Forest Service additionally will assess how the proposed transmission line conforms to the direction contained in their Land and Resource Management Plan (LRMP). Changes in the LRMP could be required if the transmission line is authorized across the Jefferson National Forest. The total length of the electric transmission line proposed by the Appalachian Power Company is approximately 115 miles. The original notice indicated that the dates, times, and locations for public meetings would be made known to the public through the Federal Register . The following public meetings have been scheduled to provide the public with an update on the federal analysis and to review alternative transmission line corridors. The public meetings will begin at 7:00 pm and end at 9:00 p.m. at the following locations: July 12, 1994, New Castle High School, Route 615, New Castle, Virginia July 13, 1994, Narrows High School, 115 Woodland Avenue, Narrows, Virginia July 14, 1994, Union High School, School Street, Union, West Virginia July 15, 1994, Waiteville Community Center, Ray Siding Road, Waiteville, West Virginia FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Frank Bergmann, Forest Service Project Coordinator, Jefferson National Forest. The address and telephone number are changed from 210 Franklin Road SW, Caller Service 2900, Roanoke, Virginia, 24001/(703) 982&hyph;4348 to 5162 Valleypointe Parkway, Roanoke, Virginia, 24019/(703) 265&hyph;6005. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Appalachian Power Company has submitted an application to the Jefferson National Forest for authorization to construct a 765,000-volt electric transmission line across approximately twelve miles of the National Forest. Portions of the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, the New River (at Bluestone Lake), and R.D. Bailey Lake Flowage Easement Land (at Guyandotte River) would also be crossed by the proposed transmission line. Studies conducted by the Appalachian Power Company and submitted to the Virginia State Corporation Commission, as part of its application and approval process, indicate a need to reinforce its extra high voltage transmission system by the mid-to-late 1990s in order to maintain a reliable power supply for projected demands within its service territory in central and western Virginia and southern West Virginia. A study to evaluate potential route locations of the proposed transmission line has been prepared for Appalachian Power Company through a contract with Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (VPI) and West Virginia University (WVU). The information gathered by VPI and WVU, along with other information collected during the analysis process, will be utilized in the preparation of the environmental impact statement. General information about the transmission line route proposal is available from the Jefferson National Forest. The decisions to be made following the environmental analysis are whether the Forest Service, the National Park Service, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will authorize Appalachian Power Company to cross the Jefferson National Forest, the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, and the New River and R.D. Bailey Lake Flowage Easement Land, respectively, with the proposed 765,000-volt transmission line and, if so, under what conditions a crossing would be authorized. In preparing the environmental impact statement a range of routing alternatives will be considered to meet the purpose and need for the proposed action. A no action alternative will also be analyzed. Under the no action alternative APCO would not be authorized to cross the Jefferson National Forest, the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, the New River or R.D. Bailey Lake Flowage Easement Land. The alternatives developed by VPI and WVU will also be considered. The federal analysis will include an analysis of the effects of the proposed transmission line along the entire proposed route as well as all alternative routes which are considered in detail. The significant issues identified for the federal analysis are listed below:
