FR941011-0-00059 FR941011-0-00016 Several commenters stated that the additional data included with their comments demonstrated that cathodic EDP prime coating systems could not continuously meet the proposed revised emission limit. In addition, several commenters suggested that flow control additive (FCA) added to the EDP prime coat system to maintain good flow characteristics during periods when the system is not coating vehicles should be excluded from the emission calculations. The commenters felt that the addition of FCA during production downtime was not representative of normal operation and, if not accommodated in some manner, would cause unavoidable violations of the emission limit. The commenters argued that since the standard is expressed in terms of kg of VOC per liter of applied coating solids, at times of near-zero use (i.e., essentially no solids applied), even small evaporative losses result in the standard being exceeded by a wide margin. All of the data and information that were available, including the new data and information received during the comment period, were reanalyzed. The cathodic EDP prime coat materials used by FMC, GM, AMC, and VW were very similar. The sole suppliers were PPG, Inmont Corporation, and FMC. The coating materials consist of three components: resin, pigment, and FCA. Table 1 presents the solids, solvent, and water composition of these three components for a representative coating. Table 1._ Representative Coating Material Formulation [Percent by volume] 1Formulation 1Solids content 1VOC content 1Water content Resin 32.4 2.9 64.7 Pigment 33.0 13.3 53.7 Flow control additive 4.3 95.4 0.3 Each of these components may be added separately to the EDP prime coating tank. The solvent contained in these components leaves the EDP tank either by transport on the surface of the automobile body or by evaporation from the liquid surface of the tank. Upon leaving the EDP tank, the solvent clinging to the automobile body evaporates. All of the solvent added to the EDP tank is ultimately released to the atmosphere. The VOC emissions released to the atmosphere per unit of solids applied to the automobile body may, therefore, be determined directly by measuring the amount of VOC and solids added to the EDP tank because additions are made to the tank to keep the coating material in a near steady-state condition. The ratio of resin to pigment added to the EDP tank is recommended by the coating manufacturers and can vary with R T . The FCA is added as needed to provide the desired coating properties and finish quality and to maintain the coating material in a near steady-state condition. Because of the high-solvent content of the FCA (95 percent by volume) and the variable ratio (compared to resin and pigment) with which it is added to the EDP system, this component is of overriding importance in determining emissions from the EDP system. All of the data were verified as being representative of good operation. Two potential sources of variation were differences in the operation and maintenance of EDP tanks from plant to plant and differences among prime coat materials. Variations in performance due to these two factors were analyzed and were not found to be statistically significant. Based on this analysis, the coating material, coating equipment, and operation and maintenance for all of the data obtained were determined to represent best demonstrated technology. Therefore, all of the data were used in establishing the revised emission limit. All companies submitting data were able to provide data on a weekly basis. Averaging periods of 4 weeks, 8 weeks. 12 weeks, 24 weeks, and the best 24 out of 28 weeks (6 out of 7 months) were employed to examine the performance of EDP systems including and excluding periods when the paint line was shut down, i.e., downtime. This analysis revealed that the exclusion of periods of downtime slightly reduced the variability in VOC emissions. Even with downtime excluded, however, the proposed revised standard was not met consistently.
