FR940413-0-00025 FR940413-0-00005 In order for the participants in a particular non-proprietary XM program to be covered by the new bankruptcy distributional rule, the clearing organizations operating the program must submit an amended form of participant agreement deleting the provision requiring that a customer net equity claim of a participating market professional be subordinated to the customer net equity claims of ``public customers'' that do not relate to XM property and substituting a reference to the distributional rule set forth in the new appendix B. As the Commission indicated when it proposed the new appendix, it is prepared to modify its orders relating to non-proprietary XM programs accordingly upon receipt from the relevant clearing organizations of such amended participant agreements. The Commission believes the procedure requiring approval of amended participant agreements is necessary to eliminate any possible confusion for a trustee as to which distributional rule to follow in the unlikely event of a bankruptcy of an FCM participating in a non-proprietary XM program after the effective date of the new appendix B but before an amended participant agreement is approved by Commission order. The Commission has consulted with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation and believes that this change will not adversely affect continued treatment of XM funds under the commodity broker, rather than the securities broker-dealer, liquidation provisions of the Bankruptcy Code. The Commission also understands that the OCC will submit conforming rule changes to the SEC to eliminate the subordination to public customer requirement from its approval order. IV. Related Matters A. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;611 (1988), requires that agencies, in proposing rules, consider the impact of those rules on small businesses. These rules will affect distributees of a bankrupt FCM's estate where the FCM had participated in an XM program. Previously, market professionals with an XM account were required to subordinate their claims in a bankruptcy to those of non-XM customers in all instances, so the new rules which modify the subordination requirement should not adversely impact such market professionals. Further, the distributional framework is intended to assure that non-XM customers of such FCM will not be adversely affected by a shortfall in the pool of XM funds and thus there should not be a significant economic impact on such customers as a result of the adoption of these rules. Therefore, the action taken herein will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. When the Commission published its proposal, it invited comments from any person or entity which believed that the proposal would have a significant impact on its operations. No comments on this issue were filed. B. Paperwork Reduction Act The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (PRA), 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. , imposes certain requirements on federal agencies (including the Commission) in connection with their conducting or sponsoring any collection of information as defined by the PRA. In compliance with the PRA, the Commission submitted these rules in proposed form and their associated information collection requirements to the Office of Management and Budget. While these rules have no burden, the group of rules of which these rules are a part has the following burden: Rules 190.06 and 190.10 (3038&hyph;0021): Average Burden Hours Per Response ␣.35 Number of Respondents ␣802 Frequency of Response ␣occasionally
