FR941213-2-00097 FR941213-2-00061 2. Application-Form HUD 52470 The application must be signed by the person authorized and dated and include the information as specified in the form. 3. Evidence of Legal Eligibility If it has not previously done so, the PHA must document that it is legally organized. A current General Certificate (Form HUD 9009) must be submitted. 4. Cooperation Agreement (Form HUD 52481) The PHA must document that the number of units requested, along with units in management and other units in development, are covered by Cooperation Agreements. 5. PHA Resolution In Support of the Application (Form HUD&hyph;52471) Under this resolution, the PHA agrees to comply with all requirements of 24 CFR part 941 (see also paragraph 6 of this Section III.A). By executing the PHA Resolution, the PHA also certifies that it will comply with Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131) and the implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35. 6. Front-end Funds If front-end funds are being requested, the PHA must so state in its cover letter; should the PHA desire the project only if front-end funds can be approved, the PHA must so state. The Form HUD&hyph;52471 (PHA Resolution) must refer to the request, and include Form HUD&hyph;52472 (Local Governing Body Resolution/Transcript of Proceedings) approving the request. 7. Drug-Free Workplace The PHA must submit the Certification for a Drug-Free Workplace (Form HUD&hyph;50070) in accordance with 24 CFR 24.630. 8. Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans and Cooperative Agreement (Form HUD&hyph;50071) In accordance with section 319 of the Department of Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (31 U.S.C. 1352) (the ``Byrd Amendment'') and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 87, the PHA must certify that no federally appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the PHA for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, or a member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant or loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modifications of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. 9. Form SF&hyph;LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities Also in accordance with the Byrd Amendment and the regulations at 24 CFR part 87, the PHA must complete and submit Form SF&hyph;LLL if funds other than federally appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid by or on behalf of the PHA for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, or a member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant or loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modifications of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. 10. Disclosure of Government Assistance and Identity of Interested Parties (Form HUD 2880) The PHA must submit the Applicant/Recipient Disclosure/Update Report (Form HUD&hyph;2880) in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 12, subpart C. 11. Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) Section 23 of the USHA requires PHAs that are awarded new public housing units to implement an FSS program. Applicants must certify that they will comply with 24 CFR part 962, which requires successful applicants to initiate or expand an FSS program for the number of families that equals the total number of units they have been awarded (unless otherwise excepted). B. Applications for New Construction In accordance with section 6(h) of the USHA, new construction may be engaged in only if the PHA demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the cost of new construction in the neighborhood where the PHA determines the housing is needed is less than the cost of acquisition or acquisition and rehabilitation in such neighborhood. Therefore, every application for a new construction project (conventional or turnkey) must be accompanied by either the information described in paragraphs B.1 and B.3 of this section, or, at the applicant's option, the information described in paragraphs B.2 and B.3 of this section: 1. A PHA comparison of the costs of new construction (in the neighborhood where the PHA proposes to construct the housing) and the costs of acquisition of existing housing or rehabilitation in the same neighborhood (including estimated costs of lead-based paint testing and abatement); or 2. A PHA certification, accompanied by supporting documentation, that there is insufficient existing housing in the neighborhood to develop housing through acquisition of existing housing or rehabilitation; and 3. A statement that: (a) Although the application is for new construction, the PHA will accept acquisition of existing housing or rehabilitation, if HUD determines the PHA cost comparison or certification of insufficient housing does not support approval of new construction; or (b) The application is for new construction only. (In any such case, if HUD cannot approve new construction under section 6(h) of the USHA, the application will be rejected.) C. Replacement Housing Applications 1. Cover Letter For both category 1 and category 2 applications, the cover letter must state whether the demo/dispo or transfer/sale application (to demolish/dispose of units, or to transfer/sell units) (hereinafter referred to as the ``underlying application'') has been approved; the date of approval; the project number and the name of the project being replaced; and whether it is being replaced in whole or in part. If the underlying application was not approved at the time the replacement housing application is filed, the cover letter must state the date the underlying application was submitted for consideration. Category 1 or 2 applications will not be funded unless the underlying application is approved by the time funding selections are made. 2. Section 5(j) Certification The PHA must certify that the units requested are specifically required in FY 1994 either to meet the one-for-one replacement requirement of section 18 of the USHA to replace public housing demolition/disposition; or to meet the requirements of section 304(g) of the USHA to replace existing public housing approved in FY 1994 or earlier for homeownership transfer under HOPE 1, or for sale under section 5(h) of the USHA. 3. Replacement Application Under Section 18 A PHA submitting a replacement housing application under section 18 (category 1) must demonstrate that the replacement units, alone or together with other identified replacement units: a. Will implement the PHA's Replacement Housing Plan submitted and approved under 24 CFR 970.11; b. Are for no fewer units (or portion thereof approved by HUD) than the number of units to be demolished or disposed of; and c. Will house at least the same number of individuals and families that could be served by the housing to be demolished or disposed. D. Applications for Units to be Funded From Headquarters Reserve 1. Cover Letter A PHA submitting a category 3 application shall identify the purpose of the application (see Section I.C.1 of this NOFA). 2. Section 5(j) Certification The PHA must certify that the units requested are required to comply with court orders or directions of the Secretary. Court orders must be identified. E. ``Other'' Applications Applicants are encouraged to review the rating criteria (IV.E.) to ensure rating factors have been addressed in the application. ``Curable technical deficiencies'' (Section IV.B. of this NOFA) relate only to items that would not improve the substantive quality of applications relative to rating factors. A PHA may file only one application per locality under this category. 1. Cover Letter Applicants for ``other'' public housing development units (category 4), must state whether they will accept fewer units than applied for. Refusal to accept fewer units may result in an application not being selected if funds are not sufficient for the full number of units. 2. Section 5(j) Certification The PHA must certify to one of the following, pursuant to section 5(j) of the USHA (select E.2.a or E.2.b.):
