FR940429-0-00032 FR940429-0-00009 (a) Supportive services. Funding for supportive services may be provided by state, local, public, or private providers, and/or CHSP funds. Grantees may provide the services directly or may subcontract with service providers in the community. (1) Qualifying supportive services may include, but need not be limited to: (i) Meal service adequate to meet nutritional need; (ii) Housekeeping aid; (iii) Personal assistance (which may include, but is not limited to, aid given to eligible residents in grooming, dressing, and other activities which maintain personal appearance and hygiene); (iv) Transportation services; (v) Non-medical supervision, wellness programs, preventive health screening, monitoring of medication consistent with state law; (vi) Non-medical components of adult day care; (vii) Personal emergency response systems; and (viii) Other requested supportive services essential for achieving and maintaining independent living, which are approved by the Secretary concerned. (2) The grantee may provide the qualifying services directly to program participants or may contract out the services through other appropriate agencies or providers. A congregate services program under this section shall provide meal and other services for program participants (and other residents and nonresidents, as provided in this section) that are coordinated on site. (3) Meal services shall meet the following guidelines: (i) Type of service. At least one meal a day must be served in a group setting for some or all of the participants; if more than one meal a day is provided, a combination of a group setting and carry-out meals may be utilized. (ii) Hot meals. At least one meal a day must be hot. A hot meal for the purpose of this program is one in which the principal food item is hot at the time of serving. (iii) Special menus. Grantees shall provide special menus as necessary for meeting the dietary needs arising from the health requirements of conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Grantees should attempt to meet the dietary needs of varying religious and ethnic backgrounds. (iv) Meal service standards. Grantees shall plan for and provide meals which are wholesome, nutritious, and each of which meets a minimum of one-third of the minimum daily dietary allowances as established by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council (or State or local standards, if these standards are higher). Grantees must have an annual certification, prepared and signed by a registered dietitian, which states that each meal provided under CHSP meets the minimum daily dietary allowances. (v) Food stamps and agricultural commodities. In providing meal services under this paragraph (a)(2), each congregate services program shall apply for approval as a retail food store under section 9 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 2018); and (A) If approved under the Food Stamp Act, accept coupons (as defined in section 3(e) of that Act) as payment from individuals to whom such meal services are provided; and (B) Shall request, and use to provide such meal services, agricultural commodities made available without charge by the Secretary of Agriculture. (vi) Preference for nutrition providers: In contracting for or otherwise providing for meal services under subparagraph (a)(2), each congregate housing services program shall give preference to any provider of meal services who: (A) Receives assistance under title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965; or (B) Has experience, according to such standards as the Secretary concerned shall require, in providing meal services in a housing project under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978, or any other program for congregate services. (b) The requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section do not preclude a grantee or owner from directly preparing and providing meals under its own auspices. § XXX .215 Service plan. (a) The grantee shall provide a service plan with the application, estimating the type and nature of the services to be provided, and the estimated cost for each unit of service. (b) The grantee shall develop the service plan in consultation with the Area Agency on Aging and the appropriate state or local agency serving persons with disabilities, as applicable. Supportive services or funding for supportive services may be provided by state, local, public or private providers. Grantees may provide the services or may contract out the services with service providers in the community. § XXX .220 Service coordinator. (a) Assistance may be provided to fund one or more service coordinators who may be responsible for: (1) Working with the professional assessment committee established under section § XXX .225 on an ongoing basis to assess the service needs of eligible residents; (2) Working with service providers and the professional assessment committee to tailor the provision of services to the minimum needs and characteristics of eligible residents; (3) Mobilizing public and private resources to ensure that the qualifying supportive services identified under § XXX .210 can be funded over the time period identified under § XXX .205; (4) Monitoring the effectiveness of any supportive service program receiving grant assistance under this section; and (5) Performing other duties and functions that the Secretary concerned determines to be appropriate to enable frail elderly persons, persons with disabilities, and temporarily disabled individuals residing in federally assisted housing for the elderly to live with dignity and independence. (b) The service coordinator shall comply with the qualifications and standards required by the Secretary concerned. The service coordinator shall be trained in the aging process, elder services, disability services, eligibility for and procedures of Federal and applicable State entitlement programs, legal liability issues relating to providing service coordination, drug and alcohol use and abuse by the elderly, mental health issues, and any other areas required by the Secretary concerned. (c) The Service Coordinator may be employed directly by the grantee, or employed under a contract with a case management agency on a fee-for-service basis, and may serve less than full-time. The Service Coordinator or the case management agency providing service coordination shall not provide supportive services under a CHSP grant or have a financial interest in a service provider agency which intends to provide services to the grantee for the CHSP. (d) Funding for service coordinators may be provided by state, local, public or private providers or CHSP. (e) The Service Coordinator shall: (1) Provide general case management and referral services to all potential participants in the Congregate Housing Services Program. This involves intake screening upon referral, from the grantee, of income-eligible frail elderly persons, persons with disabilities and temporarily disabled individuals, and preliminary assessment of frailty or disability, using a commonly accepted assessment tool. The Service Coordinator then will refer to the professional assessment committee (PAC) those individuals who appear eligible for the CHSP;
