FR940810-0-00260 FR940810-0-00021 d. Before the subject enters the test chamber, a reasonably stable challenge agent concentration shall be measured in the test chamber. e. Immediately after the subject enters the test chamber, the challenge agent concentration inside the respirator shall be measured to ensure that the peak penetration does not exceed 5 percent for a half-mask and 1 percent for a full facepiece. f. A stable challenge agent concentration shall be obtained prior to the actual start of testing. 1. Respirator restraining straps may not be over-tightened for testing. The straps shall be adjusted by the wearer to give a reasonably comfortable fit typical of normal use. 5. Exercise Regime. Prior to entering the test chamber, the test subject shall be given complete instructions as to her/his part in the test procedures. The test subject shall perform the following exercises, in the order given, for each independent test. a. Normal Breathing (NB). In the normal standing position, without talking, the subject shall breathe normally for at least one minute. b. Deep Breathing (DB). In the normal standing position the subject shall do deep breathing for at least one minute pausing so as not to hyperventilate. c. Turning head side to side (SS). Standing in place the subject shall slowly turn his/her head from side between the extreme positions to each side. The head shall be held at each extreme position for at least 5 seconds. Perform for at least three complete cycles. d. Moving head up and down (UD). Standing in place, the subject shall slowly move his/her head up and down between the extreme position straight up and the extreme position straight down. The head shall be held at each extreme position for at least 5 seconds. Perform for at least three complete cycles. e. Reading (R). The subject shall read out slowly and loud so as to be heard clearly by the test conductor or monitor. The test subject shall read the ``rainbow passage'' at the end of this section. f. Grimace (G). The test subject shall grimace, smile, frown, and generally contort the face using the facial muscles. Continue for at least 15 seconds. g. Bend over and touch toes (B). The test subject shall bend at the waist and touch toes and return to upright position. Repeat for at least 30 seconds. h. Jogging in place (J). The test subject shall perform jog in place for at least 30 seconds. i. Normal Breathing (NB). Same as exercise a. Rainbow Passage When the sunlight strikes raindrops in the air, they act like a prism and form a rainbow. The rainbow is a division of white light into many beautiful colors. These take the shape of a long round arch, with its path high above, and its two ends apparently beyond the horizon. There is, according to legend, a boiling pot of gold at one end. People look, but no one ever finds it. When a man looks for something beyond reach, his friends say he is looking for the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. 6. The test shall be terminated whenever any single peak penetration exceeds 5 percent for half-masks and 1 percent for full facepieces. The test subject may be refitted and retested. If two the three required tests are terminated, the fit shall be deemed inadequate. (See paragraph 4.h.). 7. Calculation of Fit Factors a. The fit factor determined by the quantitative fit test equals the average concentration inside the respirator. b. The average test chamber concentration is the arithmetic average of the test chamber concentration at the beginning and of the end of the test. c. The average peak concentration of the challenge agent inside the respirator shall be the arithmetic average peak concentrations for each of the nine exercises of the test which are computed as the arithmetic average of the peak concentrations found for each breath during the exercise. d. The average peak concentration for an exercise may be determined graphically if there is not a great variation in the peak concentrations during a single exercise. 8. Interpretation of Test Results. The fit factor measured by the quantitative fit testing shall be the lowest of the three protection factors resulting from three independent tests.
