FR940620-2-00108 FR940620-2-00062 12. Assisting participating employers, including small- and medium-sized businesses, to identify and train workplace mentors and to develop work-based learning components; 13. Promoting the formation of partnerships between elementary and secondary schools (including middle schools) and local businesses as an investment in future workplace productivity and competitiveness; 14. Designing local strategies to provide adequate planning time and staff development activities for teachers, school counselors, related services personnel, and school site mentors, including opportunities outside the classroom that are at the worksite; 15. Enhancing linkages between after-school, weekend, and summer jobs, career exploration, and school-based learning; 16. Obtaining the assistance of organizations and institutions that have a history of success in working with school dropouts and at-risk and disadvantaged youths in recruiting such school dropouts and youths to participate in a local School-to-Work Opportunities program; 17. Conducting outreach to all students in a language and manner that most appropriately and effectively meets their needs and responds to the needs of their community; 18. Experimenting with providing work-based learning opportunities both inside and outside the high poverty area; 19. Establishing in conjunction with average daily attendance funds and JTPA funds an alternative school for dropout youth or chronic truants; 20. Developing in conjunction with Chapter 1 or other funds improvements in the elementary and middle schools that serve the high poverty area in order to reduce the long-term dropout rate of youth residing or attending school in the such area; 21. Developing and implementing techniques that will increase the college enrollment of youth in the high poverty area; 22. Utilizing complementary initiatives within the high poverty area, such as community policing, comprehensive sports and recreation programs, after-school programs, and community development activities; and 23. Encouraging youth to design and initiate work-based learning activities operated within a school setting. Part III. Application Contents An eligible applicant must submit an application that includes the following: a. The State's comments on the application. The local partnership serving a higher poverty area must submit its application to the State for review and comment before submitting the application to the Department. Many States have designated a State School-to-Work Opportunities contact. Applicants should call the office of their Governor for the name of the School-to-Work Opportunities contact. The Departments expect that all State School-to-Work Opportunities team members (e.g., the Governor; the State educational agency; the State agency officials responsible for economic development, employment, job training, and postsecondary education; and other appropriate officials on the State team) will be provided an opportunity to review and comment on the local partnership's application. Of particular importance to the Departments are the State's comments on the consistency of the local partnership's planned activities with the State's plans for a comprehensive statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system and the relationship of any proposed activities with other local plans, especially where the grant applicant is not an identified local partnership within the State system. The State's comments must be included in the local partnership's application; however, the local partnership may submit the application without State comment if proof of receipt by the State office is provided that the State was given the opportunity to comment, but did not do so within ten (10) days of receiving the request. A State's written comments received by the Department after this time will still be given consideration, if received within ten (10) days of the closing date for receipt of applications in order to be considered, although the local partnership will no longer be responsible for the submission of the State's comments.
