FR940505-1-00413 FR940505-1-00012 Measured NO X emissions concentration corrected to International Standards Organization (ISO) standard conditions is: NO X = (NO X obs)(Pref/Pobs) 0.5 (288K/Tamb) 1.53 (e 19 (Hobs_0.00633) ), where: NO X =emissions of NO X at 15 percent oxygen and ISO standard conditions on a dry basis, ppm. NO X obs=measured NO X emissions at 15 percent oxygen on a dry basis, ppm. Pref=reference ambient absolute pressure, 101.3 kilopascals (14.696 psia). Pobs=measured ambient absolute pressure. Hobs=measured absolute specific humidity of ambient air, pounds water per pound dry air. e=transcendental constant (2.718). Tamb=measured temperature of ambient air, degrees K. Peaking unit means a stationary gas turbine that is used intermittently to produce energy on a demand basis. Power augmentation means the increase in the gas turbine shaft output and/or the decrease in gas turbine fuel consumption by the addition of energy recovered from exhaust heat. Rating of a unit means the continuous MW (megawatt) rating or mechanical equivalent by a manufacturer for gas turbine(s) without power augmentation. Shutdown means the period of time a unit is cooled from its normal operating temperature to cold or ambient temperature. Startup means the period of time a unit is heated from cold or ambient temperature to its normal operating temperature as specified by the manufacturer. Stationary gas turbine (unit) means any gas turbine system that is gas and/or liquid fueled with or without power augmentation. This unit is either attached to a foundation at a facility or is portable equipment operated at a specific facility for more than 90 days in any 12-month period. Two or more gas turbines powering one shaft shall be treated as one unit. Thermal stabilization period means the two-hour start up time necessary to build-up steam pressure for NO X control purposes in cogeneration cycle and combined cycle units. (3) Standards. (i) No owner or operator of a stationary gas turbine unit shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that contain NO X , at concentrations corrected for ISO standard conditions, in excess of the following standards: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.110 where: Compliance Limit=allowable NO X emissions (ppm by volume). Reference Limit=the NO X emission limit (ppm by volume), calculated at ISO standard conditions, corrected to 15 percent oxygen on a dry basis, and averaged over 15 consecutive minutes. The limits for various megawatt ratings (continuous rating by the manufacturer without power augmentation) are as follows: Unit Size ␣ 1Megawatt rating, MW 1Reference limit, ppm ≥0.3 to <2.9 MW 25 ≥2.9 MW 9 And, E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.111 The demonstrated percent efficiency of the gas turbine only as calculated without consideration of any downstream energy recovery from the actual heat rate [i.e., (British thermal units (Btu)/kilowatt-hour) or 1.34 Btu/horsepower-hour], corrected to the HHV of the fuel and ISO conditions, as measured at peak load for the turbine. The value of EFF shall not be less than 25 percent. Gas turbines with lower efficiencies will be assigned a 25 percent efficiency for this calculation. or E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.112 The manufacturer's continuous rated percent efficiency (manufacturer's rated efficiency) of the gas turbine after correction from LHV to the HHV of the fuel, whichever efficiency is higher. The value of EFF shall not be less than 25 percent. Gas turbines with lower efficiencies will be assigned a 25 percent efficiency for this calculation. (ii) The owner or operator of any stationary gas turbine subject to the standards in paragraph (o)(3) of this section shall establish a controlled ppm carbon monoxide (CO) emission limit that represents good operating and combustion practices. No owner or operator shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that contain CO in excess of 120 percent of the CO ppm level established by an initial compliance test in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (o)(7)(ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall subsequently comply with the limit once it is established. The ppm CO emissions shall be corrected to 15 percent volume stack gas O 5 2 on a dry basis averaged over a period of 15 consecutive minutes.
