FR940822-2-00087 FR940822-2-00058 As noted above, Section 3(a) of the Rollup Reform Act amended Section 15A(b) of the Exchange Act to require that the NASD rules that promote just and equitable principles of trade include rules to prevent NASD members from participating in any limited partnership rollup transaction that does not provide procedures to protect certain specified rights of limited partners. Such rights include: (A) The right of dissenting limited partners to: (i) an appraisal and compensation; (ii) retention of a security under substantially the same terms and conditions of the original issue; (iii) approval of the limited partnership rollup transaction by at least 75 percent of the outstanding interests of each participating limited partnership; or (iv) other rights designed to protect dissenting limited partners; (B) The right not to have their voting power unfairly reduced or abridged; (C) The right not to bear an unfair portion of the costs of a proposed rollup transaction that is rejected; and (D) Restrictions on the general partner's conversion of contingent interests or fees into non-contingent interests or fees and restrictions on the general partner's receipt of a non-contingent equity interest in exchange for fees for services which have not yet been provided. The Rollup Reform Act defines a ``dissenting limited partner'' as a person who, on the date on which rollup soliciting material is mailed to investors, holds a beneficial interest in a limited partnership that is the subject of a limited partnership rullup transaction and who votes against the transaction and complies with procedures established by the NASD to perfect dissenter's rights. Section 3(c) of the Rollup Reform Act amended Section 15A(b) of the Exchange Act to require that the rules of a registered securities association prohibit the authorization for quotation on an automated interdealer quotation system sponsored by that association of any security designated by the Commission as a national market system security resulting from a rollup transaction, unless such transaction provides certain rights for limited partners. The rights set forth under this section are identical to those set forth in Section 3(a) for registered securities associations. III. Description of Proposed Rule Change and Comments Received The NASD's proposed rule change would prevent its members from participating in any ``limited partnership rollup transaction'' as that term is defined in the Rollup Reform Act if the transaction does not provide those procedures to protect the rights of limited partners that are mandated by the Rollup Reform Act. The proposed rule change also would narrow the scope of transactions in which members are forbidden to receive differential compensation. Finally, the proposed rule change would prohibit the authorization for quotation on Nasdaq of any security designated by the Commission as a national market system security resulting from a rollup transaction, unless the transaction provides certain rights for dissenting limited partners. Proposed Rule Change to Article III, Section 34 A. Definitions Subsequent to publication of notice of the proposed rule change, the NASD proposed to amend the definitions of ``dissenting limited partner'' and ``limited partnership rollup transaction'' to be added to Subsection (b)(2)(B). 30 30 The terms ``cash available for distribution,'' ``cash flow,'' ``limited partner,'' ``limited partnership,'' ``management fee,'' ``solicitation expenses,'' and ``transaction costs'' are adopted as published in the notice of the proposed rule change. See Securities Exchange Release No. 32312, supra n. 4, 58 FR 29655, 29655&hyph;56.
