FR941104-1-00043 FR941104-1-00009 Any proposed amendments to the Appendices adopted by the Parties will become effective on February 16, 1995, unless the United States enters a reservation before that time. The Service will publish a notice of proposed rulemaking to implement such amendments. Public Comments and Decisions on Possible Species Proposals Decisions about suggested U.S. proposals discussed in the previous notice of January 27, 1994 (59 FR 3832) are as follows: Species Proposals Not Submitted 1. Narwhal ( Monodon monoceros ). The Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) proposed that the narwhal be transferred from Appendix II to Appendix I of CITES. The range of the narwhal is circumpolar in Arctic waters, mostly north of 65 degrees North Latitude, although it occurs in greater densities in waters north of the Atlantic than in waters north of the Pacific Ocean. There is some north-south seasonal movement in response to climate and ice development. Between Canada and Greenland, narwhals summer in high densities in the eastern Canadian Arctic and off northwest Greenland, with smaller summering groups occurring in many other locations. Narwhals also occur in some concentration along the east coast of Greenland. There is evidence suggesting that the populations on the east and west coasts of Greenland belong to separate stocks. Three populations of narwhals were reviewed in 1992 by the Small Cetacean Sub-Committee of the Scientific Committee of the International Whaling Commission (IWC): (1) Hudson Bay, including northern Hudson Bay and western Hudson Strait; (2) Baffin Bay, including the eastern Canadian Arctic Archipelago and western Greenland; and (3) East Greenland and the Barents Sea. The Hudson Bay stock has been conservatively estimated at 1300 animals. The Small Cetacean Sub-Committee estimated the Baffin Bay stock at 27,580 to 42,520. No good estimates are available for the East Greenland/Barents Sea population, although it is considerably smaller than the other stocks. Relatively small numbers of narwhals are reported from other parts of the species' range. Because of the difficulty in surveying narwhals, most abundance estimates for the species have large variances and require careful interpretation. Narwhals are hunted for maktag (blubber/skin), meat, and their tusks. Maktag is consumed by the Inuit, and meat is (or has been in the past) used as dog food, although both commodities are also sold on a limited basis. The tusks are utilized domestically for carving, and are sold as souvenirs, either as carved products or as intact tusks. (Females only occasionally develop tusks.) The majority of tusks taken in Canadian waters apparently remain in the country, while the bulk of narwhal ivory taken in Greenland is shipped to Denmark (perhaps as much as 90 percent annually) where much is exported to other countries in the European Union (EU). In 1976, Canada imposed quotas on the take of narwhals, which it regulates by issuing tags to be affixed to each animal taken. Tusks from these animals that enter trade must have the tag attached to show that the animal from which it was removed was legally taken under the quota system. The Greenland Home Rule Government sets no quotas for narwhals and no tracking except for those animals that enter international trade, and, therefore, require CITES permits. Since 1985 Greenland has not been a member of the EU, therefore a no detriment finding is necessary for the issuance of CITES export permits by the Greenland Home Rule Government, and for import permits by EU countries under EU regulations, even though the narwhal is an Appendix II species. However, Greenland sets restrictions on who is allowed to hunt and the manner in which hunts are conducted. Eight comments were received during the comment period, five favoring amending the listing of narwhal from Appendix II to Appendix I, and three opposed to this change. The Society for Animal Protective Legislation (SAPL), The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS), the American Humane Association (AHA), the Defenders of Wildlife (Defenders), and EIA all expressed support for an Appendix I listing of the narwhal. The HSUS indicated that Canada and Greenland continue to hunt narwhals and export tusks in large numbers (Greenland being the largest exporter), and that the annual net trade in tusks nearly doubled from 1985&hyph;1990. (Prior to 1985 when Greenland began issuing its own CITES export permits, the movement of tusks from Greenland to Denmark was not considered international trade, therefore pre- and post-1985 trade figures cannot be compared equally). They also state that trade figures do not reflect the total numbers of narwhals taken because for each actual take there are three to four injured or killed animals lost. Even though information is limited, HSUS believe that reproductive rates among narwhals is low, and that in 1981 the world population was estimated at approximately 20,000 animals and declining. HSUS asserted that narwhals should be listed in Appendix I as a precautionary measure because status information is limited, information on reproduction and natural mortality is lacking, and information on actual numbers hunted is unavailable.
