FR940617-0-00127 FR940617-0-00026 In the final rule, the metric power equivalents (kilowatts (kW)) given for horsepower units in two cases are different from the proposed equivalents. The 131 kW category in the NPRM is now 130 kW, and the 559 kW category is now 560 kW. EPA was requested to adopt the 130 and 560 kW categories because they are in harmony with categories currently being developed by the European Community. An engine manufacturers' association stated that so doing would not include or exclude any engines that would not otherwise have been included or excluded in EPA's proposed rule. EPA agrees that a one kW change will not significantly affect the engine family implementation schedule. The units in the tables of standards and implementation dates in this preamble show the non-metric equivalents. The regulatory language is exclusively metric. B. Emission Standards 1. HC, CO, and PM Emission Standards EPA proposed NO X and smoke standards and did not propose standards for HC, CO, and PM. Since NO X emission was demonstrated in the draft Regulatory Support Document to be largely unaffected by transient operation, EPA is confident that an emission standard based on the adopted steady-state 8-mode test procedures for NO X will result in a sizable in-use emission reduction. Likewise for smoke, the adopted on-highway smoke test procedures have both transient and steady-state operating modes, giving EPA confidence that the necessary technologies will be applied to meet the smoke standards which will result in actual in-use emission reduction. However, in its proposed rule, the Agency reasoned that sufficient data and analyses had not been generated to adequately demonstrate that the 8-mode test procedures are representative of potential transient operation occurring in actual use. Since HC, CO, and PM emissions typically increase during transient operation, the Agency was not confident that standards for these three pollutants on the adopted steady-state 8-mode test procedures would result in real emission reduction in actual use and, thus, proposed not to regulate them. However, EPA did request comment on the appropriateness of adopting standards for these pollutants. In particular, EPA requested comment on whether it should adopt California's standards for these pollutants. State and local agencies, environmental groups, health agency officials, and engine industry representatives all requested that standards for HC, CO, and PM be included in the rule. The industry argued that, while adequate data may not have been generated to establish an emission reduction benefit of the additional standards, adoption of the additional standards is critical to worldwide marketing strategies which require regulatory harmony between the U.S. and foreign government entities. The industry commenters claim, in this context, that by harmonizing with the California standards and the projected European standards presented in Section V.B., EPA would actually reduce the cost to an engine manufacturer which would not be compelled to build a different version of its engine for U.S. consumption than would be built for the rest of the world. Arguments were presented that in any case there would be no harm in regulating these additional pollutant emissions and there might be some consequential emission control or at least a capping effect on HC, CO, and PM emissions. EPA is committed to providing regulatory harmonization when it can be done without compromising U.S. environmental goals. Since HC, CO, and PM emissions are typically higher during transient operation, EPA maintains its position that there is too much uncertainty about the ability of the existing steady state test procedures to accurately predict those emissions from in-use nonroad engines. Therefore, EPA believes it is technically incorrect to claim emission reduction benefits for HC, CO, and PM emissions as measured by the test procedure being adopted. However, at the same time, EPA believes that adopting these standards will not compromise U.S. nationally uniform environmental goals. In reaching the decision to regulate HC, CO, and PM, EPA had to consider any additional costs which might be imposed, and queried the industry during the public comment period. Engine manufacturers responded that these additional standards would not result in added cost, or that any added costs would be offset by the efficiency gained by having harmonized standards. On the basis of these comments, EPA is concluding that adopting HC, CO, and PM standards will not result in increased cost burden.
