FR941230-1-00025 FR941230-1-00004 (iii) The aggregate amount of the disposition proceeds (determined without regard to this paragraph (c)(3)) of the issue to which this paragraph (c)(3) applies does not exceed 10 percent of the issue price; and (iv) The amounts received are deposited in a commingled fund with substantial tax or other revenues from governmental operations of the transferor and the amounts are reasonably expected to be spent for governmental purposes within 6 months from the date of the commingling. (4) Below market transfers and authority of Commissioner. The Commissioner may treat the proceeds as allocable to either the transferred property or the disposition proceeds, whichever allocation produces the greater amount of private business use and private security or payments, if_ (i) The financed property is transferred for less than its fair market value; (ii) The weighted average maturity of the issue to which the disposition proceeds are allocable exceeds 120 percent of the reasonably expected weighted average economic life of the property financed by that issue before the disposition; (iii) The issuer does not expend the disposition proceeds or deposit those amounts in a defeasance escrow (as defined in ยง1.141&hyph;13(b)(5)) within 2 years of the transfer; or (iv) The transfer is designed to avoid the provisions of section 141. (d) Elections. Elections must be made in writing on or before the issue date and retained as part of the bond documents, and, once made, may not be revoked without the permission of the Commissioner. (e) Treatment of partnerships_ (1) General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e), a partnership is treated as a separate entity under the private business tests and the private loan financing test. Thus, any use of proceeds or other action by a partnership is an action of a nongovernmental person. (2) Certain partnerships disregarded. A partnership is disregarded (that is, treated as an aggregate of its partners) so that the partnership's actions are treated as the actions of the partners for purposes of the private business tests and private loan financing test if_ (i) The partnership could validly elect under section 761(a)(2) to be excluded from the application of Subchapter K of the Code and all allocations to partners are consistent with each partner being allocated the same distributive share of each item of income, gain, loss, deduction, credit, and basis, and this share remains the same during the entire period that the person is a partner; or (ii) Each of the partners is a governmental person and all of the partnership's income is excludable from gross income under section 115. (f) Related parties. Except as otherwise provided, all related parties are treated as one person and any reference to ``person'' includes any related party. ยง1.141&hyph;2 Private activity bond tests.
