FR941110-0-00192 FR941110-0-00016 While we have assigned ranges of penalties to immediate jeopardy and non-immediate jeopardy, we have not refined the figures further. We believe that this allows for the additional discretion on the part of HCFA or the State to assign a penalty amount once the facility's financial condition and other factors have been considered. Comment: A commenter asked how the terms scope, severity and duration of noncompliance used at proposed §488.230(g)(3) will be defined. Response: In response to the concern raised by this commenter, we are revising redesignated §488.438(f). We are replacing the phrase, ``The scope, severity, and duration of the noncompliance'' with, ``The factors in section 488.404.'' The factors specified in §488.404 address the assessment of the seriousness of deficiencies and include assessing the scope, severity and duration of the noncompliance in more specific terms. Comment: A commenter suggested the specific category of the unmet requirement be a factor in determining the amount of the penalty. Another commenter asked that we explain the difference between ``health and safety requirements'' and ``administrative requirements'' as stated in §488.230(g)(4) of the proposed regulation. We also received many recommendations to revise this regulatory provision to require that HCFA or the State consider whether the requirements with which the facility is out of compliance are health and safety requirements, residents' rights, quality of life or failure to attain the highest practicable functioning or administrative requirements when determining the amount of the civil money penalty. Response: After considering the above comments, we are eliminating this provision because we believe that the factors inherent in this provision are reflected in revised §488.438(f), which now requires the consideration of the factors contained in §488.404 when determining the amount of the penalty. These factors include consideration of whether the facilities' deficiencies constitute: no actual harm, with a potential for minimal harm; no actual harm, with the potential for more than minimal harm that is not immediate jeopardy; actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy; or immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety. These factors also require considering whether the deficiencies are isolated, constitute a pattern or are widespread. A consideration of these factors includes considering the specific type of unmet requirement. Comment: A few commenters recommended that civil money penalties be mandatory for all substandard quality of care deficiencies, immediate jeopardy situations and repeated deficiencies at their proposed severity level 1 and scope of 3 or 4. A few other commenters who proposed a new scope and severity grid suggested that we modify the civil money penalty provisions to reflect the grid that they proposed. One commenter suggested doubling the civil money penalty for repeated deficiencies, and another suggested simply increasing the penalty for repeated deficiencies. Other commenters requested that we add a description of civil money penalties that would include a flat, one time fine for: •Single deficiencies regardless of the severity; •Deficiencies with a starting point that cannot be determined; •Repeated deficiencies; and •Deficiencies where the State finds it more difficult to document continuous noncompliance. Many commenters suggested requiring that civil money penalties be imposed at specific scope and severity levels. Response: We do not accept these recommendations. Requiring that civil money penalties be imposed for specific types of deficiencies would be inconsistent with the Act which provides that civil money penalties may (emphasis added) be imposed for each day of noncompliance. The Secretary does not have the authority to require the States to impose civil money penalties where the Act gives States' discretion. While the Secretary could implement a policy by which each specific degree of seriousness would automatically precipitate civil money penalties at specific amounts, such a policy would undermine the Secretary's flexibility to tailor enforcement action to the exact nature of deficiencies in specific facilities. As a matter of policy, we will limit the use of civil money penalties to more serious deficiencies. Civil money penalties are included as a remedy choice when the seriousness of the deficiencies is such that Category 2 or Category 3 remedies would be applicable, as specified in §488.408, Selection of remedies.
