FR940603-2-00050 FR940603-2-00038 B. Identify risk factors for adverse health effects in the identified populations. This will include hypothesis generating cohort or case-control studies on potentially impacted populations to identify linkages between exposure and adverse health effects and those risk factors which may be impacted by prevention actions. (See Purpose section for a listing of the adverse health effects of concern.) C. Develop methods to diagnose adverse health effects (see Purpose section for the adverse health effects of concern) in populations. This will include medical research to evaluate currently available biological tests (biomarkers) and disease occurrence in potentially impacted populations. ATSDR will provide financial assistance to applicants in designing and executing analytic epidemiologic studies to explore the relationship between exposure to hazardous substances and the occurrence of, and risk factors for, environmental exposure to TCE through drinking and using contaminated water, using all or a subset of the TCE Subregistry registrants. Applicants must specify the type of award for which they are applying, either grant or cooperative agreement. These two types of Federal assistance are explained below. A. Grants In a grant, the applicant will be required to conduct the proposed study without substantial programmatic involvement by ATSDR. Grantees must meet the following requirements: The application should be presented in a manner that demonstrates the applicant's ability to address the environmental health problems. The applicant's protocol should contain consent forms and questionnaires, baseline morbidity and mortality information, procedures for collecting biologic and environmental specimens and for conducting laboratory analysis and evaluation of the test results of biologic specimens, statistical and epidemiologic analysis of the study information, and a description of the safeguards for protecting the confidentiality of individuals on whom data are collected. By comparison, the activities of the recipient and the ATSDR for a cooperative agreement are described in paragraph B. B. Cooperative Agreements In a cooperative agreement, ATSDR will assist the collaborator in conducting the study. The application should be presented in a manner that demonstrates the applicant's ability to address the health problem in a collaborative manner with the funding agency. In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient shall be responsible for the activities under 1., below and ATSDR shall be responsible for conducting activities under 2., below: 1. Recipient Activities a. Recipient will design, develop, and implement a protocol to conduct the necessary study of exposed individuals. b. Recipient is required to provide proof, by citation of State code or regulation or other State pronouncement given the authority of law, that medical information obtained pursuant to the agreement, which pertains to an individual and is therefore considered confidential, will be protected from disclosure when the consent of the individual to release identifying information is not obtained. c. If study requires knowledge of registrant personal identifiers, recipient will develop a mechanism, working through ATSDR, for interaction with the affected community to obtain necessary permission for the release of this information to the recipient. 2. ATSDR Activities a. ATSDR will assist in developing the study. b. ATSDR will provide epidemiologic and other technical assistance in both the planning and implementation phases of the field work called for under the study protocol. c. ATSDR will provide consultation and assist in monitoring the collection and handling of information and the sampling and testing activities. d. ATSDR will participate in the statistical and epidemiologic analysis. e. ATSDR will collaborate in interpreting the study findings. f. ATSDR will assist (act as the intermediary) in obtaining registrant permission for the release to the recipient of personal information. g. ATSDR will conduct technical and peer review. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated for scientific and technical merit according to the following criteria: A. Scientific and Technical Review Criteria of New Applications 1. Appropriateness and Knowledge of Study Design_25% The extent to which the applicant's proposal addresses: (a) Rationale for the proposed study design; (b) the identification of a target (exposed/diseased) population; (c) the identification of an appropriate comparison group; (d) a consideration of sample size; (e) a plan for exposure assessment and/or a plan for evaluating adverse health outcomes; and (f) a detailed plan for analysis of the data.
