FR941222-1-00069 FR941222-1-00008 •Cleaning up spills or leaks in bulk containment areas to prevent contamination of storm or wash wasters. Equipment promoting waste minimization by reducing or eliminating waste generation include: •Low-volume/high-pressure hoses for cleaning; •Drum triple-rinsing stations; •Reactor scrubber systems designed to return captured reactants to the next batch rather than to disposal; •Material storage tanks with inert liners to prevent contamination of water blankets with contaminants which would prohibit its use in the process; and •Enclosed automated product handling equipment to eliminate manual product packaging. Waste minimization measures can be tailored to the needs of individual industries, processes, and firms. This approach may make it possible to achieve greater pollution reduction with less cost and disruption to the firm. Defined process control and good housekeeping practices often can result in significant waste volume or toxicity reduction. Evaluations of existing processes also may point out the need for more complex engineering approaches ( e.g. , waste reuse, secondary processing of distillation bottoms, and use of vacuum pumps instead of steam jets) to achieve waste minimization objectives. Simple physical audits of current waste generation and in-plant management practices for the wastes also can yield positive results. These audits often turn up simple non-engineering practices that can be implemented successfully. B. Waste Minimization Approaches in the Listing Program Section 1003 of the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 says that one of RCRA's goals is to promote protection of human health and the environment and to conserve valuable material and energy resources by ``minimizing the generation of hazardous waste and the land disposal of hazardous waste by encouraging process substitution, materials recovery, properly conducted recycling, and reuse and treatment.'' Section 1003 further provides that it is a national policy of the United States that, whenever feasible, the generation of hazardous waste is to be reduced or eliminated as expeditiously as possible. To further EPA's waste minimization goals, the Waste Minimization Branch (WMB) in EPA's Office of Solid Waste (OSW) established the RCRA Waste Minimization Action Plan to integrate source reduction and recycling into the National RCRA Program, and RCRA activities into the Agency's Pollution Prevention Strategy. As described in that plan, EPA's program for evaluating which wastes should be listed as hazardous is an example of a regulatory program that can provide opportunities for encouraging and promoting real waste minimization. When a wastestream is listed as hazardous, it enters the hazardous waste management system. The requirements of that system can be costly and there are currently only limited ways for a waste entering the system to get out. Once it is listed as a hazardous waste, it remains a listed hazardous waste even after treatment and safe disposal, unless delisted pursuant to 40 CFR 260.20 and 260.22. Other than levels at which wastes typically are delisted, there is no target for a generator to shoot for which would allow their waste to be considered non-hazardous even if waste minimization actions are taken that ensure the waste is not likely to pose a hazard to human health and the environment. However, if a waste minimization-based exemption to the listing could be provided, generators would have the regulatory and economic incentive to meet the exemption. When the exemption is tailored to encourage and reward waste minimization efforts, then the generator could obtain the benefit of not generating a listed hazardous waste while furthering national waste minimization goals. The Agency notes that there are several important considerations in developing listing determinations that encourage waste minimization. First, waste minimization-based listings must promote actual waste minimization and clearly not increase risk. In addition, the listings must be enforceable. 1. Actual Waste Minimization Must Occur. The Agency is interested in taking comment on developing listings that encourage reductions in volumes, reductions in concentrations of constituents of concern (without diluting constituents in an effort to reduce concentration), reductions in environmental loading of constituents of concern, and/or the removal of constituents of concern (or process derivatives of concern) from the manufacturing process, and/or the beneficial reuse, recycling, or reclamation of the wastestreams themselves, provided human health and the environment is protected. A waste minimization-based listing, for example, must be crafted so as not to result simply in cross-media transfer, and so as not to leave uncontrolled wastes reduced in volume or concentration, but still posing a significant hazard. The Agency believes that generators must make a commitment that waste minimization in fact would occur, and that a real investment in waste minimization techniques, equipment, and process changes would be carried out. 2. No Increase in Risk Can Occur. A waste minimization-based listing (or variable level) must protect human health and the environment and not increase risk. A hazardous waste listing achieves the goal of minimizing risk by placing a wastestream in the hazardous waste management system. Any exemption which takes a wastestream out of this system must be shown to provide an equivalent decrease in risk as that provided by the listing itself. It would be unacceptable, for example, for waste minimization actions simply to result in cross-media transfer of wastes. Chemical substitution that fails to reduce the risks posed by a wastestream is another example of a practice that would not be considered to be waste minimization. Another specific concern involves the possible presence of other constituents in a wastestream for which the waste was not specifically listed but which also may pose risk to human health or the environment. A waste minimization-based listing must consider the impact of letting the entire wastestream out of the hazardous waste management system. 3. Enforceability. The Agency is particularly concerned about the enforceability of waste minimization-based variance to a listing. In particular, the Agency has concerns about the following factors: •The amount of testing or monitoring required, •Ease by which a State inspector could check compliance, •How a generator would demonstrate compliance with the waste minimization-based exemption, •The likelihood that a State agency would adopt a waste minimization approach in its listing regulations, and •The ability of a State agency to oversee an exemption. Any waste minimization-based listing must account for these concerns. (Many of these issues now are being considered in EPA's deliberations on the Hazardous Waste Identification Rule.)
