FR940617-0-00142 FR940617-0-00026 There is not a compelling policy or factual justification for defining new differently in the nonroad and motor vehicle contexts. State regulation of nonroad engines does not generally present any greater degree of disruption of the movement of products, engines or equipment between states than does regulation of motor vehicles. The comments provide little if any justification, in terms of relevant distinctions between motor vehicles and nonroad engines, to justify such a significant departure from EPA's established practice for regulating mobile sources. The Agency's definition of new is also consistent with case law. In Allway Taxi, Inc. v. City of New York, 22 the court held that where the exercise of local police power serves the purpose of a federal act_the Clean Air Act in that case_the preemptive effect of the act should be narrowly construed. In keeping with that principle, EPA believes that the definition of ``new'' should be construed narrowly in order to protect states' rights, particularly in an area such as public health in which states traditionally exercise control. California's nonroad regulations will serve the purpose of the federal act by improving air quality. 22 Allway Taxi, Inc. v. City of New York, 340 F. Supp. 1120 (S.D.N.Y.), aff'd, 468 F.2d 624 (2d Cir. 1972). In Allway Taxi, the court discussed the federal preemption of new motor vehicles and interpreted the meaning of new motor vehicle as defined in Section 216 of the Act. The court noted that this definition ``reveals a clear congressional intent to preclude states and localities from setting their own exhaust emission control standards only with respect to the manufacture and distribution of new automobiles.'' 23 The court stated further that the narrow purpose in the definition is reinforced by prohibiting states and localities from setting emission standards before the initial sale or registration of an automobile. Congress specifically declared that section 209 did not preempt states from regulation of the use or movement of motor vehicles after they have reached their ultimate purchasers. 24 23 Id. at 1124. 24 Id. EPA believes that the further a state requirement is removed in time from the manufacture and distribution of new engines, the less interstate commerce is likely to be burdened. Furthermore, the legality of particular regulatory controls that a state may impose on nonroad vehicles or engines that are no longer new will depend upon the burden that such controls place on interstate commerce. In fact, the court in Allway Taxi stated that a state or locality is not free to impose its own emission control measures the moment after a new car is bought and registered. ``That would be an obvious circumvention of the Clean Air Act and would defeat the congressional purpose of preventing obstruction to interstate commerce.'' 25 The court further stated that federal preemption does not, however, preclude a state from imposing its own exhaust emission control standards upon the resale or reregistration of the automobile. Furthermore, states are not precluded from setting standards for licensing of vehicles for commercial use. These types of regulations, which are more removed, ``would cause only minimal interference with interstate commerce, since they would be directed primarily to intrastate activities and the burden of compliance would be on individual owners and in-state users and not on manufacturers and distributors.'' 26 25 Id. 26 Id. EPA expects that the principles articulated in Allway Taxi will be applied by the courts to any State adoption of in-use controls. For example, manufacturers have voiced a concern that California would attempt to impose in-use emission control measures that would apply immediately after a new vehicle or engine were purchased. As the Allway Taxi court said, such standards applied to almost-new vehicles would be an attempt to circumvent section 209 preemption and would obstruct interstate commerce. 27 27 Id. EPA expects the reasoning and policy outlined above in the Allway Taxi discussion to apply to locomotives although its implementation is dependent upon the ultimate definition of new locomotive. It should be noted that section 209(e)(2) of the Act does not prevent California or other states from regulating nonroad engines and vehicles in use. 28 EPA believes that the requirements of section 209(e)(2) apply only to new nonroad engines and vehicles. The requirements of section 209(e)(2) are only required for nonroad engines and vehicles the regulation of which has been preempted. The language of section 209(e)(2) does not state any clear preemption, either for new or in use vehicles. The only clear preemption of state regulation of nonroad engines occurs in section 209(e)(1) and section 209(a). 29 Both of these subsections are limited to new engines and vehicles. Given the general legal presumption against reading a preemption more broadly than explicitly required, as discussed in Allway Taxi , a preemption of state regulation of nonroad engines and vehicles in use should not be readily implied. 28 In-use testing and recall programs of the type set forth in section 207 ensure compliance with standards required to be met by manufacturers at the time of certification of the engine. Because these in-use standards relate to the original manufacture of the engine and place the burden of compliance upon the manufacturer, they are deemed to be standards affecting a new motor vehicle or a new nonroad engine and thus require a waiver under the criteria of section 209(b) or 209(e)(2) respectively. 29 Section 209(a) applies to nonroad vehicles because of the language of section 213(d) of the Act, which specifically requires that EPA's standards regulating nonroad engines and vehicles be subject to sections 206, 207, 208 and 209 of the Act, with such modifications of the applicable regulations as the Administrator deems appropriate. Thus, Congress clearly anticipated that all of section 209 would be applicable to nonroad engines. Subsections (a) through (d) of section 209 do not specifically reference nonroad engines, nor do sections 206, 207 or 208. However, the language of section 213(d) clearly is intended to apply such provisions to nonroad engines. Further indication of Congress' intent is the language of the last sentence of section 209(e)(1), which states that subsection 209(b) does not apply for purposes of subsection (e)(1). (Section 209(b) provides the procedure under which California can receive a waiver of section 209(a) preemption for motor vehicles.) This sentence would not have been necessary unless subsection 209(a) through (d) otherwise applied.
