FR941003-2-00042 FR941003-2-00031 While Universal Purchase States have the flexibility to develop their own caps, they must develop these by utilizing a reasonable methodology based upon the requirements of section 1928(c)(2)(C)(ii) of the Act. The amount of the cap is not required to be set in State law. However, the authority to set an amount must be based in State law. E. Optional Lower Medicaid Administration Fees State Medicaid agencies are not obligated to set the Medicaid payment for vaccine administration at the level of the maximum charges set forth in this notice. Section 1928(c)(2)(C)(ii) of the Act allows them to set their payment at a lower level, according to their own judgment. State Medicaid agencies typically set payment rates taking into consideration a variety of factors, including the need to assure adequate participation by providers. Since the maximum charges in this notice are based on the normal charges billed by physicians, rather than on the amounts actually collected by physicians from insurers or patients, State Medicaid agencies may determine that a lower payment level is appropriate. If the State Medicaid agency elects to pay a lower fee, it must provide assurances to HCFA, as described below, that Medicaid-eligible children will have access to vaccines. In addition, a State Medicaid agency may elect to apply the regional maximum charges in selected areas of the State and a lower fee in other areas. Any lower fees that a State Medicaid agency elects to apply must be justified using the guidelines specified in section II.F. of this notice. In the case of Universal Purchase States that elect to develop their own maximum charges, State Medicaid agencies have the flexibility to pay the maximum charge or to pay a lower fee subject to the same provisions discussed above. F. Documentation Guidelines for Optional Lower Medicaid Administration Fees 1. Pediatric Services Defined As defined in section 1926(a)(4)(B) of the Act, the term ``pediatric services'' means ``services covered under the State plan provided by a pediatrician, family practitioner, or certified pediatric nurse practitioner to children under 18 years of age and does not include inpatient or outpatient hospital services or other institutional services.'' 2. Immunization Rate In applying any of the guidelines under section II.F.3. of this notice, we believe it is necessary to identify what children would be considered immunized. In order to be counted toward the immunization rate goals discussed, a child must have received, within the year period of measure for access, all immunizations required for his or her particular age, including those immunizations under a revised schedule because of those missed from a previous year. 3. Data Requirements If the State elects to pay an administration fee lower than the maximum charge set forth in section II.C. of this notice, it must provide, via the obstetrical/pediatric State plan amendment submittal, data that document that the lower or varying fees meet the statutory requirements of sections 1902(a)(30)(A) and 1926 of the Act and the implementing regulatory requirements of 42 CFR 447.204. Section 447.204 of the regulations specify that a Medicaid agency's payments must be sufficient to enlist enough providers so that services under the plan are available to recipients at least to the extent that those services are available to the general population. The State may use one or more of the following guidelines to document that the statutory and regulatory requirements are met: a. Comparison of Ratios Under this guideline, the State would submit a comparison between the following ratios: (i) The ratio of the number of children in the general population immunized to the number of children in the general population; and (ii) The ratio of the number of Medicaid children immunized to the number of Medicaid children. In order for a State to use this guideline as an equal access assurance, the ratio of Medicaid children immunized to the number of Medicaid children would have to be equal to or greater than the ratio of the general population immunized to the number of children in the general population. b. Comparison to Private Insurance Another alternative is for the State to do a comparison of the Medicaid fees for administration of pediatric vaccines to the administration fees paid by a major insurance company. In order for the State to use this guideline as an equal access assurance, the Medicaid rates for the administration of pediatric vaccines would have to be set at a rate equal to or greater than the private insurance company's rates up to the established State maximum fee. c. Practitioner Participation The State also may compare: (i) The number of Medicaid pediatric practitioners (which includes practitioners listed in section 1926(a)(4)(B) of the Act) who are Medicaid program- registered providers and who have submitted pediatric immunization claims; and
