FR940817-2-00167 FR940817-2-00081 AT&T Management Pension Plan and AT&T Pension Plan (the AT&T Plans), and BellSouth Management Pension Plan and BellSouth Pension Plan (the BellSouth Plans; Collectively, the Plans) Located in Morristown, New Jersey; Exemption [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;63; Exemption Application Nos. D&hyph;9607, D&hyph;9608, D&hyph;9609, D&hyph;9610] The restrictions of sections 406(a), 406(b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply, effective June 3, 1993, to the past and proposed lease (the Lease) by the Plans, through the Telephone Real Estate Equity Trust (TREET), of office space in Southpark C, a commercial office building in Austin, Texas, to American Telephone and Telegraph Co. (AT&T), one of the sponsors of the Plans; provided that the following conditions are satisfied: (A) The interests of TREET for all purposes under the Lease are represented by Hill Partners, which is independent of and unrelated to AT&T, serving as a fiduciary under the Act; (B) At all times under the Lease, AT&T pays TREET rent of no less than the fair market rental value of the Property; and (C) All terms and conditions of the Lease are at least as favorable to TREET as those which TREET could obtain in arm's-length transactions with unrelated parties. For a more complete statement of the facts and representations supporting the Department's decision to grant this exemption, refer to the notice of proposed exemption published on June 21, 1994 at 59 FR 32018. Effective Date: This exemption is effective as of June 3, 1993. Written Comments: The Department received one written comment and no requests for a hearing. The comment was submitted on behalf of AT&T (the Applicant) in supplementation of the Summary of Facts and Representations (the Summary) in the notice of proposed exemption. The points addressed by the Applicant in the comment are summarized as follows: (A) Paragraph (1) of the Summary indicates that the BellSouth Master Trust hold assets of the BellSouth Plans, which are sponsored by BellSouth. The Applicant states that it has become aware that one additional plan participates in the BellSouth Master Trust: the Retirement Plan of Stevens Graphics, Inc., sponsored by Stevens Graphics, Inc., an affiliate of BellSouth Corporation. (B) In paragraph (6) of the Summary, it is stated that with the addition of the Southpark assets, Karsten commenced to hold under management over 20 percent of the assets of TREET. The Applicant represents that this statement does not accurately describe Karsten's position with respect to management of TREET assets. The Applicant represents that with the addition of the Southpark assets, the TREET assets under management by Karsten constituted over twenty percent of all assets managed by Karsten on behalf of all its clients. After consideration of the entire record, including the comment, the Department has determined to grant the exemption. For Further Information Contact: Ronald Willett of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8881. (This is not a toll-free number.)
