FR941110-0-00085 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We recognize that the surveyors are not ultimately responsible for the selection and implementation of remedies. As stated in the preamble of the proposed rule, it is the surveyor's responsibility to ``*␣*␣* recommend one or more remedies to either HCFA or the SMA [State Medicaid agency] for the enforcement of the requirements.'' (emphasis added) However, we disagree with the comment questioning the inclusion of the application of remedies as part of the evaluation of survey consistency. As it was the intention of the Congress to ``*␣*␣* measure and reduce inconsistencies in the application of survey results *␣*␣*,'' (emphasis added) we interpret sections 1819(g)(2)(D) and 1919(g)(2)(D) of the Act to include both inconsistencies in survey findings as well as inconsistencies in the application of enforcement remedies. In order for each State survey agency to measure accuracy and consistency in the application of survey results among surveyors, it must first ensure that these results are consistent across surveyors, and then determine that the enforcement actions precipitated by the survey results are consistently applied. Comment: One commenter suggested that facilities be requested to fill out a questionnaire after their survey to give feedback on the quality, competence and attitude of their survey teams. Response: We believe that it is unnecessary to require a questionnaire because feedback is inherent in the survey process. There are numerous times throughout the survey process for the provider to comment upon the performance of the survey team. Providers have the opportunity to question survey findings during the survey, at the exit conference, while awaiting receipt of the official deficiency statement, upon receipt of the same, and through dialogue with the State survey agency and HCFA regional officials. Section 488.314␣Survey Teams Comment: Virtually everyone who commented on this proposed section emphasized the importance of ensuring that surveyors have the appropriate professional credentials for the job and that they receive adequate training. For the most part, the only differences were over exactly what constitutes ``appropriate'' professional credentials and ``adequate'' training. Opinion ran the gamut from maintenance/safety experts to physicians with experience in geriatric medicine or long term care. Some suggested that trainees work under the supervision of an experienced surveyor. Numerous commenters offered suggestions regarding team composition. Two examples included_ •A nurse, licensed administrator, pharmacist, nutritionist, and social services/activities therapist; and •A nurse, a maintenance/safety expert, and a social worker. One commenter suggested that one team member must be ``a physician trained in geriatric and psycho-pharmacology,'' and said that, ``To the extent the new survey process incorporates new guidelines for chemical and physical restraints, a physician (MD/DO) team member must be included.'' Some said that nurse surveyors should have, as a minimum qualification, a B.S.N. One commenter said that the nurse on the team should have spent 2 or 3 years as a director of nursing at a long term care facility. Other disciplines that commenters said should be represented in the ranks of surveyors include speech-language pathologists, sanitarians, gerontologists, and dietitians. A number of commenters suggested a specific requirement that all surveyors must have at least 1 year of experience with geriatric populations in a health care or related setting or experience in long term care. Some said that this experience should be ``hands on'' experience, and a few commenters suggested that we set forth the size of the team in regulations, with the size being proportional to the number of beds in the facility or increasing in certain instances such as a historical pattern of serious deficiencies or complaints.
