FR940418-0-00011 FR940418-0-00005 Environment The Coast Guard considered the environmental impact of this rule and concluded that, under section 2.B.2.g.5 of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, this rule is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. A Categorical Exclusion Determination statement has been prepared and placed in the docket. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 117 Bridges. For reasons set out in the preamble, the Coast Guard amends 33 CFR 117 as follows: PART 117_DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS 1. The authority citation for part 117 continues to read as follows: Authority: 33 U.S.C. 499; 49 CFR 1.46; 33 CFR 1.05&hyph;1(g). 2. Section 117.391 is revised to read as follows: ยง117.391 Chicago River. The draws of bridges operated by the City of Chicago shall operate as follows: (a) For commercial vessels: (1) From April 1 through November 30_ (i) The draws of the bridges across the Chicago River from its mouth to the junction of the North and South Branches, across the South Branch from the junction to and including the West Roosevelt Road, and across the North Branch to and including North Kinzie Street and the Ohio Street bridge shall open on signal; except that, from Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 10 a.m., and 4 p.m. to 6:30 p.m., the draws need not be opened for the passage of vessels. (ii) The draws of the bridges across the North Branch of the Chicago River at Grand Avenue, the bridges across the North Branch of the Chicago River north of the Ohio Street bridge to and including North Halsted Street, and bridges across the South Branch of the Chicago River above South Halsted Street to and including West Roosevelt Road, shall open on signal; except that, from Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m., the draws need not open for the passage of vessels. (iii) The draws of the bridges across the North Branch of the Chicago River north of North Halsted Street and the South Branch of the Chicago River south of South Halsted Street shall open on signal; except that, from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. the draws need not be opened for the passage of vessels. (iv) The draws of the Randolph Street, Cermak Road, Throop Street, and Loomis Street bridges across the South Branch of the Chicago River, the North Halsted Street bridge across the North Branch Canal, and the West Kinzie Street bridge across the North Branch of the Chicago River shall open on signal. (v) The draws of the following bridges in Chicago shall open on signal if tended or within 30 minutes after notice is given to the City of Chicago Bridge Desk: South Branch Washington Street Madison Street Monroe Street Adams Street Jackson Boulevard Van Buren Street Congress Street (Eisenhower Expressway) Harrison Street Roosevelt Road Eighteenth Street Canal Street South Halsted Street West Fork of the South Branch South Ashland Avenue South Damen Avenue Chicago River, North Branch Grand Avenue Chicago Avenue North Halsted Street Ogden Avenue Division Street North Branch Canal Ogden Avenue Division Street (vi) The draws of bridges across the North Branch Canal that have a vertical Clearance of less than 17 feet above Low Water Datum for Lake Michigan shall open at any time to permit the passage of tugs and barges. (2) From December 1 through March 31, the draws of the highway bridges across the Chicago River, the North Branch of the Chicago River, North Branch Canal, and the South Branch of the Chicago River shall open on signal if at least 12 hours notice is given. However, the bridges need not open during those periods of time specified in (a)(1)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this section. (b) For recreational vessels, the draws of the City of Chicago owned bridges shall operate as follows:
