FR940830-2-00081 FR940830-2-00047 Part III_Special Requirements, Review/Award Criteria and Contacts for Additional Information Letter of Intent: Organizations planning to submit an application in response to this announcement are requested to submit a letter of intent at least 30 days prior to the receipt date. Such notification is used by the Center for Mental Health Services for purposes of review and program planning. This letter is voluntary and does not obligate the person/organization to submit an application. In addition, the letter should be no longer than one page and should succinctly indicate: _The number and title of the RFA. _The name of the potential applicant organization, city and state. _The name and affiliation of the proposed project director, i.e., the individual who will be assigned to coordinate the development and conduct of the project. _The overall scope of the proposed project, including a brief description of the likely goals and objectives. Letters of intent should be directed to: Barbara Silver, PhD, Acting Director, Office of Extramural Policy and Review, Center for Mental Health Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 18C&hyph;07, Rockville, Maryland 20857, Attn: RFA/Letter of Intent. Coordination with Other Federal/Non-Federal Programs: Applicants seeking support under this announcement are encouraged to coordinate with other programs. Program coordination helps to better serve the multiple needs of the patient/client population, maximize the impact of available resources, and eliminate duplication of services. Applicants should identify the coordinating organizations by name and address and describe the process to be used for coordinating efforts. Letters of commitment specifying the kind(s) and level of support from organizations (both Federal and non-Federal) which have agreed to work with the applicant must be attached to this application. CMHS will consider an applicant's proposed coordination with other Federal/non-Federal programs in its award decision-making process. (Please see Award Criteria section.) A list of Federal programs that applicants may coordinate with is included in the Application kit. Single State Agency Coordination: Coordination with the Single State Agency (SSA) for mental health is encouraged to ensure communication, reduce duplication, and facilitate continuity. Therefore applicants who are not State mental health authorities must include a copy of a letter sent to the SSA briefly describing the grant application. A list of SSAs can be found in the grant application kit. If the target population falls within the jurisdiction of more than one State, all representative SSAs should be involved. Intergovernmental Review (E.O. 12372): Applications submitted in response to this announcement are subject to the intergovernmental review requirements of Executive Order 12372, as implemented through DHHS regulations at 45 CFR Part 100. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of applications for Federal financial assistance. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian Tribal Authorities) should contact the State's Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective application(s) and to receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC of each affected State. A current listing of SPOCs is included in the application kit. The SPOC should send any State process recommendations to the following address: Barbara Silver, PhD, Acting Director, Office of Extramural Policy and Review, Center for Mental Health Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 18C&hyph;07, Rockville, MD 20857, Attn: SPOC. The due date for State process recommendations is no later than 60 days after the deadline date for the receipt of applications. The Center for Mental Health Services does not guarantee to accommodate or explain SPOC comments that are received after the 60-day cut-off.
