FR940922-2-00120 FR940922-2-00079 4. Multiplier Effect: Proposed projects should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, including maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual linkages. 5. Institutional Capacity: Proposed personnel and institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program or project's goals. 6. Institution's Ability/Record: Proposals should demonstrate an institutional record of successful exchange projects, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts. The Agency will consider the past performance of prior recipients and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. 7. Thematic and Area Expertise: Proposals should reflect the institution's expertise in the subject area and should address the specific issues of concern facing the countries involved in the project. 8. Project Personnel: Personnel's thematic and logistical expertise should be relevant to the proposed program. Resumes should be suited to the specific proposal and no longer than two pages each. 9. Cross-Cultural Sensitivity: Proposals should show evidence of sensitivity to historical, linguistic, and other cross-cultural factors, as well as appropriate knowledge of the geographic area, and should show how this sensitivity will be used in practical aspects of the program, such as pre-departure orientations or briefing of American hosts. 10. Follow-on Activities: Proposals should provide a plan for continued follow-on activity (without USIA support) which insures that USIA supported projects are not isolated events. 11. Project Evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the activity's success, both as the activities unfold and at the end of the program. USIA recommends that the proposal include a draft survey questionnaire or other technique plus description of a methodology to use to link outcomes to original project objectives. Award-receiving organizations/institutions will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded or quarterly, whichever is less frequent. 12. Cost-Effectiveness/Cost-Sharing: The overhead and administrative components of the proposal, including salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. 13. Support of Diversity: Proposals should demonstrate the recipient's commitment to promoting the awareness and understanding of diversity throughout the program. This can be accomplished through documentation (such as a written statement or account) summarizing and/or on-going activities and efforts that further the principle of diversity within both the organization and the program activities. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. The needs of the program may require the award to be reduced, revised, or increased. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about March 6, 1995. Awards made will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: September 16, 1994. John P. Loiello, Associate Director, Bureau for Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2348 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
