FR941104-2-00015 FR941104-2-00009 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Financial Assistance Award: Carlsbad Department of Development AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Intent to Award a Grant Based Upon Acceptance of an Unsolicited Application. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy, Albuquerque Operations Office through the Carlsbad Area Office, pursuant to DOE Financial Assistance Rules 10 CFR 600.14(F) announces its intent to award a grant to the Carlsbad Department of Development. The purpose of the grant is to analyze and define training needs for DOE Environmental Management Staff in conjunction with the needs of the community in southeastern New Mexico. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Carlsbad Department of Development (DOD) will lead a coalition of regional stakeholders and resource centers to evaluate and define the human resources and training needs of the Department of Energy, other federal agencies, and the private sector in southeast New Mexico. The DOD will develop viable training plans which will address DOE's regional training needs as well as other federal agencies and the private sector. The training plans will also address job retraining, technology transfer/commercialization, and regional economic development. The DOD will use business planning and market assessments of needs and capabilities. The unsolicited application for support of this activity has been accepted by DOE because of what was deemed to be the project's overall merit. DOE will benefit by having its training requirements identified and integrated with available regional resources. This activity will cause the community to properly research and plan for future business opportunities, and to diversify the existing economic base in preparation of completion of Waste Isolation Plant operations. The project period for the award is nine months, expected to begin 15 days after publication to allow for public comment. DOE plans to fund the project in the amount of $300,000. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dennis Hurtt, U.S. Department of Energy, Carlsbad Area Office, P.O. Box 3090, Carlsbad, New Mexico 88221, 505/234&hyph;7327. Richard A. Marquez, Assistant Manager, Office of Management and Administration, Albuquerque Operations Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27408 Filed 11&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
