FR940202-2-00124 FR940202-2-00071 2. Control of RSV Outbreaks a. Use of Private Room, Cohorting, and Patient-Screening To control ongoing RSV transmission in the hospital, admit young children with symptoms of viral respiratory illness to single rooms when possible, OR perform RSV-screening diagnostic tests on young children upon admission and cohort them according to their RSV-infection status. 543,545,547,549 CATEGORY II b. Personnel Cohorting During an outbreak of nosocomial RSV, cohort personnel as much as practical, i.e., restrict personnel who give care to infected patients from giving care to uninfected patients, and vice-versa. 543,547,549 CATEGORY II c. Postponing Patient Admission During outbreaks of nosocomial RSV, postpone elective admission of uninfected patients at high risk of complications from RSV infection. CATEGORY II d. Wearing Eye-Nose Goggles NO RECOMMENDATION for wearing eye-nose goggles for close contact with an RSV-infected patient. 546,550 UNRESOLVED ISSUE Prevention and Control of Influenza I. Staff Education and Infection Surveillance A. Staff Education Educate personnel about the epidemiology, modes of transmission and means of preventing the spread of influenza. 611&hyph;613,668,669 CATEGORY IA B. Surveillance 1. Establish mechanism(s) by which the appropriate hospital personnel are promptly alerted of any increase in influenza activity in the local community. CATEGORY IB 2. Arrange for laboratory tests to be available to clinicians, for use when clinically indicated, to promptly confirm the diagnosis of influenza and other acute viral respiratory illnesses, especially during November-April. 573&hyph;578 CATEGORY IB II. Modifying Host Risk to Infection A. Vaccination 1. Patients Offer vaccine to outpatients and inpatients at high risk of complications from influenza, beginning in September and continuing until influenza activity has begun to decline. 581,584,603,670&hyph;672 Patients at high risk of complications from influenza include those "65 years of age; in long-term-care units; with chronic disorders of the pulmonary or cardiovascular systems, diabetes mellitus, renal dysfunction, hemoglobinopathies, musculo-skeletal disorders that impede adequate respiration, or immunosuppression; and children 6 months-18 years of age who are receiving long-term aspirin therapy. 581 CATEGORY IA 2. Personnel Vaccinate healthcare workers before the influenza season each year, preferably between mid-October and mid-November. Until influenza activity declines, continue to make vaccine available to newly hired personnel and to those who initially refuse vaccination. If vaccine supply is limited, give highest priority to staff caring for patients at greatest risk of severe complications from influenza infection, as listed in Section II-A&hyph;1 above. 581 CATEGORY IB B. Use of Antiviral Agents (See Section IV Below, Control of Influenza Outbreaks) III. Interruption of (Person-to-Person) Transmission A. Keep a patient for whom influenza is suspected or diagnosed in a private room, or in a room with other patients with proven influenza, unless there are medical contraindications to do so. CATEGORY IB B. As much as feasible, maintain negative air pressure in rooms of patients for whom influenza is suspected or diagnosed, or place together persons with influenza-like illness in a hospital area with an independent air-supply-and-exhaust system. 566,567,569,673
