FR941021-1-00049 FR941021-1-00009 Return of Medical Certificates After Suspension or Revocation Current §67.27(g) of the FAR provides that the holder of a medical certificate shall surrender it, upon request of the FAA, if its issuance is wholly or partly reversed upon reconsideration. Part 61 (§61.19(f)) provides that the holder of any certificate issued under that part that is suspended or revoked shall, upon the Administrator's request, return it to the Administrator. Except for §67.27(g), part 67 is silent regarding return of medical certificates that have been suspended or revoked under the FAR or under Section 609 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1422). Because the retention by an airman of an invalid medical certificate is not consistent with proper and efficient enforcement of safety regulations, new §67.415 is proposed. This amendment would codify existing practice, and clarify that any airman medical certificate revoked or suspended under existing authority must be returned on request of the Administrator. Related Petition On July 7, 1981, the Civil Pilots for Regulatory Reform (CPRR) filed a petition with the FAA Administrator (Docket No. 22054; AVS&hyph;81&hyph;520&hyph;P). The petition took issue with two aspects of the airman medical certification process. First, that the cardiovascular standards for first-, second-, and third-class medical certificates (paragraph (e)(1) in §§67.13, 67.15, and 67.17; 1981), automatically disqualify an airman who has an established history or clinical diagnosis of a myocardial infarction regardless of degree or recency. Second, that the only means to regain medical certification is dependent on the sole discretion of the Federal Air Surgeon via an exemption under part 11 of the FAR. The CPRR petition proposes to modify a subparagraph of the 1981 cardiovascular standard which reads, ``No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of myocardial infarction .␣.␣.,'' to read, ``No coronary artery disease that makes the applicant unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate that he holds or for which he is applying; or may reasonably be expected, within 2 years after the finding, to make him unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges; and the findings are based on the case history and appropriate, qualified, medical judgment relating to the condition involved.'' The effect of the proposed change is that a history of coronary artery disease would not, per se, disqualify an airman. The CPRR petition also proposes that the standards and tests used by the Federal Air Surgeon to recertificate pilots who have sustained infarcts be published in regulatory form in an appendix to part 67, and that a pilot be granted appeal rights to the NTSB in the event that an exemption is denied. Furthermore, the CPRR petition proposes that the medical exemption procedures under part 11 be revised to provide a ``due process'' format for the exemption deliberation under part 11. The format would include: (a) if the airman petitioner requests exemption under part 11 because of disqualification under the cardiovascular standard, the airman is given a complete file, prior to the exemption panel meeting, of all records, reports and other documents which the agency plans to consider in the ruling; (b) the airman may attend and present evidence at the exemption panel meeting; (c) panel members must record their individual position in the official record of the meeting; and (d) the agency must construct a record sufficient to form a basis for review by the courts of appeal under the arbitrary and capricious standard of review.
