FR940228-1-00058 FR940228-1-00007 (2) Notice of the sanction is also provided as specified in paragraph (e) of this section; and (3) As soon as possible after the 120th day, the OIG will issue a notice to the practitioner or other person affirming the PRO recommendation or modifying the recommendation based on the OIG's review of the case. Subpart E_Effect and Duration of Exclusion §1004.120 Effect of an exclusion on program payments and services. The effect of an exclusion is set forth in §1001.1901 of this chapter. §1004.130 Reinstatement after exclusion. A practitioner or other person who has been excluded in accordance with this part may apply for reinstatement at the end of the period of exclusion. The OIG will consider any request for reinstatement in accordance with provisions of §§1001.3001 through 1001.3005 of this chapter. Subpart F_Appeals §1004.140 Appeal rights. (a) Right to preliminary hearing. (1)(i) A practitioner or other person excluded from participation in Medicare and any State health care programs under section 1156 of the Act may request a preliminary hearing if the location where services are rendered to over 50 percent of the practitioners's or other person's patients at the time of the exclusion notice is in a rural HPSA or in a county with a population of less than 70,000. (ii) Unless the practitioner's or other person's practice meets the definition for psychiatric professional, vision care professional, dental professional, podiatric professional or pharmacy professional, the HPSA used by the OIG for determination of entitlement to a preliminary hearing will be the HPSA list for primary medical care professional. (iii) Information on the population size of a county in order to determine entitlement to a preliminary hearing will be obtained by the OIG from the responsible officials of that county. (2)(i) A request for a preliminary hearing must be made in writing and received by the Departmental Appeals Board (DAB) no later than the 15th day after the notice of exclusion is received by a practitioner or other person. The date of receipt of the notice of exclusion by the practitioner or other person is presumed to be 5 days after the date appearing on the notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary. (ii) A request for a preliminary hearing will stay the effective date of the exclusion pending a decision of the ALJ at the preliminary hearing, and all the parties informed by the OIG of the exclusion will be notified of the stay. (iii) A request for a preliminary hearing received after the 15-day period has expired will be treated as a request for a hearing before an ALJ in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. (iv) If the practitioner or other person exercises his, her or its right to a preliminary hearing, such a hearing must be held by the ALJ in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section unless the OIG waives it in accordance with paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section. (v) The ALJ cannot consolidate the preliminary hearing with a full hearing without the approval of all parties to the hearing. (3)(i) The preliminary hearing will be conducted by an ALJ of the DAB in a city that the ALJ deems equitable to all parties. The ALJ will conduct the preliminary hearing and render a decision no later than 45 days after receipt of the request for such a hearing by the DAB. Date of receipt by the DAB is presumed to be 5 days after the date on the request for a preliminary hearing, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary. A reasonable extension to the 45-day period of up to 15 days may be requested by any party to the preliminary hearing and such a request may be granted upon concurrence by all parties to the preliminary hearing. Such request must be received no later than 15 days prior to the scheduled date of the preliminary hearing. (ii) The only issue to be heard and decided on at the preliminary hearing is whether the practitioners's or other person's continued participation in the Medicare and State health care programs during the appeal of the exclusion before an ALJ would place program beneficiaries at serious risk.
