FR941117-0-00189 FR941117-0-00013 (3) Description of information undertakings. The definition of final official statement also has been changed from the Proposed Amendments to include a requirement that the undertakings provided pursuant to the rule be described in the final official statement. 50 As the Commission recognized in the Interpretive Release 51 and a number of commenters echoed, 52 it is important for investors and the market to know the scope of any ongoing disclosure. By including a description of the undertaking in the final official statement, market participants will know the identity of the entities about which information will be provided, and the type of information to be provided. By reviewing the final official statement, investors in the secondary market will be able to ascertain the scope of that undertaking and whether it has been satisfied. 50 Rule 15c2&hyph;12(f)(3). 51 See Interpretive Release at Section III.C.4. 52 See, e.g., Letter of Chemical Securities, Inc. (``Chemical Securities''); Letter of Ferris Baker Watts; Letter of National Federation of Municipal Analysts (``NFMA''). Critical to any evaluation of a covenant is the likelihood that the issuer or obligated person will abide by the undertaking. The definition of final official statement thus has been modified to require disclosure of all instances in the previous five years in which any person providing an undertaking failed to comply in all material respects with any previous informational undertakings called for by the amendments. 53 This information is important to the market, and should, therefore, be disclosed in the final official statement. The requirement should provide an additional incentive for issuers and obligated persons to comply with their undertakings to provide secondary market disclosure, and will ensure that Participating Underwriters and others are able to assess the reliability of disclosure representations. 54 53 See Rule 15c2&hyph;12(f)(3). 54 See Letter of PSA. The amendments do not prohibit Participating Underwriters from underwriting an Offering of municipal securities if an issuer or obligated person has failed to comply with previous undertakings to provide secondary market disclosure. However, if a failure to comply with such previous undertakings has not been remedied as of the start of the Offering, or if the party has a history of persistent and material breaches, it is doubtful whether a Participating Underwriter could form a reasonable basis for relying on the accuracy of the issuer's or obligated person's ongoing disclosure representations. b. Entities about which information must be provided to the secondary market. It is critical that current financial information and operating data is provided to the secondary market about the persons that would be important to investors in evaluating the security. The Proposed Amendments would have required the Participating Underwriter to determine that the issuer had committed to provide, at least annually, current financial information concerning the issuer of the municipal securities and any significant obligor. 55 The identity of persons about which information should be provided to the secondary market was the subject of a substantial number of comment letters. 56 As with the proposed definition of final official statement, a large number of commenters expressed particular concern about the provision of information on a continuing basis for conduit issuers who have no ongoing liability for repayment of municipal securities. 57 There also were a significant number of comments received critiquing the concept of significant obligor. 58 55 Paragraph (b)(5)(i)(A) of the Proposed Amendments. 56 See, e.g., Letter of Fidelity Management and Research Company; Letter of First Albany Corporation; Letter of Maine Municipal Bond Bank; Letter of NABL; Letter of National Council of Health Facilities Finance Authorities (``NCHFFA''); Letter of Realvest Capital Corporation; Letter of South Carolina Economic Developers Association, Inc. 57 See, e.g., Letter of ABA Urban Law Section; Letter of Gilmore & Bell, P.C. (``Gilmore & Bell''); Letter of New York State Housing Finance Agency, State of New York Mortgage Agency, New York State Medical Care Facilities Finance Agency (``New York State Housing Finance Agency''); Letter of Orrick Herrington. 58 See, e.g., Letter of Section of Business Law, American Bar Association (``ABA Business Law Section''); Letter of Treasurer of the State of California (``Treasurer of the State of California''); Letter of Goldman Sachs; Letter of IDS Financial Corporation; Joint Response; Letter of Kutak Rock; Letter of Morgan Stanley; Letter of National Association of State Treasurers (``NAST''). Under the amendments as revised, the identity of the persons for which information must be provided on an annual basis is determined by the information included in the final official statement. If the final official statement includes financial information or operating data on a person, information about that person must continue to be provided to the secondary market if the person is committed by contract or other arrangement to support payment of the obligations on the municipal securities. 59 Thus, the obligation to provide ongoing information relates to those persons for which financial information or operating data is included in the final official statement and that have a contractual or other connection to repayment of the municipal obligations. 59 Providers of bond insurance, letters of credit, and liquidity facilities have been excepted from the definition of obligated person to eliminate the need to separately obtain and disseminate annual information about such providers. See Section II.A.1.b.(1). infra.
