FR941110-0-00224 FR941110-0-00016 We do not accept the comment that we should sanction a provider for interfering in the performance of a survey. We believe that this situation is adequately addressed in section 2713 of the State Operations Manual, which provides that surveyors may allow, or refuse to allow, facility personnel to accompany them during a survey. Each case is at the surveyors' discretion and is to be worked out with facility management. If it cannot be worked out, surveyors should contact their supervisors. Determination of a Deficiency Many commenters responded to our request in the proposed rule for recommendations for a regulatory design that could accommodate the use of scope and severity scales for determining deficiencies. Comment: A large number of commenters recommended that we adopt a system for determining deficiencies similar to that used by the State of Ohio. The Ohio system employs the use of a worksheet that must be completed for each violation of a requirement. The worksheet evaluates violations against criteria such as preventability and resident choice, and then classifies violations based on ratings of scope and severity into two types. The first type is called a deficiency and the second, lesser violation, is called a finding. Both a deficiency and a finding are recorded on the statement of deficiencies and are disclosable to the public, but only a deficiency would require a remedy. To the extent that the State of Ohio does not use scope and severity scales to determine whether a violation should appear on the statement of deficiencies but rather to determine appropriate enforcement action, the Ohio enforcement system is similar to the one that we proposed. Another model proposed requires a mathematical weight for each tag number identified in the interpretive guidelines. Individual data elements would be ranked in descending order according to their importance in a regulation. The model then calls for a statistical computation incorporating scope to determine whether a deficiency exists. A third model submitted involves two factors in determining whether an observation is a deficiency. The first factor is preventability. Under this proposal, if either the negative outcome could not have reasonably been foreseen or if the facility could foresee the negative outcome and did everything reasonably possible to prevent its occurrence but it occurred nonetheless, a deficiency would not be cited, regardless of scope and severity. The second factor is substantiality. If a facility were determined to be in substantial compliance with a requirement, a deficiency would not exist. Scope and severity would be used to determine if the requirement were met. Other models that incorporate the concept of substantial compliance into the determination of deficiencies but that do not involve the use of scope and severity scales were also recommended. One commenter suggested that we create an audit form outlining the minimum requirements for long term care facilities, and then rate each item either a ``pass'' or a ``fail'' depending upon whether the requirement was substantially met. Another suggestion was that we calculate a percentage of error rate for each requirement and evaluate the rating against a tolerable threshold of compliance. Certain commenters believed that for resident outcomes to have significance in the survey process, negative findings which have no adverse impact upon the care being received by residents should not constitute citable deficiencies. One commenter recommended that we adopt the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations' accreditation system which places any minor deficiencies that do not meet substandard care criteria on a recommendation report and reserves the official citations for substandard care. Other commenters believed that guidelines should express a standard of ``practicably met compliance with requirements'' which they asserted would be comparable to the ``highest practicable'' language applied to facility responsibility for resident care. Although the majority of commenters (mostly from the provider community) favored the use of scope and severity scales to determine deficiencies, a significant number of commenters did oppose it. Many of these were concerned that the use of scope and severity scales to determine deficiencies would violate the intent of the Act that all requirements be met and enforced. One commenter noted that the intent of the Act is to ensure that each individual's needs are met ``at the highest practicable level,'' not just at minimum standards. Others asserted that for enforcement to be resident centered, residents' individual problems must matter, and that using scope and severity scales to determine deficiencies would force residents to put up with a certain amount of misery before the facility would be required to address their problems.
