FR940617-2-00166 FR940617-2-00093 V. General Conditions A. For purposes of these exemptions, a two business day cooling-off period shall apply under Rule 10b&hyph;6(a)(4)(v), (xi) and (xii) in the United States and each Significant Market, provided that trading in Relevant Securities in Significant Markets shall be subject to the exemptive relief then available in such market, if any, or the record maintenance and record production requirements contained in Letter regarding Application of Cooling-Off Periods Under Rule 10b&hyph;6 to Distributions of Foreign Securities (April 4, 1994) are satisfied by Relevant Parties in such Significant Market. B. The lead underwriter or the global coordinator shall promptly, but in any event before the commencement of the Covered Period, provide a list of the Relevant Parties to the COB and written notice (``Notice'') to the Division containing the following information: (i) the name of the issuer and the Qualified French Security; (ii) whether the Qualified French Security is a CAC 40 Index component security or information with respect to the market capitalization and the average daily trading volume of the Qualified French Security to be distributed; (iii) the identity of the Significant Markets where the Qualified French Security trades; (iv) if the Notice is for more than one entity, the identity of all underwriters and selling group members relying on these exemptions; 5 and (v) a statement that the Relevant Parties are aware of the terms and conditions of these exemptions. 5 Supplemental Notices shall be provided for underwriters and selling group members identified after a Notice has been filed. C. Any person who fails to comply with the conditions of the exemptions, including a failure to provide requested information, would not be permitted to rely on the exemptions in future distributions. Upon a showing of good cause, however, the Commission or the Division may determine that it is not necessary under the circumstances that the exemptions be denied. The foregoing exemptions from rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7, and 10b&hyph;8 are based solely on your representations and the facts presented, and are strictly limited to the application of those rules to the proposed transactions. Any different facts or representations might require a different response. Responsibility for compliance with any other applicable provisions of the federal securities laws must rest with the Relevant Parties. The Division expresses no view with respect to any other questions that the proposed transactions may raise, including, but not limited to, the adequacy of disclosure concerning, and the applicability of any other federal or state laws to, the proposed transactions. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Robert L.D. Colby, Deputy Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14738 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;P
