FR940526-2-00133 FR940526-2-00063 Mortgage Information 1. What forms of home financing are most common in XXXXXXXX (the allowance area or Washington, DC metropolitan area)? (Do not include second mortgages.) 2. What are the typical conditions and limitations on loans? 3. What is the typical amount(s) of down payment required? What are the terms and rates? 4. Are there special subsidies or other practices that influence home financing in your area? 5. Looking back 6 years, what types of changes have occurred that affect home financing? 6. Is there anything else we should know about home financing in your area? Are there suggestions or recommendations you wish to make that would help us in our data collection? Real Estate Information 1. What is the availability of housing in XXXXXXXX (the allowance area or Washington, DC metropolitan area)? Of principal interest is housing for typical salary and wage earners (as distinguished from retirees, tourists, or other special groups) for persons with low, moderate, and high incomes. 2. Describe the communities within your area in which persons XXXXXXXX (specify occupation/income characteristics) typically live. If appropriate, identify separate communities for renters and home owners. Where are these communities located relative to the major Federal activities in the area? 3. Describe the type of housing (e.g., apartment, condominium, town house, detached house). 4. For each type of housing, what are the usual number of rooms, bedrooms, baths, total square footage, lot size, type of construction, and similar characteristics? 5. What types of utilities are available and typically used in these communities: sewer, water, natural gas, electricity, others? 6. Are there any unusual factors that might affect maintenance requirements in your area? 7. Looking back six years, describe the changes that significantly affected the housing market (both rental and owner markets). 8. Is there anything else we should know about the housing market in your area? Are there suggestions or recommendations you wish to make concerning our data collection? Other Types of Information Occasionally, it is necessary to collect information from colleges, universities, chambers of commerce, trade associations, and other groups on specific subjects relating to the analysis of living costs. For example, a university known to be involved in home energy research may be contacted to determine whether there are consumption data by region or allowance area that could have application in the COLA program. When such data are collected, the purpose and basic structure of the interview will follow the patterns shown above. The substance, however, will vary with the subject matter. BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN26MY94.003 BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;C
