FR940720-2-00153 FR940720-2-00086 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20404; File No. 812&hyph;8914] North American Security Life Insurance Company, et al. July 13, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: North American Security Life Insurance Company (``Security Life''), NASL Variable Account (``Variable Account''), NASL Financial Services, Inc. (``NASL Financial'') and Wood Logan Associates Inc. (``Wood Logan''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested under Section 6(c) from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2). SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to the extent necessary to permit the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Variable Account with respect to certain flexible purchase payment individual and group deferred variable annuity contracts. FILING DATE: The application was filed on March 29, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing on this application by writing to the Secretary of the SEC and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m., on August 8, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Notification of the date of a hearing may be requested by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20549. Applicants: John D. DesPrez, III, Esq., North American Security Life Insurance Company, 116 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joyce M. Pickholz, Senior Counsel, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application; the complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Security Life, a wholly owned subsidiary of North American Life Assurance Company, is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of Delaware in 1979. Security Life is the depositor of the Variable Account. The Variable Account is registered under the Act as a unit investment trust and was established, under Delaware law, to offer certain variable annuity contracts, including the variable contracts described in the application (the ``Contracts''). The Variable Account is divided into sub-accounts which invest in corresponding portfolios of NASL Series Trust (the ``Trust''). 2. NASL Financial, a wholly owned subsidiary of Security Life, is the principal underwriter of the Contracts. NASL Financial also serves as investment adviser to the Trust. 3. Wood Logan, a Connecticut corporation registered as a broker-dealer under the 1934 Act, serves as the exclusive promotional agent for the Contracts. 4. The Contracts are flexible purchase payment individual and group deferred variable annuity contracts which will provide for the accumulation of values and the payment of annuity benefits on a fixed or variable basis. The Contracts are designed for use in connection with retirement plans that may or may not qualify for special income tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 5. Prior to the maturity date, Security Life will, on the last day of each contract year, deduct from the accumulated value of each Contract an annual administration fee of $30. This annual administration fee will also be deducted when a Contract is surrendered on any date other than a contract anniversary. However, if prior to the maturity date the contract value exceeds $100,000 at the time of the fee's assessment, the fee will be waived. During the annuity period, the fee is deducted on a pro-rata basis from each annuity payment. In addition, Security Life will deduct from the sub-accounts each valuation period an administration charge equal to .15% of the sub-account assets on an annualized basis. These fees are intended to compensate Security Life for the cost of providing administrative services attributable to the Contracts and the operations of the Variable Account and the Company in connection with the Contracts. The fees are based upon Security Life's current estimates of the administrative costs attributable to the Contracts over their lifetime and are not designed or expected to generate a profit. In the case of individual Contracts, these fees are guaranteed never to be increased. For group Contracts, these fees may be modified by Security Life on 60 days notice to the group holder of the Contract, provided that such modification shall apply only to certificates issued under the Contract after the effective date of the modification. Applicants will rely on Rule 26a&hyph;1 under the Act for the necessary exemptive relief to charge such fees.
