FR940524-1-00088 FR940524-1-00011 Tuesday May 24, 1994 Part III Department of Labor Mine Safety and Health Administration 30 CFR Parts 11, 70, and 71 Respiratory Protective Devices; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 99␣/␣Tuesday, May 24, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Mine Safety and Health Administration 30 CFR Parts 11, 70, and 71 Respiratory Protective Devices AGENCY: Mine Safety and Health Administration, Labor. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposal would remove existing rules for the joint approval of respiratory protective equipment by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The existing rules would be replaced by revised approval procedures and technical requirements for respirators being proposed by NIOSH in a separate rulemaking. The existing rules, which are currently administered jointly by NIOSH and MSHA, would be replaced by new rules, which will be administered solely by NIOSH, with joint certification and approval by NIOSH and MSHA of certain specified mining-related devices. Removal of the existing rules would be contingent upon the NIOSH rulemaking becoming final. Existing provisions for the selection, use, and maintenance of respirators at coal mines would be retained and recodified. This notice should be read in conjunction with the proposed rule published by NIOSH elsewhere in today's Federal Register . DATES: Written comments must be submitted on or before July 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, room 631, Ballston Tower No. 3, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia W. Silvey, Director, Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, MSHA (703) 235&hyph;1910. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The existing rules and procedures in 30 CFR part 11 for approval of respiratory protective devices, or respirators, evolved from rules and procedures developed by the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Mines. Until 1972, the Bureau of Mines was solely responsible for testing and approving respirators. In 1972, the Bureau of Mines and NIOSH jointly published 30 CFR part 11. These regulations replaced the Bureau of Mines' rules and procedures, and delineated the responsibilities of the two agencies. Under these regulations, the Bureau of Mines evaluated respirator performance, and NIOSH was responsible for administration of the quality control provisions. The Bureau of Mines also tested the safety of electrical components of respirators intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres in underground gassy mines (intrinsic safety) under the requirements of 30 CFR part 18. A Memorandum of Understanding between the two agencies of May 30, 1972, refined their respective roles and in 1973, part 11 was amended. Under this arrangement, NIOSH undertook primary responsibility for performance testing of respirators. Although all approvals continued to be issued jointly, the Bureau of Mines principally retained only the responsibility to test for intrinsic safety the small number of respirators with electrical components intended for use in gassy underground mines. In 1974, the Mining Enforcement and Safety Administration, MSHA's predecessor agency, was created and the responsibilities of the Bureau of Mines under part 11 were transferred to that agency. Since it was created in 1978, MSHA has continued to test electrical components of certain respirators for intrinsic safety and has issued separate approvals for respirators meeting the requirements of 30 CFR part 18. While MSHA currently reviews applications for respirator approvals and has conducted some product evaluations, laboratory testing, quality assurance, and product audit for certain respirators, the testing and certification activities specified by part 11 are primarily conducted by NIOSH. II. Discussion of Proposal Elsewhere in today's Federal Register , NIOSH is proposing in a separate rulemaking to transfer requirements for the approval of respiratory protective equipment to 42 CFR part 84, and upgrade the testing requirements for particulate filters. Under the NIOSH proposal, MSHA and NIOSH would continue to review and approve respirators jointly for mine emergencies and mine rescue, and their associated service-life plans and users' manuals. Among the types of devices which would continue to be subject to joint approval are self-contained, self-rescue devices. Retention of joint approval under the NIOSH proposal would preserve MSHA's role in the certification of certain respirators whose unique use in mining is an important part of safeguarding the health and safety of miners. In addition, MSHA would continue to test electrical components of certain respirators to be used in mines and issue a separate MSHA approval under 30 CFR part 18 for such respirators.
