FR941205-2-00165 FR941205-2-00074 Changes: None. Comments: One commenter recommended that research be conducted, perhaps under the auspices of National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR), in the area of sign-to-voice interpreting to identify the factors involved in the development of competency in sign-to-voice interpreting. Concern was also expressed about the proliferation of the interpreter certification systems, and commenters urged that a stronger link be established between current projects involved in training of sign language interpreters and external practices for evaluation and certification of sign language interpreters. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes the importance of competency in the area of sign-to-voice interpreting and believes that it is the responsibility of the training projects to include this aspect of interpreting in their curricula. The comment concerning the need for research in this area will be shared with appropriate individuals in NIDRR. Concerning the need for stronger links between the training projects and the authorities responsible for evaluation and certification of interpreters, 34 CFR 396.20 of the regulations on application content requires that an application include an assurance that the project shall cooperate or coordinate its activities, as appropriate, with the activities of other projects funded under this program. In addition, the Secretary points out that certain projects that are currently funded are coordinating with external entities in the field for the certification of sign language interpreters. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter supported the priority to increase the focus on training of interpreters for individuals who are deaf-blind; however, it was requested that the Department consider the maximum possible project period of 60 months as a full funding cycle rather than assessing the project during its third year to determine whether there is a need to provide funding beyond 36 months. Discussion: The Secretary has identified a maximum possible project period of 60 months. The Secretary believes that at least 36 months will be necessary to meet the requirements of the priority. The Secretary believes that an assessment during the third year of the project period is necessary to ensure that the project is meeting the objectives established in its original application and to determine whether there is a need to provide funding beyond 36 months. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters suggested that the project period be permitted to extend beyond 60 months. Discussion: The project period is limited by the Act to no more than 60 months. Furthermore, the Secretary believes that the 60-month project period will provide sufficient time to carry out the requirements of this priority.
