FR940705-2-00126 FR940705-2-00089 The Island has one publicly-owned water well (the largest water system on the Island), at least six large private water systems, and more than 100 smaller water systems. Some purveyors use both surface water and ground water to supply their distribution system. In addition, private wells provide water to a considerable number of houses and businesses across the Island. It is estimated that 71% of the water supplied to households on the Island is from ground water and 29% is from surface water sources. There are no alternative sources of drinking water for the Island that can be physically, legally, and economically supplied. IV. Project Reviews Designation of a sole source aquifer authorizes EPA to review federal financially-assisted projects proposed within the designated area. The principal mechanism used by EPA Region 10 to identify projects for review are Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with federal funding agencies. These MOUs outline procedures for screening and referring projects to EPA in order to ensure that only projects which may have a significant impact to ground water quality are reviewed. Most projects referred to EPA for review meet all federal, state, and local ground water protection standards and are approved without any additional conditions being imposed. Occasionally, site or project-specific concerns for ground water quality protection lead to specific recommendations or additional pollution prevention requirements as a condition of funding. In rare cases, federal funding has been denied when the applicant has been either unwilling or unable to modify the project. Whenever feasible, EPA coordinates the review of proposed projects with other offices within EPA and with various federal, state, or local agencies that have a responsibility for ground water quality protection. Relevant information from these sources is given full consideration in the sole source aquifer review process. Such coordination can complement, support, and strengthen existing ground water protection mechanisms. V. Public Comments EPA issued a news release (April 12, 1994) and a public notice (April 14, 1994) to request comments and announce the proposed designation. Both stated that a public hearing would be held if sufficient interest were expressed to EPA in advance. No requests for a formal hearing were received and it was subsequently cancelled. Five written comments were received prior to the expiration of the public comment period on June 1, 1994. Three letters were from Vashon Island residents and expressed support for the proposed designation. One letter was from the King County Department of Public Works, Roads and Engineering Division, and requested information and coordination of future federal financially-assisted road projects on the Island. Another letter was from the Bureau of Reclamation and stated there were no ongoing or proposed federal financially-assisted projects within the area. No controversial issues were raised as a result of this proposed action. VI. Summary This determination affects only the Vashon-Maury Island Aquifer System located in King County, Washington. As a result of this determination, all federal financially-assisted projects proposed in the designated area will be subject to EPA review to ensure that they do not create a significant hazard to public health. Dated: June 17, 1994. Chuck Clarke, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 10. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16220 Filed 7&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
