FR941205-0-00177 FR941205-0-00029 (12) A certification from the HFA that it will at all times comply with the financial requirements in ยง266.110 and, where applicable, maintain required reserves in a dedicated account in liquid funds ( i.e., cash, cash equivalents, or readily marketable securities) in a financial institution acceptable to HUD. (13) Copies of audited financial statements for the HFA's last three fiscal years. (14) Sample debenture form issued by the HFA. (c) Additional application requirements for HFAs without top-tier designation or overall rating of ``A'' on general obligation bonds. HFAs without top-tier designation or an overall rating of ``A'' on general obligation bonds must submit, in addition to the items described in paragraph (b) of this section, such further information specified and required in the Federal Register notice published pursuant to ยง266.10 of this part. This may include, but is not limited to, information concerning the geographic boundaries served ( e.g., city, county); a description of the organizational history which includes the authority to issue bonds and tax credits; length of time in business; general portfolio statistics; a description of all mortgage lending activities, including volume and default and foreclosure rates; a summary of delinquent loans in the last 12 months and the present status of each; relationship to the State or local Government, subsidiary or similar entity; and experience in multifamily housing. ยง266.110 Reserve requirements. (a) HFAs with top-tier designation or overall rating of ``A'' on general obligation bonds. An HFA with a top tier or equivalent designation or an HFA with an overall rating of ``A'' on its general obligation bonds is not required to have additional reserves so long as the HFA maintains that designation or rating, unless the Commissioner determines that a prescribed level of reserves is necessary. If the designation or rating is lost, the HFA must immediately establish a reserve account funded in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. The reserve account must reflect all loans in the HFA's portfolio endorsed under this part. (b) Other HFAs. (1) For other HFAs, a specifically identified dedicated account consisting entirely of liquid assets ( i.e., cash or cash equivalents or readily marketable securities) must be established and maintained in a financial institution acceptable to HUD. This account may be drawn upon by HUD and may be used by the HFA only with the prior written approval of HUD for the purpose of meeting the HFA's risk-sharing obligations under this part. The account must be established prior to the execution of any Risk Sharing Agreement under this part in an initial amount of not less than $500,000. Thereafter, the HFA must deposit at each loan closing and thereafter maintain the following additional amounts in the dedicated account: (i) $10.00 per $1,000 of the unpaid principal balance that is equal to or less than $50 million; plus (ii) $7.50 per $1,000 of the unpaid principal balance that is greater than $50 million and less than $150 million; plus (iii) $5.00 per $1,000 of the unpaid principal balance that is greater than $150 million. (2) The Commissioner may determine that higher levels of reserves may be necessary. ยง266.115 Program monitoring and evaluation. (a) HFA certifications. HUD will rely heavily on the certifications required of an HFA under this part and such additional certifications as the Commissioner may require in his or her administrative procedures. An HFA's continued participation in the program is predicated upon compliance with these certifications and its recommending for endorsement only those mortgages that comply with requirements of the program, including the HFA's origination, underwriting and closing procedures incorporated by reference into the Risk-Sharing Agreement.
