FR940208-2-00173 FR940208-2-00093 The Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules are intended to give effect to the extraordinary challenge committee provisions of Chapter Nineteen of the Agreement by setting forth the procedures for commencing, conducting and completing extraordinary challenge proceedings. Originally published on December 30, 1988 (53 Fed. Reg. 53212, 53222), the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules became effective on January 1, 1989, the date the Agreement entered into force. These amendments to the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules are the result of negotiations between the United States and Canada. The amendments improve the extraordinary challenge committee review process by providing for the smooth functioning of that process and by making the rules more easily understood by counsel. A summary of the amendments to the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules is contained in the following section-by-section analysis. Amendments involving typographical errors, corrected cross-referencing, minor ministerial corrections, and any other changes not explained below, are considered drafting clarifications and have no substantive significance. Preamble The Preamble has been amended to clarify that paragraph 2 of Annex 1904.13 provides the mandate for the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules. Rule 2 Rule 2 has been added in view of the entry into force of the North American Free Trade Agreement (``NAFTA'') and in light of the possibility that a Party may withdraw from NAFTA. The Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules govern any proceeding in which a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee is filed in respect of a panel review of any final determination published or, in the case of a determination that is not published, for which notice is received, prior to the entry into force of NAFTA. If either Canada or the United States were to withdraw from NAFTA, the Agreement would revive between them and these rules would again apply. Rule 3 Rule 3 amends former rule 2 to clarify that where procedural questions arise which are not covered by the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules, any procedure adopted by a committee should not be inconsistent with the Agreement. Rule 3 also has been amended to add a provision corresponding to the final sentence of Rule 2 of the Article 1904 Panel Rules, which provides that the Agreement prevails where there is an inconsistency or ambiguity between the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules and the Agreement. Rule 4 The definition of ``Disclosure Undertaking'' corresponds to an amendment to the Article 1904 Panel Rules and has been added to eliminate the need to refer to the form of the undertaking in the body of the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules or in an attached schedule. The definition of ``investigating authority'' corresponds to an amendment to the Article 1904 Panel Rules and has been added to include a delegation of power by the competent investigating authority in matters regarding the issuance, amendment, modification and revocation of Disclosure Orders and Protective Orders. The definition of ``personal information'' has been added to account for a class of information not found in the administrative record under review by a panel and consists of information produced in respect of a request for an extraordinary challenge committee arising from an allegation under Article 1904.13(a)(i) of the Agreement. The definition of ``pleading'' has been amended to remove the Notice of Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee and to add the Notice of Motion. The definition of ``proof of service'', as it applies to an extraordinary challenge proceeding requested in respect of a panel review of a final determination made in the United States, has been amended to remove acknowledgement of service as an alternative form of proof of service because it is not standard practice in the United States. The definition of ``Protective Order Application'' corresponds to an amendment to the Article 1904 Panel Rules and has been added to eliminate the need to refer to the form of the application in the body of the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules or in an attached schedule. The definition of ``service address'' has been amended to correspond to an amendment to the Article 1904 Panel Rules and has been rephrased to clarify that an address, rather than a facsimile number, is the principal service address.
