FR940223-0-00030 FR940223-0-00016 20 CFR Part 416 RIN 0960&hyph;AB86 Supplemental Security Income For the Aged, Blind, and Disabled; Indian Judgment Funds and Per Capita Distributions AGENCY : Social Security Administration, HHS. ACTION : Final rules. SUMMARY: These final regulations update the lists of types of income and resources that are excluded under the supplemental security income (SSI) program by Federal laws other than the Social Security Act (the Act) by reflecting the provisions of Public Law 97&hyph;458, enacted January 12, 1983, Public Law 98&hyph;64, enacted August 2, 1983, and Public Law 100&hyph;241, enacted February 3, 1988. In addition, we are making two minor technical changes. The effects of these final regulations are, in certain cases, to provide additional exclusions from income and resources permitting eligibility for, or increases in the payment of, SSI benefits. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 23, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Duane Heaton, Legal Assistant, 3&hyph;B&hyph;1 Operations Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235, (410) 965&hyph;8470. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background: Public Law 97&hyph;458 Public Law 97&hyph;458 was enacted January 12, 1983. Section 4 of this legislation provides that certain Indian judgment funds held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior or distributed per capita pursuant to a plan prepared by the Secretary of the Interior and not disapproved by a joint resolution of the Congress are excluded from income and resources under the SSI program. Indian judgment funds include interest and investment income accrued while the funds are held in trust. The exclusion extends to initial purchases made with Indian judgment funds. The exclusion does not apply to the proceeds from sales or conversions of initial purchases or to subsequent purchases made with funds derived from sales or conversions of originally excluded purchases, because Congress sought to protect only the distributions made by the Secretary of the Interior. Section 4 of Public Law 97&hyph;458 also excludes from resources any interests of Indians in trust or restricted Indian lands. Our current regulations address only those lands that such individuals may possess. These final regulations now also exclude from resources nonpossessory interests in such lands. Public Law 98&hyph;64 Public Law 98&hyph;64 was enacted August 2, 1983. This legislation excludes all funds held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior for an Indian tribe and distributed on a per capita basis from income and resources for SSI purposes. The Social Security Administration (SSA) sought advice from the Department of the Interior on the issue of whether Alaska Native Regional and Village Corporation (ANRVC) dividends not excluded under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) could be excluded under Public Law 98&hyph;64. SSA issued interim instructions directing that ANRVC dividend distributions paid on or after August 2, 1983, whether or not excluded under ANCSA, would be excluded for SSI purposes pending resolution of the issue. The Department of the Interior has since advised SSA that funds held by ANRVCs are not ``funds held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior'' within the purview of Public Law 98&hyph;64. We therefore concluded that these ANRVC dividend distributions could not qualify for exclusion for SSI purposes under that law. Public Law 100&hyph;241 A new law, Public Law 100&hyph;241, was enacted on February 3, 1988. Under this law, none of the following, received from a Native Corporation, is considered income or resources of an individual Alaska Native or a descendant of an Alaska Native: cash (including cash dividends on stock received from a Native Corporation) to the extent that it does not, in the aggregate, exceed $2,000 per individual per year (the exclusions are applied each year to the amount received in such year); stock (including stock issued or distributed by a Native Corporation as a dividend or distribution on stock); a partnership interest; land or an interest in land (including land or an interest in land received from a Native Corporation as a dividend or distribution on stock); and an interest in a settlement trust. Public Law 100&hyph;241 specifically provides that cash received from a Native Corporation (including cash dividends on stock received from a Native Corporation), to the extent that it does not, in the aggregate, exceed $2,000 per individual per year, shall not be considered or taken into account as an asset or resource. Although this statutory provision does not explicitly mention ``income,'' the legislative history clearly shows that such cash should not be considered a resource or ``otherwise utilized in determining eligibility.'' H.R. Rep. No. 31, 100th Cong., 1st Sess. 20 (1987). This language seems to require the exclusion of the distributions from income as well as resources, to the extent that they do not, in the aggregate, exceed $2,000 per individual per year in determining eligibility and payment amount. To exclude a portion of the distributions only from resources would result in benefit reductions or ineligibility in months in which the distributions are received and would be contrary to congressional intent. Therefore, we have changed the income provisions of the appendix to subpart K to reflect the exclusion. In accordance with Public Law 100&hyph;241, we exclude ANRVC cash (including cash dividends on stock received from a Native Corporation) to the extent that this ANRVC cash does not, in the aggregate, exceed $2,000 per individual per year. With respect to resources, we apply the exclusion to each calendar year without regard to the prior year, so that retained cash not exceeding $2,000 which an individual received from a Native Corporation in a prior year will not be counted in a subsequent year. This interpretation is consistent with the policy of the Aid to Families with Dependent Children program. Any retained cash exceeding $2,000 per year will be counted toward the SSI resource limit. Regulations Changes The appendix to subpart K lists the types of income that are excluded under the SSI program by Federal laws other than the Act and explains how exclusions provided by other Federal statutes apply to income deemed from a sponsor to an alien. We are amending the appendix to subpart K, IV. Native Americans, on the basis of the legislation discussed above by revising paragraph (a), deleting paragraph (b)(4), redesignating paragraphs (b)(5) through (b)(13) as (b)(4) through (b)(12), and adding new paragraphs (g) and (h). In addition, paragraphs (g) and (h) provide that the exclusion applies to the sponsor's income only if the alien lives with the sponsor, because the statute authorizing the exclusions applies only to benefits to which the household or member of the household would be eligible.
