FR940616-2-00013 FR940616-2-00009 Class or Kind of Merchandise At the time of our initiation, we solicited comments from interested parties on whether all cased pencils constitute one class or kind of merchandise. Respondents have argued that raw pencils/pencil blanks and semi-finished pencils constitute a separate class or kind of merchandise apart from finished pencils. Based on the information provided, we find that these products do not constitute a separate class or kind of merchandise. (See memorandum from E. Graham to B. Stafford, April 15, 1994.) In a submission dated June 2, 1994, respondents argued that the merchandise subject to this investigation comprises four separate classes or kinds of merchandise. While this argument was made too late to be considered for our preliminary determination, we will address this in our final determination. The Asia Pencil Association argued that specialty pencils ( e.g. , carpenter and art pencils) should constitute a separate class or kind of merchandise. However, the information submitted in support of their claim was insufficient to allow us to make a determination that specialty pencils are a separate class or kind of merchandise. Period of Investigation The POI is June 1, 1993, through November 30, 1993. Separate Rates China First, Guangdong, SFTC, and Shanghai Lansheng have each requested a separate rate. Guangdong's and SFTC's business licenses each indicate that they are owned ``by all the people.'' As stated in the Final Determination of Sales at Less than Fair Value: Silicon Carbide from the People's Republic of China (59 FR 22585, 22586 (May 2, 1994)) (`` Silicon Carbide '') ``ownership of a company by all the people does not require the application of a single rate.'' Accordingly, Guangdong and SFTC are eligible for consideration for separate rates. Shanghai Lansheng has reported that, for the majority of the POI, it was owned ``by all the people'' and that it was later reorganized as a shareholding company. It has indicated that its shares are traded on the Shanghai stock exchange. In the Preliminary Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value and Postponement of Final Determination: Certain Paper Clips from the People's Republic of China (`` Paper Clips '') (59 FR 25885, 25887, May 18, 1994) the Department stated that ``a `municipal government' owns 70 percent of [Shanghai Lansheng's] shares.'' There is no evidence on the record that this municipality controls other exporters of cased pencils that made sales to the United States during the POI. We will, however, evaluate this issue carefully during verification. Since ownership by all the people (the situation applicable to Shanghai Lansheng during the majority of the POI) ``does not require the application of a single rate'' and there was no central government ownership during the later part of the POI, Shanghai Lansheng is eligible for consideration for a separate rate.
