FR941130-2-00041 FR941130-2-00027 FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION Notice of Agreement(s) Filed The Federal Maritime Commission hereby gives notice of the filing of the following agreement(s) pursuant to section 5 of the Shipping Act of 1984. Interested parties may inspect and obtain a copy of each agreement at the Washington, D.C. Office of the Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, N.W., 9th Floor. Interested parties may submit comments on each agreement to the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, D.C. 20573, within 10 days after the date of the Federal Register in which this notice appears. The requirements for comments are found in ยง572.603 of Title 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Interested persons should consult this section before communicating with the Commission regarding a pending agreement. Agreement No.: 202&hyph;002744&hyph;084. Title: West Coast of South America Agreement. Parties: A.P. Moller-Maersk Line Compania Chilena de Navigacion Interoceania, S.A. Compania Sud Americana de Vapores, S.A. Americana de Vapores, S.A. Crowley American Transport, Inc. Flota Mercante Grancolombiana, S.A. Lykes Bros. Steamship Co., Inc. Sea-Land Service, Inc. South Pacific Shipping Company, Ltd. Synopsis: The proposed amendment authorizes the parties upon unanimous vote, to include a most-favored-shipper clause in any service contract they enter into. Agreement No.: 203&hyph;011223&hyph;009. Title: Transpacific Stabilization Agreement. Parties: American President Line Evergreen Marine Corp. (Taiwan) Ltd. Hapag-Lloyd Aktiengesellschaft Hanjin Shipping Co., Ltd. Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., Ltd. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha, Ltd. A.P. Moller-Maersk Line Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Neptune Orient Lines, Ltd. Nippon Yusen Kaisha Orient Overseas Container Line, Inc. Sea-Land Service, Inc. Yangming Marine Transport Corp. Synopsis: The proposed amendment adds the Indian Sub-Continent to the Agreement's geographic scope, except with regard to the Capacity Management (``CMP'') Program. It also clarifies, updates and restates portions of the Agreement's Authority. In addition, it lengthens the period of time in which the parties may take to extend each succeeding term of the CMP, and makes other non-substantive changes to the Agreement. Agreement No.: 201&hyph;200063&hyph;012. Title: NYSA&hyph;ILA Tonnage Assessment Agreement. Parties: New York Shipping Association International Longshoremen Association Synopsis: The proposed amendment modifies the treatment of transhipped and empty containers.
