FR941019-2-00161 FR941019-2-00086 LLW Performance Assessment Workshop AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Notice of Workshop. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) staff plans to conduct a Low-Level Radioactive Waste (LLW) Performance Assessment Workshop to provide opportunity to comment on and discuss NRC's Draft Branch Technical Position (BTP) on Performance Assessment for LLW Disposal Facilities and Development of NRC's Test Case Simulations. The workshop is jointly sponsored by NRC's Division of Waste Management and Office of State Programs in cooperation with the Host State Technical Coordinating Committee and the E&hyph;5 Committee of the Conference of Radiation Control Program Directors, Inc. Participants include State regulators, State authorities and developers, the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy. Members of the public attending will have opportunity to offer comments and participate in discussions. DATES: The workshop will take place from 8:00 a.m., Wednesday, November 16, 1994, and conclude at 4:30 p.m. on Thursday, November 17, 1994. LOCATION: The workshop will be held at NRC's Auditorium, Two White Flint North, 11545 Rockville Pike, MD 20852. Parking is limited. The White Flint Metro stop is within one block. CONTACT: For further information, contact Dr. Stephen N. Salomon, Office of State Programs, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, D.C. 20555, Telephone (301) 504&hyph;2368; FAX (301) 504&hyph;3502; or INTERNET: SNSNRC.GOV. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The NRC staff published in January 1994 a draft BTP on Performance Assessment for LLW Disposal Facilities and copies were distributed for review by Agreement States. The BTP was based on the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 61 ``Licensing Requirement for Land Disposal of Radioactive Waste,'' (Part 61) that specifies license requirements and performance objectives for LLW disposal facilities. The guidance objective of the BTP is to provide license applicants, licensees, States and compacts, and the NRC staff with an acceptable strategy and methodology for performing the technical analysis required to demonstrate compliance, in the post-closure time frame, with the performance objective in Part 61, governing radiological protection of the public health and safety and the environment. Participants in this workshop will discuss regulatory and technical issues in the draft BTP and the development of NRC's test case simulations Also, State regulatory and technical issues will be discussed. To achieve a more successful workshop, participants are encouraged to read the BTP before attending the workshop. Copies can be obtained from Dr. Salomon. The proposed agenda identifies the following discussion topics for the morning of November 16: The Purposes and Goals of the LLW PA Workshop, Overview of the BTP, Overview of PA Modeling Technical Issues and Recommended Analytical Approaches, Open Discussion of Iterative PA Process, Overview of PA Modeling Technical Issues and Recommended Analytical Approaches, Open Discussion of Technical Issues, and Environmental Protection Agency draft LLW Standard, 40 CFR 193. In the afternoon, there will be sessions on Overview of Comments on Preliminary draft of BTP and Revisions, Discussions of Regulatory and Technical Issues in LLW PA [Treatment of Engineered Barriers; Role of Site-Scenarios, Conceptual Models, and Data Needs; Uncertainty/Sensitivity in Regulatory Decision Making; Timeframe for PA Analysis; and Role of Performance Assessment in Demonstrating Compliance]. The afternoon shows Panel Discussions of Regulatory and Technical Issues in LLW PA. On November 17 in the morning, sessions include the NLLWMP technical assistance and computer modeling capability, Overview of NRC Staff LLWPA Modeling Efforts [Description of Test Case and Integrated Systems Model, Hardware/Software Requirements for LLWPA, Documenting Results, Test Case Results and Discussions of Important Conclusions, and Lessons Learned from Test case], PA Methodology Status Update, Panel discussion with State regulators and develops [Infiltration, Engineered Barriers, Source Term, Ground Water Transport and Dosimetry], and DOE approach to LLW PA Modeling. The afternoon includes Breakout sessions on Key Technical Issues in Implementing the BTP [Infiltration, Source Term, Offsite transport and dose, and Aspects of computer modeling], and Reports of Breakout chairs on issues and approaches discussed. The Workshop will end with a Wrap Up, Conclusions and Summary session. The workshop is a public meeting and members of the public attending will have opportunity to offer comments and participate in discussions. A transcript of the workshop will be available for inspection and copying for a fee, at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, N.W. (Lower Level), Washington, D.C. 20555. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 12th day of October, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Richard L. Bangart, Director, Office of State Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25854 Filed 10&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P&hyph;M
