FR940304-1-00114 FR940304-1-00014 Evcon commented that vent dampers are inappropriate designs because of damper location and isolated combustion design. (Evcon, No. 76 at 1). The Department has considered combustion box dampers instead of vent dampers. The Department knows of no design considerations that would render combustion box dampers inappropriate. Evcon also suggested that condensing designs and intermittent ignition devices are inappropriate because of excessive cost. (Evcon, No. 76 at 1&hyph;2). The Department has incorporated the costs for materials, components, maintenance, and installation into the Engineering Analysis. Evcon further commented that expense and noise problems exist with pulsed combustion furnaces. (Evcon, No. 76 at 1). The Department acknowledges these points and notes that pulsed combustion is no longer on the list of design options. In eliminating this design option, the Department reasoned that non-pulsed combustion technology can achieve efficiencies equivalent to pulsed-combustion technology at a lower cost. This is particularly true for manufacturers having to pay patent royalties for pulse combustion technology. Manufacturing cost data from the manufacturers supported this conclusion. Lastly, Evcon commented that corrosion and cost problems exist with two-stage and modulating burner designs. (Evcon, No. 76 at 2). In the Engineering Analysis, the Department assumed that material costs (for the concentric flue/supply air assembly) would increase because of the need to design for possible intermittent condensation in two-stage non- condensing furnaces. Non-condensing modulating furnaces are not included in the present list of design options. Other comments. Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association also commented that replacement furnaces must be able to fit into the same spaces as the units being replaced. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 7). The Department does not believe that any of the studied design options would result in significant space problems. Evcon also commented that American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-conditioning Engineers Standard 103&hyph;1982 is inadequate for the testing of various design options and urged that American National Standards Institute/American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-conditioning Engineers Standard 103&hyph;88 be adopted. (Evcon, No. 76 at 2). Modifications to the test procedures for furnaces, which address these issues, are contained in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking referenced above. 5. Kitchen Ranges and Ovens Classes. The comments on classes for conventional ranges and ovens ranged from Aloha Systems Inc.'s recommendation that all electric cooktops be one product class to Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers's proposal to add several classes to those proposed in the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Specifically, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers recommended that DOE add, as classes, electric cooktops with grill/griddle without downdraft feature, and for gas cooktops_grill/griddle with downdraft feature, grill/griddle without downdraft feature with and without an electric cord, and warming/simmer burners. (Aloha Systems, Inc., No. 2 at 1; and Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 38). Several comments supported the range/oven product classes that were listed in the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Four gas utilities, Southern Gas Association, Energen, South Carolina Electric and Gas Company - Gas Operations, and the Oklahoma Natural Gas Co., all supported the classes selected by DOE for gas cooktops and gas ovens. (Southern Gas Association, No. 4 at 7; Energen, No. 12 at 14; South Carolina Electric and Gas Company - Gas Operations, No. 34 at 6; and the Oklahoma Natural Gas Co., No. 57 at 6).
