FR940919-2-00119 FR940919-2-00046 Appendix III: Summary of Comments on Reengineering Proposal Overview During the comment period that began on April 1, 1994 and ended on June 14, 1994, the Team received over 6,000 written responses from SSA and DDS employees, employee unions, professional associations, members of the public, claimant representatives, physicians, State governors, claimant advocate groups, Federal components, and other interested parties. Fifty-three percent of the written responses came from SSA employees, 21% came from DDS employees, and 26% came from individuals and organizations external to the SSA/DDS community. Members of the Team read, analyzed, and collated every one of those 6,210 comments so that no idea, reaction, or nuance would be overlooked. For the commenters who presented written reactions to the overall proposal, 52% were favorable to the overall concept, 39% were unfavorable, and 9% were neutral. Approximately 10% of these commenters believed no reengineering was needed. Beyond the request for written comments, additional means of gauging reaction to the proposal were also employed: group employee feedback discussions were held in over 80 sites across the country with almost 2,000 SSA and DDS employees participating; a public meeting was held in Washington, D.C.; and Team members conducted briefings and spoke with more than 3,000 individuals and organizations about the proposal during the comment period. There was a very mixed reaction to the proposal. Very few verbal or written responses were totally favorable or unfavorable toward the proposal_those liking it had concerns about some elements while those generally disliking it found portions which they believed would be improvements over the current process. Many commenters, regardless of expressing praise or concern, addressed very limited aspects of the proposal without providing a reaction to the overall proposal. Profile The comments expressed can be categorized as follows: _SSA received widespread praise for taking on the task of redesigning the disability claim process. The prevalent belief was that dramatic improvements are needed to provide better service and handle workloads more effectively. Whether fully supporting the proposal or not, most commenters expressed concern that the system is broken and that only radical redesign will solve the problems that currently exist. _The most popular concepts were ( listed from most to least frequently mentioned ): •Elimination of the reconsideration step; •The disability claim manager as single Agency point of contact in the initial claim; •A single presentation of substantive policies for all decision makers; •Encouragement of the claimant to be a partner in the development of the claim; •Elimination of the mandatory Appeals Council review step; •Increased reliance on the use of information technology; •Increased public awareness and education about program requirements; •Evidence development tailored to claimant circumstances; •Disability claim managers empowered with full decisionmaking authority; and •The general aspects of the proposed disability methodology. _The greatest concerns centered around ( listed from most to least frequently mentioned ): •Personal safety of disability claim managers; •Ability of one person to fulfill the disability claim manager role; •Pre-denial personal interview with disability claim manager; •The general aspects of the proposed disability methodology; •Encouragement of the claimant to be a partner in the development of the claim; •The disability claim manager as single Agency point of contact in the initial claim; •Development and use of an Index of Disabling Impairments; •Use of standardized forms to request evidence from treating sources; •Reliance on treating source certification of existing evidence; and •Potential bias of disability claim managers. _Many of the responses centered around how the proposal would be implemented and what organizational changes would be needed to make the new process work. _There were concerns about whether the proposal would meet the objective of not increasing or decreasing program costs with fairly divided opinions about whether the new disability methodology would allow or deny more claims than the current methodology. Reliance on treating sources as preferred sources of medical evidence and personal bias resulting from disability claim manager face-to-face meetings with claimants were often cited as the reason for the belief that there will be an overall increase in allowed claims. The new four-step evaluation process was cited as the most common reason for the belief that there will be an overall increase in denied claims. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22491 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;P
