FR940816-0-00015 FR940816-0-00008 Comments Received and U.S. Decisions The Service received 26 public comments in response to the May 13, 1992, Federal Register notice: one requested that the United States enter a reservation on the listing of the American black bear ( Ursus americanus ); one requested the entering of a reservation on the listing of the paddlefish ( Polyodon spathula ); and 24 expressed concern over the permitting consequence for pre-CITES specimens from the listing of Brazilian rosewood ( Dalbergia nigra ). The International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies urged the United States to take a reservation on the listing of the American black bear in Appendix II, which had been for reasons of similarity of appearance [CITES Article II(2)(b)]. At the eighth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to CITES, the other Party countries recognized that the North American black bear populations are not threatened by trade, but the sale of undocumented gall bladders threatens the existence of Asian bear species that are listed in Appendix I. With either an Appendix II or Appendix III listing of the American black bear, all the parts of bears in international trade require CITES documentation, thus eliminating undocumented parts from legitimately entering the trade. Although the U.S. delegation felt that Canada's previous listing of this species in Appendix III was adequate, the action by the Parties in listing this black bear in Appendix II may help to reduce the illegal trade in the similar-appearing parts of endangered bears. Former Congressman Ron Marlenee of Montana requested that the United States enter a reservation on the listing of the paddlefish in Appendix II. He contended that the listing would seriously jeopardize a non-profit paddlefish roe operation in Montana. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's North Central Regional Office (Region 6) had prepared a proposal to add this species to Appendix I of CITES. The United States submitted the proposal to the CITES Secretariat to include the paddlefish in Appendix I, but with a notation that the Service was seeking additional information, and might revise the proposal to recommend listing in Appendix II. The United States ultimately did change to propose that the paddlefish be included in Appendix II, inasmuch as an Appendix II listing allows for legitimate exports determined not to be detrimental to the survival of the species, yet imposes the same penalties for violations of the requirements for export from the United States, and establishes the same trade-reporting conditions as an Appendix I listing. The Service received 24 comments within the comment period about Brazilian rosewood ( Dalbergia nigra ). Nearly all supported the listing of this species in Appendix I, and none requested a reservation, but all expressed concern about CITES regulation of the already acquired wood of this tree presently embodied in musical instruments, especially guitars. The commenters were from the music industry (including associations, periodical publishers, a computer bulletin-board network, etc. ); dealers especially in vintage guitars and including guitar-show producers; and manufacturers of stringed musical instruments (luthiers), especially of guitars. CITES provides a personal-effects exemption for such items that an international traveler exports and then imports when returning home, although it may be useful to declare the item to U.S. Customs at export to facilitate its re-entry. First, as a precaution, travelers should determine whether the countries to which they are going allow this CITES exemption.
