FR940523-2-00008 FR940523-2-00003 Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. District Ranger Decisions Bienville Ranger District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Biloxi Ranger District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Black Creek Ranger District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Bude Range District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Chickasawhay Ranger District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Delta Ranger District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Holly Springs Ranger District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Homochitto Ranger District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Strong River Ranger District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Tombigbee Ranger District: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. Ashe-Erambert Project: Clarion-Ledger, published daily in Jackson, MS. National Forests in North Carolina, North Carolina Forest Supervisor Decisions The Asheville Citizen-Times, published daily in Asheville, NC. District Ranger Decisions Cheoah Ranger District: Graham Star, published weekly (Thursday) in Robbinsville, NC. Croatan Ranger District: The Sun Journal, published weekly (Sunday through Friday) in New Bern, NC. French Broad District: The Ashville Citizen-Times, published daily in Asheville, NC. Grandfather District: McDowell News, published daily in Marion, NC. Highlands Ranger District: The Highlander, published weekly (May-Oct Tues & Fri; Oct-April Tues only) in Highlands, NC. Pisgah Ranger District: The Asheville Citizen-Times, published daily in Asheville, NC. Toecane Ranger District: The Asheville Citizen-Times, published daily in Asheville, NC. Tusquitee Ranger District: Cherokee Scout, published weekly (Wednesday) in Murphy, NC. Uwharrie Ranger District: Montgomery Herald, published weekly (Wednesday) in Troy, NC. Wayah Ranger District: The Franklin, published tri-weekly (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) in Franklin, NC. Ouachita National Forest, Arkansas, Oklahoma Forest Supervisor Decisions Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. District Ranger Decisions Caddo Ranger District: Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. Cold Springs Ranger District: Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. Fourche Ranger District: Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. Jessieville Ranger District: Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. Mena Ranger District: Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. Oden Ranger District: Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. Poteau Ranger District: Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. Winona Ranger District: Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. Womble Ranger District: Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published daily in Little Rock, AR. Choctaw Ranger District: Tulsa World, published daily in Tulsa, OK. Kiamichi Ranger District: Tulsa World, published daily in Tulsa, OK. Tiak Ranger District: Tulsa World, published daily in Tulsa, OK. Ozark-St. Francis National Forest: Arkansas Forst Supervisor Decisions The Courier, published daily (Sunday through Friday) in Russellville, AR. District Ranger Decisions Sylamore Ranger District: Stone County Leader, published weekly (Tuesday) in Mountain View, AR. Buffalo Ranger District: Newton County times, published weekly (Wednesday) in Jasper, AR. Bayou Ranger District: The Courier, published daily (Sunday through Friday) in Russellville, AR. Pleasant Hill Ranger District: Johnson County Graphic, published weekly (Wednesday) in Clarksville, AR. Boston Mountain Ranger District: Southwest Times Record, published daily in Fort Smith, AR. Magazine Ranger District: Southwest Times Record, published daily in Fort Smith, AR. St. Francis Ranger District: The Daily World, published daily (Sunday through Friday) in Helena, AR. National Forest in Texas, Texas Forest Supervisor Decisions The Lufkin Daily News, published daily in Lufkin, TX. District Rangers Decisions Angelina Ranger District: The Lufkin Daily News, published daily in Lufkin, TX. San Jacinto Ranger District: The Houston Post, published daily in Houston, TX. Neches Ranger District: The Lufkin Daily News, published daily in Lufkin, TX. Raven Ranger District: The Courier, published daily in Conroe, TX. Tenaha Ranger District: The Lufkin Daily News, published daily in Lufkin, TX. Trinity Ranger District: The Lufkin Daily News, published daily in Lufkin, TX. Yellowpine Ranger District: The Beaumont Enterprise, published daily in Beaumont, TX. Caddo-LBJ Ranger District_Caddo-LBJ National Grassland: Denton Record-Chronicle, published daily in Denton, TX. Dated: May 16, 1994. Ralph F. Mumme, Acting Deputy Regional Forest. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12486 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
