FR941026-2-00044 FR941026-2-00027 5. We do not propose to establish ranges for Account 2211, Analog Electronic Switching; Account 2215, Electro-mechanical Switching; and Account 2431, Aerial Wire. These are ``dying accounts'' as LECs are replacing the plant in these accounts with newer technologies. The LECs are rapidly phasing out this obsolete equipment in accordance with specific retirement schedules that are based on company plans to modernize their networks. Depreciation rates for this equipment can be readily calculated from these retirement schedules. We believe that depreciation rates for such equipment that are based upon a LEC's specific retirement plans are more accurate than rates based upon national averages. Moreover, the calculations are less complicated than those for other plant accounts, since detailed statistical analyses are not required to forecast lives. 6. In addition, we do not propose to set ranges for Account 2121, Buildings. For depreciation study purposes, we have permitted the LECs to subdivide this account and estimate lives for each subcategory. Moreover, we allowed the LECs flexibility to develop individual methods of categorization. As a result, some LECs subdivided this account based on the size of the buildings, some by location, and others based on use. Because of the significant differences among the categorization methods, the LECs' current basic factors for the subaccounts cannot be used to establish nationwide ranges. If ranges are to be developed for the buildings account, the LECs' data must be recast into new, uniform subcategories. 7. We believe that the cost of establishing such subcategories would outweigh the benefits. The LECs have indicated that the cost of compiling the information necessary to develop new subcategories would be substantial. Moreover, the LECs do not have plans to add or retire a significant number of buildings in the next few years. As a result, the underlying depreciation factors applicable to Account 2121 likely will not change, and an extensive analysis of the building account probably will not be necessary within the next few years. Accordingly, we propose to maintain the basic factors underlying the current prescribed depreciation rates for the buildings account, until our three-year range review when we will reconsider whether ranges would be appropriate for this account. In the interim, we believe that the data required under the streamlined procedures will be adequate, and we propose to require that the price cap LECs provide only these data for the buildings account. 8. This is a non-restricted notice and comment rulemaking proceeding. Ex Parte presentations are permitted, except during the Sunshine Agenda period, provided they are disclosed as provided in the Commission's rules. 9. We certify that the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 does not apply to this proceeding because if the proposals in this Order Inviting Comments are adopted, there will not be a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small business entities, as defined by Section 601(3) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Because of the nature of local exchange and exchange access service, the Commission has concluded that small telephone companies are dominant in their fields of operation and therefore are not ``small entities'' as defined by that Act. The Secretary shall send a copy of this Order Inviting Comments, including this certification, to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration in accordance with Section 603(a) of that Act. 10. We invite comment on the proposals set forth above. Pursuant to applicable procedures set forth in Sections 1.415 and 1.419 of the Commission's Rules, interested parties may file comments on or before November 14, 1994, and reply comments on or before December 14, 1994. To file formally in this proceeding, interested parties must file an original and four copies of all comments and reply comments. If commenters want each Commissioner to receive a personal copy of their comments, they must file an original plus nine copies. Interested parties should send comments and reply comments to Office of the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. 20554. Parties should also file one copy of any documents filed in this docket with the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Services, Room 246, 1919 M Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20554. We also ask that parties send a courtesy copy of their comments to the Accounting and Audits Division, 2000 L Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. Comments and reply comments will be available for public inspection during regular business hours in the FCC Reference Center (Room 239) of the Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20554. 11. Accordingly, It is Ordered, pursuant to Sections 1, 4(i), 4(j), and 220(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §§151, 154(i), 154(j), and 220(b), that Notice is Hereby Given of proposed plant accounts for which basic factor ranges should be established and the ranges proposed for those accounts to be used in the depreciation prescription process as described in the Depreciation Simplification Order . Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
