FR940302-2-00033 FR940302-2-00019 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission [Project No. 2069&hyph;003] Arizona Public Service Company; Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Assessment and Conduct Public Scoping Meetings and Site Visit February 24, 1994. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has received an application for relicense of the existing Childs Irving Hydroelectric Project, Project No. 2069&hyph;003. The project is located on Fossil Creek, a tributary of the Verde River, in Yavapai and Gila counties, Arizona. The project is entirely within the Coconino and Tonto National Forests, administered by the U.S. Forest Service (Forest Service). The FERC staff, in cooperation with the Forest Service, intends to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) on this hydroelectric project in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. The EA will objectively consider both site-specific and cumulative environmental impacts of the project and reasonable alternatives, and will include an economic, financial, and engineering analysis. The FERC staff will issue and circulate a draft EA for review by all interested parties. The staff will analyze and consider all comments filed on the draft EA in a final EA. The staff will then present its conclusions and recommendations to the Commission for consideration in reaching its final licensing decision. Scoping Meetings The FERC staff will conduct two scoping meetings on March 15, 1994. A scoping meeting oriented toward the agencies will be held at 9:30 a.m. at the Cliff Castle Best Western, 333 Middle Verde Road, Camp Verde, Arizona. A scoping meeting oriented toward the public will be held at 7 p.m. at the Cliff Castle Best Western. Interested individuals, organizations, and agencies are invited to attend either or both meetings and help the staff identify the scope of environmental issues that should be analyzed in the EA. To help focus discussions at the meetings, the staff will mail a Scoping Document 1, outlining subject areas to be addressed in the EA to agencies and interested individuals on the FERC mailing list. Copies of Scoping Document 1 will also be available at the scoping meetings. Objectives At the scoping meetings the FERC staff will: (1) Identify preliminary environmental issues related to the project; (2) identify preliminary resource issues that are not important and do not require detailed analysis; (3) identify reasonable alternatives to be addressed in the EA; (4) solicit from the meeting participants all available information, especially quantified data, on the resource issues; and (5) encourage statements from experts and the public on issues that should be analyzed in the EA, including points of view in opposition to, or in support of, the staff preliminary views. Procedures A court reporter will record the meetings and all statements (oral and written) thereby become a part of the formal record of the Commission proceedings on the Childs Irving Project. Individuals representing statements at the meetings will be asked to clearly identify themselves for the record. Individuals, organizations, and agencies with environmental expertise and concerns are encouraged to attend the meetings and define and clarify issues to be addressed in the EA. Persons choosing not to speak at the meetings, but who have views on the issues or information relevant to the issues, may submit written statements for inclusion in the public record at the meetings. In addition, written scoping comments may be filed with Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426, until April 15, 1994. All written correspondence should clearly show the following caption on the first page: Childs Irving Project, FERC Project No. 2069&hyph;003. Intervenors_those on the Commission's service list for this proceeding (parties)_are reminded of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, requiring parties filing documents with the Commission to serve a copy of the document on each person whose name appears on the official service list. Further, if a party or interceder files comments or documents with the Commission relating to the merits of an issue that may affect the responsibilities of a particular resource agency, they must also serve a copy of the document on that resource agency. Site Visit A site visit to the Childs Irving Hydro Project is planned for March 16, 1994. Those who wish to attend should plan to meet at the Cliff Castle Best Western at 8 a.m. or contact Ken Anderson at the Beaver Creek Ranger District, Coconino National Forest, (602) 567&hyph;4501 for details. Any questions regarding this notice may be directed to Dianne Rodman at (202) 219&hyph;2830. Linwood A. Watson, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4706 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
