FR940812-2-00202 FR940812-2-00073 As noted above, the number of shares of each component in the Index portfolio remain fixed between quarterly reviews except in the event of certain types of corporate actions such as the payment of a dividend other than an ordinary cash dividend, a stock distribution, stock splits, reverse stock splits, rights offering distribution, reorganization, recapitalization, or similar event with respect to the Index component securities. In a merger or consolidation of an issuer of an Index component, if the component remains in the Index, the number of shares of that component in the Index portfolio may be adjusted, to the nearest whole share, to maintain the component's relative weight in the Index at the level immediately prior to the corporate action. Further, if the Exchange replaces an Index component at a time other than at a quarterly rebalancing, it will do so in the following manner: if one of the two highest weighted Index components is replaced, the Exchange will determined the weighting of the Index component being replaced and assign the same weighting to the newly added component. If one of the equally weighted Index components is replaced, the average dollar value of the remaining Index components within that tier will be calculated and the resulting figure used to determine the assigned Index portfolio shares, to the nearest whole share. In all cases, the divisor will be adjusted, if necessary, to ensure Index continuity, and the Index will be rebalanced at the next regularly scheduled rebalancing. 12 12 See Letter from Nathan Most, Senior Vice President, New Products Development, Amex, to Michael Walinskas, Derivative Products Regulation, SEC, dated August 3, 1994, This Letter also withdraws that portion of Amendment No. 3 as it relates to the replacement of Index components. The Amex will calculate and maintain the Index and, pursuant to Exchange Rule 901C(b), may at any time or from time to time substitute Index component securities, or adjust the number of components included in the Index, based on changing conditions in Mexico. However, the Exchange will not decrease the number of Index components to greater than nine or increase the number of components to greater than thirteen without prior Commission approval. 13 13 See Amendment No. 3. The value of the Index will be calculated continuously and disseminated every 15 seconds over the Consolidated Tape Association's Network B. Expiration and Settlement The Exchange proposes to trade cash-settled, European-style Index options ( i.e., exercises are permitted at expiration only). The Exchange also proposes that Mexico Index options will have trading hours from 9:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. EST. As with other index options traded on the Amex, the options on the Index will expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month (``Expiration Friday''). The last trading day in an option series will normally be the second to last business day preceding the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month (normally a Thursday). Trading in expiring options will cease at the close of trading on the last trading day. The Index value for purposes of settling a specific Mexico Index option will be calculated based upon the primary exchange regular way opening sale prices for the Index component securities. In the case of NM securities, the first reported sale price will be used. As trading begins in each of the Index's component securities, its opening sale price is used to calculate the Index settlement value. The Index settlement value can be determined once all of the components have opened. If any of the components do not open for trading on the last trading day before expiration, then the prior day's last sale price is used in the Index settlement value calculation. The Exchange plans to list options series with expirations in the three near-term calender months and in the two additional calendar months in the March cycle. In addition, longer term option series having up to thirty-six months to expiration may be traded. In lieu of such long-term options on a full-value Index level, the Exchange may instead list long-term, reduced-value put and call options based on one-tenth (1/10th) the Index's full-value. In either event, the interval between expiration months for either a full-value or reduced-value long-term option will not be less than six months. Eligibility and Maintenance Standards for Index Components The Exchange has represented that it will ensure that the Index initially and thereafter satisfies the initial listing and maintenance criteria set forth in the Generic Narrow-Based Index Approval Order. In choosing among Index component securities that meet the initial minimum criteria set forth in the Generic Narrow-Based Index Approval Order (as well as Exchange Rule 901C), the Exchange will select components that: (1) have a minimum market value of at least U.S. $75 million, except that for each of the lowest weighted component securities in the Index that in the aggregate account for no more than 10% of the weight of the Index, the market value may be at least $50 million; (2) have an average monthly trading volume in the U.S. markets over the previous six-month period of not less than one million shares (or ADRs) except that for each of the lowest weighted component securities in the Index that in the aggregate account for no more than 10% of the weight of the Index, the trading volume shall be at least 500,000 shares in each of the last six months; (3) have at least 90% of the numerical Index value and at least 80% of the total number of component securities meeting the current criteria for standardized option trading set forth in Exchange Rule 915; and (4) are reported securities that trade on either the NYSE, Amex (subject to the limitations of Rule 901C), or are NM securities. In addition, no individual stock in the Index may represent more than 25% of the Index weight (at the time of rebalancing) and the five highest weight stocks may not constitute more than 60% of the Index weight (at the time of rebalancing).
