FR940112-2-00054 FR940112-2-00040 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM Bren-Mar Properties, Inc., et al.; Formations of; Acquisitions by; and Mergers of Bank Holding Companies The companies listed in this notice have applied for the Board's approval under section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842) and 225.14 of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.14) to become a bank holding company or to acquire a bank or bank holding company. The factors that are considered in acting on the applications are set forth in section 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). Each application is available for immediate inspection at the Federal Reserve Bank indicated. Once the application has been accepted for processing, it will also be available for inspection at the offices of the Board of Governors. Interested persons may express their views in writing to the Reserve Bank or to the offices of the Board of Governors. Any comment on an application that requests a hearing must include a statement of why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute and summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing. Unless otherwise noted, comments regarding each of these applications must be received not later than February 4, 1994. A. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (Randall C. Sumner, Vice President) 411 Locust Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63166: 1. Bren-Mar Properties, Inc. , Columbia, Missouri; to acquire Jack's Fork Bancorporation, Inc., Columbia, Missouri, and thereby indirectly acquire Texas County Bank, Houston, Missouri; Bank of Mountain View, Mountain View, Missouri; and Summersville State Bank, Summersville, Missouri; and to acquire First Missouri Bancorporation, Inc., Columbia, Missouri, and thereby indirectly acquire First National Bank and Trust Company, Columbia, Missouri; and First Heritage National Bank, Davis, Oklahoma. 2. Community First Financial Group, Inc. , English, Indiana; to acquire at least 30.95 percent of the voting shares of Peoples Trust Bank Company, Corydon, Indiana, a de novo bank. 3. First United Bancshares, Inc. , El Dorado, Arkansas; to merge with InvestArk Bankshares, Inc., Stuttgart, Arkansas, and thereby indirectly acquire The Bank of North Arkansas, Melbourne, Arkansas, and First Stuttgart Bank & Trust Company, Stuttgart, Arkansas. 4. Murphy-Wall Bancorp , Pinckneyville, Illinois; to become a bank holding company by acquiring 100 percent of the voting shares of Murphy-Wall State Bank and Trust Company, Pinckneyville, Illinois. B. Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis (James M. Lyon, Vice President) 250 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55480: 1. Aumanchester, Inc. , Rochester, Minnesota; to acquire 100 percent of the voting shares of Security State Bank of Hammond, Hammond, Minnesota. In connection with this application, Rochester Bank and Trust Company, Rochester, Minnesota; has applied to become a bank holding company by acquiring 100 percent of the voting shares of Security State Bank of Hammond, Hammond, Minnesota, which will be merged into Rochester Bank and Trust Company. 2. Brill Bancshares, Inc. , Owen, Wisconsin; to become a bank holding company by acquiring 89.9 percent of the voting shares of Brill State Bank, Brill, Wisconsin. C. Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas (Genie D. Short, Vice President) 2200 North Pearl Street, Dallas, Texas 75201-2272: 1. Limestone Bancshares, Inc. , Mexia, Texas; to become a bank holding company by acquiring 100 percent of the voting shares of First National Bank of Mexia, Mexia, Texas. 2. Western Commerce Bancshares of Carlsbad, Inc. , Carlsbad, New Mexico; to merge with Western Bancshares of Clovis, Inc., Carlsbad, New Mexico, and thereby indirectly acquire Western Bank of Clovis, Clovis, New Mexico. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, January 6, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Associate Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;649 Filed 1&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
