FR940930-0-00232 FR940930-0-00029 Labor/management recommended that the rule should be modified to reflect current practices in the maintenance, inspection and testing of flashing light units. Since the plans kept at crossing locations typically do not address the alignment or focus of flashing light units, they believe it would be more appropriate to have the requirements based on the installation specifications, which would reflect the design of the system. They commented that the term ``focus'' should be eliminated from the rule. Light units are focused initially in the manufacturing process, and the focus should be adjusted thereafter only in a shop environment. In accordance with the current practices, the group recommended that the requirements under subsection (c) include the words ``for proper visibility.'' This requirement will more appropriately address the intent of the rule with regard to the proper operation of the light units. We agree with the comments and have revised the rule accordingly. Final Rule This section requires that each flashing light unit be inspected when installed and at least once every 12 months for proper alignment and frequency of flashes in accordance with installation specifications. Lamp voltage will be required to be tested when installed and at least once every 12 months thereafter. Each flashing light unit will be inspected for proper visibility, and for dirt and damage to roundels and reflectors at least once each month. Section 234.255␣Gate Arm and Gate Mechanism There was no opposition to the proposed rule. The final rule will remain as proposed. Final Rule This section requires that each gate arm and gate mechanism be inspected, and gate arm movement be observed for proper operation, at least once each month. Hold-clear devices (devices that keep the gate arms in the vertical position when the warning system is not activated) shall be tested for proper operation at least once every 12 months. Section 234.257␣Warning System Operation The labor/management group supported the proposed rule. There was no opposition. The final rule will remain as proposed. Final Rule Paragraph (a) of this section requires that a highway-rail grade crossing warning system be tested for proper operation when the warning system is placed in service and thereafter at least once each month and whenever it is modified or disarranged. For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b), ``disarranged'' includes situations in which a relay, circuit board, or other electronic device is replaced with another; two or more conductors in a cable are severed; a cable or conductor in a train detection system is replaced with another; or wires are removed at the same time from more than one terminal of a relay, electronic device, terminal board, or other vital component of a train detection system. The extent of testing the warning system for proper operation will be dependent on the degree of modification or disarrangement. Paragraph (b) also requires that when a warning bell or other stationary audible warning device is used, it be checked for proper operation when installed. Thereafter it must be tested at least once each month and whenever modified or disarranged. Section 234.259␣Warning Time The proposed rule requires that a crossing warning system be tested for prescribed warning time at least once every three months. The labor/management group originally concurred in this section as proposed. The group later revised its comment. They state that it would be more appropriate to test warning time once each year, or when the warning system is modified in connection with changes in authorized train speeds. The LIRR commented that testing should only be required when a system is installed or disarranged. Labor/management and the Wisconsin Central Railroad request that testing of warning times using automatic recording devices should be an acceptable method of performing this test.
