FR940414-1-00072 FR940414-1-00010 If the Agency were to adopt a different regulatory approach for different individual pesticides within a cluster of pesticides, a market advantage might result for the less stringently regulated pesticides. To avoid this, EPA created a subgroup based on the market and technical characteristics of facilities at which the majority of PAI use comes from Cluster R&hyph;4. Analysis of facilities with the majority of PAI use from cluster R&hyph;4 (referred to as ``sanitizer'' facilities) revealed the following differences in market and technical characteristics between sanitizer and other PFPR facilities: •Sanitizer facilities obtained a smaller percentage of their revenue from PFPR than other facilities; •Sanitizer facilities had lower facility revenues than other facilities. •Sanitizer facilities had fewer employees than other facilities. •Sanitizer facilities are less likely to have already achieved zero discharge than other facilities. •Sanitizer facilities recycled/reused wastewater less frequently than other facilities (see Table 6). 9 9 See Section 5 of the Technical Development Document. EPA also notes that sanitizer products, in contrast to other pesticide products, are intended to be discharged to sinks and drains with normal use and therefore large quantities of the products themselves (apart from the PFPR wastestreams) end up at the POTW. EPA is not aware that these products are causing any interferences at POTWs. In addition, adding this small additional amount of sanitizer chemicals_19 lbs.-eq./year_to POTWs would not materially increase the total amount of these chemicals being discharged to POTWs. Table 6._ Estimated National Characteristics of Sanitizer Facilities vs. Other Subcategory C Facilities1 1␣ 1Sanitizer facilities2 1Other subcategory C facilities No. of facilities 245 698 Percent of revenue from PFPR: mean 18% 32% median 5% 10% Facility Revenue: mean $7.6 MM $19.3 MM median $1.3 MM $4.7 MM Employment associated with PFPR processing of 272 PAIs: mean < 1 FTE 6 FTEs median < 1 FTE < 1 FTE 1Facilities that directly discharge are not included. Data are based only on facilities that use water in their production of the 272 PAIs. 2Sanitizer facilities are defined as those facilities with the majority of their PAI use from PAIs in cluster R&hyph;4. In recognition of the distinct market and technical characteristics exhibited by facilities with PFPR operations concentrated on PAIs classified as sanitizers, the Agency proposes to treat them as a distinct segment or subgroup. The subgroup does not apply broadly to facilities but, instead, applies to wastewater streams generated in conjunction with the formulating, packaging, or repackaging of the six sanitizer chemicals that are physically separate from wastewater streams from formulating, packaging, or repackaging of other PAIs. c. Additional PSES Regulatory Options considered for the sanitizer segment. In performing the regulatory flexibility analysis, EPA had to balance the traditional concerns of the regulatory flexibility analysis-moderation of impacts among small-business entities_with the broader regulatory objectives of the Clean Water Act.
