FR940304-1-00019 FR940304-1-00004 The proposed amendments, if adopted, would allow small credit unions to receive significant amounts of nonmember shares, in relation to their total shares, without the prior NCUA approval that has been required since 1988. The Board is committed to working with these credit unions to ensure that nonmember funds are used in a safe and sound manner to benefit their membership. In this connection, the Board requests comment on whether periodic reporting on the sources and uses of nonmember shares, in excess of 20 percent of total shares, should be established. The Board may consider a monthly or quarterly reporting requirement or alternatively, revisions to the NCUA Call Report (NCUA Form 5300), to gather additional information on sources and uses of nonmember funds. C. Request for Comments The Board also requests comment on a related issue; the length of an approved waiver, in those cases where a waiver request and approval are still required. The regulation currently states in ยง701.32(b)(2) that the waiver request will normally be for a two-year period. Although the Board believes this language provides the regional director with sufficient discretion to approve waivers for a shorter or longer period, the Board is requesting comment on whether a nondiscretionary time period for the waiver should be stated, possibly three years, or whether the waiver should be open-ended and only terminated upon action by the regional director or the credit union. Paperwork Reduction Act The proposed amendments do not change paperwork requirements. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act requires the NCUA to prepare an analysis to describe any significant economic impact a proposed regulation may have on a substantial number of small credit unions (primarily those under $1 million in assets). The revised rule is generally less restrictive than the current regulation. Overall, the NCUA Board expects the change to benefit credit unions by permitting them to maintain a larger amount of nonmember accounts before requesting a waiver from the Regional Director. Accordingly, the Board determines and certifies that this final rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small credit unions and that a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Executive Order 12612 Executive Order 12612 requires NCUA to consider the effect of its actions on state interests. The amendment applies to federally-insured state-chartered credit unions that accept public unit and nonmember accounts. The proposed rule would make it possible for a federally-insured credit union to accept a larger amount of nonmember deposits without requesting an exemption. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 701 Credit unions, Nonmember accounts, Public units. By the National Credit Union Administration Board on February 28, 1994. Becky Baker, Secretary of the Board. Accordingly, NCUA proposes to amend 12 CFR part 701 as follows: PART 701_ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS 1. The authority citation for part 701 continues to read as follows:
