FR940527-0-00155 FR940527-0-00028 Appendix I to Chapter 2 118. A new DFARS Appendix I_Policy and Procedures for the DoD Pilot Mentor-Protege Program is added to Chapter 2 to read as follows: APPENDIX I_POLICY AND PROCEDURES FOR THE DOD PILOT MENTOR-PROTEGE PROGRAM Sec. I&hyph;100␣Purpose. I&hyph;101␣Definitions. I&hyph;102␣General procedures. I&hyph;103␣Program duration. I&hyph;104␣Eligibility requirements for a protege firm. I&hyph;105␣Selection of protege firms. I&hyph;106␣Approval process for companies to participate in the Program as mentor firms. I&hyph;107␣Mentor-protege agreements. I&hyph;108␣Reimbursement procedures. I&hyph;109␣Credit for unreimbursed developmental assistance costs. I&hyph;110␣Advance agreements on the treatment of developmental assistance costs. I&hyph;111␣Reporting requirements and program reviews. Authority: 41 U.S.C. 421 and FAR subpart 1.3. I&hyph;100 Purpose. (a) Appendix I to 48 CFR chapter 2 implements the Pilot Mentor-Protege Program (hereinafter referred to as the ``Program'') established under section 831 of Pub. L. 101&hyph;510, The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, as amended. The purpose of the Program is to_ (1) Provide incentives to major DoD contractors, performing under at least one active approved subcontracting plan negotiated with DoD or other Federal agencies, to assist small disadvantaged businesses (SDBs) in enhancing their capabilities to satisfy DoD and other contract and subcontract requirements; (2) Increase the overall participation of SDBs as subcontractors and suppliers and DoD contracts, other Federal agency contracts and commercial contracts and; (3) Foster the establishment of long term business relationships between SDBs and such contractors. (b) Under the Program, eligible companies approved as mentor firms will enter into mentor-protege agreements with eligible SDBs as protege firms to provide appropriate developmental assistance to enhance the capabilities of SDBs to perform as subcontractors and suppliers. According to the law, the DoD may provide the mentor firm with either cost reimbursement, credit against SDB subcontracting goals established under contracts with DoD or other Federal agencies, or a combination of credit and reimbursement. (c) DoD will measure the overall success of the Program by the extent to which the Program results in_ (1) An increase in the dollar value of subcontracts awarded to SDBs by mentor firms under DoD contracts; (2) An increase in the dollar value of contract and subcontract awards to protege firms (under DoD contracts, contracts awarded by other Federal agencies and under commercial contracts) since the date of their entry into the Program; (3) An increase in the number and dollar value of subcontracts awarded to a protege firm (or former protege firm) by its mentor firm (or former mentor firm); (4) An improvement in the participation of SDBs in DoD, other Federal agencies, and commercial contracting opportunities that can be attributed to the development of SDBs as protege firms under the Program; (5) An increase in subcontracting with SDB concerns in industry categories where SDBs have not traditionally participated within the mentor firm's vendor base; (6) The involvement of emerging SDBs in the Program; (7) An expanded relationship between mentor firms and protege firms to include non-DoD programs; and (8) The development of protege firms that are competitive as subcontractors and suppliers to DoD or in other Federal agencies or commercial markets. (d) This policy sets forth the procedures for participation in the Program applicable to companies that are interested in receiving_ (1) A separate contract, cooperative agreement, or other agreement entered into between DoD and the mentor firm_company is interested in reimbursement through a separate contract, cooperative agreement or other agreement with DoD or, a combination of reimbursement through such agreement with DoD and credit against SDB subcontract goals for any unreimbursed costs incurred under the Program. (2) Program Manager funded reimbursement_company has identified a DoD program manager willing to fund the Program and the company is interested in reimbursement for technical assistance costs to a protege firm(s) through a separately priced cost reimbursement contract line item added to a DoD contract, with credit against SDB subcontracting goals for any unreimbursed costs. (3) Indirect reimbursement and credit_company is interested in receiving reimbursement for indirect costs incurred under the Program as well as credit against SDB subcontract goals for these indirect costs. (4) Credit only_company is interested in receiving credit only against SDB subcontracting goals for costs incurred under the Program. I&hyph;101 Definitions. I&hyph;101.1 Emerging SDB concern. A small disadvantaged business whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard applicable to the standard industrial code for the supplies or services which the protege firm provides or would provide to the mentor firm.
