FR940930-2-00058 FR940930-2-00034 Priority Activity 3 Support national professional and academic organizations in transferring technology and information specific to health communications, social, and behavioral science research and evaluation to assist governmental and nongovernmental organizations in effective HIV prevention planning, intervention design, or evaluation. Priority consideration will be given to applications which propose to collect, ``translate,'' and disseminate research and evaluation findings for organizations and constituencies involved in HIV prevention efforts, including HIV Prevention Community Planning, social marketing, changing or influencing behaviors or social norms, and other types of HIV prevention interventions. Examples of this type of program would include those which (a) systematically retrieve, analyze, and ``translate'' relevant (published and/or unpublished) research and evaluation findings for persons involved in planning programs and designing interventions; or (b) develop and implement systems for providing technical assistance and training on behavioral and communications science, and on programmatic interventions conducted by national, State, and community organizations (public and private); or (c) is an effort by a national professional organization of behavioral and social scientists to train and mobilize its membership to assist local organizations or communities in planning for HIV prevention and evaluating their local HIV community interventions. B. CDC Activities The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) shall undertake the following activities in support of this announcement: 1. Provide information to, and collaborate with, funded organizations in developing and implementing short- and long-term plans for social marketing and health communications for HIV prevention. 2. Provide consultation, assistance, and guidance in planning and implementing program activities under this announcement including promotion and publicity related to the project. 3. Assist in identifying, acquiring, or developing appropriate educational materials to be used in programs. 4. To the extent that CDC has this information, provide up-to-date scientific information on the following: •Risk factors for HIV/STD transmission •Current HIV infection trends and behavioral practices, including trends among populations of a specific age, sex, or race/ethnicity •Prevention and program strategies that have been shown to be successful in preventing HIV infection •Current knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors related to HIV transmission •Documented determinants of behavior and underlying factors influencing determinants 5. Provide technical assistance in developing and implementing evaluation strategies for the program. 6. Facilitate collaboration with other public and private sector agencies involved in HIV prevention efforts at the national, regional, State, and community levels. 7. Facilitate the exchange of program information and technical assistance among other public and private agencies at all levels.
