FR941121-0-00041 FR941121-0-00001 2. Rounding. The dividends earned figure used to calculate the annual percentage yield earned must be rounded to two decimals to reflect the amount actually paid. For example, if the dividends earned for a statement period is $20.074 and the credit union pays the member $20.07, the credit union must use $20.07 (not $20.074) to calculate the annual percentage yield earned. For accounts that pay dividends based on the daily balance method, compound and credit dividends or interest quarterly, and send monthly statements, the credit union may, but need not, round accrued dividends to two decimals for calculating the ``projected'' or ``anticipated'' annual percentage yield earned on the first two monthly statements issued during the quarter. However, on the quarterly statement the dividends earned figure must reflect the amount actually paid. 3. Compounding frequency using the average daily balance method. Any compounding frequency, including daily compounding, can be used when calculating dividends using the average daily balance method. (See comment 707.7(b), which does not require credit unions to compound or credit dividends at any particular frequency). B. Special Formula for Use Where Periodic Statement is Sent More Often Than the Period for Which Dividends are Compounded 1. Statements triggered by Regulation E. Credit unions may, but need not, use this formula to calculate the annual percentage yield earned for accounts that receive quarterly statements and that are subject to Regulation E's rule calling for monthly statements when an electronic fund transfer has occurred. They may do so even though no monthly statement was issued during a specific quarter. This formula must be used for accounts that compound and credit dividends quarterly and that receive monthly statements, triggered by Regulation E, which comply with the provisions of ยง707.6. 2. Days in compounding period. Credit unions using the special annual percentage yield earned formula must use the actual number of days in the compounding period. Appendix B to Part 707_Model Clauses and Sample Forms 1. Modifications. Credit unions that modify the model clauses will be deemed in compliance as long as they do not delete information required by TISA or regulation or rearrange the format so as to affect the substance or clarity of the disclosures. 2. Format. Credit unions may use inserts to a document (see Sample Form B&hyph;11) or fill-in blanks (see Sample Forms B&hyph;4 and B&hyph;5, which use double underlining to indicate terms that have been filled in) to show current rates, fees or other terms. 3. Disclosures for opening accounts. The sample forms illustrate the information that must be provided to a member when an account is opened, as required by ยง707.4(a)(1). (See ยง707.4(a)(2), which states the requirements for disclosing the annual percentage yield, the dividend rate, and the maturity of a term share account in responding to a member's request.) 4. Compliance with Regulation E. Credit unions may satisfy certain requirements under Part 707 with disclosures that meet the requirements of Regulation E. (See ยง707.3(c).) The model clauses and sample forms do not give examples of disclosures that would be covered by both this regulation and Regulation E (such as disclosing the amount of a fee for ATM usage). Credit unions should consult appendix A to Regulation E for appropriate model clauses. 5. Duplicate disclosures. If a requirement such as a minimum balance applies to more than one account term (to obtain a bonus and determine the annual percentage yield, for example), credit unions need not repeat the requirement for each term, as long as it is clear which terms the requirement applies to. 6. Guide to model clauses. In the model clauses, italicized words indicate the type of disclosure a credit union should insert in the space provided (for example, a credit union might insert ``March 25, 1995'' in the blank for ``(date)'' disclosure). Brackets and diagonals (``/'') indicate a credit union must choose the alternative that describes its practice (for example, [daily balance/average daily balance]). 7. Sample forms. The sample forms (B&hyph;4 through B&hyph;11) serve a purpose different from the model clauses. They illustrate various ways of adapting the model clauses to specific accounts. The clauses shown relate only to the specific transactions described. By order of the National Credit Union Administration Board on November 10, 1994. Becky Baker, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28364 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7535&hyph;01&hyph;M
