FR941110-1-00070 FR941110-1-00011 c. The post-phaseout procedures for granting destruction and transformation credits. At the Fourth Meeting of the Protocol Parties in Copenhagen in 1992, in Decision IV/24, the Parties agreed to urge ``all practicable measures to prevent releases of controlled substances into the atmosphere.'' In accordance with this Decision, EPA wishes to continue encouraging destruction and transformation of controlled substances after the phaseout begins January 1, 1996, especially for those controlled substances that were produced or imported for intended emissive uses. EPA believes a system of incentives can be devised to foster destruction or transformation of ozone-depleting substances in order to prevent their emission to the atmosphere. In this action, EPA proposes a system of incentives to encourage destruction or transformation after the accelerated phaseout dates by offering credits for the destruction or transformation of controlled substances. These credits would be used to produce or import an amount of controlled substance. The Agency believes a system of incentives to encourage destruction or transformation of controlled substances after the phaseout is an important mechanism to deter individuals from releasing the unneeded controlled substance to the atmosphere. As discussed below, EPA believes that Decision IV/24 of the Parties to the Protocol urging measures to prevent the release of unneeded controlled substances to the atmosphere and the Protocol definition of production provide the basis to devise incentives for destruction or transformation after the accelerated phaseout and until the interim and final phaseout dates set forth in the CAA. The Protocol defines production as the ``amount of controlled substances produced, minus the amount destroyed by technologies to be approved by the Parties and minus the amount entirely used as feedstock in the manufacture of other chemicals.'' Under the Protocol, Parties may continue to produce controlled substances after they are phased out as long as the amount of the controlled substance produced is offset in each control period by the same amount that is transformed 4 or destroyed by an approved technology. 5 The Protocol definition of production indicates that an amount of controlled substance produced and the same amount destroyed or transformed would balance in a calculation of atmospheric loading and result in a net environmental impact of zero. 4 Under the current regulation, transformation is defined as the amount entirely used as feedstock (except for trace quantities) in the manufacture of other chemicals. 5 To date, Parties have approved five technologies for destruction (Decision IV/11) which are listed in the definition or ``destruction'' under ยง82.3. Although the definition of production in the Protocol would permit continued production beyond the phaseout as long as such production was offset by transformation or destruction, the definition of production under the Clean Air Act Amendments is distinct and does not permit such offsetting. The CAA defines ``produce,'' ``produced'' and ``production'' as the ``manufacture of a controlled substance from any raw material or feedstock chemical, but such terms do not include (A) the manufacture of a substance that is used and entirely consumed (except for trace quantities) in the manufacture of other chemicals, or (B) the reuse or recycling of a substance.'' Under the CAA definition, once production of a controlled substance is phased-out, it may no longer be produced for emissive purposes because there are no provisions, as in the Protocol's definition, to permit that continued production be offset by destruction or transformation. Pursuant to CAA section 614, in the case of conflict between any provision of the CAA and the Montreal Protocol, the more stringent provision shall govern. Because the CAA definition of production is more stringent than that of the Protocol, the definition of production under the CAA shall apply when the phaseout dates under the CAA take effect. Section 604 of the CAA sets interim reductions and final phaseout dates for listed class I substances. The class I substances listed in the CAA must be phased out by the year 2000, except for methyl chloroform which must be phased out by the year 2002. In addition, under the terms of the CAA, methyl bromide must be phased out by 2001. Section 604 also includes interim reductions for the listed class I substances as outlined in Table I below. In today's rule, EPA proposes to authorize the use of destruction/transformation credits until the respective dates when the terms of the CAA become more stringent than those of the Protocol (2000 for most class I controlled substances, 2001 for methyl bromide, and 2002 for methyl chloroform). For example, under the terms of the Protocol, CFC&hyph;12 must be phased out by 1996, but production may be continued as long as it is offset by either transformation or destruction. However, the CAA requires that in 1996, the maximum allowable production of CFC&hyph;12 be no more than 40 percent of the quantity produced in the baseline year. From 1995 until 1999, the CAA requires that the maximum allowable production of CFC&hyph;12 be no more than 15 percent of the quantity produced in the baseline year, and in the year 2000, no CFC&hyph;12 may be produced. Today's proposal permits the use of destruction and/or transformation credits, but does not permit continued production beyond the maximum allowable limits set forth in the CAA. Thus in the example above, for 1996, individuals may use destruction and/or transformation credits, but in no case may CFC&hyph;12 be produced for emissive purposes beyond 40 percent of the quantity produced in the baseline year. To comply with the 1996 phaseout date and definition of production under the Protocol, production of this amount of CFC&hyph;12 must be offset by the amount transformed or destroyed. 6 6 Limits are being proposed in today's action for production after 1996 regarding destruction and transformation credits, essential-use allowances (to be discussed in the next section of the preamble) and Article 5 allowances (discussed in section C.1. ``Changes in Requirements for Export to Article 5 Countries'' of the preamble.)
