FR940603-1-00199 FR940603-1-00009 Recapitulation of Sections: Section_1 XXX $ XXX Section_2$ XXXX $ XXXX Section_3 XXXX $ XXXX Section_4 XXXX $ XXXX Section_5 XXXX $ XXXX Section_6 XXXX $ XXXX Section_7 XXXX $ XXXX Total Transmission Line Construction XXXX Section 8_Substation Assembly Units Description of Construction Units. Each Construction Unit consists of a complete installation of the designated portion of a substation as specified on the drawings, together with connections to associated equipment. Each Construction Unit represents all labor and material including necessary accessories completely installed and tested in satisfactory operation. Full identification of each Construction Unit and all necessary specifications of the installation is shown on the drawings. Items of material in each Construction Unit shall be of the designated size, rating, type, voltage, or other specification in accordance with the drawings. The bill of material drawing for each substation shows the identification of the Construction Units under which the material is to be installed and shows which items of material may be partly or entirely found on the lists of Owner-furnished materials. All items of equipment, unless otherwise specified, are mounted on a structure which shall be a Construction Unit of Group A. Each Construction Unit is designated by the letter of the Group to which it belongs and an identifying number. The same item of equipment carries the same Construction Unit designation in all the substations. Items of equipment designated by the same Construction Unit in one substation are of only one kind as to voltage, type and other specifications. The tabulation of Construction units for each substation is separate and contains all units necessary for construction of that substation. Group A. Structures. A Construction Unit consists of a structure, or structures, with bus supports including insulators and fittings, buses, conductors and overhead ground wires to adjacent structures within the substation, grounding material to connect equipment with the ground bus, and associated material including mounting brackets, supports for equipment, clamps and connectors, all as specified in the drawings. Group B. Three-pole group operated air break switches. A Construction Unit consists of one 3-pole group operated air break switch with all accessories and operating mechanisms as specified in the drawings. Group C. Lightning arresters. A Construction Unit consists of one single arrester. Group D. Single pole disconnecting switches. A Construction Unit consists of one single pole disconnecting or by-pass switch as specified in the drawings. If a fuse disconnect switch is specified, the fuse is included with the switch. Group E. Oil circuit breakers. A Construction Unit consists of one complete three-phase power circuit breaker complete with supporting frame and control cabinet, unless shown otherwise in the drawings, mounted as specified in the drawings. Group F. Oil circuit reclosers. A Construction Unit consists of a complete single-phase or three phase oil circuit recloser as specified in the drawings. Group G. Meters, relays and instrument transformers. A Construction Unit consists of one meter, relay potential transformer or current transformer. Group H. Transformers. A Construction Unit consists of one power transformer or one station service transformer either single-phase or three-phase as specified in the drawings. Group I. Voltage regulators. A Construction Unit consists of one single-phase or three-phase voltage regulator as specified in the drawings. Group J. Communications and supervisory control equipment. A Construction Unit consists of carrier current equipment, microwave, or other types of communications and supervisory control equipment as specified in the drawings. Group K. Conduit and cable. A Construction Unit consists of the wire, cable, conduit and accessories necessary to complete the installation of equipment in accordance with the specifications and drawings, where such installation has not been included in other Groups. Group L. Foundations. A Construction Unit consists of concrete footings and foundations except for the fence, as specified in the drawings.
