FR940202-1-00053 FR940202-1-00016 50 CFR Part 685 [I.D. #012694F] RIN 0648&hyph;AE35 Pelagic Fisheries of the Western Pacific Region AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of Availability of an amendment to a fishery management plan and request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS issues this notice that the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council (Council) has submitted Amendment 7 to the Fishery Management Plan for Pelagic Fisheries of the Western Pacific Region (FMP) for review by the Secretary of Commerce and is requesting comments from the public. Amendment 7 would establish, among other matters, a limited entry program for the Hawaii-based longline fishery. DATES: Comments will be accepted through March 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Dr. Gary Matlock, Acting Regional Director, Southwest Region, NMFS, 501 West Ocean Boulevard, Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA 90802. Clearly mark on the outside of the envelope ``Comments on Amendment 7''. Copies of the amendment and final environmental impact statement are available from Kitty B. Simonds, Executive Director, Western Pacific Fishery Management Council (WPFMC), 1164 Bishop Street, Suite 1405, Honolulu, HI 96813. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Svein Fougner, Southwest Region, NMFS, at (310) 980&hyph;4034, or Alvin Katekaru, Pacific Area Office, Southwest Region, NMFS, at (808) 955&hyph;8831; or Kitty B. Simonds, WPFMC, at (808) 523&hyph;1368. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. ) (Magnuson Act) requires that a regional fishery management council submit any fishery management plan or plan amendment it prepares to the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) for review and approval or disapproval. The Magnuson Act also requires that the Secretary, upon receiving the plan or amendment, must immediately make a preliminary determination whether the plan or amendment is sufficient to warrant continued review, and publish a notice that the plan or amendment is available for public review and comment. The Secretary accepted Amendment 7 for formal Secretarial review which began on January 26, 1994. The Secretary will consider all public comments received during the comment period in deciding whether to approve the amendment for implementation. Amendment 7 to the FMP was prepared by the Council to address serious concerns about the impact of the expanded longline fishery on the status of fish stocks, the impact of increased longline catches on other fisheries, and interactions between longline fishing and protected species such as Hawaiian monk seals and sea turtles. Among actions taken by the Council to address these concerns in the past was a request for an emergency rule and completion and submission of an FMP amendment imposing a moratorium on new entry into the longline fishery based in Hawaii. This moratorium was implemented in April 1991 and later extended to expire on April 22, 1994 as part of a final rule implementing Amendment 4 (October 16, 1991, 56 FR 51849). Amendment 7 would replace the moratorium on new entry into the Hawaii-based longline fishery with a new limited entry program for the Hawaii longline fishery. This amendment addresses a number of concerns that are associated with the prospect of uncontrolled expansion of the longline fishery. The dramatically increased level of longline fishing harvest from the portion of the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) around Hawaii and from adjacent high seas could result in overfishing of stocks of Pacific pelagic management unit species throughout their range, most notably swordfish. Even if stocks are not affected on a stock-wide basis, the increased catches by U.S. longline vessels could adversely affect other established commercial and recreational handline and troll fisheries in the EEZ. Further, even if direct catch competition were not occurring, there would be considerable potential for market competition, both between the longline fleet and the troll and handline fleets and within the longline fishery itself. Unregulated expansion of the longline fishery could also increases the likelihood of adverse impacts on threatened and endangered species such as sea turtles which are known to be taken in the longline fishery.
