FR940617-0-00189 FR940617-0-00026 Subpart E_Exhaust Emission Test Procedures §89.401&hyph;96 Scope; applicability. (a) This subpart describes the procedures to follow in order to perform exhaust emission tests on new nonroad compression-ignition engines subject to the provisions of subpart B of this part. (b) Exhaust gases, either raw or dilute, are sampled while the test engine is operated using an 8-mode test cycle on an engine dynamometer. The exhaust gases receive specific component analysis determining concentration of pollutant, exhaust volume, the fuel flow, and the power output during each mode. Emission is reported as grams per kilowatt hour (g/kW-hr). (c) Requirements for emission test equipment and calibrating this equipment are found in subpart D of this part. §89.402&hyph;96 Definitions. The definitions in subpart A of this part apply to this subpart. For terms not defined in this part, the definitions in part 86, subparts A, D, I, and N of this chapter apply to this subpart. The following definition also applies to this subpart. Specific emissions, (g/kW-hr) , shall be expressed on the basis of observed gross power. When it is not possible to test the engine in the gross conditions, for example, if the engine and transmission form a single integral unit, the engine may be tested in the net condition. Power corrections from net to gross conditions will be allowed with prior approval of the Administrator. §89.403&hyph;96 Symbols/abbreviations. (a) The abbreviations in §86.094&hyph;3 or §89.3 of this chapter apply to this subpart. (b) The abbreviations in Table 1 in appendix A to subpart D also apply to this subpart. Some abbreviations from §89.3 have been included for the convenience of the reader. (c) The symbols in Table 2 in appendix A to subpart D apply to this subpart. §89.404&hyph;96 Test procedure overview. (a) The test consists of prescribed sequences of engine operating conditions to be conducted on an engine dynamometer. The exhaust gases, generated raw or dilute during engine operation, are sampled for specific component analysis through the analytical train. The test is applicable to engines equipped with catalytic or direct-flame afterburners, induction system modifications, or other systems, or to uncontrolled engines. (b) The test is designed to determine the brake-specific emissions of hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and oxides of nitrogen. The test consists of one idle mode, four power modes at one speed and three power modes at another speed. These procedures require the determination of the concentration of each pollutant, exhaust volume, the fuel flow, and the power output during each mode. The measured values are weighted and used to calculate the grams of each pollutant emitted per kilowatt hour (g/kW-hr). (c) (1) When an engine is tested for exhaust emissions, the complete engine shall be tested with all emission control devices installed and functioning. (2) On air-cooled engines, the fan shall be installed. (3) Additional accessories (for example, oil cooler, alternators, or air compressors) may be installed but such accessory loading will be considered parasitic in nature and observed power shall be used in the emission calculation. (d) All emission control systems installed on or incorporated in the application must be functioning during all procedures in this subpart. In cases of component malfunction or failure, maintenance to correct component failure or malfunction must be authorized in accordance with §86.094&hyph;25 of this chapter. (e) The engine must be equipped with an electrical generation device typical of one used in customer service (such as an alternator). The power drain from it must be no greater than what is sufficient to operate the engine on the test stand. §89.405&hyph;96 Recorded information. (a) The information described in this section must be recorded, where applicable, for each test. (b) Engine description and specification. A copy of the information specified in this paragraph must accompany each engine sent to the Administrator for compliance testing. The manufacturer need not record the information specified in this paragraph for each test if the information, with the exception of paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(9) of this section, is included in the manufacturer's application for certification. (1) Engine-system combination. (2) Engine identification numbers. (3) Number of hours of operation accumulated on engine. (4) Rated maximum horsepower and torque. (5) Maximum horsepower and torque speeds. (6) Engine displacement. (7) Governed speed. (8) Idle rpm. (9) Fuel consumption at maximum power and torque. (10) Maximum air flow. (11) Air inlet restriction. (12) Exhaust pipe diameter(s). (13) Maximum exhaust system backpressure. (c) Test data; general. (1) Engine-system combination. (2) Engine identification number. (3) Instrument operator. (4) Engine operator. (5) Number of hours of operation accumulated on the engine prior to beginning the warm-up portion of the test. (6) Fuel identification. (7) Date of most recent analytical assembly calibration. (8) All pertinent instrument information such as tuning, gain, serial numbers, detector number, and calibration curve numbers. As long as this information is available for inspection by the Administrator, it may be summarized by system number or analyzer identification numbers. (d) Test data; pre-test. (1) Date and time of day. (2) Test number. (3) Barometric pressure, pre-test segment. (4) Engine intake humidity, pre-test segment for compression-ignition engines with non-conditioned air supply systems. (5) Maximum observed torque for intermediate and rated speeds. (6) Recorder chart or equivalent. Identify for each test segment zero traces for each range used, and span traces for each range used. (7) Air temperature after and pressure drop across the charge air cooler (if applicable) at maximum observed torque and rated speed. (e) Test data; modal.
