FR941221-0-00053 FR941221-0-00017 (i) Research, design, development, test, manufacture, assembly, integration, operation, or use of ELVs, transfer vehicles, payloads, related support equipment, and facilities and services; (ii) All activities related to ground support, test, training, simulation, or guidance and control equipment and related facilities or services. (6) Related entity means: (i) A party's Contractors or subcontractors at any tier; (ii) A party's users or customers at any tier; and (iii) A Contractor or subcontractor of a party's user or customer at any tier. (c) (1) The Contractor agrees to a waiver of liability pursuant to which the Contractor waives all claims against any of the entities or persons listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iii) of this clause based on damage arising out of Protected Space Operations. This waiver shall apply only if the person, entity, or property causing the damage is involved in Protected Space Operations and the persons, entity, or property damaged is damaged by virtue of its involvement in Protected Space Operations. The waiver shall apply to any claims for damage, whatever the legal basis for such claims, including but not limited to delict (a term used in civil law countries to denote a class of cases similar to tort) and tort (including negligence of every degree and kind) and contract, against: (i) Any party other than the Government; (ii) A related entity of any party other than the Government; and (iii) The employees of any of the entities identified in (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this clause. (2) The Contractor agrees to extend the waiver of liability as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause to subcontractors at any tier by requiring them, by contract or otherwise, to agree to waive all claims against the entities or persons identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iii) of this clause. (3) For avoidance of doubt, this cross-waiver includes a cross-waiver of liability arising from the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, (March 29, 1972, 24 United States Treaties and other International Agreements (U.S.T.) 2389, Treaties and other International Acts Series (T.I.A.S.) No. 7762) in which the person, entity, or property causing the damage is involved in Protected Space Operations. (4) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this clause, this cross-waiver of liability shall not be applicable to: (i) Claims between any party and its related entities or claims between any party's related entities (e.g., claims between the Government and the Contractor are included within this exception); (ii) Claims made by a natural person, his/her estate, survivors, or subrogees for injury or death of such natural person; (iii) Claims for damage caused by willful misconduct; and (iv) Intellectual property claims. (5) Nothing in this clause shall be construed to create the basis for a claim or suit where none would otherwise exist. (6) This cross-waiver shall not be applicable when the Commercial Space Launch Act cross-waiver (49 U.S.C. App. 2615) is applicable. (End of clause) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31147 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7510&hyph;01&hyph;M ␣
