FR940127-0-00009 FR940127-0-00002 (5) Physical conditions of the site including the likelihood of developing or restoring wetland characteristics; (6) Costs of restoration and of acquiring the easement; and (7) Other environmental or cost factors as determined appropriate by ASCS to accomplish the goals of the WRP that may also incorporate ASCS State office goals and objectives. 10. Section 703.11 is amended by revising the section heading and revising paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (c), and (d) to read as follows: §703.11 Statement of intention to participate. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1) Obtains a preliminary plan; and (2) Accepts the amount offered by ASCS in return for enrollment in WRP and agrees to other conditions for participation that may be required by ASCS, including the creation of an easement on the property. Such acceptance must be made no later than 15 calendar days after notification by ASCS of the purchase value of the easement unless a later date is agreed to by ASCS. The determination of which areas to accept shall be at the exclusive discretion of ASCS. (c) A person submitting a statement of intention to participate shall not be obligated to accept an easement. (d) An offer is considered accepted only if agreed to by all owners of the property or their duly authorized representative. 11. Section 703.12 is amended by: A. Revising paragraph (a) introductory text, B. Revising paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) and (a)(1)(v), C. Adding paragraph (a)(1)(vi), D. Revising paragraphs (a)(13), (a)(14), (a)(17), and (a)(18), and E. Adding paragraph (a)(19) to read as follows: §703.12 Obligations of the landowner. (a) All owners of land who accept ASCS' offer to enroll land in WRP shall: (1) *␣*␣* (iv) Reserve to ASCS the right to permit such compatible uses of the easement area as may be identified in the WRPO; (v) Reserve to the landowner those compatible uses identified in the WRPO that are permitted to be pursued by the landowner; and (vi) Be filed in the appropriate land records office within 12 months from the end of the applicable signup period, unless otherwise determined by the Deputy Administrator. If not filed, ASCS shall terminate the offer to enroll in WRP. * * * * * (13) Not plant for harvest an agricultural commodity on the enrolled land subsequent to the filing of an easement; (14) Not alter the vegetation, except to harvest already planted crops or forage, or the hydrology on such acres after the easement is filed, except as provided in the easement or WRPO; * * * * * (17) Refrain from taking any action on the easement area unless specifically authorized in the reserve interest easement or the WRPO; (18) Secure any necessary local, State and Federal permits prior to commencing restoration of the designated area; and (19) Not allow WRP easements or restoration to be used as a mitigation site for Federal, State or local permit conditions or program participation requirements, or public or private mitigation banks. * * * * * 12. Section 703.13 is amended by: A. Revising paragraph (c)(1), B. Removing paragraph (c)(4), C. Redesignating paragraph (c)(5) as paragraph (c)(4) and revising redesignated paragraph (c)(4), and D. Adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: §703.13 Payments to landowners by ASCS. * * * * * (c)(1) ASCS shall pay, after an easement is filed, a lump-sum amount for the easement as determined by ASCS on eligible land. For all easements, ASCS shall withhold a portion of the payments that might otherwise be made pending completion of the restoration plan for the property and ASCS may condition any payment on satisfactory progress toward completion of the plan. ASCS shall pay no more than 10 percent per year of the total purchase price for the easement pending completion of the restoration of the wetlands; * * * * * (4) No easement payment may be made which would exceed the total amount offered for the property and payments may only be made if the person on whose account the payment is to be made: (i) Has agreed to all terms and conditions of the program set out in this part; (ii) Accepted the amount offered on the standard ASCS-approved form for the WRP; and (iii) Is in full compliance with the terms and conditions of the WRP easement except to the extent that relief is authorized by this part and is approved under guidelines issued by the Deputy Administrator.
