FR940907-0-00049 FR940907-0-00018 16. Considerations of true economic interest in, and ability to control, a licensee are crucial in determining whether a particular indirect ownership interest could affect the degree of competition in a market and therefore should be attributed to the holder for purposes of our multiple ownership rules. These considerations apply equally in the broadband and narrowband PCS contexts. Accordingly, a multiplier similar to that used in applying our attribution rules in broadband PCS will be used to determine effective ownership interests in narrowband PCS licensing. We therefore will amend Section 24.101 of our rules to include the use of a multiplier to determine whether an entity holding an indirect non-controlling interest in a narrowband PCS licensee has an attributable interest for the purpose of our multiple ownership rules. As in our broadcast and broadband PCS rules, where an entity's ownership interest in any link in the ownership chain is greater than 50 percent or is controlling, the interest will be treated as if it were 100 percent for the purposes of applying the multiplier. Local Service Areas in Puerto Rico 17. In response to a suggestion by Pegasus Communications, Inc. (Pegasus) in the recent broadband PCS proceeding, we are revisiting the local service area adopted for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. We currently treat Puerto Rico as a BTA for narrowband PCS licensing purposes. In the broadband PCS proceeding, Pegasus requested that we divide the Puerto Rico service area into two local service areas and suggested that we likewise establish two BTA-like service areas in Puerto Rico for the narrowband PCS service. Pegasus argued that due to the size and mountainous terrain of the island, Puerto Rico essentially is split in half, comprising two commercial centers: San Juan and Mayagüez-Ponce. Pegasus stated that these mountains make travel to San Juan difficult for Puerto Ricans located in the southern and western portions of the island, and therefore they must conduct essentially all commerce in the port cities of Mayagüez, Aguadilla, or Ponce. Pegasus also stated that the population of its proposed Mayagüez/Aguadilla-Ponce service area is more than one million and this area would be larger in population than several of the existing BTAs. Pegasus provided a list of municipios that it suggests constitute the Mayagüez/Aguadilla-Ponce service area and suggested that the San Juan service area consist of all municipios not listed for the Mayagüez/Aguadilla-Ponce BTA-like service area. 11 No party responded to this petition. In our Memorandum Opinion and Order on broadband PCS, we adopted Pegasus's suggestion and provided two separate service areas in Puerto Rico, one for Mayagüez/Aguadilla-Ponce and one for San Juan. This change recognized the difficulties created by the mountain range separating these two areas. We also stated that no parties opposed this request 12 and that we found this adjustment to be in the public interest. 11 The primary political divisions of Puerto Rico are termed ``municipios.'' 12 We note, however, that Puerto Rico Telephone Company has filed a petition for reconsideration of the broadband PCS Memorandum Opinion and Order, in which it requests that we reconsider our decision to divide Puerto Rico into two BTAs. 18. We agree with Pegasus that it is desirable to modify the Puerto Rico narrowband PCS service area to specify two BTA-like service areas in the same manner as our action in the broadband PCS proceeding. The 1990 census for Puerto Rico is 3,522,037. The population of the new Mayagüez/Aguadilla-Ponce service area is 1,048,473 and the population of the new San Juan service area is 2,473,564. Only 49 of the remaining 491 BTAs have a population of greater than 1,048,473 and only 18 BTAs have a population greater than 2,473,564. We find that the population of each of these service areas is sufficient to support advanced narrowband PCS services. 13 Additionally, we conclude that the patterns of local trade caused by the mountainous terrain of the island make the proposed division economically and geographically desirable. Accordingly, we are providing two BTA-like service areas in Puerto Rico for narrowband PCS service. This modification will apply to all BTA channels in the narrowband PCS service, i.e., both the eight paging response channels and the two 50 kHz paired with 12.5 kHz channels. 13 We note that Puerto Rico is licensed as five Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) and seven Rural Service Areas (RSAs) in the Domestic Public Cellular Radio Telecommunications Service. Ordering Clauses 19. Accordingly, it is ordered, That Part 24 of the Commission's Rules is amended as specified below, effective 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . 20. It is further ordered, That the Petition for Reconsideration filed by the Association of Private Carrier Paging Section of the National Association of Business and Educational Radio, Inc. is granted to the extent discussed above. It is further ordered, That the Petition for Acceptance of Late-filed Comments by Paging Network, Inc. is granted. 21. This action is taken pursuant to Sections 4(i), 7(a), 302, 303(c), 303(f), 303(g), and 303(r) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. Sections 154(i) 157(a), 302, 303(c), 303(f), 303(g), and 303(r). List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 24 Personal communications service, Radio. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
