FR940429-0-00034 FR940429-0-00009 (b) Operating procedures. The PAC shall: (1) Recommend, to the Service Coordinator, persons eligible for entrance, or for transition out of, CHSP; (2) Authorize or perform medical evaluations, if necessary. These evaluations may be performed by a PAC medical professional, or the applicants to CHSP may be referred to another agency in the community that will perform the evaluation without charge; (3) Recommend, and update as necessary, a supportive services plan for each frail elderly person or person with disabilities, or temporarily disabled person; (4) Obtain and retain information in files concerning program participants. The files should contain such information and be maintained in such form, as HUD and FmHA shall require; (5) Present written evaluations to the grantee; and (6) Allow program participants to appeal decisions related to entrance to, degree of participation needed, and transition out of CHSP. (c) Duties of the PAC. The PAC is required to: (1) Perform a formal assessment of each potential elderly program participant's deficiencies in performing the ADLs. This assessment shall be based upon the screening done by the Service Coordinator, and shall include a review of the adequacy of the informal support network (i.e., family and friends available to the potential participant to assist in meeting the ADL needs of that individual); (2) Determine that each elderly program participant is deficient in at least three ADLs. The minimum requirements of ADL include: (i) Eating (may need assistance with cooking, preparing or serving food, but must be able to feed self), (ii) Dressing (must be able to dress self, but may need occasional assistance), (iii) Bathing (may need assistance in getting in and out of the shower or tub, but must be able to wash self), (iv) Grooming (may need assistance in washing hair, but must be able to take care of personal appearance), (v) Getting in and out of bed and chairs, walking, going outdoors, using the toilet and (vi) Household management activities (may need assistance in doing housework, grocery shopping or laundry, or getting to and from one location to another for activities such as going to the doctor and shopping, but must be mobile. The mobility requirement does not exclude persons in wheelchairs or those requiring mobility devices.) Each of the Activities of Daily Living noted above includes a requirement that a person must be able to perform at a specified minimal level (e.g., to satisfy the eating ADL, the person must be able to feed him/herself). The determination of whether a person meets this minimal level of performance must include consideration of those services that will be performed by a person's spouse, relatives or other attendants to be provided by the individual. For example, if a person requires assistance with cooking, preparing or serving food plus assistance in feeding him/herself, the individual would meet the minimal performance level and thus satisfy the eating ADL, if a spouse, relative or attendant provides assistance with feeding the person. Should such assistance become unavailable at any time, the Owner is not obligated at any time to provide individualized services beyond those offered to the resident population in general. The Activities of Daily Living analysis is relevant only with regard to determination of a person's eligibility to receive supportive services paid for by CHSP and is not a determination of eligibility for occupancy; (3) Determine that non-elderly disabled individuals qualify under the definition of person with disabilities under ยง XXX .105; (4) Perform a regular assessment and updating of the supportive services plan of all participants; (5) Replace any members of the PAC within 30 days after a member resigns. A PAC shall not do formal assessments if its membership drops below three, or if the qualified medical professional leaves the PAC and has not been replaced by the grantee; (6) Notify the grantee or eligible owner and the program participants of any proposed modifications to PAC procedures, and provide these parties with a process and reasonable time period in which to review and comment, before adoption of a modification; (7) Provide assurance of nondiscrimination in selection of CHSP participants, with respect to race, religion, color, sex, national origin, familial status or type of disability; (8) Provide complete confidentiality of information related to any individual examined, in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974; (d) Procedural rights of participants. (1) The PAC must provide an informal process that recognizes the rights of individuals receiving assistance to due process of law. This process, at a minimum, must consist of: (i) Serving the participant with a written notice containing a clear statement of the reasons for termination; (ii) A review of the decision, in which the participant is given the opportunity to present written or oral objections before a person other than the person (or a subordinate of that person) who made or approved the termination decision; and (iii) Prompt written notification of the final decision to the participant. (2) Procedures must ensure that any frail elderly person, person with disabilities, or temporarily disabled person (and program participant upon reassessment) has the option of refusing offered services and requesting other supportive services as part of the case planning process. (3) In situations where an individual requests additional services, not initially recommended by the PAC, the PAC must make a determination whether the request is legitimately a needs-based service that can be covered under the CHSP subsidy. Individuals can pay for services other than those recommended by the PAC as long as the additional services do not interfere with the efficient operation of the program. (e) Eligibility, admissions and transition-out procedures. (1) Before selecting frail elderly persons, persons with disabilities, or temporarily disabled participants, each grantee (with PAC assistance) shall develop a supportive services application form for the use of persons applying for supportive services under CHSP. The information in the individual's supportive services application is crucial to the PAC's determination of the need for further physical or psychological evaluation of any individual who wishes to receive the supportive services offered. The application should include: any intake form, the ADL assessment, and appropriate comments from both the applicant's physician and the Service Coordinator. (2) The grantee or PAC must develop procedures for providing for an individual's transition out of the CHSP to another setting. Transition out is based upon the degree of supportive services needed by an individual to continue to live independently. If a program participant is transitioned out of the program, but wishes to retain supportive services, he or she may do so, as long as he or she remains income eligible, continues to live in an eligible project, and pays the full cost of services provided. A participant can be transitioned out of CHSP if he or she: (i) Gains physical and mental health and is able to function without supportive services, even if only for a short time (in which case readmission, based upon reassessment to determine the degree of frailty or the disability, is acceptable);
