FR940722-2-00026 FR940722-2-00017 Chicago Operations Office Acceptance of an Unsolicited Application, University of Maryland AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Acceptance of an Unsolicited Application. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy (DOE), DOE Chicago Operations Office, announces that pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rule, 10 CFR 600.14(f), it intends to award a grant based on the acceptance of an unsolicited application to the University of Maryland at College Park. The objective of the work provided by this grant is to quantify the potential Electrohydrodynamic (EHD) technique for heat transfer enhancement of in-tube condensation and in-tube evaporation processes of selected ozone-safe refrigerants and refrigerant mixtures. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William Noel, EE&hyph;422, Department of Energy, Office of Building Technologies, 1000 Independence Ave., S.W., Washington, D.C. 20585, (202) 586&hyph;9130. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The University of Maryland at College Park has the necessary personnel, facilities, and other resources to fully perform the work set forth in the grant. Currently, this university is the only known group that has ongoing research especially in the EHD augmentation of heat transfer in heat exchanger. Within the last six years the university has maintained a comprehensive computer search of EHD-enhancement technology world-wide and the state-of-the-art equipment for use in EHD and Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) substitute research. This University also developed a unique and innovative theoretical computer models to analyze the effects of new EHD configuration and effects. This application is meritorious based on the general evaluation that it will support a DOE mission for the research and development of highly efficient alternatives to, and substitutes for, environmentally harmful CFC and CFC-dependent euipment used in refrigeration application and that it is relevant to the general public purpose of support in the areas of reducing the effects of stratospheric ozone depletion. This application represents unique and innovative idea, method and approach which would not be eligible for financial assistance under a recent, current, or planned solicitation, and, DOE has determined that, a competitive solicitation would be inappropriate. The project period for this grant renewal is for a twenty-four month period expected to begin August 1, 1994. DOE plans to provide funding in the amount of $206,000.00 for this project period. Issued in Chicago, Illinois, on July 1, 1994. Timothy S. Crawford, Assistant Manager for Human Resources and Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17895 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
