FR941007-0-00061 FR941007-0-00016 •Have a Federally-approved Medicare supplemental regulatory program under section 1882 of the Act; and •Submit a timely application to us that meets the requirements of section 4360 of OBRA '90; 42 CFR part 403, subpart E; and our solicitation for grant applications. B. Availability and Duration of Funds for Grants This rule specifies, at §403.502, that grants for a fiscal period will be approved subject to congressional appropriation of funds and, if applicable, satisfactory progress in each State's project under a preceding health insurance ICA grant. (The criteria by which progress will be evaluated and the performance standards for determining whether satisfactory progress has been made will be specified in the notice of grant award sent to each State.) Note that we may, at our discretion, set aside a portion of the appropriated funds to be used for ICA-related activities. The grant award is based on a 12-month period and is made by the close of a fiscal year for each State application approved by that date. However, information regarding the timing of the award and its duration will be included in the notice of grant solicitation, rather than included in the regulations. C. Number and Size of Grants This rule revises the provisions at existing §403.504. We continue to provide, at §403.504(a) for two types of grants: (1) New program grants, and (2) existing program enhancement grants for States with ``substantially similar'' health insurance ICA programs. We are interested in establishing or enhancing health insurance ICA programs in all eligible States. Therefore, under §403.504(b), each eligible State that submits an acceptable application will receive a grant that consists of two parts: a fixed amount (the minimum funding level) and a variable amount. Under §403.504(b), the grant available to each of the 50 States, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia equals $75,000 (the fixed amount), plus a per capita payment per resident Medicare beneficiary. Because of their relatively small populations, the grant available to the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa is $25,000 each (the fixed amount), plus a per capita payment per Medicare beneficiary residing in the territory. The establishment of the fixed amount portion of the grant award as the minimum funding level is a change from the minimum funding level described at existing §403.504(b). (Existing §403.504(b), which was applicable for fiscal years 1992 and 1993, provided that the minimum funding level consisted of two parts: a basic (fixed) portion and a variable portion.) We believe it is clearer (more descriptive) to establish as the minimum funding level a fixed, stated dollar amount and to consider the variable amount as being in addition to the minimum funding level. This change will not affect the amount of the grant award. The grant award will still consist of the fixed portion amount and the variable portion amount. The calculation of the variable portion of the grant is described at existing §403.405(c). We base the variable portion of the grant on the amount of available funds and a comparison of each State with the average of all of the States except the State being compared with respect to three factors that relate to the size of the State's Medicare population and where that population resides. The three factors are: the percentage of nationwide Medicare beneficiaries residing in the State, the State's proportion of Medicare beneficiaries to its total population, and the percentage of the State's Medicare beneficiary population that resides in rural areas. Nationally, the average variable payment is 10.75 cents. A State with a higher than average proportion of Medicare beneficiaries to its total State population and/or a higher than average proportion of rural Medicare beneficiaries will receive variable funds greater than 10.75 cents per beneficiary under this grant program. Of the total variable portion of the award, approximately 75 percent is based on the number of Medicare beneficiaries in the State; approximately 10 percent is based on the proportion of Medicare beneficiaries to the total State population; and approximately 15 percent is based on the percentage of the State's Medicare beneficiary population that resides in rural areas. (We based population estimates on the U.S. Census estimates for 1990. The Medicare beneficiary estimates came from our beneficiary enrollment database as of July 1990. We consider ``rural areas'' to be counties located outside of metropolitan statistical areas.) At the time we announce the availability of grant funding, we provide each State with an estimate of the amount of funds that may be awarded to it. As part of its application, the State submits a budget based on the estimated amount. When the grant awards are made, we allocate all available monies based on the methodology described above. If the grant amount the State receives is different than the anticipated amount on which its budget was based, the State must submit, along with its acceptance of the grant award, a revised budget that is based on the amount of the award.
