FR940711-2-00057 FR940711-2-00031 Review of Florida's practices with respect to environmental justice was beyond the scope of this adequacy determination. In an effort to address questions of environmental justice, EPA_Region IV established the Office of Environmental Justice in 1993. In March 1994, President Clinton issued an Executive Order that is designed to focus federal attention on the environmental and human health conditions in minority communities. EPA's primary objectives with respect to environmental justice are: (a) ensure that all EPA Region IV environmental programs do not adversely impact minority populations and persons living at or below the poverty level, (b) address complaints from communities regarding subjection to a disproportionate burden of the pollution generated by industry and municipalities and (c) provide for outreach programs that will bring minority communities, environmental groups, and government together on relevant environmental issues. Guidelines for implementing these objectives and the requirements of the Executive Order within EPA programs are presently being developed at the Regional and Headquarters levels. 7. Mandated Recycling_Comments were received during the public comment period suggesting that Florida be required to mandate separation of recyclables and toxic contaminants from municipal solid waste prior to disposal in landfills. The federal operating criteria for municipal solid waste landfills include procedures for excluding the receipt of regulated hazardous waste, which require implementation of ``a program at the facility for detecting and preventing the disposal of regulated hazardous wastes and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) wastes''. The state's program must incorporate, at a minimum: random inspections of incoming loads, records of inspections, training facility personnel to recognize prohibited wastes and notification of the proper authorities if a regulated hazardous waste or PCB is discovered at the facility. Florida's program meets the federal requirements for exclusion of regulated hazardous substances in municipal solid waste landfills. However, there presently are no federal regulations which mandate recycling. Therefore, requiring separation of recyclables from municipal solid waste streams prior to disposal is a decision which must be made on the state and/or local level. The State of Florida's rules for municipal solid waste landfills are not enforceable at municipal solid waste landfills located on Indian Lands in the State of Florida. D. Decision After reviewing the public comments, I conclude that Florida's application for adequacy determination meets all of the statutory and regulatory requirements established by RCRA. Accordingly, Florida is granted a determination of adequacy for all portions of its municipal solid waste permit program. Section 4005(a) of RCRA provides that citizens may use the citizen suit provisions of Section 7002 of RCRA to enforce the federal MSWLF criteria in 40 CFR part 258 independent of any State/Tribal enforcement program. As EPA explained in the preamble to the final MSWLF criteria, EPA expects that any owner or operator complying with provisions in a State/Tribal program approved by EPA should be considered to be in compliance with the federal criteria. See 56 FR 50978, 50995 (October 9, 1991). Today's action takes effect on the date of publication. EPA believes it has good cause under section 553(d) of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553(d), to put this action into effect less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . All of the requirements and obligations in the State's/Tribe's program are already in effect as a matter of State/Tribal law. EPA's action today does not impose any new requirements with which the regulated community must begin to comply. Nor do these requirements become enforceable by EPA as federal law. Consequently, EPA finds that it does not need to give notice prior to making its approval effective. Compliance With Executive Order 12866 The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this rule from the requirements of Section 6 of Executive Order 12866. Certification Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 605(b), I hereby certify that this approval will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. It does not impose any new burdens on small entities. This rule, therefore, does not require a regulatory flexibility analysis. Authority: This notice is issued under the authority of sections 2002, 4005 and 4010(c) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended; 42 U.S.C. 6912, 6945, 6949a(c). Dated: June 30, 1994. Patrick M. Tobin, Acting Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16725 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
