FR940912-1-00029 FR940912-1-00010 IV. Rationale for Proposed Standards A. Selection of Source Category Under section 111(b)(1)(A) of the Act, the Administrator is required to publish, and periodically update, a list of source categories that in his or her judgement cause, or contribute significantly to, air pollution which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare. This list appears in 40 CFR 60.16 and ranks, in order of priority for standards development, various source categories in terms of quantities of nationwide pollutant emission, the mobility and competitive nature of each source category, and the extent to which each pollutant endangers public health and welfare. The priority list reflects the Administrator's determination that emissions from the listed source categories contribute significantly to air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, and it is intended to identify major source categories for which standards of performance are to be promulgated. The priority list ranks the SOCMI source category first out of 59 listed source categories. For regulatory purposes, the SOCMI category was divided into the following segments: SOCMI unit processes; volatile organic liquid (VOL) storage vessels and handling equipment; SOCMI fugitive sources; and SOCMI wastewater sources. Standards have been developed for the other three groups of SOCMI sources; the NSPS proposes standards for the fourth and final category of SOCMI sources. This division of the source category on the basis of similar types of emission sources and applicable emission control techniques was chosen over a more traditional approach for NSPS that involves the development of standards applicable to each specific chemical process. The selected approach is more resource efficient than the chemical process approach because a large number of specific chemical processes can be covered by one regulation. In addition, SOCMI plants contain similar wastewater emission sources. Similarities in the behavior of wastewater emission sources in SOCMI allow the same control techniques to be applied to all of the processes. Therefore, because the control techniques can be applied to the entire industry group and because regulating the entire group would be more resource efficient, a single regulation is being proposed for controlling wastewater emissions from the SOCMI source category. The SOCMI is a large and diverse industry producing several thousand intermediate and end-product chemicals from a small number of basic chemicals. Most of the chemicals produced by this industry fall under standard industrial classification code 286. In the proposed rule, a SOCMI process unit is defined as one producing or using one or more of the chemicals listed in the regulation. The list of chemicals proposed is an inclusive list that was derived from several sources that also formed the basis for the initial list of chemicals used to characterize SOCMI process units in the HON (see appendix A of the HON BID, EPA&hyph;453/D&hyph;92&hyph;016). The following sources are the basis for the composite list of chemicals for the proposed NSPS: (1) ``Industrial Organic Chemical Use Trees,'' EPA/ORD, October 1992; (2) Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in SOCMI, 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV; (3) Proposed Standards of Performance for SOCMI Reactor Processes, 55 FR 26953, June 29, 1990; (4) Standards of Performance for SOCMI Distillation Operations, 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN; and (5) Standards of Performance for SOCMI Air Oxidation Processes, 40 CFR part 60, subpart III. Therefore, the proposed list is a compilation of all the chemicals in these databases used to characterize the SOCMI process units. B. Selection of Emission Sources There are several emission sources associated with SOCMI processes (e.g., process vents, product storage and transfer operations, and equipment leaks); however, this NSPS is directed toward the control of VOC emissions from wastewater generated by SOCMI process units. This includes emissions from wastewater collection and treatment operations. Wastewater streams that contain organic compounds are generated at SOCMI process units by one of two mechanisms, either direct contact of water with organic compounds or by contamination of indirect contact water through equipment leaks in chemical processing. Water may come in direct contact with organic compounds during a variety of different chemical processing steps, thus generating wastewater streams (referred to as ``process wastewater'') that must be discharged for treatment or disposal. Direct contact wastewater includes water used to wash impurities from organic compound products or reactants, water used to cool or quench organic compound vapor streams, condensed steam from jet educator systems pulling vacuum on vessels containing organic compounds, water from raw material and product storage tanks, water used as a carrier for catalysts and neutralizing agents (e.g., caustic solutions), and water formed as a byproduct during chemical reactions. Direct contact wastewater is also generated within SOCMI process units when water is used in equipment washes and spill cleanups; this wastewater (referred to as ``maintenance wastewater'') is typically more variable in flow rate and concentration than process wastewater streams and may be collected in ways that differ from process wastewater. Indirect contact wastewater streams are generated by unintentional contact with organic compounds through leaks in process equipment. For example, indirect contact wastewater may be generated as a result of leaks from heat exchangers, condensers, or pumps. These wastewaters also may be collected and treated differently from direct contact wastewaters.
