FR940105-2-00085 FR940105-2-00041 Tenneco, Inc., The General Employee Benefit Trust (the GEBT) and Case Corporation Pension Plan for Hourly-Paid Employees (the Plan) Located in Houston, TX [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;1; Application No. D&hyph;9438] Exemption The restrictions of sections 406(a) and 406 (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to the transfer of shares of common stock (the Stock) of Cummins Engine Company, Inc. (Cummins) to the GEBT by Tenneco, Inc. (Tenneco), the Plan sponsor, to reflect the contribution of the Stock to the Plan, provided that: (a) The Stock is valued at its fair market value as of the date of contribution by a qualified, independent appraiser; (b) the contribution of the Stock is approved on behalf of the Plan by a qualified, independent fiduciary; (c) the GEBT's continued holding of the Stock is monitored by a qualified, independent fiduciary; (d) the GEBT's independent fiduciary will monitor and enforce the conditions of the exemption and take whatever action is necessary to protect the GEBT's rights, including, but not limited to, the enforcement of a legally enforceable contribution obligation (the Contribution Obligation) as described in the Notice of Proposed Exemption, which will remain in force for as long as the GEBT continues to hold any shares of the Stock; and (e) the Contribution Obligation is secured by a letter of credit issued by a bank approved by the GEBT's independent, qualified fiduciary. Comments In the Notice of Proposed Exemption, the Department invited interested persons to submit written comments and requests for a hearing on the exemption. All comments and requests for hearing were due by December 20, 1993. The Department received over 100 telephone inquiries from interested persons who expressed concern over the effect, if any, of the transaction on their pension benefits. These inquiries were responded to by a Department representative who informed the callers that the transaction does not affect the calculation of pension benefits or the Plan's obligation to make benefit payments. The Department received a total of 29 written comments with only one of those comments containing a request for a hearing. 1 Nine commentators stated that they did not understand the proposed exemption or how it would affect their pensions. 1 Because the exemption provides relief from section 406(b) of the Act, 29 CFR 2570.46 of the Department's regulations provides that the Department in its discretion may convene a hearing if requested by interested persons. The remaining commentators were opposed to the granting of the exemption. The comments addressed 17 general areas of concern about the proposed transaction. The concerns are summarized as follows: 1. Questions about the correct value of Cummins Stock, including a question about the discrepancy between the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) price quoted in the Notice and the price quoted in a national newspaper on December 2, 1993. 2. Concerns that the restrictions on the Stock make the Stock less valuable and increase the risk that the Plan will not be able to dispose of the Stock in the future. 3. Concerns about the wisdom of investing this much of the GEBT's assets in one company. 4. Assertions that Tenneco would not be able to stand behind its obligation under the Contribution Obligation based on its history of financial troubles. 5. Concern that the letter of credit proposes to protect only 20% of the value of the Stock, leaving 80% at risk. 6. A request that Tenneco fully fund all of its pension liabilities. 7. A request that Tenneco guarantee the value of the Stock to be contributed to the GEBT. 8. Questions about the possibility that the transaction will decrease the amount of pension payments to participants and beneficiaries of the Plan. 9. Concerns over changes in retiree medical benefits.
