FR941221-2-00081 FR941221-2-00066 DOL expects that, in such cases where more than one eligible entity (e.g., a hospital and a union) wishes to apply for a grant to serve the same target population, the eligible applicants will establish appropriate linkages and submit a single application under a single proposed administrative entity. Special consideration will be given to applicants who demonstrate coordination efforts between the employer(s) and the workers, such as an labor-management committee to oversee the implementation of the project. B. Contents An original and three (3) copies of the proposal shall be submitted. The proposal shall consist of two (2) separate and distinct parts_Part I, the Financial Proposal, and Part II, the Technical Proposal. 1. FINANCIAL PROPOSAL. _The Financial Proposal, Part I, shall contain the SF&hyph;424, ``Application for Federal Assistance'' (Appendix No. 1), and SF 424&hyph;A, ``Budget'' (Appendix No. 2). The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 17.246. The budget shall include on separate pages: a cost analysis of the budget, identifying in detail the amount of each budget line item attributable to each of the Title III cost categories at Section 314 of JTPA for funds requested through this grant; an identification of the amount of each budget line item which will be covered by other funds, and the sources of those funds (including employer funds, in-kind resources, secured and unsecured loans, grants, and other forms of assistance, public and private); and a justification for the average cost of service per placement. This is to be computed by dividing the number of eligible workers who will not be laid off but will be placed into new jobs as a result of the project, into the total funds requested, and is to be compared to existing staff development costs and local dislocated worker program costs. Federal funds cannot be used to provide training which an employer is in a position to, and would otherwise, provide. Federal funds may not be used for acquisition of production equipment. The only type of equipment that may be acquired with Federal funds is equipment necessary for the operation of the grant. Grant funds may cover only those costs which are appropriate and reasonable. In the instance of a purchase, the cost of the equipment is to be prorated over the projected life of the equipment to determine the cost to the grant. EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR EQUIPMENT REQUIRES PRIOR APPROVAL FROM DOL. Applicants may budget limited amounts of grant funds to work with technical expert(s) to provide advice and develop more complete project plans. 2. TECHNICAL PROPOSAL. _The technical proposal shall demonstrate the offeror's capabilities in accordance with the Statement of Work/Project Summary in Part III of this solicitation. NO COST DATA OR REFERENCE TO PRICE SHALL BE INCLUDED IN THE TECHNICAL PROPOSAL. C. Submission Grant applications will be evaluated carefully by a panel of specialists convened by the Department after the closing date of this solicitation. Incomplete or nonresponsive proposals may be returned without evaluation. An application will be reviewed based upon the overall responsiveness of the application's content to the submission requirements and to the selection criteria found in Part IV, taking into consideration the extent to which funds are available. D. Hand-Delivered Proposals Proposals should be mailed at least five (5) days prior to the closing date for the receipt of applications. However, if proposals are hand-delivered, they shall be received at the designated place by 2 p.m., Eastern Time on the closing date for receipt of applications. All overnight mail will be considered to be hand-delivered and must be received at the designated place by the specified time and closing date. Telegraphed and/or faxed proposals will not be honored. Failure to adhere to the above instructions will be a basis for a determination of nonresponsiveness. E. Late Proposals Any proposal received at the office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt will not be considered unless it_ (1) was sent by the U.S. Postal Service registered or certified mail not later than the fifth calendar day before the date specified for receipt of the application (e.g., an offer submitted in response to a solicitation requiring receipt of applications by the 30th of January must have been mailed by the 25th); or (2) was sent by U.S. Postal Service Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee, not later than 5 p.m. at the place of mailing two working days prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals. The term ``working days'' excludes weekends and U.S. Federal holidays. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late proposal sent either by the U.S. Postal Service registered or certified mail is the U.S. postmark both on the envelope or wrapper and on the original receipt from the U.S. Postal Service. Both postmarks must show a legible date or the proposal shall be processed as if mailed late. ``Postmark'' means a printed, stamped, or otherwise placed impression (exclusive of a postage meter machine impression) that is readily identifiable without further action as having been supplied and affixed by employees of the U.S. Postal Service on the date of mailing. Therefore, applicants should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation ``bull's eye'' postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late proposal sent by ``Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee'' is the date entered by the post office receiving clerk on the ``Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee'' label and the postmark on both the envelope and wrapper and on the original receipt from the U.S. Postal Service. ``Postmark'' has the same meaning as defined above. Therefore, applicants should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation ``bull's eye'' postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper. F. Withdrawal of Proposals Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice or telegram (including mailgram) received at any time before award. Proposals may be withdrawn in person or by an applicant or an authorized representative thereof, if the representative's identity is made known and the representative signs a receipt for the proposal before an award.
