FR940928-2-00112 FR940928-2-00067 Attorney for licensee: George L. Edgar, Esq., Newman and Holtzinger, 1615 L Street, N.W., Suite 1000, Washington, D.C. 20036. NRC Project Director: William D. Beckner. Union Electric Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;483, Callaway Plant, Unit 1, Callaway County, Missouri Date of amendment request: August 4, 1994. Description of amendment request: This proposed amendment would reflect changes in the boron dilution accident analysis to address Boron Dilution Mitigation System (BDMS) time delays, the BDMS actuation setpoint uncertainty, and concerns regarding the applicability of the assumed inverse count rate ratio (ICRR) curve. The Technical Specifications include: a. Changing Bases page 2&hyph;8, note** of Table 3.3&hyph;1, and note 12 of Table 4.3&hyph;1 to reflect ``flux multiplication'' rather than ``flux doubling;'' b. Revising note 9 of Table 4.3&hyph;1 to reflect the revised setpoint; c. Revising Bases page 3/4 4&hyph;1 to reflect new analysis assumptions. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: (1) Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The actuation setpoint decrease and administrative controls to isolate dilution sources if no reactor coolant loop is in operation during Modes 3&hyph;5 reflect the new analysis assumptions. The initiating events are presented in FSAR Section 15.4.6. The proposed changes affect only the time required for BDMS to mitigate the event and do not affect the probability of any event initiators. Overall protection system performance will remain within the bounds of the accident analyses documented in FSAR Chapter 15, WCAP&hyph;10961&hyph;P, and WCAP&hyph;11883 since no hardware changes are proposed. The BDMS will continue to function in a manner consistent with the above analysis assumptions and the plant design basis. As such, there will be no degradation in the performance of nor an increase in the number of challenges to equipment assumed to function during an accident situation. These Technical Specification revisions do not involve any hardware changes nor do they affect the probability of any event initiators. There will be no change to normal plant operating parameters or accident mitigation capabilities. Therefore, there will be no increase in the probability of any accident occurring due to the revised analysis. The results of this new analysis indicate that there is sufficient time for BDMS action to prevent a loss of plant shutdown margin. Since plant shutdown margin is not lost, the minimum DNBR remains well above the safety analysis limit values, no overpressurization occurs and, therefore, there are no fuel failures. The Technical Specification limits on shutdown margin in Modes 3&hyph;5 will be met. The conclusions of NRC Generic Letter 85&hyph;05 and NSAC&hyph;183 remain valid (i.e., that gradual boron dilution events are self-limiting due to inherent reactivity feedback mechanisms). Given the above, there will be no increase in the consequences of any accident. (2) Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. As discussed above, there are no hardware changes associated with these Technical Specification revisions nor are there any changes in the method by which any safety-related plant system performs its safety function. The normal manner of plant operation is unaffected. No new accident scenarios, transient precursors, failure mechanisms, or limiting single failures are introduced as a result of these changes. There will be no adverse effect or challenges imposed on any safety-related system as a result of these changes. Therefore, the possibility of a new or different type of accident is not created. (3) Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The results of the new analysis show that there is sufficient time for BDMS action to prevent a loss of plant shutdown margin. Since plant shutdown margin is not lost, the minimum DNBR remains well above the safety analysis limit values. The Technical Specification limits on shutdown margin in Modes 3&hyph;5 will be met. There will be no effect on the manner in which safety limits or limiting safety system settings are determined nor will there be any effect on those plant systems necessary to assure the accomplishment of protection functions. There will be no impact on DNBR limits, F Q , F-delta-H, LOCA PCT, peak local power density, or any other margin of safety. Based upon the preceding information, it has been determined that the proposed changes to the Technical Specifications do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated, create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated, or involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Therefore, it is concluded that the proposed changes meet the requirements of 10CFR50.92(c) and does not involve a significant hazards consideration. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Callaway County Public Library, 710 Court Street, Fulton, Missouri 65251. Attorney for licensee: Gerald Charnoff, Esq., Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge, 2300 N Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director: John N. Hannon.
