FR940627-2-00007 FR940627-2-00004 Allegations of Home Market and Third Country Sales Below Cost of Production: Thailand Petitioner alleged that a Thai producer is selling the subject merchandise in the home market at prices below its COP. This allegation is based on a comparison of a domestic price obtained in Thailand with the Thai producer's COP for the subject merchandise. Because the domestic sales price from Thailand is unsubstantiated, there is no need to address petitioner's home market COP allegation. See ``Review of Estimated COP and Constructed Value for Furfuryl Alcohol Memorandum,'' dated June 17, 1994, which is on file in the Central Records Unit, at the Department of Commerce. Petitioner also alleged that the Thai producer's sales prices to Germany and the Netherlands were also made at prices below COP. This allegation is based on a comparison of the third country prices to Germany and to the Netherlands (based on 1993 Thai export statistics to these countries) to the Thai producer's calculated COP. A comparison of prices to Germany and the Netherlands to the Thai producer's COP for the subject merchandise indicates sales below cost. If the Department determines after these initiations that the home market is not viable and the Department uses third country prices in Germany or the Netherlands for purposes of comparison to USP, we will initiate separate cost investigations at that time. Therefore, for purposes of this initiation, in accordance with 773(e)(1) of the Act, we are accepting petitioner's estimate of CV as the only appropriate basis for FMV. Petitioners based CV on costs incurred by a Thai producer, and its own manufacturing experience adjusted for differences in costs between the United States and Thailand. An amount for selling, general and administrative expenses and the statutory minimum for profit were added to the cost of manufacturer. Petitioner added an amount for export packing to arrive a total CV. Based on a comparison of USP to FMV, the recalculated dumping margin is 72.35 percent. Fair Value Comparisons Based on the data provided by the petitioner, there is reason to believe that imports to furfuryl alcohol from the PRC, the Republic of South Africa, and Thailand are being, or likely to be, sold at less than fair value. If it becomes necessary at a later date to consider the petition as a source of best information available, we may review the calculations used to derive the allegations. Initiation of Investigations We have examined the petitions on furfuryl alcohol and have found that they meet the requirements of section 732(b) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(a). Therefore, we are initiating antidumping duty investigations to determine whether imports of furfuryl alcohol from the PRC, the Republic of South Africa, and Thailand are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value. If these investigations proceed normally, we will make our preliminary determinations by November 7, 1994. ITC Notification Section 732(d) of the Act requires us to notify the ITC of these actions, and we have done so. Preliminary Determination by the ITC The ITC will determine by July 15, 1994, whether there is a reasonable indication that imports to furfuryl alcohol from the PRC, Thailand, and the Republic of South Africa are causing material injury, or threaten to cause material injury, to a U.S. industry. A negative ITC determination will result in the investigations being terminated; otherwise, these investigations will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits. This notice is published pursuant to section 732(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(b). Dated: June 20, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15535 Filed 6&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;D5&hyph;M
