FR941221-2-00082 FR941221-2-00066 G. Period of Performance The period of performance will be 12 months, with projects to be completed not later than 18 months from the date of award. H. Funding DOL has set aside up to $3 million to be disbursed, contingent upon resources being available for this purpose. It is expected that grant awards will be between $300,000 and $500,000, with no award in excess of $700,000 each. I. Grant Period and Option To Extend Projects are to include 12 months of performance, and must be completed not later than 18 months from the date of award. Applications must clearly describe project activities to be undertaken and goals to be achieved during the grant period. The grant(s) may be extended for up to one additional year beyond the initial grant period based on the availability of funds, effective program operation and the needs of DOL. J. Page Count Limit Technical proposals are to be limited to 30 single-side pages,single-spaced (not including attachments). K. Cost Limitations Demonstration grants are not subject to the cost limitations for formula-funded Title III grants at Section 315 of the JTPA. However, any offeror proposing administrative costs that exceed 15 percent of the budget and supportive services that exceed 25 percent of the funds requested in the application shall provide a narrative justification. Part III. Statement of Work Each application must include in the appropriate section(s): (1) Information that responds to the requirements in this part; and (2) other information the offeror believes will address the selection criteria identified in Part IV. Each application should follow the format outlined here: A. Target Group A description of the target group, including the process to identify workers whose jobs are to be eliminated, the criteria and process for selecting those workers to be served through this demonstration project from among the total number of eligible individuals, and an explanation of how this target group fits into the overall restructuring of the institution or organization. B. Components of the Health Care Retraining Demonstration Program An identification of the major elements of the health care retraining demonstration project, including how this fits into the overall restructuring effort, and a description of how the project works in terms of the individual worker getting access to the reemployment and retraining services which the individual needs. Specifically: (1) How will new job openings and opportunities for the project participants be identified? (2) How will the retraining needs of the individual worker be determined? (3) What information will be available to the worker to identify and evaluate alternative employment opportunities? How will this information be developed? How will the worker be able to access this information? (4) What services will be covered by the retraining program? (5) How will qualified providers of retraining services be determined? (6) Will workers be given the choice of optional providers of services and training? How will these options be developed? How will the worker be able to access this information? (7) How will the amount of funds to be used for an individual's training be determined? (8) How will a participant's continuing participation in the program be monitored? At what point(s) will termination occur?
