FR941004-1-00051 FR941004-1-00015 Deer were observed to have eaten most of the mature inflorescences of Fritillaria striata at the Tejoh Hills population (about 5,000 plants) during 1 week in 1987 (D. Taylor, pers. comm., 1988 in Stebbins 1989). D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. The California Fish and Game Commission has listed Brodiaea pallida and Clarkia springvillensis as endangered species under the California Endangered Species Act (Chapter 1.5 ยง2050 et seq. of the California Fish and Game Code and Title 14 California Code of Regulations 670.2). The Commission also has listed Carpenteria californica, Fritillaria striata, and Lupinus deflexus (now known as Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus ) as threatened species. Listing by the State requires individuals to obtain a memorandum of understanding with the California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG) to possess or ``take'' a listed species. Although both the California Native Plant Protection Act and the California Endangered Species Act prohibit the ``take'' of State-listed plants, State law exempts the taking of such plants via habitat modification or land use changes by the owner. After CDFG notifies a landowner that a State-listed plant grows on his or her property, State law only requires that the land owner notify the agency ``at least 10 days in advance of changing the land use to allow salvage of such a plant'' (Native Plant Protection Act, Chapter 10 ยง 1913). The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a full disclosure of the potential environmental impacts of proposed projects. The public agency with primary authority or jurisdiction over the project is designated as the lead agency, and is responsible for conducting a review of the project and consulting with the other agencies concerned with the resources affected by the project. Section 15065 of the CEQA Guidelines requires a finding of significance if a project has the potential to ``reduce the number or restrict the range of a rare or endangered plant or animal.'' Species that are eligible for listing as rare, threatened, or endangered but are not so listed are given the same protection as those species that are officially listed with the State or Federal governments. Once significant effects are identified, the lead agency has the option to require mitigation for effects through changes in the project or to decide that overriding considerations make mitigation infeasible. In the latter case, projects may be approved even though they may cause significant environmental damage, such as destruction of an endangered species. Protection of listed species through CEQA is, therefore, dependent upon the discretion of the agency involved. Verbena californica and Brodiaea pallida grow in mesic areas along defined stream channels that are generally small and may be treated as isolated wetlands or waters of the United States for regulatory purposes by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under section 404 of the Clean Water Act. Nationwide Permit No. 26 (33 CFR part 330.5 (a)(26)) was established by the Corps to facilitate issuance of permits for discharge of fill into wetlands up to 4 hectares (10 acres). For project proposals falling under Nationwide Permit 26, the Corps has been reluctant to withhold authorization unless a federally proposed or listed threatened or endangered species is known to be present, regardless of the significance of other wetland resources. The 404 regulations require an applicant to obtain an individual permit to fill isolated wetlands or waters greater than 4 hectares (10 acres). In either case, candidate species receive no special consideration. Additionally and equally important, the upland watersheds (mesic pools and seeps next to streams) are not provided any protection. Disturbance to or loss of pool hydrology has damaged populations and habitat of these two plants as discussed previously in Factor A. Reductions in water volume and inundation adversely affect these plants. Thus, as a consequence of the small scale of these stream channels and lack of protection of associated uplands, this regulatory mechanism is inadequate to protect these two species. Of the 10 plants included in this proposed rule, only Clarkia springvillensis, Calyptridium pulchellum, and Carpenteria californica receive any kind of formal protection. The largest population of Clarkia springvillensis occurs on a 1.8 hectare (4.5 acre) preserve owned by the California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG). A draft interim management plan was developed in 1989, but has not been finalized in part due to a lack of funding. No on-the-ground management of this population has occurred. The Sequoia National Forest developed a management plan in 1987 for the populations of C. springvillensis that occur on Forest Service land. Although three of the four populations are now fenced, no active management of the populations is occurring to protect and promote the recovery of the species. One portion of a population of Carpenteria californica is protected at the Black Mountain Preserve, owned by The Nature Conservancy. Some recovery activities such as prescribed burns are not being conducted because of a lack of funding and concerns that prescribed burns would result in a wildfire (J. Clines, pers. comm., 1993). The Sierra National Forest has designated and fenced a botanical area for the preservation of one portion of a population of C. californica, but no active management is taking place to enhance and promote the recovery of the species.
