FR940104-1-00049 FR940104-1-00010 On December 22, 1993, the court that issued the November 9 order issued another order providing, in most relevant part, as follows: Federal defendants and defendant-intervenor, and those acting in active concert with them, are hereby permanently enjoined from publishing, employing and relying upon the Advisory Committee report *␣*␣* for any purpose whatsoever, directly or indirectly, in the process of determining whether to list the Alabama sturgeon as an endangered species. Therefore, a second public hearing has now been scheduled for January 13, 1994, and will allow additional oral statements to be presented (of course, written comments will also be accepted and will be given equal consideration). The time allocated for individual oral statements may be limited if the number of parties present at the hearing, or if the conduct of the individual commenter, necessitate such a limitation. There is no limit, however, on the length or volume of written comments or materials presented at the hearing or mailed to the Service office in the ADDRESSES section. In keeping with the court restrictions issued in Alabama-Tombigbee Rivers Coalition v. Fish and Wildlife Service , Civ. No. 93&hyph;AR&hyph;2322&hyph;S, the Service considers itself compelled to enforce the following constraints on the submission of oral and written comments while the court restrictions remain in effect: (1) Individuals or organizations cannot refer to the scientific report, issued on November 5, 1993, or to any drafts or other product derived from the preparation of that report, in presenting any oral statement or written comment; and, (2) Individuals or organizations cannot attempt to bolster their oral or written comments or opinions by reference to the scientific report as authority. The Departmental hearing officer at the hearing on January 13, 1994, will be authorized to terminate the opportunity to speak of any person making a statement if, in the judgment of the hearing officer, that person disregards the instructions not to address the scientific report or its contents. Written comments or materials that contain information that violates the above restrictions will be marked and thereafter excluded from the administrative record while the court restrictions remain in effect. The Service intends that any final action resulting from the proposed rule will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Except for the court-imposed restrictions set out above, the Service encourages the submission of all individual scientific opinions, biological data, and other relevant scientific data that will assist in arriving at the ``best scientific and commercial data available,'' as mandated by Section 4 of the Endangered Species Act. Authority: The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1531&hyph;1544. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and threatened wildlife, Fish, Marine mammals, Plants (agriculture). Dated: December 20, 1993. Richard N. Smith, Acting Director, Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;89 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
