FR940711-2-00121 FR940711-2-00049 1. Entered Employment Rate _Total number of individuals who entered employment of at least 20 hours per week at termination, excluding those who were recalled or retained by the original employer after receipt of a layoff notice, divided by the total terminations, excluding those who were recalled or retained by the original employer after receipt of a layoff notice. Note: As indicated in the definitions listed above, for performance standards purposes, the term ``employment'' means employment for 20 or more hours per week. For determining compliance with this provision, a ``week'' means a period of 7 consecutive days, and the 20 or more hours is to be understood as a condition of the employment. No formal verification is required, but the Department encourages States to set up a system that would, at a minimum, provide for random checking to assess compliance by SDA's. Attachment 2_Youth Employability Enhancement Definitions ``Youth Employability Enhancement'' means an outcome for youth, other than entered unsubsidized employment, which is recognized as enhancing long-term employability and contributing to the potential for a long-term increase in earnings and employment. Outcomes which meet this requirement shall be restricted to the following: (1) Attained PIC-Recognized Youth Employment Competencies (two or more reported from SPIR items 36a, 36d, and 36e); (2) Returned to Full-Time School; (3) Remained in School; (4) Completed Major Level of Education; or (5) Entered Non-Title II Training. 1. Attained PIC-Recognized Youth Employment Competencies_ The total number of youth who demonstrated proficiency, as defined by the PIC in two or more of the following three skill areas in which the terminee was deficient at enrollment: (1) pre-employment/work maturity (SPIR item 36a); (2) basic education (SPIR item 36d); or (3) job-specific skills (SPIR item 36e). Competency gains must be achieved through program participation and be tracked through sufficiently developed systems that must include: quantifiable learning objectives, related curricula/training modules, pre and post-assessment, employability planning, documentation, and certification. The completely detailed definition for Youth Employment Competency systems is located in the Standardized Program Information Reporting System (SPIR) instructions. 2. Returned to Full-Time School _The total number of youth who: (1) had returned to full-time secondary school (e.g., junior high school, middle school and high school) including an alternative school if, at the time of intake, the participant was not attending school (exclusive of summer school) and had not obtained a high school diploma or equivalent; and (2) prior to termination, had been retained in school for one semester or at least 120 calendar days. Alternative School _A specialized, structured curriculum offered inside or outside of the public school system which may provide work/study and/or GED preparation. Note: To obtain credit for Returned to Full-Time School and Remained in School (described below), SDA's must be prepared to demonstrate that retention results from continuing, active participation in JTPA activities and the youth must: (1) be making satisfactory progress in school; and (2) (for youth aged 16&hyph;21) attain a PIC-approved Youth Employment Competency in Basic Skills or Job-Specific Skills; or (3) (for youth aged 14&hyph;15) attain a PIC-approved Youth Employment Competency in Pre-employment/Work Maturity or Basic Skills. Satisfactory Progress in School _An SDA, in cooperation with the local school system, must develop a written policy that defines an individual standard of progress for each participant that he or she is required to meet. Such a standard should, at a minimum, include both a qualitative element of a participant's progress (e.g., performance on a criterion-referenced test or a grade point average) and a quantitative element (e.g., a time limit for completion of the program or course of study). This policy may provide for exceptional situations in which students who do not meet the standard of progress are nonetheless making satisfactory progress during a probationary period because of mitigating circumstances. 3. Remained in School _The total number of youth who, prior to termination, had been retained in full-time secondary school, including alternative school, for one semester or at least 120 calendar days. A youth may be reported as Remained-in-School only if he/she was attending school at the time of intake, had not received a high school diploma or its equivalent, and was considered ``at risk of dropping out of school,'' as defined by the Governor in consultation with the State Education Agency. 4. Completed Major Level of Education _The total number of adults/youth who, prior to termination, had completed, during enrollment in the program, a level of educational achievement which had not been reached at entry. Levels of educational achievement are secondary and post-secondary. Completion standards shall be governed by State standards and shall include a high school diploma, GED Certificate or equivalent at the secondary level, and shall require a diploma or other written certification of completion at the post-secondary level.
