FR940303-1-00029 FR940303-1-00008 The proposed amendments made by the Health Professions Extension Amendments of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;408) to section 777(b) are described below, according to the section numbers and headings of the regulations they affect. Section 57.4102␣Definitions The Department is proposing to add the following terms to this section: `` Geriatric psychiatry '' means the prevention, diagnosis, evaluation and treatment of mental disorders and disturbances seen in older adults. This definition is adapted from the definition used by the American Association of Geriatric Psychiatrists and is added to the section to incorporate the statutory requirement for the expansion of project support to include the training of physicians who plan to teach geriatric psychiatry. `` Relevant advanced training or experience '' means at least one of the following: (1) Completion of at least a 12-month graduate training program in a health-related discipline, the basic sciences, or education; or (2) a minimum of 2 years of clinical practice, of which at least 12 months were devoted in part to managing older dental patients in a hospital, long-term care facility, or other setting. This definition was developed with consultation from an Ad Hoc Committee of Geriatric Dentists and with positive internal review. The definition is added to the section to incorporate the statutory requirement for the expansion of fellowship eligibility of dental fellows in the program. Section 57.4111␣Duration of fellowships. The Department is proposing to remove this section from the regulations. The regulatory language currently reads: An appointment to a fellowship may be made for a period not to exceed 12 months. Fellowship assistance for participants in a 1-year fellowship program and a 1-year retraining program is limited to 12 months. Participants in 2-year fellowship programs may receive a second 12-month appointment for a total period of 24 months. Public Law 102&hyph;408 no longer provides for a 1-year fellowship program. Further, the language regarding the period of time for appointments to a fellowship is unnecessarily restrictive to individuals who may benefit from further fellowship or retraining experience in a life time. For example, a faculty fellow who completed a 1-year retraining to have the skills required to incorporate geriatrics into course content and clinical rotations may discover 5 years later that another fellowship experience would provide the opportunity to develop research skills in geriatrics required to expand the scope and depth of practice-based geriatric research. In addition to the changes proposed above, a number of technical, clarifying, and ministerial changes are included to conform the existing regulations with amendments made by Public Law 102&hyph;408. These changes affecting the program for Faculty Training Projects in Geriatric Medicine and Dentistry are being made to the regulations to: 1. Revise the section number of the Act from ``789(b)'' to ``777(b)'' wherever it appears in subpart PP, as renumbered, and the United States Code citation from ``(42 U.S.C. 295g&hyph;9(b))'' to ``(42 U.S.C. 294o)'', in accordance with Public Law 102&hyph;408. 2. Revise §57.4101, entitled ``To what projects do these regulations apply?'', by adding the words ``geriatric psychiatry'' to reflect statutory language which expands project support to include the training of physicians who plan to teach geriatric psychiatry. 3. Revise §57.4102, entitled ``Definitions.'', amend the following terms to: a. Remove the definition of `` Council '' regarding the National Advisory Council on Health Professions Education, in accordance with Public Law 102&hyph;408. The statute repealed the Council effective October 1, 1992; b. Revise the phrase ``by an organized medical staff'' to ``by an organized health care staff'' at the end of the definition of `` Extended care facility '' to clarify that staff of health care institutions includes nurses, physical therapists, social workers and other health care staff who provide ``medically-prescribed skilled nursing care or rehabilitative services''; c. Revise the introductory text to the definition of `` Fellowship program '' by removing the reference to a 1-year fellowship program which is no longer a statutory provision for project support; and revise paragraph (2) of the definition to reflect new statutory requirements for the training of dentists who have ``demonstrated a commitment to an academic career and who have postdoctoral dental education programs or who have relevant advanced training or experience''; and
