FR940621-1-00007 FR940621-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 151 [CGD 94&hyph;003] RIN 2115&hyph;AE76 Ballast Water Management for Vessels Entering the Hudson River AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes regulations to implement an amendment to the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 (the Act). The proposed regulations, if adopted, would require Ballast Water Management practices for each vessel entering the Hudson River, north of the George Washington Bridge, after operating on waters beyond the Exclusive Economic Zone. These rules would help to prevent the additional introduction of nonindigenous aquatic nuisance species into the Great Lakes through the ballast water of vessels operating on the Hudson River. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to the Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council (G&hyph;LRA/3406) (CGD 94&hyph;003), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street SW., Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001, or may be delivered to room 3406 at the same address between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The telephone number is (202) 267&hyph;1477. Comments on collection-of-information requirements must be mailed also to the Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20503, ATTN: Desk Officer, U.S. Coast Guard. The Executive Secretary maintains the public docket for this rulemaking. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection or copying at room 3406, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant Jonathan C. Burton, Project Manager, Marine Environmental Protection Division (G&hyph;MEP&hyph;1), (202) 267&hyph;6714. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD 94&hyph;003) and the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give the reason for each comment. Please submit two copies of all comments and attachments in an unbound format, no larger than 81/2 by 11 inches, suitable for copying and electronic filing. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose stamped, self-addressed postcards or envelopes. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Marine Safety Council at the address under ``ADDRESSES.'' The request should include the reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register. Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Lieutenant Jonathan C. Burton, Project Manager, Marine Environmental Protection Division, and Ms. Helen Boutrous, Project Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel. Background and Purpose Historical records suggest that over 100 non-native species have been introduced into the Great Lakes and its tributaries. The primary medium for their introduction is believed to be ballast water from vessels. Many vessels take on water in foreign harbors or in the near shore waters which are often rich in living organisms. When these vessels arrive to take on cargo, they discharge ballast water and any organisms contained in the water enter the local ecosystem. While many of these species do not survive in this new environment, those that do quickly adapt, and in some instances thrive, particularly where there are no natural predators. The Zebra Mussel provides a good example of the harmful effects of a newly introduced species. In 1988, this small bivalve mollusk native to the Black, Azov, and Caspian Seas in the Ukraine and southern Russia, was discovered in the Western Basin of Lake Erie. Scientists believe that it was introduced in 1986 by the discharge of freshwater ballast of a vessel from Northern Europe. Hundreds of millions of Zebra Mussels can now be found on and in pipes, screens, conduits, boat bottoms, floats, buoys, rocks, submerged objects, and native animals and plants. As a filter feeding organism, it removes vast quantities of microscopic organisms from the water, the same organisms that fish larvae and young fish rely upon for their food supply. It also completely covers rocks and other substances normally used by native fish for laying eggs. Since its introduction into the Great lakes the Zebra Mussel has reproduced and spread throughout the Great Lakes and its tributaries and has been found as far south as New Orleans.
