FR940826-2-00109 FR940826-2-00055 (4) The Department opposes any authority pursuant to which the BOC might discriminate in the provision of interexchange routing or in the colocation of interexchange points of presence in cellular MTSOs. (5) The Department believes that the BOCs should be required to notify competing interexchange providers of changes to existing network services or the addition of new services that affect the interexchange carriers' interconnection at least 60 days prior to implementation. (6) The Department does not understand the Proposed Order to permit a BOC to treat its long distance service as the default carrier for a customer that fails to make the required selection of an interexchange carrier. The Department understands that customers who fail to select an interexchange carrier will not receive interexchange service from their wireless telephones, and conditions its support for the waiver on that understanding. Finally, we believe that in this instance it is appropriate to condition the continued provision of interexchange service on compliance with the equal access conditions and requirements of this waiver and of the MFJ. We also believe that the waiver order should grant the Court the authority to impose civil fines, not to exceed $10 million, for violations of equal access conditions and requirements of this waiver or of the MFJ in the provision of interexchange services from wireless exchanges. II. Paging, etc. The Department intends to support the relief specified in Section II of the Proposed Order, subject to the following clarifications: a. That the ``IS&hyph;41 or comparable'' functions specified in paragraph II(a) not be used to discriminate in favor of the BOC's own interexchange service. b. That the default traffic specified in paragraph II(c) be explicitly limited to interexchange telecommunications initiated by roaming customers. III. Local Calling Areas. The Department believes that this issue should not be presented to the Court at this time and, if presented, intends in the absence of further developments to urge the Court to defer ruling on this issue. On June 9, 1994, the Federal Communications Commission announced the issuance of a Notice of Proposed Rule Making and Notice of Inquiry, pursuant to which the Commission indicated that it has tentatively concluded that imposing equal access obligations on cellular telephone companies would be in the public interest. The text of the Notice is not yet available to the public or to the Department. The Department understands that any such equal access obligation necessarily requires the adoption of a map defining local calling areas and delimiting the respective areas of local and long distance service. Therefore, if the Commission acts in accord with its tentative decision, it will need to consider the appropriate local calling areas for cellular service, the issue raised by this portion of the BOCs' proposal. The FCC's conclusions may result in the imposition by regulation of a local calling area map that is different from either (1) the current cellular calling areas, as defined by the MFJ and subsequent orders, and (2) the relief the BOCs seek here. Given the possibility of inconsistent results, it would not be productive for the Court to consider a comprehensive redefinition of local calling areas at the same time that the FCC is considering the same issue. If the FCC does not adopt a final rule on cellular equal access, the Court may then consider whether it wants to make substantial changes to the cellular equal access map. The Department will, during the pendency of the FCC proceeding, evaluate pending calling area waiver requests to determine whether they meet the standards for such relief. IV. FCC Preemption. The Department does not support the relief sought in Section IV of the Proposed Order. If the FCC adopts an equal access order that reasonably achieves the purposes of the Decree, including equal access, but differs in some technical respects in its implementation of those purposes, it may be appropriate for the Department and the Court to consider whether it is necessary or wise to maintain two sets of equal access obligations. However, it would in our view be inappropriate to make that determination before the Commission adopts a final rule on this subject. ␣␣␣Sincerely, Richard L. Rosen, Chief, Communications and Finance Section. Certificate of Service I, J. Philip Sauntry, Jr., hereby certify under penalty of perjury that I am not a party to this action, that I am not less than 18 years of age, and that I have on this day caused the Competitive Impact Statement of the United States in the matter United States of America v. AT&T Corp., and McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc. to be served on defendants by mailing a copy, postage prepaid, to each of the individuals and organizations at the addresses listed below: 1. John D. Zeglis, AT&T Corp., 295 North Maple Avenue, Basking Ridge, New Jersey 07920. 2. Douglas I. Brandon, McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc., 1150 Connecticut Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20036. August 5, 1994. J. Philip Sauntry, Jr. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20948 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
