FR941017-1-00011 FR941017-1-00001 Criteria not associated with site suitability or establishment of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion (SSE) have been placed into 10 CFR part 50. This action is consistent with the location of other design requirements in 10 CFR part 50. Because the revised criteria presented in the proposed regulation will not be applied to existing plants, the licensing basis for existing nuclear power plants must remain part of the regulations. The criteria on seismic and geologic siting would be designated as a new ยง100.23 to subpart B in 10 CFR part 100. Criteria on earthquake engineering would be designated as a new Appendix S, ``Earthquake Engineering Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants,'' to 10 CFR part 50. 2. Remove Detailed Guidance From the Regulation The current regulation contains both requirements and guidance on how to satisfy the requirements. For example, Section IV, ``Required Investigations,'' of Appendix A, states that investigations are required for vibratory ground motion, surface faulting, and seismically induced floods and water waves. Appendix A then provides detailed guidance on what constitutes an acceptable investigation. A similar situation exists in Section V, ``Seismic and Geologic Design Bases,'' of Appendix A. Geoscience assessments require considerable latitude in judgment. This latitude in judgment is needed because of limitations in data and the state-of-the-art of geologic and seismic analyses and because of the rapid evolution taking place in the geosciences in terms of accumulating knowledge and in modifying concepts. This need appears to have been recognized when the existing regulation was developed. The existing regulation states that it is based on limited geophysical and geological information and will be revised as necessary when more complete information becomes available. However, having geoscience assessments detailed and cast in a regulation has created difficulty for applicants and the staff in terms of inhibiting the use of needed latitude in judgment. Also, it has inhibited flexibility in applying basic principles to new situations and the use of evolving methods of analyses (for instance, probabilistic) in the licensing process. The proposed regulation would be streamlined, becoming a new section in Subpart B to 10 CFR part 100 rather than a new appendix to part 100. Also, the level of detail presented in the proposed regulation would be reduced considerably. This approach reflects the philosophy of the first proposed revision that the regulation only contains the basic requirements and that the detailed guidance, which is contained in the current regulation, Appendix A to 10 CFR part 100, be removed to guidance documents. Thus, the proposed regulation contains: (a) Required definitions, (b) A requirement to determine the geological, seismological, and engineering characteristics of the proposed site, and (c) A requirement to determine the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion (SSE) and its uncertainty, to determine the potential for surface deformation, and to determine the design bases for seismically induced floods and water waves. The guidance documents describe how to carry out these required determinations. The key elements of the balanced approach to determine the SSE are presented in the following section. The elements are the guidance that will be fully described in the guidance documents. The proposed regulation is a new section in part 100 rather than an appendix to Part 100. The proposed regulation would identify and establish basic requirements. Detailed guidance, that is, the procedures acceptable to the NRC for meeting the requirements, would be contained in a draft regulatory guide to be issued for public comment as Draft Regulatory Guide, DG&hyph;1032, ``Identification and Characterization of Seismic Sources and Determination of Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motions.'' 3. Uncertainties and Probabilistic Methods The existing approach for determining a Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion (SSE) for a nuclear reactor site, embodied in appendix A to 10 CFR part 100, relies on a ``deterministic'' approach. Using this deterministic approach, an applicant develops a single set of earthquake sources, develops for each source a postulated earthquake to be used as the source of ground motion that can affect the site, locates the postulated earthquake according to prescribed rules, and then calculates ground motions at the site. Although this approach has worked reasonably well for the past two decades, in the sense that SSEs for plants sited with this approach are judged to be suitably conservative, the approach has not explicitly recognized uncertainties in geosciences parameters. Because so little is known about earthquake phenomena (especially in the eastern United States), there have often been differences of opinion and differing interpretations among experts as to the largest earthquakes to be considered and ground-motion models to be used, thus often making the licensing process relatively unstable. Over the past decade, analysis methods for incorporating these different interpretations have been developed and used. These ``probabilistic'' methods have been designed to allow explicit incorporation of different models for zonation, earthquake size, ground motion, and other parameters. The advantage of using these probabilistic methods is their ability to not only incorporate different models and different data sets, but also to weight them using judgments as to the validity of the different models and data sets, and thereby providing an explicit expression for the uncertainty in the ground motion estimates and a means of assessing sensitivity to various input parameters. Another advantage of the probabilistic method is the target exceedance probability is set by examining the design bases of more recently licensed nuclear power plants. The proposed revision to the regulation now explicitly recognizes that there are inherent uncertainties in establishing the seismic and geologic design parameters and allows for the option of using a probabilistic seismic hazard methodology capable of propagating uncertainties as a means to address these uncertainties. The rule further recognizes that the nature of uncertainty and the appropriate approach to account for it depend greatly on the tectonic regime and parameters, such as, the knowledge of seismic sources, the existence of historical and recorded data, and the understanding of tectonics. Therefore, methods other than the probabilistic methods, such as sensitivity analyses, may be adequate for some sites to account for uncertainties. The NRC staff has achieved an appropriate balance between deterministic and probabilistic seismic hazard evaluations to be used in the revision of the seismic and geologic siting criteria for nuclear power plants. The key elements of this balanced approach are: _Conduct site-specific and regional geoscience investigations,
