FR940223-2-00230 FR940223-2-00104 Implementation of the second concept would be coordinated through the national Operation Lifesaver headquarters office located in Alexandria, Virginia. This second concept would facilitate individual recruitment of National Service volunteers at the local level and would provide participants with opportunities to provide service to their local communities and states and to participate in the development of viable transportation safety programs. 2.4.2␣Goals and Priorities This program addresses the following national priorities: a. Education_Participants will be exposed to a variety of project specific tasks and general job skills that could prepare participants for future employment opportunities. b. Public Safety_Operation Lifesaver assists in promoting public awareness of the dangers associated with rail crossings, trespassing on railroad properties, and improper use of motor vehicles around rail facilities. Further, it will bring the audiences into contact with local police and other law enforcement agencies, which will open the lines of communication and create opportunities for cooperation. c. Human Needs_This Program will stimulate awareness of rail and highway safety-related problems within local and State communities and bring people together to address them. The programs will also provide safety training to a wide audience, ranging in age from pre-schoolers to senior citizens. d. Environment_Operation Lifesaver has been successful in reducing community environmental hazards associated with rail crossings. 2.4.3␣ Anticipated Outcomes and Results a. The utilization of a community service organization would result in benefits to the local communities and provide needed public education in the area of rail safety to the specifically targeted audiences and the general public. As past records have shown, there should be a downward trend in accidents, injuries, and trespasser violations in conjunction with the Operation Lifesaver Program. The statistics developed would be readily available for program evaluation, cost analysis, and community acceptance and adoption. b. The hiring and placement of assistant administrative coordinators throughout the Operation Lifesaver system would result in better coordination of the program with railroad companies, law enforcement agencies, local and state governments, the various informational media and the general population. The opportunity to function within an established program would enhance the job skills and personal marketability for the participants for future endeavors. Both concepts will expose the participants to the opportunity to perform community service, and enhance the development of personal qualities, educational values and positive work ethics. 2.4.4␣Funding DOT intends to apply for funding for program costs, including living allowances, educational awards, health insurance, and child care costs, from the National Service Corporation. A budgetary review is ongoing at this time to seek other sources of funding within DOT. The National and Community Service Act will be an item in the Fiscal Year 1996 budget submission of the Federal Railroad Administration, and it is anticipated that direct funding for national service involvement in the Operation Lifesaver program may be available from DOT in future years. 2.4.5␣DOT Agency Involvement and Expertise Available The Operation Lifesaver and adjunct trespasser programs are addressed by several of the DOT modal administrations, specifically the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). 2.4.6␣DOT Contacts Gordon J. Smith, Federal Railroad Administration, Office of Administration, (202) 366&hyph;0589, FAX (202) 366&hyph;7439 Bruce George, Highway Rail Crossing and Trespasser Division, Federal Railroad Administration, (202) 366&hyph;0533 Mailing Address: Room 8232, 400 7th St. SW., Washington DC 20590
