FR941128-2-00018 FR941128-2-00010 To calculate the benefit during the POI, we used our standard grant methodology ( see section 355.49(b) of the Proposed Regulations ). We then divided the benefits attributable to Dalmine under Law 193/84 in the POI by Dalmine's total sales. On this basis, we determine the estimated net subsidy to be 0.75 percent ad valorem for all manufacturers, producers, and exporters in Italy of the subject merchandise. C. Exchange Rate Guarantee Program This program, which was enacted by Law 796/76, provides exchange rate guarantees on foreign currency loans from the European Coal and Steel Community (``ECSC'') and The Council of European Resettlement Fund (``CER''). Under the program, repayment amounts are calculated by reference to the exchange rate in effect at the time the loan is agreed upon. The program sets a ceiling and a floor on repayment to limit the effect on the borrower of exchange rate changes over time. For example, if the lire depreciates five percent against the DM (the currency in which the loan is taken out), borrowers would normally find that they would have to repay five percent more (in lire terms). However, under the Exchange Rate Guarantee Program, the ceiling would act to limit the increased repayment amount to two percent. There is also a floor in the program which would apply if the lire appreciated against the DM. The floor would limit any windfall to the borrower. In Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel, the Department found this program to be not countervailable because of incomplete information regarding the specificity of the program. The Department stated that, because the determination was reached while lacking certain important information, the finding of non-countervailability would not carry over to future investigations. In this investigation, information provided by the GOI shows that the steel industry received 25% of the benefits under the program. Based on this information, the Department preliminarily determines that the steel industry was a dominant user of exchange rate guarantees under Law 796/76 and, thus, that benefits received by Dalmine under this law are being provided to a specific enterprise or industry or group of enterprises or industries. ( See section 355.43(b)(2)(iii) of the Proposed Regulations .) Therefore, we preliminarily determine that the exchange rate guarantees offered under the program are countervailable to the extent they are provided on terms inconsistent with commercial considerations. Dalmine provided information that it could have purchased an exchange rate guarantee from commercial sources. However, Dalmine's information pertained to 1993, not to the period when the government-provided guarantees were taken out. The GOI's response indicates that commercial exchange rate guarantees were not available in 1986, the year in which the loan and the guarantee were received. Therefore, we preliminarily determine the benefit to Dalmine to be the total amount of GOI payments on these loans made during the POI by the GOI. (Because the amount the government will pay in any given year will not be known until that year, benefits can only be calculated on a year-by-year basis.) We divided the GOI's payments in 1993 by Dalmine's 1993 total sales. On this basis, we determine the estimated net subsidy from this program to be 0.20 percent ad valorem for all manufacturers, producers, and exporters in Italy of the subject merchandise. II. Programs Preliminarily Determined to be Not Countervailable A. 1988/89 Equity Infusion In November 1989, Dalmine completed an equity rights offering which allowed existing shareholders to purchase 7 new shares for every 10 shares they already owned. The new shares were offered at a price of LIT 300 per share. At that time, ILVA owned 81.7 percent of Dalmine's equity, with the remaining 18.3 percent owned by private investors. Pursuant to the rights offering, ILVA subscribed to its full allotment of the new shares. The remainder of the new shares were purchased by private shareholders. All shares were purchased at LIT 300 per share. Petitioner argues that although Dalmine's shares were nominally publicly traded, the vast majority of Dalmine shares were indirectly owned by the GOI and, therefore, shares were not purchased in adequate volume by private investors to establish a valid benchmark. Specifically, petitioner contends that in 1991 ILVA owned 99.9 percent of Dalmine and, therefore, Dalmine's shares were in fact not publicly traded. Consequently, because essentially no private purchases were being made, the market price at the time of the equity infusion cannot serve as a valid benchmark. Furthermore, petitioner asserts that it is highly likely that the remaining shares not purchased by ILVA were purchased indirectly by the GOI through other holding companies. In response to our questionnaire, Dalmine provided a list of all purchasers of shares in the 1989 offering. There is no evidence to indicate that the shares not purchased by ILVA were purchased by other government controlled or owned entities, as petitioner suggests. Moreover, the extent of ILVA's ownership in 1991 is not relevant to the choice of a benchmark for the equity investment in 1989. We have preliminarily determined that, because 18.3 percent of the equity infusion was purchased by private shareholders, the sale of these shares provides the market-determined price for Dalmine's equity. Furthermore, in accordance with section 355.44 (e)(1) of the Department's Proposed Regulations, we preliminarily determine that the equity infusion is not countervailable because the market-determined price for Dalmine's shares is not less than the price paid by ILVA for those shares.
