FR940525-0-00067 FR940525-0-00026 A deadline for applications for initial Hawaii longline limited entry permits has been set in ยง685.9(c) to ensure that the number of permits will be limited after a given period of time. Applications must be submitted within 120 days after the date of publication in the Federal Register . The Council will be considering changes in allowable participation and effort in the future and needs to know the size of the permitted fleet in order to evaluate the benefits and costs of changes in regulations. A change was made to the observer program (ยง685.11) to refer to Hawaii longline limited entry permit requirements (ยง685.9(a)(2)), so that the notification requirements of ยง685.11 will apply to owners of vessels with such permits. Technical changes were made in the designation of sections and paragraphs due to the expiration of provisions implemented under the moratorium on new entry to the longline fishery. Classification This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. The Council prepared a combined final FMP amendment/Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS)/Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (RFA) covering the impacts of the fishery as managed under this amendment and alternative approaches. The final FMP amendment/final EIS satisfies National Environmental Policy Act requirements for documentation and analysis of the impacts of the fishery on the environment. A consultation under section 7 of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) was conducted and NMFS issued a Biological Opinion (Opinion) and Incidental Take Statement (Statement) in June 1993 concerning the take of sea turtles in the longline fishery. Consultations have been reinitiated and a new Biological Opinion is being prepared. A new consultation to address Amendment 7 is not necessary. This rule is expected to have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Hawaii longline vessel owners (approximately 167) will have more flexibility to buy and sell vessels and permits and to upgrade their fishing vessels to compete more effectively in the domestic longline fishery, as well as with foreign fleets. It is estimated that total revenue from longline landings will increase to $60 million per year from about $45 million in 1992. The final amendment/FEIS includes an RFA that is adopted as final without change. This rule includes a change in an information collection previously approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB No. 0648&hyph;0204). The change is included in a request submitted by the Southwest Region, NMFS, for approval of modification and extension of the current collection that covers all Southwest Region fishery permit programs. The change requires prospective participants in the Hawaii longline fishery to submit permit application forms and supporting information, including a current Certificate of Documentation from the U.S. Coast Guard, to obtain or transfer a permit under the new limited entry program. Landings records from the existing Hawaii longline logbook reporting requirement will be used to determine whether an individual has met the landings requirement to qualify for a permit. The estimated burden on the applicants is 30 minutes per application. This is less than the average of 1 hour or more that had been required for applications for permits in the moratorium period, because the moratorium applications required documentation of intent to enter the longline fishery at a time when investment decisions were made. The documentation requirements under the new permit program will be simpler. This rule also restates requirements for the submission of logbooks and post-landing notifications. These requirements have already been approved by OMB under Control Number 0648&hyph;0214. The response times for these requirements were estimated to be 5 minutes per day for the logbook and 5 minutes per notification. Send comments regarding these burden estimates or any other aspect of these collection-of-information requirements, including suggestions for reducing burden, to the Director of the Southwest Region, NMFS, and to OMB (see ADDRESSES ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 685 American Samoa, Fisheries, Fishing, Guam, Hawaiian Natives, Northern Mariana Islands.
