FR940722-0-00154 FR940722-0-00019 §24.839 Transfer of control or assignment of license. (a) Approval required. Authorizations shall be transferred or assigned to another party, voluntarily (for example, by contract) or involuntarily (for example, by death, bankruptcy or legal disability), directly or indirectly or by transfer of control of any corporation holding such authorization, only upon application and approval by the Commission. A transfer of control or assignment of station authorization in the broadband Personal Communications Service is also subject to §§24.711(e), 24.712(d), 24,713(b) (unjust enrichment) and 1.2111(a) of this Chapter (reporting requirement). (1) A change from less than 50% ownership to 50% or more ownership shall always be considered a transfer of control. (2) In other situations a controlling interest shall be determined on a case-by-case basis considering the distribution of ownership and the relationships of the owners, including family relationships. (b) Forms required. (1) Assignment. (i) FCC Form 490 shall be filed to assign a license or permit. (ii) In the case of involuntary assignment, FCC Form 490 shall be filed within thirty (30) days following the event giving rise to the assignment. (2) Transfer of control. (i) FCC Form 490 shall be submitted in order to transfer control of a corporation holding a license or permit. (ii) In the case of involuntary transfer of control, FCC Form 490 shall be filed within thirty (30) days following the event giving rise to the transfer. (3) Form 430. Whenever an application must be filed under paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the assignee or transferee shall file FCC Form 430 (``Common Carrier Radio License Qualification Report'') unless an accurate report is on file with the Commission. (4) Notification of completion. The Commission shall be notified by letter of the date of completion of the assignment or transfer of control. (5) If the transfer of control of a license is approved, the new licensee is held to the original construction requirement of §24.203. (c) In acting upon applications for transfer of control or assignment, the Commission will not consider whether the public interest, convenience and necessity might be served by the transfer or assignment of the authorization to a person other than the proposed transferee or assignee. (d) Restrictions on Assignments and Transfers of Licenses for Frequency Blocks C and F. No assignment or transfer of control of a license for frequency Block C or frequency Block F will be granted unless_ (1) The application for assignment or transfer of control is filed after five years from the date of the initial license grant; (2) The application for assignment or transfer of control is filed after three years from the date of the initial license grant and the proposed assignee or transferee meets the eligibility criteria set forth in §24.709; (3) The application is for partial assignment of a partitioned service area to a rural telephone company pursuant to §24.714 and the assignee meets the eligibility criteria set forth in §24.709; or (4) The application is for an involuntary assignment or transfer of control to a bankruptcy trustee appointed under involuntary bankruptcy, an independent receiver appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in a foreclosure action or, in the event of death or disability, to a person or entity legally qualified to succeed the decrease or disabled person under the laws of the place having jurisdiction over the estate involved; provided that, the applicant requests a waiver pursuant to this paragraph. (e) If the assignment or transfer of control of a license is approved, the assignee or transferee is subject to the original construction requirement of §24.203. §§24.840&hyph;24.842 [Reserved] §24.843 Extension of time to complete construction. (a) If construction is not completed within the time period set forth in §24.203, the authorization will automatically expire. Before the period for construction expires an application for an extension of time to complete construction (FCC Form 489) may be filed. See paragraph (b) of this section. Within 30 days after the authorization expires an application for reinstatement may be filed on FCC Form 489. (b) Extension of Time to Complete Construction. An application for extension of time to complete construction may be made on FCC Form 489. Extension of time requests must be filed prior to the expiration of the construction period. Extensions will be granted only if the licensee shows that the failure to complete construction is due to causes beyond its control. (c) An application for modification of an authorization (under construction) does not extend the initial construction period. If additional time to construct is required, an FCC Form 489 must be submitted. (d) [Reserved] §24.844 Termination of authorization. (a) Termination of authorization. (1) All authorizations shall terminate on the date specified on the authorization or on the date specified by these rules, unless a timely application for renewal has been filed. (2) If no application for renewal has been made before the authorization's expiration date, a late application for renewal will be considered only if it is filed within thirty (30) days of the expiration date and shows that the failure to file a timely application was due to causes beyond the applicant's control. During this 30-day period, a reinstatement application must be filed on FCC Form 489. Service to subscribers need not be suspended while a late-filed renewal application is pending, but such service shall be without prejudice to Commission action on the renewal application and any related sanctions. See also §24.16 (Criteria for Comparative Renewal Proceedings). (b) Termination of special temporary authorization. A special temporary authorization shall automatically terminate upon failure to comply with the conditions in the authorization. (c) [Reserved] [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17931 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
