FR941027-2-00078 FR941027-2-00043 The following notice is written in the present, rather than future tense, in order to avoid the unnecessary expenditure of public funds to republish the notice after the system has become effective. Dated: October 18, 1994. Ellen Wormser, Director, Office of Organization and Management Systems. 09&hyph;25&hyph;0169 System name: Medical Staff-Credentials Files, HHS/NIH/CC. Security classification: None. System location: Medical Record Department, Warren G. Magnuson Clinical Center, National Institutes of Health, Building 10, Room 1N208, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892. Write to the System Manager at the address below for a list of Contractor locations, including the address of any Federal Records Center where records from this system may be stored. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals who have been approved as members of the medical staff at the Warren G. Magnuson Clinical Center. Categories of records in the system: Medical staff names, date of birth, home address and telephone number, office address and telephone number, citizenship, visa information, appointment date, hospital-wide computer access privileges, Institute/Center/Division designation, branch/lab, type of medical staff membership, privilege delineation, professional degree(s) including school of attendance and graduation dates, foreign medical examinations, specialty board certifications, licensing information (including state of licensure and license number), record of disciplinary actions, documentation of training, and admitting privileges. Authority for maintenance of the system: Authority for collecting the requested information is contained in section 301 (42 U.S.C. 241) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, outlining the authority of the Secretary to, within the Public Health Service (PHS), promote the coordination of various research and associated activities, including for purposes of study, admitting and treating individuals at PHS facilities. Section 402(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 282(b)), as amended, outlining the authority of the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with respect to the admission and treatment of individuals at NIH facilities for purposes of study.
