FR940819-0-00019 FR940819-0-00007 (viii) Operating a telephone hot line to provide help on individual source problems and grievances; (ix) Referring small businesses to the appropriate specialists in the SBAP where they may obtain information and assistance on affordable alternative technologies, process changes, products, and operational methods to help reduce air pollution and accidental releases; (x) Arranging for and assisting in the preparation of guideline documents by the SBAP to ensure that the language is readily understandable by the layperson; (xi) Working with trade associations and small businesses to bring about voluntary compliance with regulations under the CAA; (xii) Interfacing with regional and State offices of the Small Business Administration, the Department of Commerce, and/or other State and Federal agencies that may have programs to financially assist small businesses in need of funds to comply with environmental regulations; (xiii) Interfacing with private sector financial institutions to assist small businesses in locating sources of funds to comply with State/local air pollution control requirements; and (xiv) Conducting studies to evaluate the impacts of the CAA on the State's economy, local economies, and small businesses. Copies of studies will be available upon request to the Ombudsman's Office. Thus, it shall be the responsibility of the Small Business Advocate's Office to monitor the PROGRAM. The Office shall: (A) Since February 1992, serve as ombudsman for small businesses in accordance with the Federal mandate of section 507 of the 1990 CAA; and (B) Work with the SBAP to develop programs and provide assistance to small businesses in all areas, as necessary. Sufficient resources will be provided to the State Advocate's Office to enable it to discharge its responsibilities effectively. Provisions have been made to provide the Ombudsman with direct access to the government agencies and officials necessary to ensure that the concerns of small businesses will be heard. Further, the Ombudsman is vested with sufficient authority to identify and propose solutions to small business problems as they relate to the implementation of the CAA. The narrative SIP revision, subsection I.A.3.a) entitled ``Designation of a State Office to Serve as Ombudsman for Small Businesses'', describes the details of the Ombudsman element of the PROGRAM. Section 382.0365 of the TCAA requires the establishment of the Ombudsman and requires the TNRCC to implement this element in accordance with the CAA and the EPA requirements. 3. Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP) The third PROGRAM element is the creation of a CAP to determine and report on the overall effectiveness of the SBAP. Section 507(e) requires the State to establish a CAP that must include two members selected by the Governor who are not owners or representatives of owners of small businesses; four members selected by the State legislature who are owners, or represent owners, of small businesses; and one member selected by the head of the agency in charge of the Air Pollution Permit Program. The State has met this requirement by committing to appoint members to the Panel by November 1994. Section 382.0365 of the TCAA creates the State Compliance Advisory Panel with responsibilities consistent with the requirements in title V of the Federal CAA and specifies the panel's make-up, qualifications, and duties. Adequate support sources and sufficient resources to conduct business will be provided to the Panel by the Ombudsman. The TNRCC, Office of Air Quality (formerly the TACB), will assist in the formation of the seven-member CAP. Although section 507 of the CAA requires selection by the majority and minority leadership of the House and Senate, the EPA believes that, given the makeup of the State's legislature, as required by the State's constitution, Texas' selection complies with section 507 of the CAA. Texas has a bicameral legislature. There are constitutional provisions providing for leadership of the Senate and House in the Office of the Lieutenant Governor (President of the Senate) and in the Office of the Speaker of the House. However, there are no positions in the Texas legislature which equate to majority and minority leaders, as in the national Congress. In accordance with section 507(e) of the Federal CAA, ยง382.0365(c) of the Texas Health and Safety Code provides for the composition of the CAP. Pursuant to ยง382.0365(c), both the Lieutenant Governor and the Speaker of the House, who are the equivalent Texas entities for purposes of legislative selection of CAP members, shall each select two members. It is the EPA's position that this appointment mechanism complies with the legislative intent of section 507(e). Appendix D of the SIP revision submittal discusses the State's constitutional/statutory legislative process for all appointment procedures. Minority leadership is represented in the appointments made by the Lieutenant Governor and the Speaker of the House, since the Lieutenant Governor is elected State-wide, and the Speaker is elected by the entire House. The EPA believes that the process for designation of CAP members by the two legislative leaders meets the intent of section 507(e). In addition to establishing the minimum membership of the CAP, the CAA delineates four responsibilities of the Panel: (1) To render advisory opinions concerning the effectiveness of the SBAP, difficulties encountered, and the degree and severity of enforcement actions; (2) To periodically report to the EPA concerning the SBAP's adherence to the principles of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the Equal Access to Justice Act, and the Regulatory Flexibility Act 2 ; 2 Section 507(e)(1)(B) of the CAA requires the CAP to report on the compliance of the SBAP with these three Federal statutes. However, since State agencies are not required to comply with them, EPA believes that the State PROGRAM must merely require the CAP to report on whether the SBAP is adhering to the general principles of these Federal statutes. (3) To review and assure that information for small business stationary sources is easily understandable; and (4) To develop and disseminate the reports and advisory opinions made through the SBAP. The State has met these requirements (A) by enacting the State law creating the CAP and providing it with the enumerated responsibilities, and (B) by committing to appoint members to the Panel by November 1994. 4. Eligibility Section 507(c)(1) of the CAA defines the term ``small business stationary source'' as a stationary source that: (A) Is owned or operated by a person who employs 100 or fewer individuals, (B) Is a small business concern as defined in the Small Business Act; (C) Is not a major stationary source; (D) Does not emit 50 tons per year (tpy) or more of any regulated pollutant; and (E) Emits less than 75 tpy of all regulated pollutants. The State of Texas has established a mechanism for ascertaining the eligibility of a source to receive assistance under the PROGRAM, including an evaluation of a source's eligibility using the criteria in section 507(c)(1) of the CAA. This mechanism is described in the State's narrative SIP revision, subsection I.A.4. entitled ``Source Eligibility''. The State of Texas has provided for public notice and comment on grants of eligibility to sources that do not meet the provisions of sections 507(c)(1) (C), (D), and (E) of the CAA but do not emit more than 100 tpy of all regulated pollutants.
