FR940919-0-00060 FR940919-0-00016 Table 3._Comparison of Universal Treatment Standards to Previously Promulgated Treatment Standards 1Parameter 1Wastewater forms 1Nonwastewater forms Total Number of Constituent/Waste Code Combinations 938 924 Number of Combinations Unchanged by the Universal Treatment Standards 677 416 Number of Combinations for which the Universal Treatment Standards are Slightly Less Stringent1 138 209 Number of Combinations for which the Universal Treatment Standards are Slightly More Stringent1 76 199 Number of Combinations for which the Universal Treatment Standards are Significantly Less Stringent2 17 80 Number of Combinations for which the Universal Treatment Standards are Significantly More Stringent2 30 20 1The change is less than a factor of ten greater or less than the previously promulgated standard. 2The change is a factor of ten or more greater or less than the previously promulgated standard. This numerical comparison somewhat exaggerates the degree of change. The changes in numerical values for many of the organic constituents reflect adjustments in the limits of analytic detection. Actual treatment will consequently likely continue to destroy or remove organics to nondetectable levels. It also is important to note that even in those cases where numerical limits have changed, the technology basis has not. Treatment technology used to comply with the previous standards should also be able to comply with UTS. Again, because most treatment technologies cannot be so precisely calibrated as to achieve, for instance, 3.5 ppm rather than 2.7 ppm, the likely result is that the same amount of treatment will occur. The main impact of UTS will be in simplifying compliance. EPA also notes that very few of the commenters who complained about treatment standards being unachievable provided data to support their claims. Because most of the wastes subject to UTS are already subject to LDR treatment requirements, there should be data documenting treatment performance of these wastes that commenters could have submitted. EPA believes, therefore, that the absence of substantiating data cannot be attributable to commenters' inability to generate treatment data. (The situation differs from the state of affairs at the beginning of the land disposal restrictions program when there was little existing treatment data to draw upon, because many hazardous wastes were being disposed untreated, and there was little time to generate such data.) For discussion of comparison between the UTS and previous standards for nonwastewater metal constituents, see section III.B.5.a. of this preamble. 3. Universal Treatment Standards for Organic Hazardous Constituents EPA is today promulgating UTS for nonwastewater and wastewater forms of organic hazardous constituents, as found in the two tables in this section. a. Analyte Combinations Motivated by concern for analytical feasibility, EPA proposed that several groups or pairs of analytically similar organic compounds be regulated as the sum of their concentrations rather than as individual analytes. Commenters supported these proposals as a simplification of analytical procedures, particularly the proposed total PCB standards for arochlors. Thus, today's rule regulates each of these groups or pairs collectively by setting wastewater and nonwastewater numbers representing their sums rather than individual concentrations. Specific analytes to be regulated with one wastewater and nonwastewater number are: PCBs (arochlors), xylenes, benzo(b)fluoranthene/ benzo(k)fluoranthene and diphenylamine/diphenylnitrosamine. PCBs: Today's approach for PCBs is consistent with the regulations of other EPA offices, such as those promulgated pursuant to the Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA). This approach will also eliminate analytical difficulties in quantifying each of the individual arochlors. The ``Total PCB'' standards include seven arochlors that represent hundreds of isomers of polychlorinated biphenyls. Earlier LDR regulations addressed individual arochlors and required recognition of a gas chromatograph pattern which is often difficult to differentiate. Furthermore, regulation of individual arochlors may be difficult for wastes subject to degradation or treatment. EPA recommends SW&hyph;846 methods 8080 or 8081 (which use a gas chromatograph/electron capture detector) for measurement of total PCBs. Xylenes: Similarly, today's rule regulates the sum of several xylene isomer analytes in both wastewaters and nonwastewaters. The three xylenes included on the BDAT list of hazardous constituents are ortho-, meta-, and para-xylene. Meta- and para-isomers co-elute in gas chromatograph analysis. Two methods exist in SW&hyph;846 for the measurement of total xylenes: 8020 and 8240. Method 8020 detects xylenes using a photoionization detector and 8240 uses a mass spectrometer. Total xylenes concentration is determined from the addition of the ortho-xylene concentration and the meta-/para-xylene concentration. Benzo(b)fluoranthene/Benzo(k)fluoranthene and Diphenylamine/ Diphenylnitrosamine: EPA is also regulating two pairs of analytically problematic constituents, benzo(b)fluoranthene/ benzo(k)fluoranthene and diphenylamine/diphenylnitrosamine with a single wastewater and nonwastewater number for each pair.
