FR940516-0-00091 FR940516-0-00030 50 CFR Part 675 [Docket No. 931059&hyph;4126; I.D. 092293E] Groundfish of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NMFS is implementing a regulatory amendment to require increased observer coverage and improved equipment for estimating groundfish total catches by vessels and processors participating in the Western Alaska Community Development Quota (CDQ) pollock fisheries. This action is intended to improve estimates of total groundfish catches in the CDQ fisheries. EFFECTIVE DATES: June 15, 1994, except for ยง675.27(h)(2), which is effective August 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the environmental assessment/regulatory impact review/final regulatory flexibility analysis (EA/RIR/FRFA) prepared for this action may be obtained from the Fisheries Management Division, Alaska Region, NMFS, Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sally Bibb, Fisheries Management Division, (907) 586&hyph;7228. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Fishing for groundfish by operators of U.S. vessels in the exclusive economic zone of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands (BSAI) management area is managed by the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) according to the Fishery Management Plan for the Groundfish Fishery of the BSAI Area (FMP). The FMP was prepared by the North Pacific Fishery Management Council (Council) under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act) and is implemented by regulations governing the U.S. groundfish fisheries at 50 CFR part 675. General regulations that also pertain to U.S. fisheries appear at 50 CFR part 620. This regulatory amendment will require increased observer coverage and improved equipment for estimating total catch for vessels and processors participating in the Western Alaska CDQ pollock fisheries. Two NMFS-certified observers will be required on processor vessels, one or more observers in shoreside processing operations, and one observer on catcher vessels delivering to processors. In addition, processor vessels will be required to have either measured, marked, and certified fish-receiving bins to improve volumetric estimates of total catch, or scales to weigh total catch. A description of, and reasons for, these actions were discussed in the proposed rule published in the Federal Register on December 27, 1993 (58 FR 68386). Public comment on the proposed rule was invited through January 26, 1994. Four letters of comment were received within the comment period. Management of the CDQs requires an estimate of the total catch weight of pollock for each vessel participating in the CDQ fisheries. The purpose of this rule is to standardize the equipment available to observers to make volumetric estimates of the weight of all groundfish caught, including pollock, or to require that the fish be weighed. The volume of fish in the bin is determined by the area of the base of the bin and the height of fish throughout the bin. Fish poured into bins do not always form a flat, smooth surface, or settle at the same height throughout the bin. The surface of the fish often slopes from front to back or from one side to another in the bin. Fish may stack up higher in one corner than in others or pile up in the middle of the bin. The process of making volumetric estimates of the catch using certified bins generally occurs in five steps. First , a certified engineer, or other authorized person, measures the inside of all bins that will be used to make volumetric estimates of catch weight, witnesses the placement of marked increments every 10 cm on the internal sides of the bin, and prepares a height-to-volume conversion table that indicates the volume of the bin, in cubic meters, below the level of each 10-cm increment. Second , the observer estimates the average height of fish in a bin by visual inspection. In order to determine the average height of fish in a bin, an observer must be able to see the level of fish throughout the bin. Third , the observer uses a height-to-volume conversion table to determine the volume associated with the average height of fish in the bin. Fourth , the observer applies a density factor indicating weight per unit volume (metric tons (mt) per cubic meter (m) or mt/m3) to estimate the total weight of all fish in the bin. Fifth , the observer samples a portion of the fish in the bin to determine species composition (the proportion of each species or species group) and applies this distribution to the estimate of total groundfish weight to estimate the total weight of pollock. This last step provides the observer's estimate of pollock catch that is attributed to the vessel and applied against the CDQ. The volumetric methods are used to estimate the total catch weight of all groundfish, and species composition samples are used to estimate how much of that groundfish is pollock.
