FR941216-1-00073 FR941216-1-00012 Subpart A_Introduction §184.1 Acronyms. ACO␣Administrative Contracting Officer A&E␣Ammunition and Explosives CBU␣Cluster Bomb Unit COCO␣Contractor-Owned, Contractor-Operated DNT␣Dinitrotoluene DoD␣Department of Defense DOT␣Department of Transportation DTA␣Differential Thermal Analysis EIDS␣Extremely Insensitive Detonating Substances ES␣Exposed Site FAA␣Federal Aviation Administration FAE␣Fuel Air Explosive HC␣Hexachloroethane HCSDS␣Hazardous Component Safety Data Statement H/D␣Hazard Division HE␣High Explosive IBD␣Inhabited Building Distance ILD␣Intraline Distance IMD␣Intermagazine Distance IMO␣International Maritime Organization IR␣Infrared LP␣Liquified Petroleum MCE␣Maximum Credible Event MILVANS␣Military Vans/Tractor Vans (i.e., 8 ’x8 ’x20 ’ container) MK␣Mark MOD␣Model NATO␣North Atlantic Treaty Organization NAVFAC␣Naval Facilities Engineering Command NEC␣National Electrical Code NEW␣Net Explosive Weight NFPA␣National Fire Protection Association OCE␣Office of Chief of Engineers PCO␣Procuring Contracting Officer PES␣Potential Explosive Site PETN␣Pentaerythritol Tetranitrate POPO␣Privately Owned-Privately Operated PSI␣Pounds Per Square Inch PSIG␣Pounds Per Square Inch Gauge PTR␣Public Traffic Route PWP␣Plasticized White Phosphorous Q/D␣Quantity/Distance RDX␣Cyclonite RF␣Radio Frequency SCG␣Storage Compatibility Group SOP␣Standing Operating Procedure TEA␣Triethylaluminum TNT␣Trinitrotoluene TP␣Target Practice TPA␣Thickened TEA UL␣Underwriters' Laboratories UNO␣United Nations Organization UV␣Ultraviolet WP␣White Phosphorus §184.2 Purpose. This part provides reasonable, standardized safety principles, methods, practices, requirements, and information for contractual work or services involving ammunition and explosives (A&E). Understanding and compliance with the applicable requirements of this part and any additional safety requirements of the contract, if any, shall minimize the potential for mishaps that could interrupt DoD operations or delay production, damage or destroy DoD material, cause injury to DoD personnel, or endanger the general public. Adherence to the part's requirements and principles shall support DoD mission, provide a safe environment, and foster cooperation between contractor and DoD personnel. §184.3 Applicability. The requirements of this part apply to contractors performing work or services on DoD contracts, subcontracts, purchase orders, or other purchasing methods for ammunition or explosives. These are minimum requirements and shall be accepted as final authority over applicable A&E contractor operations, whether inside or outside their establishment. §184.4 Mandatory and advisory requirement. The term ``shall'' is used in this part to indicate mandatory requirements. Waivers to these requirements may be authorized by the procuring contracting officer (PCO) as explained in §184.6 (a) and (b). The terms ``should'' and ``may'' are advisory. When advisory provisions are not met, adverse consequences could develop, becoming proximate causes of A&E mishaps. §184.5 Responsibilities. The contractor or subcontractor shall: (a) Comply with the requirements of this part and any other safety requirements contained within the contract; (b) Develop and implement a demonstrable safety program, including operational procedures, that ensures prevention of A&E-related mishaps; (c) Designate qualified individuals to administer and implement this safety program; (d) Provide information to the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) pertaining to subcontractors retained for A&E work; (e) Provide advice and assistance to subcontractors during their work performance; and
