FR940728-1-00019 FR940728-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Bureau of Economic Analysis 15 CFR Part 801 [Docket No. 940795&hyph;4195] RIN 0691&hyph;AA24 International Services Surveys: BE&hyph;80 Benchmark Survey of Financial Services Transactions Between U.S. Financial Services Providers and Unaffiliated Foreign Persons AGENCY: Bureau of Economic Analysis, Commerce. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice sets forth proposed rules relating to international service surveys to institute a new survey, the BE&hyph;80, Benchmark Survey of Financial Services Transactions Between U.S. Financial Services Providers and Unaffiliated Foreign Persons, to be conducted by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), U.S. Department of Commerce. The survey will, for the first time, collect comprehensive information on trade in financial services between U.S. financial services providers and unaffiliated foreign persons. It is intended to cover the universe of such transactions by type and by country. The information is needed to support trade policy initiatives, including trade negotiations, on financial services and to compile the U.S. balance of payments and national income and product accounts. The survey will be conducted once every 5 years under the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act and the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988. The first survey will cover 1994. DATES: Comments on these proposed rules will receive consideration if submitted in writing on or before September 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to the Office of the Chief, International Investment Division (BE&hyph;50), Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230, or hand delivered to Room M&hyph;100, 1441 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20005. Comments will be available for public inspection in Room 7006, 1441 L Street NW., between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Betty L. Barker, Chief, International Investment Division (BE&hyph;50), Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; phone (202) 606&hyph;9805. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: These proposed rules amend existing 15 CFR 801.9 and add new 15 CFR 801.11 to set forth reporting requirements for the BE&hyph;80, Benchmark Survey of Financial Services Transactions Between U.S. Financial Services Providers and Unaffiliated Foreign Persons. The survey will be conducted by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), U.S. Department of Commerce, under the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act (P.L. 94&hyph;472, 90 Stat. 2059, 22 U.S.C. 3101&hyph;3108, as amended) and the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (P.L. 100&hyph;418, 15 U.S.C. 4908(b)). Section 4(a) of the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act provides that ``The President shall, to the extent he deems necessary and feasible_.␣.␣.␣(4) conduct␣.␣.␣.␣benchmark surveys with respect to trade in services between unaffiliated United States persons and foreign persons␣.␣.␣.'' In Section 3 of Executive Order 11961, as amended by Executive Order 12518, the President delegated the authority under the Act as concerns international trade in services to the Secretary of Commerce, who has redelegated it to BEA. The Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 directs that ``The Secretary (of Commerce) shall ensure that␣.␣.␣.␣there is included in the Data Bank information on service sector activity that is as complete and timely as information on economic activity in the merchandise sector. The Secretary shall undertake a new benchmark survey of services transactions, including transactions with respect to␣.␣.␣.␣banking services; (and) brokerage services.'' The major purposes of the survey are to provide the information on financial services needed in monitoring U.S. services trade, analyzing its effects on the U.S. economy, formulating U.S. international trade policy, supporting bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations, compiling the U.S. balance of payments and national income and product accounts, developing U.S. international price indexes for services, assessing U.S. competitiveness in international trade in services, and improving the ability of U.S. businesses to identify and evaluate market opportunities. As proposed, the BE&hyph;80 survey will be conducted once every 5 years, and the first survey will be for 1994. The survey is intended to cover the universe of financial services transactions between U.S. financial services providers and unaffiliated foreign persons. Reporting is required from U.S. financial services providers who have sales to or purchases from unaffiliated foreign persons in all covered financial services combined in excess of $1 million during the reporting year. Those financial services providers meeting this criteria must supply data on the amount of their sales or purchases of each covered type of service, disaggregated by country. U.S. financial services providers that have covered transactions of less than $1 million during the reporting year are asked to provide, on a voluntary basis, estimates only of their total sales or purchases of each type of financial service. It is anticipated that the information from the benchmark survey will be updated in nonbenchmark years by an annual follow-on survey that is more limited in scope and that will cover only a sample of companies reporting in the BE&hyph;80 survey. Executive Order 12612 These proposed rules do not contain policies with Federalism implications sufficient to warrant preparation of a Federalism assessment under E.O. 12612. Executive Order 12866 This proposed rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. Paperwork Reduction Act These proposed rules contain a collection of information requirement subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. A request for review of the forms has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget under section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 4 to 150 hours, with an overall average burden of 7.5 hours. This includes time for reviewing the instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Comments from the public regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information should be addressed to: Director, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BE&hyph;1), U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, Attention: Desk Officer for the Department of Commerce. Regulatory Flexibility Act The General Counsel, Department of Commerce, has certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, under the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), that this proposed rulemaking, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The exemption level for the survey excludes most small businesses from mandatory reporting. Reporting is required only if total sales or total purchases transactions in financial services with unaffiliated foreign persons by U.S. persons who are financial services providers, or by U.S. persons whose consolidated enterprise includes a separately organized subsidiary or part that is a financial services provider, exceed $1 million during the year. In addition, international business tends to be conducted mainly by the larger companies in a given industry; in the financial services industry, this is particularly true, because of the high degrees of consolidation occurring in that industry in the United States during the past several years. In any event, small businesses tend to have specialized operations and activities, so those with reportable transactions will likely not have significant amounts of data to report; therefore, the burden on them will be relatively small. List of Subjects in 15 CFR Part 801 Economic statistics, Balance of payments, Foreign trade, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: June 30, 1994. Carol S. Carson, Director, Bureau of Economic Analysis. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, BEA proposes to amend 15 CFR part 801, as follows: PART 801_[AMENDED]
