FR940127-1-00072 FR940127-1-00018 FDA believes that if the identities of reporters or patients were made public or available to third parties, health care professionals would be much more reluctant to submit voluntary adverse event reports for fear of involving themselves and their patients in litigation. It is well recognized that many physicians are concerned about the potential for involvement in litigation by their patients or third parties. In a 1992 survey of physicians regarding adverse event reporting, over 37 percent of the respondents agreed with the statement that reporting increases the risk of becoming involved in litigation; 18 percent of the respondents listed fear of becoming involved in the administrative or legal process as an important reason for not reporting adverse reactions (Ref. 7). Several other surveys have been conducted which asked physicians what factors influenced their decision not to report an adverse event (Refs. 8, 9, and 10). Between 8 and 14 percent of the respondents in the studies stated that concern over legal liability was one reason why they did not report an adverse event. Moreover, if the reporter is a health care professional, particularly a physician, the reporter may fear that disclosure of his or her identity would increase the chances that a patient's identity would be discovered, thus risking a breach of the confidential physician-patient relationship. In recent years FDA has learned of a number of product liability lawsuits in State courts in which manufacturers have been requested or ordered to provide the names of persons reporting adverse reactions to particular products. In some instances, the names of the affected patients have been requested. The manufacturers involved in these cases vigorously opposed discovery requests that sought the disclosure of patient and reporter identities. Occasionally, when the disclosure issue was being litigated, the manufacturers requested that FDA formally express its views on the disclosure of these identities and the effects such disclosure might have on the agency's postmarketing surveillance program. FDA firmly believes that the success of its postmarketing surveillance efforts is dependent upon protecting the confidentiality of individuals involved in adverse experience reports. Thus, FDA took the unusual step of becoming involved in a number of these cases by filing, with the assistance of the Department of Justice, a statement of the Federal government's interest. The statement informed the courts of the potential damage the agency believes would be done to its postmarketing surveillance program and the public health if the identities of patients and reporters were released to plaintiffs in these cases. The agency believes that its efforts have contributed to continued protection of reporter and patient identities in all the cases in which FDA has participated. III. The Need for Federal Regulation FDA has determined that in order to help assure beneficial and consistent reporting of adverse events to the agency's MEDWATCH program, State and local rules that would permit or require disclosure of the identities of reporters and patients named in the reports must be clearly preempted by FDA's amended regulation. Laws that permit disclosure of the identities of health professional reporters or patients identified in the reports directly interfere with FDA's ability to collect information required under sections 505(k) and 519 of the act (21 U.S.C. 355(k) and 360i). Section 505(k) requires manufacturers to submit information about approved drug products in order to enable FDA to monitor the safety of the product and ``facilitate a determination'' of whether the drug should be withdrawn from the market. This provision is implemented in ยง314.80 (21 CFR 314.80) of the FDA regulations, which establishes mandatory reporting requirements of adverse reactions for manufacturers of drugs.
