FR941230-2-00129 FR941230-2-00072 Community-Based Alternatives OJJDP's second goal is to identify and promote community-based alternatives for each stage of a child's contact with the juvenile justice system, emphasizing options that are the least restrictive and promote or preserve positive ties with the child's family, school, and community. Communities cannot afford to place responsibility for juvenile crime entirely on the juvenile justice system. A sound policy for combating juvenile crime makes maximum use of a community's less formal, often less expensive, and less alienating responses to youthful misbehavior while, at the same time, maintaining the safety of the public. Improvement of the Juvenile Justice System The third goal of OJJDP is to promote improvements in the juvenile justice system and facilitate the most effective allocation of system resources. The limited resources of the juvenile justice system must be reserved for the most difficult and intractable problems of juvenile crime. A sound policy concentrates the more formal, expensive, and restrictive options of the juvenile justice system in two areas: •Youth behavior that is most abhorrent and least amenable to preventive measures and community responses. •Problems of youth and their families that exceed community resources and require more stringent legal resolution. It also promotes accountability on the part of individual juvenile offenders to their victims. Fiscal Year 1995 Programs The following are brief summaries of each of the proposed new and continuation programs for fiscal year 1995. The specific program priorities proposed within each category are subject to change with regard to their priority status, estimated amount, sites for implementation, and other descriptive data and information based on the review and comment process, grantee performance, application quality, fund availability, and other factors. OJJDP has limited appropriations available for new programs in fiscal year 1995. Accordingly, new programs are proposed with funding levels that are subject to change. A number of programs contained in this document have been identified for funding by Congress with regard to the grantee(s), the amount of funds, or both. Such programs are indicated by an asterisk (*). The 1995 Appropriations Act Conference Report for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Programs identified 13 programs for OJJDP to examine and fund if warranted. Three of the programs are included in this Plan for continuation funding. The remaining 10 will receive careful consideration for funding in fiscal year 1995. The new Safe Futures: Partnerships to Reduce Youth Violence and Delinquency Program is presented first, as it is an overarching effort that addresses all three of the OJJDP goal areas. This umbrella program focuses on a variety of services and funding resources.
