FR940426-1-00079 FR940426-1-00008 Regardless of whether rulemaking procedures are required, EPA recognizes the importance of public participation in its decision-making process. The procedures required by section 307(d) of the Clean Air Act are an excellent vehicle for ensuring an open, public process. Among other things, they require the establishment and maintenance of a rulemaking docket that contains the information, data and documents upon which EPA bases its proposed and final rules; they provide an opportunity for the public to present written and oral comments to the Agency, including an opportunity to rebut views presented at a public hearing; and they require the Agency to respond to the significant public comments, criticisms and new data submitted during the comment period. EPA has decided that the better course in this instance is to follow section 307(d) rulemaking procedures and ensure that there is an open public process that allows interested parties to put on the record their views, comments, arguments and data relevant to the decision before the Agency. 3 The Administrator has determined that, pursuant to section 307(d)(1)(V), if the Agency approves or partially approves the OTC recommendation, section 307(d) will apply. 4 3 EPA is not finding that it is legally obligated to use rulemaking procedures to approve the OTC recommendation. EPA reserves the right to approve future OTC recommendations without following rulemaking procedures. 4 The decision to follow rulemaking procedures is intended to preserve EPA's option of approving or partially approving the OTC recommendation. The Agency is not legally obligating itself to follow rulemaking procedures to the extent it disapproves or partially disapproves the OTC recommendation, although the Agency currently intends to follow the procedures set forth in 307(d) regardless of whether it approves or disapproves the OTC recommendation. EPA has established Air Docket No. A&hyph;94&hyph;11 and placed in it the data, information and documents upon which the Agency relied in drafting this proposal, as required by section 307(d) (2), (3) and (4). Section 307(d)(3)'s requirement that EPA publish a notice of proposed rulemaking is met by this notice. In view of the limited nine month timetable for EPA decision, to satisfy rulemaking requirements, EPA is also relying on the OTC's recommendation itself (developed through the OTC's statutory notice-and-comment process), the OTC's technical analysis and response to comments, as well as EPA's discussion of relevant issues, data, and other Agency information. 5 This proposal leaves open EPA's option to approve, disapprove, or partially approve and partially disapprove the OTC recommendation in its final decision. 5 Courts have recognized the possibility of publishing State submissions to EPA to satisfy rulemaking requirements for a proposal. Under the 1977 Amendments, EPA argued that time constraints constituted ``good cause'' to avoid notice-and-comment rulemaking in designating areas according to their attainment status. In New Jersey v. EPA, the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit emphasized that EPA could have published as proposed rules the State designations shortly after it received them in order to complete rulemaking under the short statutory timetable. New Jersey v. EPA, 626 F.2d 1038, 1043 (D.C. Cir. 1980). Accord United States Steel Corp. v. EPA, 595 F.2d 207 (5th Cir. 1979). EPA seeks public views, arguments, data and comments on all aspects of its analysis in this notice and on the Agency's information placed in the docket. EPA also seeks comment on the OTC's recommendation (contained in an Appendix to this proposal), on the OTC's views that are described in this notice, and on the OTC's technical support document and response to comments document that may be found in the docket. Finally, EPA will supplement the record with additional rationales, discussions, data, and other pertinent information for public participation and comment as that becomes available. As indicated in detail below, EPA is considering a number of complicated issues in determining whether to approve or disapprove the OTC recommendation, and invites comments on all of these issues. EPA intends to make every effort to afford the public an opportunity to participate in the Agency's process to respond to the recommendation. In addition to the opportunity to file written comments and present oral views at the May 2&hyph;3 public hearing, EPA intends to hold a series of public meetings in the Northeast to provide further opportunity for oral presentation of views. EPA also expects to supplement the record as necessary to allow the public to comment on new information and considerations that EPA believes it should take into account in making a decision.
