FR941221-2-00060 FR941221-2-00050 Notice of Availability of Draft Petition Management Guidance for Petitions Received Under the Endangered Species Act for Review and Comment AGENCIES: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior, and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries Service (Services) announce the availability of their draft Petition Management Guidance for public review. This draft document provides internal guidance for the management of petitions submitted to the Services under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). Its purpose is to provide policy and guidance for managing petitions to promote efficiency and nationwide consistency within the Services. The Services seeks public comment on this draft guidance document. DATES: Comments on the draft Petition Management Guidance must be received on or before February 21, 1995 to be considered during preparation of a final guidance document. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft Petition Management Guidance may obtain a copy by contacting the Division of Endangered Species, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, Room 452, Arlington, Virginia 22203 (telephone 703/358&hyph;2105). Written comments and materials regarding the draft guidance should be directed to the same address. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jamie Rappaport Clark, Chief, Division of Endangered Species, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, at the above address (703&hyph;358&hyph;2171) or Russell Bellmer, Chief, Endangered Species Division, National Marine Fisheries Service, 1335 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910 (301&hyph;713&hyph;2322). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3) of the Act allows any interested individual to petition the Services to list, delist, or reclassify species, or to revise a listed species' critical habitat. The draft Petition Management Guidance provides specific guidance on petition identification, data/information submission standards, lead Region responsibilities, timeframes for submitting 90-day and 12-month findings, petition tracking, preparation of administrative findings and notices, and petitioner notification. The draft guidance differentiates among petitions requesting (1) actions petitionable under the provisions of section 4(b)(3) of the Endangered Species Act, (2) actions encompassed by other provisions of the Endangered Species Act, and (3) actions petitionable only under the Administrative Procedure Act. The draft Petition Management Guidance identifies four petition categories under section 4(b)(3) of the Act as follows: (1) Petitions to list species that have not been identified by the Service as candidates for listing, (2) Petitions to list species that have been identified by the Service as candidates for listing, (3) Petitions to reclassify or delist species, and (4) Petitions to revise critical habitat.
