FR940603-0-00122 FR940603-0-00029 One commenter supported using the existing limited income designation criteria as defined by NCUA to allow existing religious-based credit unions to grant access to credit union service in their immediate financially underserved communities. One commenter recommended allowing minority chambers of commerce or other associations of minority and economically disadvantaged business people, along with their respective employees, to qualify for charters. B. NCUA Board Decision The Board agrees that low-income persons need expanded credit union service. To ensure that all possible means of accomplishing this end can be used, the final IRPS: •Permits chartering associational low-income federal credit unions, where the association is organized solely for the purpose of providing credit union service to low-income persons. •Permits a low-income federal credit union, whether associational or community based, to include in its charter, occupational, associational, and community common bond groups without regard to location. The credit union will have to monitor such additions to its base common bond, however, to ensure that the credit union remains qualified for a low-income credit union designation. •Permits a federal credit union of any type_occupational, associational, community, or multiple group_to include low-income groups in its field of membership, without regard to the groups' location, either by forming an association which is organized solely for the purpose of providing such service or by including a community group which could be the basis for chartering a low-income credit union. The Board shares some commenters' concerns that this policy change may be used to ``cherry pick'' by meeting the credit needs of a relatively well-off portion of a low-income community while leaving those most in need of service with nothing. The Board will institute special reporting requirements and special examination procedures for any credit union including a low-income group in its field of membership to ensure that adequate credit union services are provided to all persons in the community. The Board sees no limitation in the Federal Credit Union Act preventing this policy change. While true that NCUA has generally refrained from combining community-based common bonds with occupational and associational common bonds, the reason for that limitation has been a concern for the safe and sound development of credit unions. The language of Section 109 of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1759, which states ``Federal credit union membership shall be limited to groups having a common bond of occupation or association, or to groups within a well-defined neighborhood, community, or rural district,'' does not require segregation of community groups from other kinds of common bonds. The difference in wording for community based common bond seems to have arisen from the fact that the bond was more difficult to describe adequately. The ``or'' between the ``common bond'' provisions and the community description is no different from the ``or'' between ``occupation'' and ``association'', which the Board has long concluded permits combining occupational and associational common bonds in a single federal credit union, and which is consistent with the word's common usage. Moreover, in IRPS 89&hyph;1, the Board described all three groupings_occupational, associational, and community_as ``common bonds'' without distinction, and in the case of distress mergers permitted intermingling of all three common bond types. Finally, there is nothing in the evident purposes of the Act which suggests that community groups are necessarily to be treated differently from other common bonds. Functionally, all three common bonds perform an identical role_to help maintain in credit union members the sense of belonging and ownership that is so crucial to credit union success. Other commenter suggestions_such as providing assurances that existing low-income credit unions are not overlapped and extending the agency's conservatorship power to help start low-income credit unions_can be implemented under existing policy where appropriate. II. Other Issues Relating to Low-Income Federal Credit Unions A. Comments Four commenters approved of updating low-income credit union polices based on the revised regulatory definition. Two commenters believed that low-income credit unions should have access to the CDCU Revolving Loan Program immediately upon beginning operation. One commenter suggested that community groups be able to seek a preliminary determination of a low-income designation before final submission of a charter package. One commenter urged that associational groups proposing to start low-income credit unions not be required to demonstrate voting, dues-paying membership structures because, among other things, it would hurt church based associational groups. B. NCUA Board Decision The Board agrees with these suggestions. The final IRPS: •Updates the provisions on low-income credit unions to reflect recent changes in the Rules and Regulations •Eliminates the voting and dues-paying requirements for recognition of an associational common bond •Provides for preliminary review of the low-income designation. Part 705 of the NCUA Rules and Regulations (12 CFR 705.0 et seq. ) currently provides qualifying newly chartered credit unions with immediate access to the CDCU Revolving Loan Fund. III. Streamlining the Process for New Charter Applications A. Comments Six commenters approved the streamlining process for new charter applications. Four commenters believed that the amount of time that passes between the day a potential credit union submits a charter application to NCUA for approval and the day the application is actually approved or denied was acceptable. Two commenters believed the time frame for chartering was unacceptably lengthly. One commenter suggested that an acknowledgment of receipt of the chartering application ``be sent to the organizers in a timely fashion'' preferably within 10 days.
