FR940524-2-00105 FR940524-2-00057 Japan; Transportation Science and Technology Implementation Arrangement AGENCY: Office of the Secretary: Office of International Transportation and Trade, DOT. ACTION: U.S. Department of Transportation and Japan's Ministry of Transport Transportation Science and Technology Implementing Arrangement. SUMMARY: The Department of Transportation Secretary Federico Peña and his counterpart, Japan's Minister of Transport Shigeru Ito, signed a Transportation Science and Technology Implementing Arrangement to promote cooperation in transportation technology on February 10, 1994. The Implementing Arrangement is designed to promote mutually beneficial cooperation between the U.S. and Japan on activities in all modes of transportation including: Intermodalism, safety, energy, environment, transportation for the handicapped and the elderly, information-related technology, and other areas as mutually agreed. Both the U.S. Government and the Government of Japan are anxious to have their respective private sector transportation and related technology companies contribute to and benefit from this cooperative exchange. As the Department begins the next step in implementing the Arrangement, this notice sets forth an inquiry to U.S. public and private transportation-related companies, research establishments, and academics who are interested in identifying research areas in which they may wish to cooperate with the Japanese. We are also interested in identifying companies, and their area(s) of interest, who are willing to collaborate with the Department of Transportation on future cooperative research activities. The information obtained will be useful in establishing a mechanism for maximizing overall U.S. benefit from this agreement. A copy of the Implementing Arrangement is attached. FOR GENERAL INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Phyllis Davis, Office of International Transportation and Trade, telephone (202) 366&hyph;9514, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street SW., room 10302, Washington, DC 20590. SEND PROPOSALS TO: Ms. Phyllis Davis, Office of International Transportation and Trade, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street SW., room 10302, Washington, DC 20590. DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS: Please provide the Department a written summary of any potential transportation science and technology cooperation initiatives you can identify by COB May 31, 1994. Dated: May 18, 1994. Nancy K. MacRae, Deputy Director, Office of International Transportation and Trade. Attachment Implementing Arrangement Between the Department of Transportation of the United States of America and the Ministry of Transport of Japan on Cooperation in Transportation Science and Technology The Department of Transportation of the United States of America and the Ministry of Transport of Japan (hereinafter referred to as ``the Parties''); In accordance with and subject to the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Japan on Cooperation in Research and Development in Science and Technology on June 20, 1988, (hereinafter referred to as ``the Agreement''); Recognizing that new developments in the field of transportation technology can make important contributions toward promoting, encouraging, and advancing safe, economical, efficient, and environmentally sound transportation systems; and Desiring to promote scientific and technological cooperation and collaboration in the field of transportation; Have agreed as follows pursuant to Paragraph 3 of Article 2 of the Agreement. Article I The Parties agree to undertake cooperation and collaboration in transportation science and technology on the basis of equality, reciprocity and mutual benefit. Article II The Parties agree that the cooperation and collaboration may include the following fields: ␣1. Land transportation, ␣2. Water transportation, ␣3. Air transportation, ␣4. Intermodal transportation, ␣5. Safety promotion technology, ␣6. Shipbuilding, ␣7. Maritime safety, ␣8. Energy and environment, ␣9. Transportation for the handicapped and elderly, ␣10. Information-related technology in transportation sector; and ␣11. Other fields as mutually agreed.
