FR940811-0-00047 FR940811-0-00016 (A) Selection of site monitoring tiers. (1) Physical monitoring. Physical monitoring shall remain limited to Tier 1 monitoring when Tier 1 monitoring establishes that no significant amount of dredged material has been deposited or transported outside of the site boundaries. Tier 2 monitoring shall be employed when Tier 1 monitoring is insufficient to conclude that a significant amount of dredged material as defined in paragraph (b)(70)(iv)(A)( 4 ) of this section has not been deposited or transported outside of the site boundaries. (2) Chemical monitoring . ( i ) Chemical monitoring shall remain limited to Tier 1 Chemical Monitoring when the results of Physical Monitoring indicate that a significant amount of dredged material as defined in paragraph (b)(70)(iv)(A)( 4 ) of this section has not been deposited or transported off-site, and Tier 1 Chemical Monitoring establishes that dredged sediments deposited at the disposal site do not contain levels of chemical contaminants that are significantly elevated above the range of chemical contaminant levels in dredged sediments that the Regional Administrator and the District Engineer found to be suitable for disposal at the SF&hyph;DODS pursuant to 40 CFR part 227. (ii) Tier 2 monitoring shall be employed when the results of Physical Monitoring indicate that a significant amount of dredged material as defined in paragraph (b)(70)(iv)(A)( 4 ) of this section has been deposited off-site, and Tier 1 Chemical Monitoring is insufficient to establish that dredged sediments deposited at the disposal site do not contain levels of chemical contaminants that are significantly elevated above the range of chemical contaminant levels in dredged sediments that the Regional Administrator and the District Engineer found to be suitable for disposal at the SF&hyph;DODS pursuant to 40 CFR part 227. The Regional Administrator may employ Tier 2 monitoring when available evidence indicates that a significant amount of dredged material as defined in paragraph (b)(70)(iv)(A)( 4 ) of this section has been deposited near the SF&hyph;DODS site boundary. (iii) Tier 3 monitoring shall be employed within and outside the dredged material footprint when Tier 2 Chemical Monitoring is insufficient to establish that dredged sediments deposited at the disposal site do not contain levels of chemical contaminants that are significantly elevated above the range of chemical contaminant levels in dredged sediments that the Regional Administrator and the District Engineer found to be suitable for disposal at the SF&hyph;DODS pursuant to 40 CFR part 227. (3) Biological monitoring . (i) Pelagic communities. Biological monitoring for pelagic communities shall remain limited to Tier 1 monitoring when Tier 1 monitoring establishes that disposal at the SF&hyph;DODS has not endangered the monitored pelagic communities. When Tier 1 monitoring is insufficient to make reasonable conclusions whether disposal at the site has endangered the monitored pelagic communities, then Tier 2 monitoring of pelagic communities shall be employed. When Tier 2 monitoring is insufficient to make reasonable conclusions whether disposal at the site has endangered the monitored pelagic communities, then Tier 3 monitoring of pelagic communities shall be employed. (ii) Benthic communities. Biological monitoring for benthic communities shall remain limited to Tier 1 monitoring when physical monitoring establishes that a significant amount of dredged material has not been deposited outside of the site boundaries. If physical monitoring indicates that a significant amount of dredged material has been deposited or transported outside of the site boundaries, then Tier 2 analysis of benthic communities shall be performed. If Chemical Monitoring establishes that there is significant bioaccumulation of contaminants in organisms sampled from the within or outside the dredged material footprint, then Tier 3 Biological Monitoring of the disposal site shall be employed. Tier 3 Biological Monitoring may replace Tier 3 Chemical Monitoring if observed biological effects are established as surrogate indicators for bioaccumulation of chemical contaminants in sampled organisms. (4) Definition of significant dredged material accumulation. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(70)(iv)(A) of this section, dredged material accumulation on the ocean bottom to a thickness of five centimeters shall be considered to be a significant amount of dredged material. The Regional Administrator may determine that a lesser amount of accumulation is significant if available evidence indicates that a lesser amount of off-site accumulation could endanger marine resources. (B) Modification, suspension or termination of site use. (1) If the results of site monitoring or other information indicate that any of the following are occurring as a result of disposal at the SF&hyph;DODS, then the Regional Administrator shall modify, suspend, or terminate site use overall, or for individual projects as appropriate: (i) Exceedance of Federal marine water quality criteria within the SF&hyph;DODS following initial mixing as defined in 40 CFR 227.29(a) or beyond the site boundary at any time; (ii) Placement or movement of significant quantities of disposed material outside of site boundaries near or toward significant biological resource areas or marine sanctuaries; (iii) Endangerment of the marine environment related to potentially significant adverse changes in the structure of the benthic community outside the disposal site boundary; (iv) Endangerment to the health, welfare, or livelihood of persons or to the environment related to potentially significant adverse bioaccumulation in organisms collected from the disposal site or areas adjacent to the site boundary compared to the reference site; (v) Endangerment to the health, welfare, or livelihood of persons related to potentially significant adverse impacts upon commercial or recreational fisheries resources near the site; or (vi) Endangerment to the health, welfare, or livelihood of persons or to the environment related to any other potentially significant adverse environmental impacts. (2) The Regional Administrator shall modify site use, rather than suspend or terminate site use, when site use modification will be sufficient to eliminate the adverse environmental impacts referred to in paragraphs (b)(70)(iv)(B)( 1 )( i ) or ( ii ) of this section or the endangerment to human health, welfare or livelihood to the environment referred to in paragraphs (b)(70)(iv)(B)( 1 )( iii ) through ( vi ) of this section. Notwithstanding the provisions of any permit or federal project authorization authorizing site use, the Regional Administrator shall order, following opportunity for public comment, any of the following modifications to site use that he or she deems necessary to eliminate the adverse environmental effect or endangerment to human health, welfare, or livelihood or to the environment: (i) Change or additional restrictions upon the permissible times, rates and total volume of disposal of dredged material at the SF&hyph;DODS; (ii) Change or additional restrictions upon the method of disposal or transportation of dredged materials for disposal; or (iii) Change or additional limitations upon the type or quality of dredged materials according to chemical, physical, bioassay toxicity, or bioaccumulation characteristics. (3) The Regional Administrator shall suspend site use when site use suspension is both necessary and sufficient to eliminate any adverse environmental effect or endangerment to human health, welfare, or livelihood or to the environment referred to in paragraph (b)(70)(iv)(B)( 1 ) of this section. Notwithstanding the provisions of any permit or federal project authorization authorizing site use, the Regional Administrator shall order, following opportunity for public comment, site use suspension until an appropriate management action is identified or for a time period that will eliminate the adverse environmental effect or endangerment to human health, welfare, or livelihood or to the environment. (4) Notwithstanding the provisions of any permit or federal project authorization authorizing site use, the Regional Administrator shall order, following opportunity for public comment, site use permanently terminated if this is the only means for eliminating the adverse environmental impacts referred to in paragraphs (b)(70)(iv)(B)( 1 )( i ) or ( ii ) of this section or the endangerment to human health, welfare or livelihood to the environment referred to in paragraphs (b)(70)(iv)(B)( 1 )( iii ) through ( vi ). * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19289 Filed 8&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
