FR941007-1-00032 FR941007-1-00006 4. Section 1852.219&hyph;76 is revised to read as follows: 1852.219&hyph;76 NASA Subcontracting Goal. As prescribed in 1819.7006(c), insert the following clause: NASA Subcontracting Goal (XXX 1994) (a) Definitions. Designated entities, as used in this clause, means small business concerns or other organizations owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, which include women, Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and other minority educational institutions. Historically Black Colleges and Universities, as used in this clause, means institutions determined by the Secretary of Education to meet the requirements of 34 CFR 608.2 and listed therein. Minority educational institutions, as used in this clause, means institutions determined by the Secretary of Education to meet the requirements of 34 CFR 637.4. Socially and economically disadvantaged individuals has the meaning given such terms in section 8(a) (5) and (6) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a) (5) and (6)) and includes women for purposes of this clause. (b) The NASA Administrator is required to ensure, to the fullest extent possible, that at least 8% of the funding provided for prime and subcontracts awarded in support of authorized programs, including the space station by the time operational status is obtained, is made available to designated entities. (c)(1) A mandatory goal of XX percent [the Contracting Officer shall insert the goal] for the use of designated entities as subcontractors is established for this acquisition. This designated entity subcontracting goal is stated as a percentage of the total contract value, not the total planned subcontracting dollars. The goal shall include the value of subcontracts with designated entities that contribute directly to contract performance. (2) The offeror should make an independent assessment of its subcontracting opportunities and is encouraged to propose a goal higher than that specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. The designated entity subcontracting goal proposed by the offeror, and the methods for achieving the proposed goal, will be evaluated as indicated in the solicitation. (3) To effectively achieve the goal specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause consistent with efficient contract performance, the Contractor shall perform the functions listed in paragraph (e) of the clause at (FAR) 48 CFR 52.219&hyph;9, Small Business and Small Business Disadvantaged Subcontracting Plan, for all designated entities which may become potential subcontractors. (d) The Contractor may rely in good faith on a written representation of a subcontractor that such subcontractor has the status of a designated entity. (e) Failure of the Contractor to comply in good faith with the requirements of this clause shall constitute a material breach of the contract. (End of clause) Alternate I (XXX 1994) When contracting by sealed bidding rather than by negotiation, substitute the following paragraph (c)(2) for paragraph (c)(2) of the basic clause: (c)(2) Failure of the bidder to accept the goal specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause may make the bidder ineligible for award. Alternate II (XXX 1994) When the solicitation and contract do not contain the clause at (FAR) 48 CFR 52.219&hyph;9, Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Business subcontracting Plan, and when the contract amount is expected to exceed the small purchase limitation, substitute the following paragraph (c) for paragraph (c) of the basic clause: (c) The Contractor agrees to assist NASA to achieve the statutory goal described in paragraph (b) of this clause by using its best efforts to award subcontracts to designated entities to the fullest extent consistent with efficient contract performance. PART 1870_NASA SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS 4. In Appendix I to section 1870.303, Chapter 3, the introductory text to paragraph 301.1.a is revised to read as follows: Appendix I to 1870.303_NASA Source Evaluation Board Procedures (Handbook) * * * * * Chapter 3_Evaluation Factors, Subfactors and Elements * * * * *
