FR941013-2-00161 FR941013-2-00107 Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary gives an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priority. The Secretary will fund under this competition only applications that meet this absolute priority: Proposed Absolute Priority_Nondiscriminatory, Culturally-Competent, Collaborative Demonstration Models To Improve Services for Students With Serious Emotional Disturbance and Prevention Services for Students With Emotional and Behavioral Problems Background: The rates of identification, placement, and achievement of children and youth with emotional and behavioral problems vary across racial, cultural, gender, and socioeconomic dimensions. For example, African-American students are most likely to be identified as students with serious emotional disturbance (SED). African-Americans comprise 16 percent of public school enrollment, but represent 22 percent of all students identified with SED (based on data from the 1990 OCR survey of school districts), and 25 percent of secondary students with SED (based on data from OSEP National Longitudinal Transition Study). Rates of SED identification for African-American students vary greatly across States but, on average, States with the lowest overall African-American enrollment have the highest SED incidence rates for those students and, conversely, States with the highest overall African-American enrollment have the lowest average rate of SED classification for these students (based on data from the 1990 OCR survey of school districts). These data suggest that African-American students may be over-represented in SED programs in some States, and underserved in others, and that some of these differences may be related to identification, evaluation, and placement methods that fail to recognize cultural differences. Diversity must be acknowledged and valued, and both prevention and SED service delivery systems must be culturally-competent. Cultural competencies represent the interpersonal skills and attitudes that enable individuals to increase their understanding and appreciation of the rich and fluid nature of culture and of differences and similarities within, among, and between cultures and individuals. Culturally-competent approaches recognize the cultural origins of teachers' and service providers' views, behaviors, and methods. These approaches also recognize that language and language use conventions are culturally based, and attend to the communicative styles of students and their families. Culturally-competent approaches address culturally-based definitions of family and networks. They view family and community as critical parts of a student's support system. Such approaches also demonstrate a willingness and ability to draw on community-based values, traditions, customs, and resources. Assessment, pre-referral, and preventive approaches that are culturally-competent and linguistically appropriate recognize and nurture the strengths_individual and cultural_that students bring to school. There is a need to improve the capacity of individuals and systems to respond skillfully, respectfully, and effectively to students, families, teachers, and other providers in a manner that recognizes, affirms, and values their worth and dignity. To accomplish this, collaboration must be fostered_among families, professionals, students, and communities_to identify and provide culturally-competent services for students with SED and prevention services that address the needs of children and youth with emotional and behavioral problems. Priority : The Assistant Secretary establishes an absolute priority for demonstration projects that develop, implement, evaluate, and disseminate nondiscriminatory, culturally-competent, collaborative practices to prevent children with emotional and behavioral problems from developing SED, and to improve special education and related services for ethnic and cultural minority students, in the least restrictive environment. The projects must establish local, community-based assessment, planning, prevention, and intervention teams that involve participation from education, mental health, juvenile justice agencies, other appropriate community service agencies, and organizations representing families. The first stage of each project must consist of the development and refinement of working agreements between the various community agencies and organizations, to identify approaches that improve the capacity of individuals and systems to respond skillfully, respectfully, and effectively to students, families, teachers, and other providers in a manner that recognizes, affirms, and values their worth and dignity. The first stage planning must include the collaborative consideration and development, by all participating groups, of non-discriminatory, culturally-competent techniques that enhance the fairness and effectiveness of key service delivery elements, including but not necessarily limited to assessment, education, training, transition planning, and the provision of related services. The second stage of each project must consist of the implementation and evaluation of the services delivered, across service providers, followed by dissemination of the results. A project must budget for two trips annually to Washington, D.C., for (1) a two-day Research Project Directors' meeting; and (2) another meeting, to meet and collaborate with the OSEP project officer and the other projects funded under this priority, to share information and to discuss findings and methods of dissemination. For Further Information Contact: Tom V. Hanley, U.S. Department of Education, Switzer Building, Room 3526, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2641. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8110. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. Intergovernmental Review The Early Education Program for Children with Disabilities, the Technology, Educational Media, and Materials for Individuals with Disabilities Program and the Program for Children and Youth with Serious Emotional Disturbance are subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for these programs. Applicable Program Regulations: 34 CFR part 309, 328, and 333. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: Early Education Program for Children with Disabilities, 84.024; Technology, Educational Media, and Materials for Individuals with Disabilities Program, 84.180; and Program for Children and Youth with Serious Emotional Disturbance, 84.237) Dated: October 6, 1994. Judith E. Heumann, Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25258 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
