FR941220-0-00120 FR941220-0-00014 (1) Previous history of violation, or violations, by the employer under the INA and subpart H or I of this part; (2) The number of workers affected by the violation or violations; (3) The gravity of the violation or violations; (4) Efforts made by the violator in good faith to comply with the provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1182(n) and subparts H and I of this part; (5) The violator's explanation of the violation or violations; (6) The violator's commitment to future compliance; and (7) The extent to which the violator achieved a financial gain due to the violation, or the potential financial loss, potential injury or adverse effect with respect to other parties. (c) In addition to back wages and civil money penalties, the Administrator may impose such other administrative remedy(ies) under this subpart as the Administrator deems appropriate. (d) The civil money penalties, back wages, and/or any other remedy(ies) determined by the Administrator to be appropriate are immediately due for payment or performance upon the assessment by the Administrator, or upon the decision by an administrative law judge where a hearing is timely requested, or the decision by the Secretary where review is granted. The employer shall remit the amount of the civil money penalty by certified check or money order made payable to the order of ``Wage and Hour Division, Labor.'' The remittance shall be delivered or mailed to the Wage and Hour Division office in the manner directed in the Administrator's notice of determination. The performance of any other remedy prescribed by the Administrator shall follow procedures established by the Administrator. Distribution of back wages shall be administered in accordance with existing procedures established by the Administrator. § XXX .815 Written notice and service of Administrator's determination. (a) The Administrator's determination, issued pursuant to § XXX .805 of this part, shall be served on the complainant, the employer, and other known interested parties by personal service or by certified mail at the parties' last known addresses. Where service by certified mail is not accepted by the party, the Administrator may exercise discretion to serve the determination by regular mail. (b) The Administrator shall file with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, a copy of the complaint and the Administrator's determination. (c) The Administrator's written determination required by § XXX .805 of this part shall: (1) Set forth the determination of the Administrator and the reason or reasons therefor, and in the case of a finding of violation(s) by an employer, prescribe any remedies, including the amount of any back wages assessed, the amount of any civil money penalties assessed and the reason therefor, and/or any other remedies assessed. (2) Inform the interested parties that they may request a hearing pursuant to § XXX .820 of this part. (3) Inform the interested parties that in the absence of a timely request for a hearing, received by the Chief Administrative Law Judge within 15 calendar days of the date of the determination, the determination of the Administrator shall become final and not appealable. (4) Set forth the procedure for requesting a hearing, give the addresses of the Chief Administrative Law Judge (with whom the request must be filed) and the representative(s) of the Solicitor of labor (upon whom copies of the request must be served). (5) Inform the parties that, pursuant to § XXX .855 of this part, the Administrator shall notify ETA and the Attorney General of the occurrence of a violation by the employer. § XXX .820 Request for hearing. (a) Any interested party desiring to request an administrative hearing in accordance with section 556 of title 5, United States Code, on a determination issued pursuant to §§ XXX .805 and XXX .815 of this part shall make such request in writing to the Chief Administrative Law Judge at the address stated in the notice of determination. (b) Interested parties may request a hearing in the following circumstances: (1) The complainant or any other interested party may request a hearing where the Administrator determines, after investigation, that there is no basis for a finding that an employer has committed violation(s). In such a proceeding, the party requesting the hearing shall be the prosecuting party and the employer shall be the respondent; the Administrator may intervene as a party or appear as amicus curiae at any time in the proceeding, at the Administrator's discretion. (2) The employer or any other interested party may request a hearing where the Administrator determines, after investigation, that the employer has committed violation(s). In such a proceeding, the Administrator shall be the prosecuting party and the employer shall be the respondent. (c) No particular form is prescribed for any request for hearing permitted by this section. However, any such request shall:
