FR940128-1-00042 FR940128-1-00006 Private sources of water, particularly surface waters or water from shallow wells, may be subject to microbiological, chemical, or radiological contamination attributable to the source itself or to surface contamination at the well head or intake. Private sources are also frequently untreated or minimally treated (Refs. 69, p. 15; and 70). Where the processor uses a private source of water, it will need to take steps to ensure that the water is of a safe and sanitary quality. These steps may include retaining a copy of the initial local health authority well design approval and copies of the local health authority fecal coliform test results; obtaining and maintaining copies of private coliform test results; performing and recording periodic inspections of the sanitary condition of the well head or source intake; and performing and monitoring appropriate water treatment procedures, including filtration, sedimentation, and chlorination. The type and frequency of controls exercised by the processor should be based upon the type of source water and its historic safety and sanitary quality. Consequently, the agency is proposing to require, in ยง123.10(c)(3), that such controls be performed and documented at such frequency as necessary to ensure control. In ยง123.10(a)(2), as a means of ensuring that potable water does not become contaminated, the agency is proposing to require that the processor ensure that there are no cross connections between the potable water system and any nonpotable systems. Nonpotable systems include waste water and sewage. Cross connections, which include situations that allow for back siphonage into a potable system from a nonpotable system under negative pressure conditions, can result in the chemical or microbiological contamination of the potable water system (Refs. 64; 65, pp. 50 and 51; 68, 71, and 72). For example, if a hose from a potable water system is left in a thawing tank with water and frozen fish, and if negative pressure occurs that draws water from the tank back through the hose to the potable water system, both the potable water line and the water source itself, i.e., the municipal or private water system, can become contaminated. Cross connections can best be controlled by performing periodic inspections of the potable and nonpotable systems. These inspections should be performed at least every time that there is a change in the plumbing of the systems and with sufficient additional frequency to ensure that unintentional cross connections do not develop. Consequently, in ยง123.10(c)(3), the agency is proposing to require that such inspections be performed and documented at such frequency as necessary to ensure control. FDA is proposing in ยง123.10(a)(3) to require that the processor ensure that all food-contact surfaces are designed, constructed, and maintained in a manner that minimizes the potential for chemical and microbiological contamination of the product. Utensils and equipment can be vehicles for microbial contamination of both the raw and finished products. Utensils, equipment, and other food-contact surfaces that are made of corrosive material or wood, or that contain breaks, pits, cuts, or grooves, may harbor pathogenic microorganisms that can migrate to the product and contaminate it. These kinds of surfaces are difficult to clean, with the pores and crevices shielding the microorganisms from the action of cleaning and sanitizing agents (Refs. 65, pp. 20, 36&hyph;48; 72, pp. 166 and 167; and 73).
