FR940505-1-00260 FR940505-1-00012 Web means an automatic system which supplies substrate from a continuous roll or an extrusion process. Wood furniture means room furnishings including cabinets (kitchen, bath, and vanity), tables, chairs, beds, sofas, shutters, art objects, wood paneling, wood flooring, and any other coated furnishings made of wood, wood composition, or fabricated wood materials. Wood furniture coating facility means a facility that includes one or more wood furniture coating unit(s). Wood furniture coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating is applied onto wood furniture. (ii) Applicability. (A) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(1 (iii)(A) and (B), (iv)(A), (v)(A), and (vi)(A) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of any degreasing facility or any motor vehicle or mobile equipment refinishing facility located in the control area as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (B) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) (iii)(A) and (B), (iv)(A), (v)(A), and (vi)(A) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of an industrial or commercial solvent use facility located in the applicable area specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section at which actual emissions of VOC are greater than or equal to 6.8 kg (15 lbs) during any one day. (C) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) (iv)(B), (v)(B), and (vi)(B) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of an industrial or commercial solvent use facility located in the applicable area specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section at which actual emissions of VOC from all emissions sources are always less than 6.8 kg (15 lbs) during any one day. If actual emissions of VOC from a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section ever exceed 6.8 kg (15 lbs) during any one day on or after January 1, 2000, the facility will lose its exempt status, and the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5), (b)(1)(iv)(A), (b)(1)(v)(A), and (b)(1)(vi)(A) of this section beginning January 1 of the calendar year following the date of the exceedance. (iii) Specific Provisions. (A) Each owner or operator of a source subject to the FIP VOC emissions cap program as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall submit a VOC emissions reduction compliance plan to the Administrator by January 1, 1999. The plan shall be prepared for the years 2001 through 2005 and shall include all of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) (1 ) through ( 5 ) of this section. Each owner or operator shall submit a revised plan to the Administrator within 30 calendar days of receipt of comments from the Administrator. Each owner or operator shall comply at all times with the provisions of the most recent plan approved by the Administrator. (1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator of the facility, and of each person responsible for preparing the information required under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. (2) Baseline VOC emissions shall be calculated for each facility. Baseline emissions for each facility shall equal the sum of VOC emissions from all emissions sources at the facility including emissions associated with the use of architectural coatings and clean-up solvents. Baseline emissions shall be calculated as specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(xii) and (a)(4)(xiii) of this section. (3) Methods to be employed by the owner or operator to limit VOC emissions from emissions sources to within the emissions level required in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. Methods may include but are not limited to: (i) Installation of capture systems and control devices; (ii) Modifications to increase the efficiency of existing capture systems and/or control devices; (iii) Process modifications and/or substitutions; and (iv) Reduction in operating schedules for one or more emissions sources at the facility. For those facilities choosing to comply through use of reduced operating schedules, operating schedules for baseline emissions levels and for emissions levels starting January 1, 2001, continuing for a period not less than 5 years. (4) Projections of annual VOC emissions for each emissions source through the year 2005 after application of the reduction methods described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) (3) of this section.
