FR940713-2-00034 FR940713-2-00026 The Laurel Project was integrated into the Cumberland Basin System for repayment in 1984. While the Laurel Project is the highest cost project in the Cumberland Basin System, financially integrating the project into the system effectively lowers capacity and energy charges for East Kentucky and raises the charges for other preference customers. Including power from the Laurel Project in the allocation of the TVA transmission charge has a similar but opposite impact. The transmission charge is lowered for other customers and increased for East Kentucky. The net impact of these complicated financial and physical arrangements provides the lowest possible rates to all of the preference customers in the Cumberland Basin system within the meaning of Section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944. Comment 8: The Corps O&M costs are too high. Response: The Flood Control Act of 1944 requires Southeastern to recover Corps Operation & Maintenance costs allocated to power. Such costs are included in this rate. Southeastern agrees that these costs are too high and will continue to work with the customers and the Corps in an effort to lower the O&M costs on Corps hydropower projects. Comment 9: Southeastern's deviation from standard allocation method for allocating generation costs places an undue cost burden on preference customers in the TVA area. Response: Southeastern believes that a standard allocation method, where fixed costs are charged to capacity and variable costs are charged to energy, is inappropriate for a hydro system because most of the costs of a hydro system are fixed. In designing the proposed rates in 1984, Southeastern compared utilities in the TVA area and attempted to emulate the capacity energy split used in their sales for resale. In 1984 Southeastern determined that, on average, most utilities in the TVA area charged 40 per cent to capacity and 60 per cent to energy. We continued this arrangement in 1989. The 1994 rate design, agreed to as the result of the negotiated settlement, does not continue the 60/40 split but establishes a rate for a kilowatt of capacity that includes 1,500 kwh's of energy. Southeastern believes that this new rate design will eliminate the disagreement between TVA and SEPA on capacity energy split of costs. Comment 10: Since the resources are used primarily for peaking purposes, a greater portion of the rate should be allocated to the fixed or demand component. Response: Power is marketed from the Cumberland Basin System for different purposes. In accordance with the Final Power Marketing Policy for the Cumberland System of Projects adopted August 5, 1993, 58 F.R. 41762, customers outside the TVA system receive a base of 1,500 hours of energy per kilowatt per year, which makes their allocation peaking power. Similarly, in accordance with said policy, customers inside the TVA system receive an average of 5,000 additional hours energy per kw of capacity, which makes their power similar to a combination of peaking and intermediate power. Allocating all costs on the assumption that all power from the Cumberland Basin System is a peaking resource would have the effect of shifting costs from the inside customers to the outside customers. Southeastern does not believe that this would be equitable. As a result of the settlement, Southeastern developed a new rate design which charges customers inside and outside TVA a base rate for a KW of capacity which includes 1,500 KWH. An excess energy charge is levied on customers inside TVA that receive residual system energy. Comment 11: The methodology used by Southeastern in determining the capacity/energy split includes power sales that are not comparable to the type of sales made by Southeastern from the Cumberland River System. Response: Southeastern has developed a new rate design which deletes the separate change for capacity and energy and eliminates this argument.
