FR940811-0-00049 FR940811-0-00018 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Research and Special Programs Administration 49 CFR Part 195 [Docket No. PS&hyph;121; Amdt. 195&hyph;51A] RIN 2137&hyph;AB46 Pressure Testing Older Hazardous Liquid and Carbon Dioxide Pipelines AGENCY: Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule; partial withdrawal. SUMMARY: RSPA recently published a final rule requiring the hydrostatic pressure testing of certain older hazardous liquid and carbon dioxide pipelines that were never pressure tested to current standards. The final rule also disallowed the use of petroleum as a pressure test medium. Because the prohibition on petroleum as a test medium was not specifically proposed, RSPA indicated it would withdraw that prohibition if it received comments that the prohibition was not in the public interest. RSPA received comments objecting to the prohibition and is therefore withdrawing the prohibition and allowing the use of petroleum as a test medium under specified conditions. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 11, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Albert C. Garnett, (202) 366&hyph;2036, regarding the subject matter of this notice, or the Dockets Unit, (202) 366&hyph;4453, regarding copies of this rule or other material in the docket that is referenced in this rule. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On June 7, 1994, RSPA published a final rule, ``Pressure Testing Older Hazardous Liquid and Carbon Dioxide Pipelines,'' (59 FR 29379). The final rule prohibited the transportation of hazardous liquids or carbon dioxide in certain steel pipelines that were constructed before specified dates, unless those pipelines had been pressure tested hydrostatically according to current standards or are operated at 80 percent or less of a qualified prior test or operating pressure. Pressure testing subjects a pipeline to a higher pressure than is experienced during normal operating conditions. A qualified pressure test will disclose physical defects, if any, that are large enough to cause pipeline failure during normal operations. The requirements for pressure testing are intended to ensure an adequate safety margin between the test pressure and the maximum operating pressure to prevent pipeline accidents. Although most pipelines are pressure tested with water, previous ยง195.306 allowed the use of liquid petroleum under specified conditions, to be used as the test medium for onshore pipelines. This provision was adopted in January 1971, when the requirements for hydrostatic testing only applied to newly constructed pipelines and existing pipelines that were relocated, replaced, or otherwise changed. In the final rule published June 7, 1994, RSPA was concerned that if there were widespread testing of older pipelines with petroleum and ruptures occurred, some of the spilled petroleum might create an environmental problem. To preclude this possibility, the final rule disallowed the use of petroleum as a test medium. RSPA had not specifically proposed this prohibition on the use of petroleum in the notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) published May 22, 1991 (56 FR 23538). In the preamble to the final rule, RSPA sought comments as to whether the prohibition was in the public interest. RSPA indicated that it would withdraw the prohibition if it received comments that the prohibition of petroleum as a test medium was not in the public interest. Discussion of Comments RSPA received 14 public responses to the final rule published on June 7, 1994. Although one pipeline operator stated that the prohibition would not significantly affect its operations, comments from 11 pipeline operators and a Petition for Reconsideration from the American Petroleum Institute opposed the prohibition. Williams Pipe Line Company, which submitted comments in opposition to the prohibition, also submitted a Petition for Reconsideration asking that RSPA exclude certain terminal piping systems from the requirements for pressure testing. This rule addresses only the immediate issue of whether the prohibition on testing with petroleum should be withdrawn. In the near future, RSPA intends to address the other issues in the two Petitions for Reconsideration.
