FR941028-2-00181 FR941028-2-00109 •Health-care facilities and health departments should coordinate their efforts to perform appropriate contact investigations on patients and HCWs who have active TB. •In accordance with state and local laws and regulations, results of all AFB-positive sputum smears, cultures positive for M. tuberculosis, and drug-susceptibility results on M. tuberculosis isolates should be reported to the public health department as soon as these results are available. •The public health department may be able to assist facilities with planning and implementing various aspects of a TB infection-control program (e.g., surveillance, screening activities, and outbreak investigations). In addition, the state health department may be able to provide names of experts to assist with the engineering aspects of TB infection control. M. Additional Considerations for Selected Areas in Health-Care Facilities and Other Health-Care Settings This section contains additional information for selected areas in health-care facilities and for other health-care settings. 1. Selected Areas in Health-Care Facilities a. Operating rooms. •Elective operative procedures on patients who have TB should be delayed until the patient is no longer infectious. •If operative procedures must be performed, they should be done, if possible, in operating rooms that have anterooms. For operating rooms without anterooms, the doors to the operating room should be closed, and traffic into and out of the room should be minimal to reduce the frequency of opening and closing the door. Attempts should be made to perform the procedure at a time when other patients are not present in the operative suite and when a minimum number of personnel are present (e.g., at the end of day). •Placing a bacterial filter on the patient endotracheal tube (or at the expiratory side of the breathing circuit of a ventilator or anesthesia machine if these are used) when operating on a patient who has confirmed or suspected TB may help reduce the risk for contaminating anesthesia equipment or discharging tubercle bacilli into the ambient air. •During postoperative recovery, the patient should be monitored and should be placed in a private room that meets recommended standards for ventilating TB isolation rooms. •When operative procedures (or other procedures requiring a sterile field) are performed on patients who may have infectious TB, respiratory protection worn by the HCW must protect the field from the respiratory secretions of the HCW and protect the HCW from the infectious droplet nuclei generated by the patient. Valved or positive-pressure respirators do not protect the sterile field; therefore, a respirator that does not have a valve and that meets the criteria in Section II.G should be used. b. Autopsy rooms. •Because infectious aerosols are likely to be present in autopsy rooms, such areas should be at negative pressure with respect to adjacent areas (Suppl. 3), and the room air should be exhausted directly to the outside of the building. ASHRAE recommends that autopsy rooms have ventilation that provides an airflow of 12 ACH ( 47 ), although the effectiveness of this ventilation level in reducing the risk for M. tuberculosis, transmission has not been evaluated. Where possible, this level should be increased by means of ventilation system design or by auxiliary methods (e.g., recirculation of air within the room through HEPA filters) (Suppl. 3). •Respiratory protection should be worn by personnel while performing autopsies on deceased persons who may have had TB at the time of death (Section II.G; Suppl. 4). •Recirculation of HEPA-filtered air within the room or UVGI may be used as a supplement to the recommended ventilation (Suppl. 3). c. Laboratories. •Laboratories in which specimens for mycobacteriologic studies (e.g., AFB smears and cultures) are processed should be designed to conform with criteria specified by CDC and the National Institutes of Health ( 59 ). 2. Other Health-Care Settings TB precautions may be appropriate in a number of other types of health care settings. The specific precautions that are applied will vary depending on the setting. At a minimum, a risk assessment should be performed yearly for these settings; a written TB infection-control plan should be developed, evaluated, and revised on a regular basis; protocols should be in place for identifying and managing patients who may have active TB; HCWs should receive appropriate training, education, and screening; protocols for problem evaluation should be in place; and coordination with the public health department should be arranged when necessary. Other recommendations specific to certain of these settings follow. a. Emergency medical services. •When EMS personnel or others must transport patients who have confirmed or suspected active TB, a surgical mask should be placed, if possible, over the patient's mouth and nose. Because administrative and engineering controls during emergency transport situations cannot be ensured, EMS personnel should wear respiratory protection when transporting such patients. If feasible, the windows of the vehicle should be kept open. The heating and air-conditioning system should be set on a nonrecirculating cycle.
