FR940722-0-00119 FR940722-0-00019 125. A number of commenters approved of the Notice's proposal to set aside one 20 MHz BTA block and one 10 MHz BTA block. The Small Business PCS Association asserted, moreover, that implementation of the set-aside proposal would offer ``a major opportunity'' for small businesses, that a 20 MHz block is ``probably ideal'' for development by small entrepreneurs, and that even a 10 MHz block could sustain a viable PCS System. 100 Telepoint makes similar assertions. 100 The Small Business PCS Association stated that a small business operating in a single BTA service region could effectively compete with large companies operating in larger service areas. This is so, it contended, mainly because PCS providers with large service areas would not realize such great economies of scale as many have supposed and because small firms could counter such advantages by forming buying cooperatives. Comments of Small Business PCS Association at 2&hyph;3. 126. A considerable number of commenters, however, contended that the Commission's proposal to set aside a 20 MHz block and a 10 MHz block would be inadequate. Telephone Electronics and AWCC asserted, for instance, that a provider operating with only a 10 MHz or 20 MHz license could not offer a full range of PCS services with quality equivalent to the like offerings of a provider operating with a 20 MHz license. Unique and AWCC thus argued that PCS licensees in the set-aside spectrum would consequently be unable to obtain commercial funding on terms as favorable to those available to operators with 30 MHz licenses. Independent Cellular Network maintained that the competitive disadvantages of the proposed set-aside channels, due to their lesser bandwidth, could not be obviated through aggregation, because of the greater transaction costs that would be incurred above those associated with acquisition of a single 30 MHz license. 127. We believe that designating frequency blocks C and F as entrepreneurs' blocks meets the concerns of most of the designated entity commenters. Frequency block C provides 30 MHz of spectrum and, thus, satisfies the concerns of those parties who believe they must have this amount of bandwidth to compete effectively. The MHz block F license, on the other hand, fulfills the needs of other designated entities who argued in favor of small blocks. Moreover, since the C and F blocks are adjacent, they can be aggregated efficiently by one or more licensees. This plan also makes available to eligible bidders in the entrepreneurs' blocks 986 licenses, or slightly under 50 percent of all broadband PCS licenses. Finally, it does not foreclose opportunities for other parties. Bidders ineligible for the entrepreneurs' blocks will have the opportunity to bid on 99 30 MHz MTA licenses throughout the country, as well as 986 10 MHz BTA licenses nationwide. 128. Five-Year Holding and Limited Transfer Period . In establishing the entrepreneurs' blocks, we recognize the congressionally mandated objective will not be served if parties take advantage of bidding in these blocks and immediately assign or transfer control of the authorizations to other entities. Such a practice could unjustly enrich the auction winners and would undermine the congressional goal of giving designated entities the opportunity to provide spectrum-based services. Therefore, we will prohibit licensees in the entrepreneurs' blocks from voluntarily assigning or transferring control of their licenses for a period of three years from the date of the license grant. 101 And, for the next two years of the license term, we will permit the licensee to assign or transfer control of its authorization only to an entity that satisfies the entrepreneurs' blocks entry criteria. 102 During this five-year period, licensees will continue to be bound by the financial eligibility requirements, as set forth below. 103 In addition, a transferee or assignee who receives a C or F block license during the five-year period will remain subject to the transfer restrictions for the balance of the holding period. 104 The Commission will conduct random pre and post-auction audits to ensure that applicants receiving preferences are in compliance with the FCC's rules. 101 We will consider exceptions to this three-year holding period rule on a case-by-case basis in the event of a judicial order decreeing bankruptcy or a judicial foreclosure if the licensee proposes to assign or transfer its authorization to an entity that meets the financial thresholds for bidding in the entrepreneurs' blocks. In addition, we note that a transfer is considered ``involuntary'' if it is made pursuant to a court decree requiring the sale or transfer of the licensee's stock or assets. Paramount Pictures, Inc. , 43 FCC 453 (1949); C.f. William Penn Broadcasting, 16 FCC 2d 1050 (1969). 102 We note that a licensee assigning its authorization pursuant to this limited transfer period might be subject to the repayment provisions associated with installment payments and bidding credits. See infra ¶¶134, 141. We also clarify that rural telephone companies receiving partitioned licenses in the entrepreneurs' blocks are subject to this five-year holding and limited transfer period. 103 See infra ¶¶156&hyph;168. In addition, for purposes of the installment payment and bidding credit provisions set forth below, licensees will continue to be bound by the financial eligibility requirements throughout the term of the license. 104 For example, if a C-block authorization is assigned to an eligible business in year four of the license term, it will be required to hold that license until the original five-year period expires, subject to the same exceptions that applied to the original licensee. 129. Our goals are to create significant opportunities for entrepreneurs, small businesses, and businesses owned by minorities and women to compete in auctions for licenses and attract sufficient capital to build-out those licenses and provide service. We recognize the critical need to attract capital, which requires flexibility. We are very concerned, however, that such flexibility not undermine our more fundamental objective, which is to ensure that designated entities retain de facto and de jure control of their companies at all times. We believe that the five-year holding and limited transfer period, which we have adopted in this Order, will help to promote this objective. Some question remains, however, as to whether a longer holding period ( e.g., seven years) would more fully meet this goal.
