FR940524-2-00079 FR940524-2-00050 [Release No. 34&hyph;34076; File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;93&hyph;17] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.; Order Granting Approval to Proposed Rule Change to Adopt Functional Separation Procedures (``Chinese Wall'') for Specialist Firms Affiliated with an Approved Person May 18, 1994. I. Introduction On September 20, 1993 the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. (``BSE'' or ``Exchange'') submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''), pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 a proposed rule change to adopt a set of procedures addressing specialist member organizations affiliated with an approved person. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). The proposed rule change was published for comment in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33090 (October 22, 1993), 58 FR 58206 (October 29, 1993). No comments were received on the proposal. II. Description The proposed rule change consists of Exchange guidelines that outline the minimum requirements that an Exchange specialist firm affiliated with an approved person 3 will be expected to demonstrate to provide for a functional separation (``Chinese Wall'') of its specialist activity from its retail and proprietary business. 3 The Proposal defines the term ``approved person'' to mean a person who is not a member or allied member of the Exchange or an employee of a member organization, who has become an approved person as provided in the rules of the Exchange and who is either: (1) A person who controls a member or a member organization; or (ii) a person engaged in a securities or kindred business who is controlled by or under common control with a member or member organization. In addition to requiring approved persons to establish a Chinese Wall, the proposal also requires that they establish, maintain and enforce written procedures reasonably designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information. Finally, the proposal requires an approved person to obtain prior 4 written approval of the Exchange that it has complied with the requirements to establish functional separation as appropriate to its operation and that it has established proper compliance and audit procedures to ensure the maintenance of the functional separation. 5 4 Current Exchange upstairs firms will be given a grace period of ninety days to come into compliance; those seeking to participate in the Competing Specialist pilot, however, must demonstrate compliance prior to approval. Thereafter, compliance must be demonstrated to the Exchange before the applicant specialist firm may function as a specialist on the floor of the Exchange. Conversation between Karen Aluise, Assistant Vice President, Boston Stock Exchange, and N. Amy Bilbija, Commission, on March 15, 1994. 5 In addition, a copy of these Chinese Wall procedures, and any amendments thereto, must be filed with the Exchange Surveillance Department. The proposal identifies certain minimum procedural and maintenance requirements. First the specialist's book must be kept confidential. Second, the approved person can have no influence on specific specialist trading decisions. Third, material, non-public corporate or market information obtained by the approved person from the issuer may not be made available to the specialist. Fourth, clearing and margin financing information regarding the specialist may be routed only to employees engaged in such work and managerial employees engaged in overseeing operations of the approved persons and specialist entities. In addition, the proposal places limitations on the information which may pass between a broker affiliated with an associated approved person and the specialist, such that they are limited to that exchange of information which would occur in the normal course of business with a comparable unaffiliated individual. Thus, the broker may make available to the specialist only the market information he would make available to an unaffiliated specialist in the normal course of his trading and ``market probing'' activity. The specialist may divulge to the broker only the information about market conditions in specialty stocks that he would make available in the normal course of specializing to any other broker, and in the same manner. The specialist, however, is further restricted in that he may provide market information to the broker only upon request of that broker and not on his own initiative.
