FR940527-1-00011 FR940527-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 165 [CGD09&hyph;95&hyph;005] Safety and Security Zone; Lake Michigan_Chicago Harbor_Burnham Park Harbor AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to establish a permanent safety and security zone on Lake Michigan, over all waters and shoreline areas within 1000 yards of the shoreline surrounding Merrill C. Meigs Airfield. This zone is needed to safeguard all vessels and waterfront facilities in these areas against destruction, loss, or injury from sabotage or other subversive acts, accidents, or other causes of a similar nature. This safety and security zone will be in effect at various times; these times will be published in the Coast Guard Local Notice to Mariners or broadcasted via Marine Radio VHF&hyph;FM Channels 16 & 22. When in effect, entry into this zone in prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Chicago. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and supporting materials should be mailed or delivered to the Case Management & Port Safety Section, Ninth Coast Guard District, room 2069, 1240 East Ninth Street, Cleveland, Ohio, 44199&hyph;2060, (216) 522&hyph;3994. Please reference the name of the proposal and the docket number in the heading above. If you wish receipt of your mailed comment to be acknowledged, please include a stamped self-addressed envelope or postcard for that purpose. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection at the above location from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant (junior grade) Benjamin L. Smith, Project Manager, Case Management & Port Safety Section, Ninth Coast Guard District, (216) 522&hyph;3994. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting comments which may consist of data, views, arguments, or proposals for amendments to the proposed regulation. The Coast Guard does not currently plan to have a public hearing, but consideration will be given to holding such a hearing if it is requested. Such a request should indicate how a public hearing would contribute substantial information or views which cannot be received in written form. If it appears that a public hearing would substantially contribute to revisions or further refinements of this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will announce such a hearing by a later notice in the Federal Register. Background and Purpose The purpose of this regulation is to support the U.S. Secret service in performing statutory protective duties. The goal is ensure the safety and security of the President and other officials that may periodically arrive at Merrill C. Meigs Airfield on short notice; and to protect all members of the public in the area. This safety and security zone will be in affect at various times; these times will be published in the Coast Guard Local Notice to Mariners or broadcasted via Marine Radio VHF&hyph;FM Channels 16 & 22. This regulation is issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 1231 and 50 U.S.C 191 as a set out in the authority citation for all 33 CFR part 165. Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Lieutenant (junior grade) Benjamin L. Smith, Project Manager, and Commander Robert G. Blythe, Project Counsel. Environment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this regulation and concluded that, under section 2.B.2.c of Coast Guard Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, it is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. Federalism This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the proposed rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. This regulation does not impose any new regulatory requirements in an area not heretofore regulated by the Federal Government, and does not impose any requirements or restrictions on State or local authorities. Regulatory Evaluation Proposal is not considered a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866 on Regulatory Planning and Review and is not significant under Department of Transportation regulatory policies and procedures (44 FR 11034 of February 26, 1979).
