FR940819-1-00039 FR940819-1-00011 The original instructions for reporting required railroads to make a ``good faith'' estimate of the number of days a worker was expected to be absent from work or on restricted duty following an injury or occupational illness. The annual report filed with the December submission was used to provide a summary total of the actual number of such days. FRA then used the reported information on individual incidents for its analyses. Because the total count of days found on the annual report cannot be assigned to individual cases, FRA found it necessary to amend its instructions several years ago to require railroads to provide an update for any case where the count of days on the report filed with FRA varied by more than ten percent from the actual count of such days. FRA accepts updates made on magnetic media, i.e. , diskettes and tapes. Several railroads provide monthly updates in conjunction with the report for the current month and must provide a final accounting by April 15 of the following year. With the exception of the column used to identify terminations and permanent transfers, a duplicate of the breakdown of cases can be prepared by summarizing the individual cases. Information regarding terminations or permanent transfers is currently found in column ``8'' on the annual summary report. This column lists the number of cases in column ``3'' (Total Lost Workday Cases) and column ``7'' (Non-fatal Cases Without Lost Workdays) that resulted in either the termination or the permanent transfer of the employee for reasons related to the sustained injury or occupational illness. Because FRA proposes to eliminate the requirement for submission of Form FRA F 6180.45, and since FRA deems the information under ``Terminations or Transfers'' important for accurate injury and illness data analysis, FRA proposes to move the block designated ``Terminations or Permanent Transfers'' over to block ``5v'' on the proposed ``Railroad Injury and Illness Summary (Continuation Sheet)'' (Form FRA F 6180.55a). Moving this data block to Form FRA F 6180.55a would enable FRA to continue to collect this relevant information while at the same time eliminating the requirement to complete the annual summary report (Form FRA F 6180.45). For the same reasons set forth above, FRA is proposing to move the blocks that solicit information on ``establishments included in this report'' and ``average employment in reporting year'' on the annual summary report to the proposed ``Annual Railroad Report of Worker Hours and Casualties, by State'' (Form FRA F 6180.56). 2. Form FRA F 6180.54_``Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report'': Limited Changes Collisions, derailments, explosions, fires, acts of God, and other events involving the operation of standing or moving on-track equipment resulting in more than $6,300 of reportable damage must be reported using Form FRA F 6180.54. 49 CFR 225.19(c) and 225.21(a). Based on the comments received in response to the ANPRM, FRA proposes to make limited changes to the ``Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report'' (Form FRA F 6180.54). The purpose of these proposed changes is to improve FRA's accident analysis capability. The format of the proposed Form FRA F 6180.54 is set forth in Appendix 2 to this NPRM. The currently used Form is provided in Appendix 3 for comparison and reference purposes. a. Special Study Blocks (SSB). The first proposed change would be the establishment of three new blocks on Form FRA F 6180.54, each designated as a ``Special Study Block'' (SSB) ( see item ``49'' on the proposed Form). Over the years, FRA and other agencies and associations have frequently wanted to collect information on specific accident issues over a specified time period in response to particular risks of immediate safety concern. Because of the difficult and time-consuming task of revising and receiving approval for permanent changes to the reporting form, FRA has not been able to respond quickly in these situations and has had to rely on labor-intensive field surveys by regional FRA personnel and the informal cooperation of the industry. FRA proposes to establish three SSB's for the purpose of temporarily collecting information on these issues of immediate safety concern. When one or more critical safety issues arise, FRA would notify the railroad reporting officers and request that they, for a specified time-frame, collect and report on the critical issues using the SSB. Upon expiration of the pre-defined time period, the SSB would not be used again until the next issues of immediate concern. b. Reporting definitions. The proposed changes to the reporting definitions for Form FRA F 6180.54 address perceived deficiencies and inconsistencies regarding the area labelled ``PROPERTY DAMAGE'' on the current form in blocks ``33'' and ``34.'' The inconsistencies result from a lack of clear direction to the industry on the issue of overhead and fringe expenses. Some railroads include overhead and fringe expenses in their estimates of damage, some include one and not the other, some include neither, and some may not even report the same way every time. These inconsistencies diminish the quality of the accident data and taint any analysis of that data. FRA would like to improve the consistency of the information collected on damage costs. FRA proposes to make it clear that when estimating damage costs, the labor costs to be reported are only the direct labor costs to the railroad, e.g. , hourly wages, transportation costs, and hotel expenses. Thus, for example, the cost of fringe benefits would be excluded when calculating direct labor costs. This clarification should result in greater uniformity in reporting among the railroads. For services performed by a contractor, the railroad would estimate a direct hourly labor cost by multiplying the contractor's total labor hours charged to the railroad by the applicable direct hourly wage rate for a railroad worker in that particular craft.
