FR940429-0-00261 FR940429-0-00015 (iii) Unless otherwise provided for in applicable program regulations, if the amount of the overpayment is less than $100, the student is considered not to owe an overpayment, and the institution is not required to contact the student or recover the overpayment. (g) Allocation of refunds and overpayments. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, if a student who received Title IV, HEA program assistance (other than assistance under the FWS Program) is owed a refund calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, or if a student who received Title IV, HEA program assistance (other than assistance under the FWS, Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, or Federal SLS Program) must repay an overpayment calculated in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, an institution shall allocate that refund and any overpayment collected from the student in the following order: (i) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal SLS loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (ii) To eliminate outstanding balances on unsubsidized Federal Stafford loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (iii) To eliminate outstanding balances on subsidized Federal Stafford loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (iv) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal PLUS loans received on behalf of the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (v) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal Direct Stafford loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (vi) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal Direct PLUS loans received on behalf of the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (vii) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal Perkins loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (viii) To eliminate any amount of Federal Pell Grants awarded to the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (ix) To eliminate any amount of Federal SEOG Program aid awarded to the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (x) To eliminate any amount of other assistance awarded to the student under programs authorized by Title IV of the HEA for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (xi) To repay required refunds of other Federal, State, private, or institutional student financial assistance received by the student. (xii) To the student. (2) The institution must apply the allocation policy described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section consistently to all students who have received Title IV, HEA program assistance and must conform that policy to the following: (i) No amount of the refund or of the overpayment may be allocated to the FWS Program. (ii) No amount of overpayment may be allocated to the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, or Federal SLS Program. (iii) The amount of the Title IV, HEA program portion of the refund allocated to the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs must be returned to the appropriate borrower's lender by the institution in accordance with program regulations (34 CFR part 682). (iv) The amount of the Title IV, HEA program portion of the refund allocated to the Title IV, HEA programs other than the FWS, Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs must be returned to the appropriate program account or accounts by the institution within 30 days of the date that the student officially withdraws, is expelled, takes an approved leave of absence, or the institution determines that a student has unofficially withdrawn. (v) The amount of the Title IV, HEA program portion of the overpayment allocated to the Title IV, HEA programs other than the FWS, Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs must be returned to the appropriate program account or accounts within 30 days of the date that the student repays the overpayment. (h) Financial aid. For purposes of this section ``financial aid'' is assistance that a student has been or will be awarded (including Federal PLUS loans received on the student's behalf) from Federal; State; institutional; or other scholarship, grant, or loan programs. (i) Refund dates_ (1) Withdrawal date. (i)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(1)(i)(B) and (C) of this section, a student's withdrawal date is the earlier of_ ( 1 ) The date that the student notifies an institution of the student's withdrawal, or the date of withdrawal specified by the student, whichever is later; or ( 2 ) If the student drops out of the institution without notifying the institution (does not withdraw officially), the last recorded date of class attendance by the student, as documented by the institution. (B) If the student takes an approved leave of absence, the student's withdrawal date is the last recorded date of class attendance by the student, as documented by the institution. (C) If the student is enrolled in an educational program that consists predominantly of correspondence courses, the student's withdrawal date is normally the date of the last lesson submitted by the student, if the student failed to submit the subsequent lesson in accordance with the schedule for lessons established by the institution. However, if the student establishes in writing, within 60 days of the date of the last lesson that he or she submitted, a desire to continue in the program and an understanding that the required lessons must be submitted on time, the institution may restore that student to ``in school'' status for purposes of funds received under the Title IV, HEA programs. The institution may not grant the student more than one restoration to ``in school'' status on this basis. (ii) An institution must determine the student's withdrawal date within 30 days after the expiration of the earlier of the_ (A) Period of enrollment for which the student has been charged; (B) Academic year in which the student withdrew; or (C) Educational program from which the student withdrew. (2) Timely payment. An institution shall pay a refund that is due to a student_ (i) If a student officially withdraws or is expelled, within 30 days after the student's withdrawal date; (ii) If a student drops out, within 30 days of the earliest of the_ (A) Date on which the institution determines that the student dropped out; (B) Expiration of the academic term in which the student withdrew; or (C) Expiration of the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged; or
