FR940217-1-00086 FR940217-1-00014 These changes are necessary to conform to the proposed changes in the scope of this subpart. The Secretary would include the length of a debarment or suspension action as a criterion to apply for removal of a limitation to protect the Title IV, HEA programs, the beneficiaries of those programs, and the Federal Government from potential effects of doing business with irresponsible entities. Sections 668.111␣Scope and purpose, 668.112␣Definitions, 668.113␣Request for review, 668.114␣Notification of hearing, and 668.116␣Hearing. The Secretary proposes to add references to a third-party servicer to these sections to parallel institutional appeal procedures and thus establish procedures for a third-party servicer to appeal a final audit determination or final program review determination. The proposed procedures generally would be parallel to the procedures already established that govern appeals by an institution of a final audit determination or final program review determination. Under §668.116(e), the Secretary proposes to expand the types of evidence that an institution or servicer requesting review of the final audit or final program review determination may submit to a hearing official to include Department of Education program review reports and work papers for program reviews and institutional or servicer records and other materials (including records and other materials of institutions with which the servicer has contracts) provided to the Department in response to a program review. The Secretary also proposes to notify all institutions with which a third-party servicer contracts of final audit report or final program review determinations. The Secretary believes that an institution that contracts with a third-party servicer should be kept informed of any activities between the servicer and the Department that might affect the administration of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. Section 668.123␣Collection. The Secretary proposes to modify this section to conform to the proposed changes to §668.24. Part 682_Federal Family Education Loan Programs Section 682.200␣Definitions. The Secretary proposes to amend the definition of lender to exclude from the definition of an ``eligible lender'' any lender that (1) is debarred or suspended under E.O. 12549 or the FAR, (2) has principals or affiliates so debarred or suspended, (3) is an affiliate of any person so debarred or suspended, or (4) employs to administer or assist in the administration of FFEL program funds any person so debarred or suspended. The effect of these proposed changes would be automatically to exclude a debarred or suspended lender from participation in the FFEL programs for the duration of the debarment or suspension. A guaranty agency would thus be prohibited from guaranteeing a new loan made by the lender during this period. Like the proposed changes governing the standard of conduct of participating educational institutions and third-party servicers under 34 CFR 668.82, these changes are needed to establish appropriate safeguards to protect the integrity of the FFEL programs and the Federal financial interest if serious questions are raised about the honesty and lawfulness of the conduct of a lender's owners, officers, directors, management, employees, or affiliates whose duties involve the administration of or influence over the use of those funds. The Secretary proposes to amend this section to expand on the statutory definition of third-party servicer in the proposed regulations to clarify its applicability in the FFEL programs. Under that definition, a third-party servicer is an individual or organization that contracts with a lender or guaranty agency to administer any aspect of the lender's or guaranty agency's participation in the FFEL programs, including any applicable function described in the definition of third-party servicer in 34 CFR part 668. The Secretary believes that by including the statutory definition as well as a reference to the proposed definition of third-party servicer under 34 CFR part 668, that individuals or organizations that contract with a lender or guaranty agency to administer any aspect of the lender's or guaranty agency's participation in the FFEL programs will be able to determine the applicability of these regulations to themselves. Section 682.401␣Basic Program Agreement. The Secretary proposes to revise this section of the regulations to clarify a guaranty agency's responsibilities if it enters into a contract with a third-party servicer. As discussed previously under §682.200, the Secretary proposes to prohibit a guaranty agency from entering into a contract with a third-party servicer that the Secretary has determined is not financially responsible or has been determined by the Secretary to have not complied with the statutes and regulations that govern the FFEL programs. Under this proposed provision, a guaranty agency would be required to provide to the Secretary the names and addresses of any third-party servicer with which the agency contracts and, if requested by the Secretary, a copy of that contract. The Secretary is proposing to require submission by the agency of the name and address of any third-party servicer with which the agency contracts, and, upon request, the contract, to assist the Secretary in carrying out his responsibilities to monitor the performance of third-party servicers.
