FR940314-0-00015 FR940314-0-00003 (2) For any costs incurred on the project: (i) Prior to receipt of the Borrower's completed application by REA during an application period unless the Administrator has specifically approved such usage in writing; or (ii) For site development, the destruction or alteration of buildings, or other activities that would adversely affect the environment or limit the choice of reasonable alternatives prior to satisfying the requirements of §1703.32; (3) By the Borrower to purchase or lease any real property, materials, equipment, or services from its subsidiary, an affiliate, or significant stockholders, officers, managers or directors of the Borrower, or close relatives thereof, where the purchase or lease has not been fully disclosed to the Administrator and received the Administrator's prior written approval; (4) By the recipient of a pass-through-loan or pass-through-grant to purchase or lease any real property, materials, equipment, or services from the Borrower, its subsidiary, an affiliate of the Borrower, or significant stockholders, officers, managers or directors of the Borrower, or close relatives thereof, where the purchase or lease has not been fully disclosed to the Administrator and received the Administrator's prior written approval; (5) To pay off or refinance existing indebtedness incurred prior to receipt of the Borrower's completed application by REA or for refinancing or repaying a loan made under the Act or a program administered by the Administrator; (6) For any electric or telephone purpose, as determined by the Administrator; (7) For the Borrower's electric or telephone operations or for any operations affiliated with the Borrower unless the Administrator has specifically informed the Borrower in writing that the operations are part of the approved purposes; (8) To pay the salaries of any employee or owner of the Borrower, its subsidiaries, or affiliates. This restriction does not prohibit the use of loan or grant funds for printing and similar costs for project feasibility studies it has prepared, commissioned or purchased if specifically approved by the Administrator. This restriction is subject to the operating expense allowance for revolving loan funds set forth in §1703.22 (a)(6); (9) To fund feasibility studies and technical assistance as set forth in §1703.18 independently of projects which are funded under the zero-interest loan and grant program; (10) For proposed projects located in areas covered by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ); or (11) For anything other than an approved purpose. (b) [Reserved] 6. Section 1703.21 is amended by adding a sentence at the end of paragraph (b) and revising paragraph (d) to read as follows: §1703.21 Limitations on the use of zero-interest loan and grant funds. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* Grant funds will be disbursed to the Borrower in accordance with §1703.61(b). * * * * * (d) The Borrower may not requisition zero-interest loan funds unless those funds are deposited into the Borrower's REA construction fund trustee account. The Borrower will be required to set up a separate Federally insured account called the Rural Economic Development Account, if loan funds are not expected to be disbursed within two months after receipt from REA. All interest earned on temporarily deposited zero-interest loan funds in excess of $500 per 12-month period must be used for approved purposes or returned to REA. Interest earned in excess of $500 per 12 month period and returned to REA will not be used to reduce the Borrower's principal indebtedness. Grant funds will be disbursed by REA in accordance with 7 CFR parts 3015 and 3016, and §1703.61 (b). * * * * * 7. Section 1703.22 is added to read as follows: §1703.22 Revolving loan program. Grant funds under this section will be provided only to REA Borrowers on a non pass-through basis. REA Borrowers will, in turn, provide loans to foster rural economic development in accordance with this subpart and the specific requirements of this section. (a) General. Grant funds disbursed to REA Borrowers to establish revolving loan programs under this section are subject to the following requirements: (1) The uses, restrictions and limitations for zero-interest loans set forth in §§1703.17, 1703.20 and 1703.21 respectively; (2) Loans made by REA Borrowers initially lending grant funds disbursed by REA are limited to types of projects specified in §1703.18 (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h). Loans may also be made for feasibility studies and technical assistance in accordance with §1703.18 (b) and (c), respectively, but only for those types of projects specified in this paragraph (a)(2). Loans made from repayments of the initial loans made by REA Borrowers may be used for any rural economic development purpose in accordance with a prior agreement between the Borrower and REA; (3) All other requirements relevant to zero-interest pass-through loans and grants outlined in this subpart, except the minimum size of a zero-interest loan as specified in §1703.28(f); (4) The initial loans made from the revolving loan fund using the grant funds must carry an interest rate of zero percent; however, loans made from repayments of the initial loan may carry an interest rate in accordance with prior agreement with REA. In either case, the Borrower may charge reasonable loan servicing fees; (5) The Borrower will provide a board resolution certifying a commitment to provide and maintain additional funding to the revolving loan fund in an amount no less than 20 percent of the REA grant approved. The Borrower will provide documentation that the additional funding has been deposited in the appropriate account in §1703.22(h)(1) prior to grant disbursement. This requirement does not pertain to supplemental funding requirements for individual projects as set forth in §1703.23. Additional funding required in this paragraph pertains only to borrowers establishing revolving loan funds, with the following provisions: (i) Use of additional funding is subject to requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section and with REA concurrence;
