FR940603-0-00146 FR940603-0-00029 •As to a merger involving a common bond addition, the requirements to provide a request for credit union service from the corporate, associational, or other unit to be added is not required, since the unit already has credit union service. •As to a merger involving a select group addition: •For the same reason, the requirement for a letter from each group included in the credit union's field of membership is not required. •Where a state credit union is merging into a federal credit union, the operational area requirement may be waived on a proper showing that the state credit union will continue to be able to provide quality credit union service to its current field of membership as a federal credit union. Upon merging, the state credit union's field of membership will be worded to conform to the NCUA standards set forth in Chapter 1. Any subsequent field of membership amendments must comply with applicable amendment procedures. •As to a merger of a community credit union into a federal credit union of any type, the continuing credit union may be permitted to continue to provide service to the merging credit union's members of record as of the merger date where the operational area requirement is satisfied. Except in the case of an emergency merger, the continuing federal credit union can obtain only the members of record of the merging community credit union. Where both credit unions are community charters, the continuing credit union is a federal credit, and the criteria for expanding the service area of a community federal credit union (as discussed previously in this Chapter) are satisfied, the entire field of membership of the merging credit union may be added to the continuing federal credit union's charter. Mergers must be approved by all affected NCUA regional directors, and, as applicable, the state regulators. III.B_Emergency Mergers A specifically designated emergency merger may be approved by NCUA without regard to field of membership or other legal constraints. An emergency merger involved NCUA's direct intervention. The credit union to be merged must either be insolvent or will likely become insolvent within 12 months and NCUA must determine that: •an emergency requiring expeditious action exists •other alternatives are not reasonably available •the public interest would best be served by approving the merger In an emergency merger situation, NCUA takes an active role in finding a suitable merger partner (continuing credit union). NCUA is primarily concerned that the continuing credit union has the financial strength and management expertise to absorb the troubled credit union without adversely affecting its own financial condition and stability. As a stipulated condition to an emergency merger, the field of membership of the merging credit union may be transferred intact to the continuing federal credit union without regard to any field of membership restrictions and without changing the character of the continuing federal credit union for future amendments. Under this authority, therefore, a federal credit union may take into its field of membership a group defined by a community or associational common bond permitted under state law, regardless of whether that common bond definition could be approved under the Federal Credit Union Act. III.C_Purchase and Assumptions (P&A's) Another alternative for acquiring the field of membership of a failing credit union is through a consolidation known as a purchase and assumption (P&A). A P&A has limited application because the failing credit union must be placed into involuntary liquidation. However, in the few instances where a P&A may occur, the assuming federal credit union, as with emergency mergers, may acquire the entire field of membership along with specified loans, shares and certain other designated assets and liabilities, without regard to field of membership amendment restrictions and without changing the character of the continuing federal credit union for purposes of future field of membership amendments. P&A's involving federally insured state credit unions in different NCUA regions must be approved by all affected regional directors and, as applicable, the state regulators. IV_Field of Membership Conversions A community federal credit union may convert to an occupational, associational, or multiple group credit union, and an occupational, associational, or multiple group credit union may convert to a community credit union. In any case, a change to the credit union's field membership will be necessary. IV.A_Conversion to Occupational, Associational, or Multiple Group Federal Credit Union A community federal credit union converting to an occupational, associational, or multiple group field of membership must meet the common bond and economic advisability requirements applicable to the type of charter which it seeks conversion to. IV.B_Conversion to Community Charter An existing occupational, associational or multiple group federal credit union may apply to convert to a community charter. In most cases, groups currently in the credit union's field of membership but outside the new community credit union's boundaries may be included in the new community charter. In order to support a case for a conversion to community charter, the applicant federal credit union must develop a detailed business plan incorporating the following data: •Current financial statements, including the income statement and a summary of loan delinquency. •A map or maps showing both the existing and proposed boundaries for the field of membership. •A written description of the area of community service for the proposed community credit union. •The most current population figures for the existing and proposed boundaries. •The source of the population information; census data are considered the most authoritative; the greater the population of the proposed area, the greater justification necessary to support the existence of the ``community'' and interaction among its residents. •Evidence in the form of surveys or letters from official representatives of prominent groups located in the area to be added showing that the persons who live, work, or worship in the area are interested in affiliating with the applicant credit union. •Evidence that the proposed area is a ``community'' as defined in ``Community Common Bond'' in Chapter 1. •Information concerning the availability of financial services to the residents of the new area. •A list of credit unions with a home or branch office in the proposed area. (If present credit union service to the residents of the new area is adequate, there may be no basis for the proposed conversion.) •The attitude of current credit union sponsors and existing credit union members toward the proposed conversion. •The anticipated financial impact on the credit union in terms of need for additional employees and fixed assets. V_Removal of Groups From the Field of Membership Credit unions may request removal of a group from its field of membership for various reasons. The most common reasons for this type amendment are: •The group is within the overlapping field of membership of two credit unions and one wishes to discontinue service. •The federal credit union cannot continue to provide adequate service to the group. •The group has ceased to exist. •The group does not respond to repeated requests to contact the credit union or refuses to provide needed support. •The group initiates action to be removed from the field of membership.
