FR941004-1-00060 FR941004-1-00016 The plant notice was revised again on September 27, 1985 (50 FR 39526). Arctostaphylos imbricata and Lessingia germanorum var. germanorum were included as category 1 candidates. Both species retained category 1 status in the most recent revision of the plant notice published on February 21, 1990 (55 FR 6184). Mr. Brian O'Neill, General Superintendent of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, petitioned the Service to emergency list Lessingia germanorum as an endangered species on May 28, 1991. Although the Service did not emergency list Lessingia germanorum, it did publish a 90-day finding in the Federal Register on August 19, 1992 (57 FR 37513) that substantial information had been presented indicating that listing may be warranted. Section 4(b)(3)(B) of the Act requires the Secretary to make findings on petitions found to present substantial information indicating that the petitioned action may be warranted within 12 months of their receipt. The Service has conducted a status review and determined that the petitioned action is warranted. Publication of this proposed rule constitutes the final finding for the petitioned action. Summary of Factors Affecting the Species Section 4 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1533) and regulations (50 CFR Part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act set forth the procedures for adding species to the Federal Lists of threatened and endangered species. A species may be determined to be endangered or threatened due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to Lessingia germanorum Cham. (San Francisco lessingia) and Arctostaphylos imbricata Eastw. (San Bruno Mountain manzanita) are as follows: A. The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range. Threats facing the habitat of these plants include being threatened, eliminated, or adversely modified by one or more of the following: urbanization, change in fire frequency, competition with invasive alien vegetation, sand quarrying, off-road vehicles, bulldozing, foot traffic, and bicycle use. The natural habitat of the San Francisco peninsula already has been severely curtailed due to urbanization. Historically, suitable Lessingia germanorum habitat has decreased by 90 percent since European settlement (CDFG 1990). Urban development extirpated populations of L. germanorum at Lone Mountain and Lake Merced (both in the City of San Francisco) (CNDDB 1992). Historical populations of L. germanorum at Mountain View Lake and Ocean View Downs also have been extirpated, presumably due to urban development and competition with invasive alien vegetation (CDFG 1989). On San Bruno Mountain, approximately 4 hectares (10 acres) of potential habitat remains for L. germanorum (Paul Reeberg, pers. comm., 1993). Although it is unlikely that any additional significant populations will be located in this area, the area may be important for reintroduction efforts. Most of the central dune scrub on San Bruno Mountain has been covered by ``homes, cemeteries, a flower farm, and the Colma Dump'' (McClintock et al. 1990). Urban development potentially threatens the population of Lessingia germanorum that occurs on San Bruno Mountain in San Mateo County outside the boundary for the San Bruno Mountain HCP (Paul Reeberg, pers. comm., 1993) (for a discussion of the HCP, see Factor D). A project has been approved for the construction of seven additional dwellings within a few hundred yards of the San Bruno population (Annemarie Quevedo, pers. comm., 1993). Activities associated with this development, such as trampling, would adversely affect this population. Fragmentation of the coastal scrub dune community caused by past urban development also threatens this species. Habitat fragmentation has two primary effects. First, habitat fragmentation may alter the physical environment, changing the amount of incoming solar radiation, water, wind, or nutrients where the remnant vegetation occurs (Saunders et al. 1991). Second, when populations are fragmented into smaller, isolated units, risks of extinction due to chance events increases (see Factor E). The habitat of Lessingia germanorum has been altered by the introduction of non-native vegetation. L. germanorum requires blowing sand and non-compacted soils. Off-road vehicle use, foot and bicycle traffic, and trampling by joggers compacts the soil and promotes the establishment of invasive alien vegetation (CDFG 1989; Susan Smith, pers. comm., 1992). All populations of L. germanorum are threatened by competition with aggressive alien plant species. Carpobrotus sp. (ice plant) covers extensive dune areas on the Presidio, stabilizing the dune system where it occurs. L. germanorum in contrast, requires some dune movement, which results in areas of exposed sand (CDFG 1989). Ice plant competes with L. germanorum at all five occurrences on the Presidio. In addition to ice plant, other alien plants competing with L. germanorum, include Bromus diandrus, Avena barbata, Rumex sp., Raphanus sp., and Sonchus sp. (Susan Smith, pers. comm., 1992). On San Bruno Mountain Cortaderia sp. (pampas grass) encroachment is a severe threat. CDFG reported that ``without special protection and management, San Francisco lessingia will continue its declining trend'' (CDFG 1992). Currently the populations of L. germanorum are being weeded by volunteers from the California Native Plant Society (CNPS). Without their assistance, L. germanorum would be outcompeted by the invasive alien vegetation.
