FR940930-2-00153 FR940930-2-00051 The APPA requires a sixty-day period for the submission of public comments on the proposed Judgment [15 U.S.C. 16(b)]. The sixty-day comment period expired on September 12, 1994. The United States received two comments. The comments and the United States' response to these comments are being published with this notice. 1 What follows is a brief summary of the comments and the United States' response. 1 The comments and the individual responses are attached as Exhibit 1. 1. The Textile Rental Services Association criticized language in the proposed Judgment that, the Association claims, would authorize Morton Plant and Mease to establish a tax-exempt joint venture to provide hospital laundry services. Currently, such a venture would not be tax-exempt. The United States' response to this comment points out that, in drafting the proposed Judgment, the parties did not intend to create any new federal or state tax exemption. Morton Plant and Mease confirmed in writing that they neither intend, nor will they interpret, the proposed Judgment to provide them with any such tax-exemption. In our view, the parties' written commitment that they will not interpret the proposed Judgment as creating or providing any new federal or state tax exemption fully meets the Textile Rental Services Association's concern that the Judgment could be read to provide such tax relief. A key point, however, is that the criticism about the tax consequences of the proposed Judgment is entirely unrelated to the key issue before the Court: the effectiveness of the Judgment in remedying the antitrust violation alleged in the Complaint. 2. Ms. Ann E. Castro, who represents an employment agency for temporary nurses, criticized provisions of the proposed Judgment that would permit Morton Plant and Mease to combine their purchases of temporary nursing services. She believes that the hospitals' joint venture might decide to purchase nursing services from foreign-born nurses, who, she claims, typically charge less than the nurses her client represents. In response, the United States pointed out that purchasing nursing services at lower prices is a legitimate, pro-competitive goal. A reduction in Morton Plant's and Mease's costs for nursing services would likely translate into lower charges for hospital care, and hence, benefit health care consumers. Consequently, this criticism does not warrant rejecting the proposed Judgment, but instead underscores its salutory effect. Dated: September 23, 1994. Respectfully submitted, Anthony E. Harris, Attorney, Antitrust Division U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. 20001 (202) 307&hyph;0951
