FR940712-1-00021 FR940712-1-00006 Subchapter G_Engineering and Traffic Operations PART 637_CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION AND APPROVAL Subpart B_Quality Assurance Procedures for Construction Sec. 637.201␣Purpose. 637.203␣Definitions. 637.205␣Policy. 637.207␣Quality assurance program. 637.209␣Laboratory and sampling and testing personnel qualifications. Appendix A to Subpart B_Guide Letter of Certification by SHA Engineer Authority: 23 U.S.C. 109, 114, and 315; 49 CFR 1.48(b). §637.201 Purpose. To prescribe policies, procedures, and guidelines to assure the quality of materials and construction in all Federal-aid highway projects on the National Highway System. §637.203 Definitions. Acceptance program. All factors that comprise the SHA's determination of the quality of the product as specified in the contract requirements. These factors include verification sampling, testing and inspection and may include validated results of quality control sampling and testing. Independent assurance program. Activities that are an unbiased and independent evaluation of all the sampling and testing procedures used in the acceptance program which are performed outside the SHA's central laboratory. Proficiency samples. Homogeneous samples that are distributed and tested by two or more laboratories. The test results are compared to assure that the laboratories are obtaining the same results. Qualified laboratories. Laboratories that are accredited through appropriate programs as determined by each SHA. As a minimum, the qualifications shall be consistent with the equipment calibration and verification requirements stipulated in sections 5.4 and 5.8 of AASHTO R&hyph;18, Establishing and Implementing a Quality System for Construction Materials Testing Laboratories. Qualified sampling and testing personnel. Personnel who are certified through appropriate programs defined by each State Highway Agency (SHA). Quality assurance. All those planned and systematic actions necessary to provide confidence that a product or service will satisfy given requirements for quality. Quality control. All contractor/vendor operational techniques and activities that are performed or conducted to fulfill the contract requirements. Verification sampling and testing. Sampling and testing performed to validate the quality of the product. If quality control sampling and testing is used in the acceptance program, verification sampling and testing will also be used to validate the quality control sampling and testing. §637.205 Policy. (a) Quality assurance program. Each SHA shall develop a quality assurance program which will assure that the materials and workmanship incorporated in each Federal-aid highway construction project are in reasonably close conformity with the requirements of the approved plans and specifications, including approved changes. The program must meet the criteria in §637.207 and be approved by the FHWA. (1) Independent assurance program. The results of independent assurance (IA) tests are not to be used as a basis for material acceptance. Independent samples and tests or other procedures shall be performed by qualified sampling and testing personnel who do not have direct responsibility for quality control and verification sampling and testing. (2) Verification sampling and testing. The verification sampling and testing are to be performed by the SHA or its designated agent excluding the contractor and/or vendor. (b) Laboratory accreditation program. Each SHA shall be accredited by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA. §637.207 Quality assurance program. (a) Each SHA's quality assurance program shall provide for an acceptance program and an independent assurance program consisting of the following: (1) Acceptance program. Each SHA's acceptance program shall consist of the following: (i) Frequency guide schedules for verification sampling and testing which will give general guidance to personnel responsible for the program and allow adaptation to specific project conditions and needs. (ii) Identification of the specific location in the construction or production operation at which verification sampling and testing is to be accomplished. (iii) The SHA shall inspect the product or construction or both for attributes that are detrimental to the performance of the finished product. (iv) Quality control sampling and testing results may be used as part of the acceptance decision provided that: (A) The quality control program is approved and monitored by the SHA; (B) The sampling and testing has been performed by qualified laboratories and qualified sampling and testing personnel; (C) The results have been validated by the verification sampling and testing. The validation of the quality control sampling and testing shall be performed by using standard statistical tests. Both the means and variances of the results from the quality control tests and verification tests shall be compared to ensure that both sets of data are testing the same population. The comparison procedures shall provide equivalent or better reliability than those obtained with the F-test for variances and the t-test for the means; and
