FR941221-2-00079 FR941221-2-00066 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Employment and Training Administration Job Training Partnership Act, Title III, Demonstration Program: Health Care Workers Retraining Program AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and solicitation for grant application (SGA). SUMMARY: All information required to submit a proposal is contained in this announcement. The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), Employment and Training Administration (ETA), announces a demonstration program to be funded with the Secretary's National Reserve funds appropriated through Title III of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA). This notice describes the process that eligible entities must use to apply for demonstration funds, the subject area for which applications will be accepted for funding, how grantees are to be selected, and the responsibilities of grantees. It is anticipated that up to $3 million will be available for funding the demonstration projects covered by this solicitation. DATES: Applications for grant awards will be accepted commencing December 21, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications will be February 21, 1995, at 2:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) at the address below. ADDRESSES: Applications shall be mailed to: U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Attention: Charlotte Adams, Reference: SGA/DAA 94&hyph;025, Room S&hyph;4203, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charlotte Adams, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;7300 (this is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This announcement consists of five parts. Part I describes the authorities and purpose of the demonstration program and identifies demonstration policy and topics. Part II describes the application process and provides detailed guidelines for use in applying for demonstration grants. Part III includes the statement of work for the demonstration projects. Part IV identifies and defines the selection criteria which will be used in reviewing and evaluating applications. Part V describes the reporting requirements. Part I. Background The estimated 10 million workers involved in the delivery of health services in the U.S. are experiencing unprecedented displacement as the industry tries to reconfigure its operation in response to intense pressure to reduce costs. With a total annual payroll estimated to be over $270 billion nationwide, health care work force changes are bound to have significant effect on many local economies as well as on workers themselves. Current hospital inpatient occupancy rates are believed to be around 60 percent, down from 65 percent just five years ago. Projections are that at least 800 community hospitals_out of some 4500 total_are likely to close over the next few years and that of the 30 percent of all inpatient hospital beds currently not in use, many will be eliminated. A recent survey found that 51 percent of all hospitals of 500 beds or more are planning to reduce their work forces in the near future. With this notice, DOL is announcing a solicitation aimed at assisting health care workers who will be affected by current or projected restructuring in the health care industry. A. Authorities Section 324 of the Job Training Partnership Act authorizes the use of funds reserved under Part B of Title III for demonstration programs of up to three years in length. Under Section 324, the Secretary is required to conduct or provide for an evaluation of the success of each demonstration program. The Department relies on applicants for grants to comply with all Federal and State laws in setting up their programs. For example, we expect that grantees shall comply with requirements for licensing and that they shall obtain necessary union concurrence when working within a labor agreement.
