FR940513-0-00021 FR940513-0-00003 (iii) A violation may have an adverse impact on continued public confidence in the System or any of its institutions. (b) The Standards of Conduct Official shall investigate or cause to be investigated all cases involving: (1) Possible violations of criminal statutes; (2) Possible violations of §§612.2140 and 612.2150, and applicable policies and procedures approved under §612.2165; (3) Complaints received against the directors and employees of such institution; and (4) Possible violations of other provisions of this part or when the activities or suspected activities are of a sensitive nature and could affect continued public confidence in the Farm Credit System. (c) An association board may comply with this section by contracting with the Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank in its district to provide a Standards of Conduct Official. §612.2260 Standards of conduct for agents. (a) Agents of System institutions shall maintain high standards of honesty, integrity, and impartiality in order to ensure the proper performance of System business and continued public confidence in the System and all its institutions. The avoidance of misconduct and conflicts of interest is indispensable to the maintenance of these standards. (b) System institutions shall utilize safe and sound business practices in the engagement, utilization, and retention of agents. These practices shall provide for the selection of qualified and reputable agents. Employing System institutions shall be responsible for the administration of relationships with their agents, and shall take appropriate investigative and corrective action in the case of a breach of fiduciary duties by the agent or failure of the agent to carry out other agent duties as required by contract, FCA regulations, or law. (c) System institutions shall be responsible for exercising corresponding special diligence and control, through good business practices, to avoid or control situations that have inherent potential for sensitivity, either real or perceived. These areas include the employment of agents who are related to directors or employees of the institutions; the solicitation and acceptance of gifts, contributions, or special considerations by agents; and the use of System and borrower information obtained in the course of the agent's association with System institutions. §612.2270 Purchase of System obligations. (a) Employees and directors of System institutions, other than the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, may only purchase joint, consolidated, or Systemwide obligations that are: (1) Part of an offering available to the general public; and (2) Purchased through a dealer or dealer bank affiliated with a member of the selling group designated by the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation or purchased in the secondary market. (b) No director or employee of the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation may purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, except by inheritance, any joint, consolidated, or Systemwide obligation. Dated: May 5, 1994. Nan P. Mitchem, Acting Secretary, Farm Credit Administration Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11496 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6705&hyph;01&hyph;P
