FR940105-0-00074 FR940105-0-00015 §13.38 Review within the Agency. (a) Notification by debtor. A debtor who receives a Notice of Intent has the right to present evidence that all or part of the debt is not past-due or not legally enforceable. To exercise this right, the debtor must: (1) Send a written request for a review of the evidence to the address provided in the notice; (2) State in the request the amount disputed and the reasons why the debtor believes that the debt is not past-due or is not legally enforceable; and (3) Include in the request any documents which the debtor wishes to be considered or state that additional information will be submitted within the remainder of the 60-day period. (b) Submission of evidence. The debtor may submit evidence showing that all or part of the debt is not past-due or not legally enforceable along with the notification required by paragraph (a) of this section. Failure to submit the notification and evidence within 60 days will result in an automatic referral of the debt to the IRS without further action by EPA. (c) Review of the evidence. EPA will consider all available evidence related to the debt. Within 30 days, if feasible, EPA will notify the debtor whether EPA has sustained, amended, or cancelled its determination that the debt is past-due and legally enforceable. §13.39 Agency determination. (a) Following review of the evidence, EPA will issue a written decision. (b) If EPA either sustains or amends its determination, it shall notify the debtor of its intent to refer the debt to the IRS for offset against the debtor's Federal income tax refund. If EPA cancels its original determination, the debt will not be referred to IRS. §13.40 Stay of offset. If the debtor timely notifies the EPA that he or she is exercising the right described in §13.38(a) and timely submits evidence in accordance with §13.38(b), any notice to the IRS will be stayed until the issuance of a written decision which sustains or amends its original determination. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;76 Filed 1&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
