FR940906-2-00088 FR940906-2-00070 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34608; File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;94&hyph;07 and SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;09] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Clearing Corporation and Midwest Securities Trust Company; Order Approving Proposed Rule Changes Relating to Corporate Governance August 26, 1994. On June 23, 1994, the Midwest Clearing Corporation (``MCC'') and the Midwest Securities Trust Company (``MSTC'') submitted proposed rule changes (File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;94&hyph;07 and SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;09) to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''). 1 Notice of the proposals appeared in the Federal Register on July 29, 1994, to solicit comment from interested persons. 2 No comments were received by the Commission. This order approves the proposals. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34427 (July 21, 1994), 59 FR 38653. I. Description of the Proposal The purpose of the proposed rule changes is to change MCC's and MSTC's By-laws to correspond to changes that are being made simultaneously to the Constitution of the Chicago Stock Exchange, Incorporated (``CHX''), the parent corporation of MCC and MSTC. 3 Once all the changes are approved and implemented, the boards of directors of MSTC and MCC and the board of governors of the CHX will consist of the same individuals. The changes are being made in order to achieve a governance structure where CHX, MCC, and MSTC will operate more as a single business entity. 3 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34563 (August 19, 1994) [File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;15] (order approving proposed rule changes). In order to ensure fair and meaningful representation of MCC's and MSTC's participants in the governance process, the size of the complex's board is being increased to thirty-one to accommodate, among other things, a new category of board member, called participant governors, to provide the board with expertise on issuances affecting MCC and MSTC. 4 The four participant governor positions must be filled by general partners or officers of a participant in MCC or MSTC and must have securities clearance and settlement expertise, background, or responsibilities. In addition, there will be one position added to the board which must be filled by a person who is not a CHX member. 4 Under the previous structure, CHX's board consisted of twenty-six members, MCC's board consisted of twenty-seven members, and MSTC's board consisted of eighteen members. In order to implement the purpose of the rule changes, MCC is amending Article 3, Sections 3.1 and 3.3 of its By-laws to change the number of directors from twenty-six to thirty-one and to require the nominating committee to select candidates with a view towards providing fair representation not only for the interests of a cross-section of MCC's participations but also for the interests of the CHX. MCC is amending Article 4A.1 to provide that the composition of MCC's nominating committee will be the same as that of CHX's nominating committee. MCC is amending Article 5, Sections 5.1 and 5.3 to empower the chairman instead of the board of directors to appoint and remove all officers and agents. MSTC is amending Article II, Sections 1 and 2 of its By-laws to provide for more flexibility in the timing of the annual meeting and to add the chairman as one who can call special meetings of the shareholders. MSTC is amending Article III, Section 2 to change the number of directors from eighteen to thirty-one, to change from sixty to thirty-one the minimum number of days before each annual shareholder meeting that the nominating committee must submit nominations to the board, to require ten participants signatures instead of three to nominate persons for the board in addition to those nominated by the nominating committee, and to require the nominating committee to elect candidates with a view towards providing fair representation not only for the interests of a cross section of MSTC participants but also for the interests of CHX. MSTC is amending Section 8 to provide that any vacancy on the board shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office instead of by election at the annual meeting or special meeting by shareholders. MSTC also is amending Article IV, Section 4 to provide that the nominating committee of MSTC will be composed of the same members as the CHX's nominating committee and is amending Article 5, Sections 1, 2, and 5 to empower the chairman instead of the board of directors to appoint and dismiss all officers and agents.
