FR940830-1-00093 FR940830-1-00014 (iv) Provide a description of the procedures the owner or operator will use to clean up any deposit of municipal and commercial waste consistent with §237.4(c); and (v) Comply with the format and guidelines established in Appendix A for waste sources and receiving facilities. (2) Submission of a letter of certification. (i) Each waste source and receiving facility shall submit a letter within 180 days after [the effective date of the final rule] certifying that the Operation and Maintenance manual has been developed as required by this regulation. The letter of certification shall be submitted to the EPA regional office for the State in which it does business (see Appendix B of this part). (ii) The Operation and Maintenance manual shall be submitted to EPA within two weeks of a request by EPA for the manual. (iii) If the Administrator determines that the manual fails to meet the requirements of this part, the Administrator may submit a notice of disapproval to the owner or operator requiring that the owner or operator make changes to the Operation and Maintenance manual. (iv) The owner or operator of a waste source or receiving facility shall make the required corrections indicated in any notice of disapproval it receives from EPA and resubmit the manual to EPA within 90 days of the receipt of notice of disapproval. (3) The Operation and Maintenance manual shall be made available and accessible to all employees directly associated with municipal or commercial waste transporting or handling, and to EPA and USCG representatives upon request. §237.5 Specific waste handling practices for vessels during transport. (a) Waste handling practice standards. (1) The owner or operator of a vessel which transports municipal or commercial waste must secure the waste to assure that any deposit of waste into coastal waters during transport is minimized. At a minimum the owner or operator must ensure that: (i) Waste is not loaded in excess of the vessel's design capacity nor in a manner inconsistent with the instructions in the vessel's adopted Operational and Maintenance manual; (ii) The vessel transporting solid waste has and uses a drainage containment system for collection of leaching liquids; and (iii) All ports and valves which may be used for flushing or discharging waste or waste residue from the hull or tanks are labelled and valve seals are placed on the valves. (2) The methods adopted by the owner or operator to meet the waste handling practice standards shall be identified in the Operation and Maintenance manual. (b) Waste deposit clean up. The owner or operator of a vessel shall: (1) Remove all municipal or commercial waste that may have been deposited into coastal waters during transport on the vessel. When a vessel is also a waste source or receiving facility, it shall be responsible for the clean up of any waste deposited during the loading or offloading activities. The methods for clean up of the waste shall be identified in the vessel's Operation and Maintenance manual. (2) Provide the capability on board the vessel to clean up the deposit or to call a support unit to clean up the deposit. (3) Have a placard located on the vessel where it will be readily visible to persons involved in waste handling indicating the individual responsible for notifying the USCG NRC in the event of a deposit of waste into coastal waters that is not completely cleaned up. (i) The telephone numbers for the individual responsible for notification and the USCG NRC shall be visibly and legibly displayed on the placard. (ii) The individual responsible for notification shall be designated by the owner or operator of the vessel. (iii) The individual responsible for notification must be a supervisory employee responsible for waste transport activities or an officer of the company owning or operating the vessel who is responsible for some aspect of waste transport requirements (e.g. vice president in charge of vessel operations). (4) If the owner or operator is unable to meet the requirements of this part after implementing clean up procedures specified in the Operation and Maintenance manual, the responsible individual shall notify the USCG NRC. The USCG NRC shall be notified prior to the first high tide following the completion of any loading or unloading operation in which the deposit occurs, or, when in transport, before the waste disperses beyond containment ability. Such verbal notification shall be followed by written notification to the USCG within five days. (c) Waste deposit records. (1) The owner or operator of a vessel shall maintain a record of all municipal or commercial waste deposited by the vessel into coastal waters. These records must include the following information: (i) Date of deposit of municipal or commercial waste into coastal waters; (ii) Time of day the municipal or commercial waste was deposited into coastal waters; (iii) Estimated amount and type of waste deposited and amount recovered; (iv) Estimated amount and type of waste not recovered; and; (v) Name of the vessel. (2) The owner or operator shall retain these records for no less than three years and must submit these records to the Administrator or the Secretary upon their request within five working days of the request for the records. (3) The owner or operator shall keep a record of its compliance with the clean-up notification as required by §237.5(b)(4). (d) Operation and Maintenance Manual. (1) The owner or operator of each existing vessel shall develop, adopt and comply with an Operation and Maintenance manual within 180 days after [the effective date of the final rule]. New permit applicants shall submit the manual with their SPA permit application. The manual shall: (i) Include record keeping procedures; (ii) Contain a description of the basic operation and maintenance standards adopted by the vessel to implement the requirements of §237.5(a); (iii) Identify and provide telephone numbers for the individual responsible for notifying the USCG and the USCG contact for the state waters in which the vessel operates; (iv) Provide a description of the procedures the owner or operator will use to cleanup any deposit of municipal or commercial waste consistent with §237.5(b); and (v) Comply with the minimum requirements established in Appendix A of this part for vessels. (2) Submission of the Operation and Maintenance manual.
