FR940627-0-00217 FR940627-0-00019 (4) For characterization of evaporative emissions, samples of equilibrated emissions to the vapor space of the EEG shall be withdrawn into Tedlar bags, then stored and analyzed as specified in ยง79.52(b). (5) A manufacturer (or group of manufacturers) may submit to EPA a request for approval of an alternative method of generating evaporative emissions for use in emission characterization and biological tests required under this subpart. (i) To be approved by EPA, the request must fully explain the rationale for the proposed method as well as the technical procedures, quality control, and safety precautions to be used, and must demonstrate that the proposed method will meet the following criteria: (A) The emission mixture generated by the proposed procedures must be reasonably similar to the equilibrium composition of the vapor which occurs in the vehicle fuel tank head space when the subject fuel or additive/base fuel mixture is in use and near-maximum in-use temperatures are encountered. (B) The emissions mixture generated by the proposed method must be sufficiently concentrated to provide adequate exposure levels in the context of the required toxicologic tests. (C) The proposed method must include procedures to ensure that the emissions delivered to the biologic exposure chambers will provide a reasonably constant exposure atmosphere over time. (ii) If EPA approves the request, EPA will place in the public record a copy of the request, together with all supporting procedural descriptions and justifications, and will notify the public of its availability by publishing a notice in the Federal Register . (g) References. For additional background information on the emission generation procedures outlined in this paragraph (g), the following references may be consulted. Additional references can be found in ยง79.61(f). (1) AIGER/CRADA (American Industry/Government Emissions Research Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, ``Specifications for Advanced Emissions Test Instrumentation'' AIGER PD&hyph;94&hyph;1, Revision 5.0, February, 1994 (2) Black, F. and R. Snow, ``Constant Volume Sampling System Water Condensation'' SAE # 940970 in ``Testing and Instrumentation'' SP&hyph;1039, Society of Automotive Engineers, Feb. 28&hyph;Mar. 3, 1994. (3) Perez, J.M., Jass, R.E., Leddy, D.G., eds. ``Chemical Methods for the Measurement of Unregulated Diesel Emissions (CRC&hyph;APRAC Project No. CAPI&hyph;1&hyph;64), Coordinating Research Council, CRC Report No. 551, August, 1987.
