FR941130-0-00110 FR941130-0-00015 18. Section 675.35 is amended by adding the word ``in'' before the word ``accordance'' in paragraph (b)(1); by revising paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(3)(v); and by republishing the OMB control number to read as follows: §675.35 Agreement. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (3) *␣*␣* (i) The institution will not use program funds to locate and develop jobs at an eligible institution; * * * * * (v) If the institution uses Federal funds to contract with another institution, suitable performance standards will be part of that contract. * * * * * (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1840&hyph;0535) 19. A new subpart C is added to part 675 to read as follows: * * * * * Subpart C_Work-Colleges Program Sec. 675.41␣Special definitions. 675.42␣Allocation and reallocation. 675.43␣Purpose. 675.44␣Program description. 675.45␣Allowable costs, Federal share, and institutional share. 675.46␣Unallowable costs. 675.47␣Multi-institutional work-colleges arrangements. 675.48␣Agreement. 675.49␣Procedures and records. 675.50␣Termination and suspension. * * * * * Subpart C_Work-Colleges Program §675.41 Special definitions. The following definitions apply to this subpart: (a) Work-college: The term ``work-college'' means an eligible institution that_ (1) Is a public or private nonprofit institution with a commitment to community service; (2) Has operated a comprehensive work-learning program for at least two years; (3) Requires_ (i) All resident students who reside on campus to participate in a comprehensive work-learning program; and (ii) The provision of services as an integral part of the institution's educational program and as part of the institution's educational philosophy; and (4) Provides students participating in the comprehensive work-learning program with the opportunity to contribute to their education and to the welfare of the community as a whole. (b) Comprehensive student work-learning program: A student work/service program that_ (1) Is an integral and stated part of the institution's educational philosophy and program; (2) Requires participation of all resident students for enrollment, participation, and graduation; (3) Includes learning objectives, evaluation, and a record of work performance as part of the student's college record; (4) Provides programmatic leadership by college personnel at levels comparable to traditional academic programs; (5) Recognizes the educational role of work-learning supervisors; and (6) Includes consequences for nonperformance or failure in the work-learning program similar to the consequences for failure in the regular academic program. (Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2756b) §675.42 Allocation and reallocation. The Secretary allocates and reallocates funds based on each institution's approved request for Federal funds for the Work-Colleges program as a percent of the total of such approved requests for all applicant institutions. (Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2756b) §675.43 Purpose. The purpose of the Work-Colleges program is to recognize, encourage, and promote the use of comprehensive work-learning programs as a valuable educational approach when it is an integral part of the institution's educational program and a part of a financial plan that decreases reliance on grants and loans and to encourage students to participate in community service activities. (Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2756b) §675.44 Program description. (a) An institution that satisfies the definition of ``work-college'' in §675.41(a) and wishes to participate in the Work-Colleges program must apply to the Secretary at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Secretary. (b) An institution may expend funds separately, or in combination with other eligible institutions, to provide work-learning opportunities for currently enrolled students. (c) For any given award year, Federal funds allocated and reallocated for that award year under sections 442 and 462 of the HEA may be transferred for the purpose of carrying out the Work-Colleges program to provide flexibility in strengthening the self-help-through-work element in financial aid packaging. (Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2756b) §675.45 Allowable costs, Federal share, and institutional share. (a) Allowable costs. An institution participating in the Work-Colleges program may use its allocated and reallocated program funds to carry out the following activities: (1) Support the educational costs of qualified students through self-help payments or credits provided under the work-learning program within the limits of part F of title IV of the HEA. (2) Promote the work-learning-service experience as a tool of postsecondary education, financial self-help, and community service-learning opportunities. (3) Carry out activities in sections 443 or 446 of the HEA. (4) Administer, develop, and assess comprehensive work-learning programs including_ (i) Community-based work-learning alternatives that expand opportunities for community service and career-related work; and (ii) Alternatives that develop sound citizenship, encourage student persistence, and make optimum use of assistance under the Work-Colleges program in education and student development. (b) Federal share of allowable costs. An institution, in addition to the funds allocated and reallocated for this program, may use transferred funds provided under its Federal Perkins Loan or its FWS program to pay allowable costs. (c) Institutional share of allowable costs. An institution must match Federal funds made available for this program on a dollar-for-dollar basis from non-Federal sources. The institution shall keep records documenting the amount and source of its share. (Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2756b) §675.46 Unallowable costs. An institution participating in the Work-Colleges program may not use its allocated and reallocated program funds and transferred funds provided under its Federal Perkins Loan or its FWS program to pay costs related to the purchase, construction, or alteration of physical facilities or indirect administrative costs. (Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2756b)
