FR940513-2-00052 FR940513-2-00031 In accordance with National Archives and Records Administration General Records Schedule requirements for financial records. System manager(s) and address: Administrative Specialist, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Notification procedure: All inquiries about this system of record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Record access procedures: Requests for access to a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.3. Contesting record procedures: Requests for amendments of a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.7. Record source categories: Corporation employees and other individuals executing records. FCSIC&hyph;5 System name: Financial Management Records_FCSIC. System location: These records are located at the Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Corporation employees and individuals conducting business with the Corporation. Categories of records in the system: Records consist of paper, electronic, and microfiche files supporting the Corporation financial management system, including employee travel advance records, records of budget formulation and execution, the Corporation administrative expenses, and other financial records. Authority for maintenance of the system: 12 U.S.C. 2277a&hyph;7, 2277a&hyph;8. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: This system of records serves as the source for collecting and recapping financial data to provide control over assets and liabilities, collection of revenues and disbursement of expenses and reports necessary for management and for other Government agencies. (1) In the event that information in this record system indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule, or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local, or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant thereto. (2) Information in this record system may be disclosed as a routine use to a Federal, State, or local agency maintaining civil, criminal, or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to a decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a grant or other benefit. (3) Information in this record system may be disclosed to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of and investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. (4) Disclosure may be made to a congressional office from the record of an individual in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of that individual. (5) It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice or to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear, when (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice or the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such records by the Department of Justice or the use of such records in the proceeding is deemed by the agency to be relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that in each case, the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice or the disclosure of such records in the proceeding is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. (6) In the event that information in this record system is needed in the course of presenting evidence to a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal, the relevant records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate person to use as evidence. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: storage: Records are stored in cabinets or electronically. Retrievability: Paper records are arranged by SF1166a (Voucher and Schedule of Payments) voucher number within each year. Automated system can retrieve by name, vendor number, or social security number as applicable. Safeguards: Paper files are kept in file cabinets in areas which are locked after business hours. Access to electronic system is limited to authorized employees. Retention and disposal: In accordance with National Archives and Records Administration General Records Schedule requirements for financial records. System manager(s) and address:
