FR940513-0-00133 FR940513-0-00034 The Commission indicated that, in choosing a format standard, it would be guided by the need to direct the purchaser's attention to the information that is most important, and the need for the information to be organized so it could be easily understood and acted upon. For example, the Commission stated that it would consider requiring that those items deemed most important to purchasers be featured on the front panel of a package label, perhaps within a graphic box, while permitting other disclosures to be placed elsewhere. 4. Substantiation and Sampling Requirements In the NPR, the Commission proposed requiring that manufacturers follow testing and test specimen sampling procedures to be specified in the final labeling rules to substantiate all disclosures they must make on labels, catalogs and point-of-sale written materials. The Commission stated that when DOE issues testing and sampling procedures for general service fluorescent lamps and general service incandescent reflector lamps, or for any additional lamp products, the Commission would consider whether to adopt the DOE procedures as the required substantiation under the labeling rules. 36 The Commission solicited comments about current industry testing and sampling procedures, such as those issued by IES and the American National Standards Institute (``ANSI''), that would be adequate in the interim to substantiate the disclosures it proposed. 36 EPA 92 amended EPCA to establish minimum energy efficiency standards for general service fluorescent lamps and incandescent (reflector) lamps. 42 U.S.C.A. 6295(i) (West Supp. 1993). The amendments require DOE to issue specific testing procedures for these lamp products. 42 U.S.C. 6293(b)(6) (West Supp. 1993). EPCA does not establish energy conservation standards or require DOE to issue test procedures for medium base compact fluorescent lamps or general service incandescent lamps (other than incandescent (reflector) lamps). However, DOE has authority to issue test procedures for categories of products that are not specified in EPCA, 42 U.S.C. 6292(b), 6393(b)(1)(B) (1988), and to set minimum efficiency standards for those products, 42 U.S.C.A. 6295(l) (West Supp. 1993). To enable the Commission to determine whether required disclosures are accurate, the NPR also proposed requiring that manufacturers, upon request by the Commission, submit, at the manufacturer's expense, a reasonable number of products to any laboratory designated by the Commission. Any charge levied by the laboratory for testing, however, would be paid for by the Commission. 37 37 Based on EPCA, 42 U.S.C. 6296(b)(3) (1988), the Appliance Labeling Rule, 16 CFR 305.16, applies this requirement to other products. 5. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements The Commission proposed requiring that manufacturers of all covered lamp products maintain records to substantiate each item that the final rules required to be disclosed, and proposed requiring manufacturers to submit those records to the Commission within 30 days of a request. The Commission also proposed requiring that lamp manufacturers submit annual reports on or before March 1 each year. As proposed, the yearly reporting requirement would not become effective until after DOE issues test procedures for specific lamp products covered by the labeling rules. The Commission stated that it would publish a notice after DOE had issued test procedures, announcing when the initial reports would be due. The Commission proposed requiring that each report contain the same type of information that currently is required for other categories of products covered by the Appliance Labeling Rule. To minimize the burdens imposed by this reporting requirement, the Commission proposed accepting trade association directories and similar submissions in lieu of individual annual reports, as it does for other product categories. 6. Other Matters The Commission proposed amending ยง305.1 of the Appliance Labeling Rule, 16 CFR 305.1, which summarizes the Rule's coverage, to include a description of the disclosures proposed for labels and catalogs. The Commission also proposed amending ยง305.2 of the Rule, 16 CFR 305.2, which contains definitions of words used in EPCA, to include definitions for additional words to be used in the Rule, based on definitions in EPCA, as amended by EPA 92, 42 U.S.C.A. 6291(30) (West Supp. 1993). IV. Analysis of Disclosures and Other Requirements Adopted by the Commission The Commission received information from the public relating to this rulemaking proceeding from three sources: written comments filed in response to the NPR, testimony during the Workshop, and supplemental written comments following the Workshop. The discussion below includes information from all three sources, as well as documents placed on the public record by the Commission's staff during the rulemaking proceeding. In some cases, participants in the proceeding modified their position on one or more of the issues as the rulemaking progressed. In instances in which the commentor's position on a particular issue changed, the Commission has taken the commentor's most recent comments as its final position on that issue. Similarly, whenever the Commission refers to a commentor's position on a particular issue, if it has changed since its original formulation, the Commission notes that change. A. Lamp Products Covered by Labeling Rules EPCA specifically defines the lamp products that are covered by the Commission's lamp labeling rules. Under EPCA, as amended by EPA 92, the Commission's labeling rules apply only to ``general service fluorescent lamps,'' ``medium base compact fluorescent lamps,'' and ``general service incandescent lamps.'' 42 U.S.C.A. 6294(a)(2)(c)(i) (West Supp. 1993). These lamp products are described in more detail below. 1. General Service Fluorescent Lamps The term ``fluorescent lamp'' means a lamp containing a low pressure mercury electric-discharge source in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultra-violet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light. 42 U.S.C.A. 6291(30)(A) (West Supp. 1993). EPCA includes only the following fluorescent lamps: (i) Any straight-shaped lamp (commonly referred to as 4-foot medium bi-pin lamps) with medium bi-pin bases of nominal overall length of 48 inches and rated wattage of 28 or more.
