FR940406-1-00021 FR940406-1-00007 (iii) The Agreement may be in any form and transfer any interest allowable under the law of the State in which the property or facility is located provided, however: (A) The Agreement may not serve to transfer title by deed in violation of Section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)). (B) The Agreement must contain a stipulation that all environmental restoration, waste management and environmental compliance activities required under Federal and State laws, administrative decisions, agreements (including schedules and milestones), and regulatory agency concurrences, including those that become effective at any time during the existence of the Agreement, shall be met by the person with whom the Agreement is to be executed. The environmental restoration for the Agreement must include activities associated with cleanup of petroleum and its derivatives. (C) The Agreement shall contain any item or condition that the Secretary of the Military Department concerned considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States. Such terms or conditions may include, but are not limited to, providing continued access to the property and facilities by the U.S. and State and local regulatory agencies; limitations upon the use to which the property may be put; and, provisions requiring a bond or other form of financial assurance. (D) The Agreement must contain a description of the information disclosed to the person to whom the property or facilities will be transferred on the environmental restoration, waste management and environmental compliance requirements and activities relevant to the property or facilities. This description shall include any specific information required by the notice requirements of Section 120(h)(1) of CERCLA (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)). (E) The Agreement should disclose to the person to whom the property or facilities will be transferred that the U.S. will not indemnify, hold harmless or defend that person pursuant to Public Law 102&hyph;484, section 330, as amended by Public Law 103&hyph;160, section 1002. (F) The Agreement may provide for a transfer to occur at any point after all remedial action necessary to protect human health and the environment has been constructed and installed by the person and the remedy has been demonstrated to the Military Department concerned and EPA to be operating properly and successfully. (iv) The consideration for the Agreement must equal the estimated fair market value of the property or facilities to be transferred, as determined by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned. The consideration may be in the form of the expected costs of all environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental compliance activities to be paid by the recipient of the property or facilities. If such expected costs are lower than the estimated fair market value of the property or facilities, the Secretary concerned shall obtain the difference in other consideration satisfactory to the Secretary concerned. (v) Before executing any Agreement authorized by Public Law 103&hyph;160, section 2908 the Secretary concerned must: (A) Disclose to the person to whom the property or facilities shall be transferred any information under the control of the Secretary regarding the environmental restoration, waste management and environmental compliance activities that relate to the property. (B) Conduct an Environmental Baseline Survey to determine whether there are impediments to the ultimate transfer of the property. (C) Make the certification to Congress required by Public Law 103&hyph;60, section 2908. (D) Ensure the consultation with the affected governor and local communities required by a base closure law, as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, has been conducted. Dated: March 31, 1994. P.H. Means, OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8115 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
