FR940811-2-00039 FR940811-2-00030 As indicated in Table 1, both ambient and model projected exceedances of mercury standards occur throughout the Harbor. Water quality modeling for mercury indicated that a significant portion of the total mercury load was not identified by the monitoring conducted to support the TMDL effort. This load, attributed to atmospheric deposition, drives exceedances of water quality standards. The proposed Phase I TMDLs for mercury are based on freezing existing point source loads and reducing atmospheric deposition loading by a portion of the anticipated levels of reduction resulting from the implementation of the Clean Air Act. Additional monitoring and water quality modeling will be conducted to: reassess the previously identified sources; quantify loads from atmospheric deposition and sediment flux; recalibrate the mercury water quality model; and to calculate Phase II TMDLs. Additional information regarding the technical development of TMDLs for the Harbor may be found in EPA's document entitled ``Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) for Copper, Mercury, Nickel and Lead in NY-NJ Harbor.'' B. Water Quality Standards States bordering interstate waters are required to assure compliance with the adjoining States' water quality standards, as well as their own. For all waters of NY-NJ Harbor, the States agreed to develop and implement Phase I TMDLs based on a uniform set of water quality criteria. The criteria, for mercury (0.025 μg/L), nickel (7.1 μg/L) and lead (8.5 μg/L) are based on the marine chronic aquatic life criterion expressed as the total recoverable form of the metal and represent the most stringent of the applicable NJ or NY standards. The copper criterion used to develop TMDLs is 5.6 μg/L (expressed as dissolved metal). This value is the most stringent of the two proposed site-specific copper criteria developed (7.9 [acute] and 5.6 [chronic] μg/L dissolved) for the Harbor waters (for additional information regarding the development of the site-specific copper criteria, refer to EPA's document entitled ``Development of a Site-Specific Copper Criterion for the NY/NJ Harbor Complex Using the Indicator Species Procedure''). The site-specific copper criteria will be proposed for adoption into NY and NJ State Water Quality Standards Regulations by separate State rulemaking actions. Phase I TMDL-based permit modifications will not be implemented for copper until such time as the proposed site-specific copper criteria are adopted by the States and approved by EPA. The above criteria will be applied on a Harbor-wide basis. C. Listing of Proposed Phase I TMDLs Based on applicable water quality standards and an assessment of loadings to the Harbor, Phase I TMDLs were calculated and allocated among municipal dischargers, industrial dischargers, combined sewer overflows, storm water, atmospheric, and tributaries. For copper, nickel, and lead, the Phase I TMDLs/WLAs/LAs are based on existing loads from: industrial/municipal dischargers identified as contributing significant loads of the above substances; combined sewer overflows; storm water dischargers; atmospheric deposition; and tributary sources. For mercury, Phase I TMDLs/WLAs/LAs are based on existing loads for all point sources and a projected reduction in atmospheric loads due to implementation of the Clean Air Act. Phase I TMDLs/WLAs/LAs are shown in Table 2. The TMDLs/WLAs/ LAs listed in the Tables below are not enforceable permit limits. The enforceable permit limits for municipal and industrial dischargers will be developed by the States based on the WLAs listed below. The Phase I effluent limits for municipal and industrial dischargers will be based on existing effluent quality and will be developed in accordance with ``EPA Region II's Guidance for Calculating Permit Effluent Limitations Based on Existing Effluent Quality.'' A copy of this document may be obtained by contacting the above mentioned person.
