FR941012-1-00060 FR941012-1-00011 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 216 [Docket No. 940971&hyph;4271; I.D. 082594C] 1RIN 0648&hyph;AH04 Taking and Importing of Marine Mammals AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: NMFS issues this proposed rule to clarify that the provisions of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) that make it unlawful for any person or vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, intentionally to set a purse seine net on or to encircle any marine mammal during any tuna fishing operation, apply to all U.S. citizens regardless of the flag of the vessel. This rule also clarifies the geographic scope of the prohibition. This action is intended to clarify statutory language to further the goals and objectives of the MMPA. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before November 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning this proposed rule should be addressed to the Director, Southwest Region, NMFS, 501 W. Ocean Blvd., Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA 90802, 310&hyph;980&hyph;4001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lt. Dana Wilkes, 310&hyph;980&hyph;4019. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In 1992, the International Dolphin Conservation Act (IDCA) amended the MMPA in several respects, including making it unlawful, after February 28, 1994, for any person or vessel that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, intentionally to set a purse seine net on or to encircle any marine mammal during any tuna fishing operation. The IDCA provides two relevant exceptions to these prohibitions: (1) As necessary for scientific research; and (2) as authorized by the general permit that was issued to the American Tunaboat Association on December 1, 1980. The taking of marine mammals by U.S. purse seine vessels fishing for yellowfin tuna in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean (ETP) is regulated by NMFS, pursuant to the MMPA, because purse seine fishing for yellowfin tuna in the ETP has frequently involved the setting on, encircling, and capturing of dolphins as part of the fishing operation. Earlier this year, NMFS determined that the dolphin mortality quota prescribed under the MMPA for vessels under the American Tunaboat Association general permit (which covers only U.S.-flag vessels) had been reached and, on February 8, 1994, closed the tuna fishery in the ETP involving the intentional setting on or encirclement of marine mammals to U.S.-flag vessels (59 FR 8417, February 27, 1994). As a result of a written inquiry and a subsequent lawsuit by U.S. citizens working aboard foreign-flag purse seine vessels, NMFS learned earlier this year that U.S. citizens are involved in the ETP purse seine yellowfin tuna fishery involving the intentional setting on and encirclement of marine mammals as captains and crew members on foreign-flag vessels. For the purposes of the prohibitions that were added to the MMPA by the IDCA, NMFS considers ``any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States'' to include any U.S. citizen aboard a fishing vessel, regardless of the flag of the vessel, located within the territorial sea of the United States, the U.S. exclusive economic zone (EEZ), on the high seas, or seaward of the territorial seas of foreign nations. Therefore, U.S. citizens in other nations' EEZs, but seaward of the territorial seas of any nation, are subject to the prohibitions of the MMPA. The highest priority in enforcing these prohibitions will be against those U.S. citizens, such as captains or fish captains, who are in charge of or actually control fishing operations involving the setting on and encirclement of marine mammals. A lower priority in enforcing these prohibitions will be against crew members who are not in a position of authority involving the conduct of fishing operations. NMFS will continue to enforce all other prohibitions governing the taking of marine mammals incidental to tuna purse seine fishing operations, as well as all other prohibitions under the MMPA, within waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, on the high seas, and seaward of the territorial seas of foreign nations. This area includes all of the ETP seaward of foreign nations' territorial seas. The MMPA and NMFS regulations define ``taking'' to include the harassment, hunting, capturing, or killing of any marine mammal, or the attempt to do so. Violators of the MMPA and the implementing regulations are subject to criminal and civil penalties. This rule proposes to amend 50 CFR 216.24(a) to make clear that the MMPA prohibitions on intentionally setting on and encircling marine mammals during tuna purse seine vessel fishing operations apply to all U.S. citizens regardless of the flag of the vessel. In addition, the notice proposes to revise the language describing ``prohibited taking'' found at ยง216.11 to make clear that the prohibition does not apply to the territorial seas of foreign nations, but applies seaward of them. Classification This rule proposes to revise MMPA regulations to conform to an existing statutory prohibition that became effective pursuant to the IDCA on March 1, 1994. The proposed rule would not establish any new prohibitions or requirements. The Assistant General Counsel for Legislation and Regulation of the Department of Commerce has certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration that the proposed modifications to the regulations, if adopted, would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866.
