FR941116-0-00146 FR941116-0-00022 (d) With regard to paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section, a list of the commodities that may not be planted on the program CAB's shall be available in the county ASCS offices. (e) With regard to the CAB, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section, the quantity of CAB that may be planted to a commodity, other than the specific program crop, may not exceed 25 percent of the contributing crop's CAB. (f) The total of the planted, prevented planted, and failed acreage of all participating crops shall not exceed the total of the permitted acreage for all participating crops on the farm. (g) Nonprogram crops approved for prevented planting or failed acreage credit planted on flex acreage may be credited as flex for participating program crops. (h)(1) Acreages that are flexed according to this section may be double cropped according to ยง1413.24(e). State committees will establish beginning and ending flex dates for spring and fall program crops. (i) The beginning date for the fall flex period shall be the normal planting date for fall planted program crops, and the ending date for the fall flex period shall be the normal harvest date for fall planted program crops; (ii) The beginning date for the spring flex period shall be the normal planting date for spring planted crops, and the ending date for the spring flex period shall be the normal harvest date for spring planted program crops. (2) Eligible flex acreage or ACR must be present on the farm from the time the program crop is normally planted until the program crop is normally harvested. (i) The CAB for a crop shall not be increased using the flex provisions of this section. (1) Planted and considered planted credit for all crops on a participating farm will be limited to the CAB for the crop. (2) Crop acreage planted in excess of the permitted acreage for the crop shall be credited only for planted and considered planted credit to the contributing participating program crops from which the additional acreage was flexed. (j) If, on January 1 of any calendar year, it is estimated by CCC that the national average price of soybeans during the subsequent soybean marketing year would be less than 105 percent of the nonrecourse soybean loan level, if soybeans were permitted to be planted on up to 25 percent of the program CAB, then the maximum program CAB that may be planted to soybeans may not exceed 15 percent of such acreage base. (k) Producers of a program crop who are participating in the ARP for that program crop shall be allowed to plant such program crop in excess of the permitted acreage of the crop without losing loan, purchase, and payment eligibility for the crop if: (1) The acreage planted to the program crop on the farm in excess of the permitted acreage does not exceed 25 percent of the CAB's on the farm for other participating program crops; and (2) The producer agrees to a reduction in the permitted acreage for the other program crops produced on the farm by the quantity equal to the overplanting. (l) Producers of an original program crop, who plant for harvest on the established acreage base of such original program crop, another program crop, and who are not participating in an ARP for such other program crop, shall be eligible for loans, purchases, or loan deficiency payments for such other program crop on the same terms and conditions as provided in a production adjustment program established for such other program crop. (m) Producers shall be eligible to receive loans, purchases, or loan deficiency payments in the case of other crops for which CCC has announced the availability of such benefits, if the producers: (1) Plant such other program crop in an amount that does not exceed 25 percent of the CAB established for the original program crop; and (2) Agree to a reduction in the permitted acreage for the original program crop for the crop year. Subpart H_Program Agreement and Enrollment Provisions
