FR940805-2-00085 FR940805-2-00049 B. Develop and update ADM annual plans in cooperation with the appropriate State and Federal agencies, permittees, and others. Cooperate with the BLM to identify human safety zones and other areas where mitigation or restriction may be needed to comply with BLM's Resource Management Plans. C. Complete necessary NEPA documents and decision records on the ADM plans. D. Conduct ADM on BLM lands in accordance with APHIS&hyph;ADC policies, consistent with BLM resource management plans. E. Provide the BLM with technical information on recommended ADM tools and techniques, when requested. V. It is Mutually Agreed By the Parties That A. The parties will participate, as needed, in State ADM agreements with the appropriate State and Federal agencies. B. The parties will ensure interagency coordination and review of the effects of predator control activities on BLM lands and resources before APHIS&hyph;ADC makes decisions on predator control plans. C. The parties will meet on a State or regional basis, as needed, to coordinate ADM operations. Representation shall be by the BLM State Director and the APHIS&hyph;ADC Regional Director, State Director of State Wildlife Agencies, State Department of Agriculture, and Regional Forester of the Forest Service or their designated representatives. D. The parties will elevate any problems regarding implementation of this agreement that cannot be resolved to the next higher level for resolution. E. Nothing in this MOU is intended to modify in any manner the present cooperative programs of either Agency with States, other public agencies, or educational institutions. F. This MOU shall supersede the existing MOU between APHIS&hyph;ADC and BLM and supplements and amendments thereto relating to the conduct of ADM programs by the parties. G. This MOU is neither a fiscal nor a funds obligation document. Any endeavor involving reimbursement or contribution of funds between the parties to this MOU will be handled in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and procedures including those for Government procurement and printing. Such endeavors will be outlined in separate agreements that shall be made in writing by representatives of the parties and shall be independently authorized by appropriate statutory authority. This MOU does not provide such authority. H. Nothing in this memorandum shall obligate either the BLM or APHIS&hyph;ADC to expend appropriations or to enter in any contract or other obligations. I. All ADM programs on BLM lands will be coordinated with appropriate State and Federal agencies. This MOU may be modified or amended upon written consent of both parties or may be terminated with 30-day written notice of either party. A. The principal contacts for this agreement are: Cal McCluskey, Wildlife Program Manager, Division of Wildlife & Fisheries, Bureau of Land Management, 1849 C Street, N.W. (LSB Rm. 204), Washington, D.C. 20240, Phone: 202&hyph;452&hyph;7770 Donald Hawthorne, Associate Deputy Administrator, USDA Animal and Plant Health, Inspection Service, P.O. Box 96464, Washington, D.C. 20090, Phone: 202&hyph;720&hyph;2054 VI. Effective Date In witness whereof, the parties hereto have executed this MOU as of the last written date below. U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management Director Date U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Administrator Date [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19103 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;84&hyph;P
