FR940513-1-00059 FR940513-1-00015 National Park Service 36 CFR Part 7 RIN 1024&hyph;AC20 Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming Mountain Climbing and Winter Backcountry Trip Regulations AGENCY: National Park Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The National Park Service (NPS) proposes to eliminate registration and check out requirements for climbing and off trail travel above 7,000 ft., and for winter travel in Grand Teton National Park. Existing regulations requiring climbers, off trail hikers, and winter travel users to register and check out upon completion of their activity were intended primarily to provide information necessary to initiate search and rescue responses. Actual experience over the years has shown that the intended purpose of these regulations has not been achieved. Nearly all search and rescue responses are generated by reports from sources other than the check out system. Instead of aiding rescuers, these regulations burden park rangers with the task of checking on countless cases of climbers and backpackers who failed to check out. These regulations have been enforced selectively for several years, where local climbers and guides have not been forced to register because of an assumed expertise and knowledge of the local area. The deletion of these regulations will not eliminate visitor protection services provided by park personnel. DATES: Written comments will be accepted through June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to: Superintendent, Grand Teton National Park, P.O. Drawer 170, Moose, Wy. 83012. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Colin W. Campbell, Law Enforcement Specialist, Grand Teton National Park, Telephone: 307&hyph;733&hyph;2880. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The existing National Park Service (NPS) special regulations that pertain to mountain climbing, off trail travel, and winter travel trips are codified at 36 CFR 7.22 (f) and (g). They require all technical climbers, off trail travel, and winter travel users to register or check in prior to undertaking these activities and to check out with a ranger upon completion of the activity. The original intent was primarily to provide park search and rescue personnel with the knowledge that a park user was in essence overdue from a potentially dangerous activity. In reality, almost all perceived overdue parties concerned climbers and backcountry users failing to properly check out. In addition, the vast majority of winter travelers either ignore or do not know of the requirement to register, and strict enforcement of this regulation has not been done for several years. The result has been a combination of non-compliance, failure to check out, failure to contact a ranger in a timely manner and wasted time and energy on the part of the park staff administering the system. After working with these restrictions since promulgation it has been determined that they are not achieving their original purpose of saving lives by alerting search and rescue personnel. In reality, almost all park search and rescue efforts are the result of initial reports by climbing partners, other park backcountry users, friends or relatives. The NPS believes the deletion of these rules will make the management of mountain climbing and winter backcountry trips more consistent with the practices of both state and federal agencies whose lands are contiguous with Grand Teton National Park. Overnight backcountry trips will continue to be regulated by general camping regulations at 36 CFR 2.10. A voluntary registration system will be available to climbers and backcountry travelers who choose to use it. The exchange of information between climbers, off trail hikers, winter travelers and park rangers will still be available and encouraged without mandating it through regulation. Furthermore the park staff will be educating park users to leave trip information with family or friends, shifting responsibility for trip planning onto the park user.
