FR940202-2-00161 FR940202-2-00073 C. Eligibility The only eligible applicants under this program are private, nonprofit organizations and nonprofit consumer cooperatives. Neither a public body nor an instrumentality of a public body is eligible to participate in the program. No organization shall participate as Sponsor or Co-sponsor in the filing of application(s) for a capital advance in a single region in this fiscal year in excess of that necessary to finance the construction, rehabilitation or acquisition (acquisition permitted only with RTC properties) of 300 units of housing and related facilities for the elderly. This limit shall apply to organizations that participate as Co-sponsors regardless of whether the Co-sponsors are affiliated or non-affiliated entities. In addition, the national limit for any one applicant is 10 percent of the total units allocated in all Regions. Affiliated entities which submit separate applications shall be deemed to be a single entity for the purposes of these limits. No single application may propose more than the number of units allocated to a Field Office or 125 units, whichever is less. Reservations for projects will not be approved for less than 40 units in metropolitan areas or less than 5 units in nonmetropolitan areas. D. Initial Screening, Technical Processing and Selection Criteria 1. Initial Screening Applications for section 202 capital advances that are received by HUD at the appropriate address by 4 p.m. local time on May 3, 1994 will be reviewed to determine if all parts of the application are included. HUD will not review the content of the application as part of initial screening. Deficiency letters will be sent informing Sponsors of any missing parts of the application. Sponsors must correct such deficiencies within 14 calendar days from the date of the deficiency letter. The deficiency letter is to be sent by certified mail. Any document requested as a result of the initial screening may be executed or prepared within the deficiency period, except for Forms HUD&hyph;92015&hyph;CAs, Articles of Incorporation, IRS exemption rulings, Forms SF&hyph;424, Board Resolution committing the minimum capital investment, and site control documents (all of these excepted items must be dated no later than the application deadline date). 2. Technical Processing. All applications will be placed in technical processing upon receipt of the response to the deficiency letter or at the end of the 14-day period. All applications will undergo a complete analysis. If a reviewer finds that clarification is needed to complete the review or an exhibit is missing that was not requested after initial screening, the reviewer shall immediately advise the Multifamily Housing Representative who will: (a) Request, by telephone, that the Sponsor submit the information within five (5) working days, and (b) follow up by certified letter. Communications must be attached to the technical review and findings memorandum. As part of this analysis, HUD will conduct its environmental review in accordance with 24 CFR part 50. Examples of reasons for technical processing rejection include an ineligible Sponsor, ineligible population to be served, lack of legal capacity, lack of site control and unacceptable site based upon a site visit. The Secretary will not reject an application based on technical processing without giving notice of that rejection with all rejection reasons, and affording the applicant an opportunity to appeal. An applicant will be afforded 14 calendar days from the date of HUD's written notice to appeal a technical rejection to the Field Office. The Field Office must respond within 5 working days to the Sponsor. The Field Office shall make a determination on an appeal prior to making its selection recommendations. All applications will be either rated or technically rejected at the end of technical processing. Technical processing will also assure that if the Sponsor has been found by a court or by a Federal, State, or local agency, in noncompliance with any of the statutes, regulations, or other requirements listed in the civil rights certification (ยง889.270(b)(8)(i)), HUD will obtain from the Sponsor a statement of the actions taken to correct that noncompliance. There must be no pending civil rights suits against the Sponsor instituted by the Department of Justice and no pending administrative actions for civil rights violations instituted by HUD. Moreover, there must not be a deferral of the processing of applications from the Sponsor imposed by HUD under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Department's implementing regulations (24 CFR 1.8), procedures (HUD Handbook 8040.1), and the Attorney General's Guidelines (28 CFR 50.3); or under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Department's implementing regulations (24 CFR 8.57), and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Upon completion of technical processing, all acceptable applications will be rated according to the selection criteria in ยง889.300(d) (also below in I.D.3). Applications which have a total score of 50 points or more will be eligible for selection and will be placed in rank order. 3. Selection Criteria Applications for section 202 capital advances that successfully complete technical processing will be rated using the following selection criteria: (a) In determining the Sponsor's ability to develop and operate the proposed housing on a long-term basis, consider the following (50 points maximum): (1) The scope, extent and quality of the Sponsor's experience in providing housing or related services to those proposed to be served by the project and the scope of the proposed project ( i.e., number of units, services, relocation costs, development, and operation) in relationship to the Sponsor's demonstrated development and management capacity. (32 points); (2) The scope, extent and quality of the Sponsor's experience in providing housing or related services to minority persons or families (5 points); (3) The scope, extent and quality of the Sponsor's experience in providing opportunities for minority and women-owned business enterprises participation (3 points); and (4) The extent of local community support for the Sponsor's activities, including previous experience in serving the area where the project is to be located, and Sponsor's demonstrated ability to enlist volunteers and local funds (10 points); (b) In determining the need for supportive housing for the elderly in the area to be served and the suitability of the site, consider (25 points maximum):
