FR940616-0-00106 FR940616-0-00012 Fields of Study Under the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training Program (§386.1) Comments: Several commenters suggested revisions in the listing of fields of study to conform with the listing of fields of study in section 302(b)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act and to include additional, specific fields, such as vision therapy and rehabilitation computer systems. Discussion: The listing of fields in the Rehabilitation Act does not provide enough detail. For example, a specific category is needed for the Secretary to target training resources for the preparation of specialized personnel for individuals who are blind or have vision impairment. The list of 30 areas established in regulations builds upon the listing in the Act by using areas that have been included in past long-term training competitions because they are areas where needs assessments show continuing needs. The Secretary has the authority under §386.1(b)(30) of the regulations to invite applications in other fields, such as vision therapy and rehabilitation computer systems, contributing to the rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities. Also, the Experimental and Innovative Training program (34 CFR part 387) offers opportunities for submittal of proposals to develop new types of training programs for rehabilitation personnel. Changes: None. Use of the Term ``Blind'' and the Term ``Deaf'' (§386.1) Comments: One commenter suggested that the term ``blind'' be eliminated because it connotes the absence of vision, and the vast majority of individuals who are targeted for rehabilitation under this category have residual vision (i.e., are partially sighted). Another commenter suggested substituting a broader category that would include blind individuals as well as other individuals with visual impairment. One Commenter suggested elimination of the term ``deaf'' as it connotes the absence of hearing, and many individuals served under the Rehabilitation Act have partial hearing loss. The commenter suggested use of a more inclusive phrase, such as persons with hearing loss. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that a change is needed in the identification of these categories of training. In the past, the Act included specialized personnel in providing services to individuals who are blind and to individuals who are deaf among the targeted areas of personnel shortages to which training projects might be directed. The terms ``blind'' and ``deaf'' were not specifically defined, but were broadly interpreted to include individuals with partial or total vision or hearing loss. The 1992 Amendments removed the terms ``blind'' and ``deaf'' from the listing of training areas in section 302(b)(1) and substituted training of personnel to provide services to individuals with specific disabilities. Since the regulations in 34 CFR part 386 provide the basis for specific allocations of training funds to targeted areas of personnel shortages, it is particularly important that the listing of targeted areas be as specific and inclusive as possible. Changes: The Secretary has included ``specialized personnel for rehabilitation of individuals who are blind or have vision impairment'' and ``specialized personnel for rehabilitation of individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing'' as targeted areas within §386.1 for training allocations. Lack of Academic Training in Guam (§386.1) Comment: One commenter expressed concern that rehabilitation training in Guam, which in the past has been provided through continuing education projects under the long-term training program, will no longer be available. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes the need for improved access to rehabilitation training for Guam and other remote and isolated areas. The Secretary believes that these needs will be met, in part, by distance learning training, which was first funded in fiscal year 1993 as a result of the 1992 Amendments (section 803(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended). Changes: None. Eligibility of State Agencies and Other Public or Nonprofit Agencies and Organizations, Including Institutions of Higher Education, Under the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training Program (§386.2) Comment: One commenter noted that, since State agencies and other public or nonprofit agencies do not offer degrees or certificates, maintaining those organizations as eligible applicants implies the intent to continue non-academic long-term training. Discussion: Section 302(a) of the Act establishes the broad eligibility criteria for applicants under the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program. The Secretary is aware of the rapidly changing auspices and circumstances under which specialized academic and certificate training is offered in the field of rehabilitation. Consortia and partnerships of States, public or nonprofit private agencies and organizations, and institutions of higher education may be formed to address rehabilitation training needs. The Secretary encourages those efforts and desires regulations that will facilitate new approaches through flexibility in eligibility requirements. Changes: None. Professional Corporation or Professional Practice (§386.4) Comment: One commenter wrote in support of the provisions in the regulations that define professional corporation or professional practice. Discussion: The Secretary appreciates the support for the definition of professional corporation or professional practice. Changes: None. Related Agency (§386.4) Comment: One commenter suggested substituting the legislative definition of ``community rehabilitation program'' in place of the language proposed in §386.4(b) describing related agencies that are not American Indian rehabilitation programs.
