FR940617-0-00203 FR940617-0-00026 The calibration procedure described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section establishes the value of the calibration coefficient at measured values of pressure, temperature, and air flow. (2) The manufacturer's recommended procedure shall be followed for calibrating electronic portions of the CFV. (3) Measurements necessary for flow calibration are as follows: Calibration Data Measurements 1Parameter 1Symbol 1Units 1Tolerances Barometric Pressure (corrected) P B kPa #.34 kPa Air temperature, into flowmeter ETI ○C ( # .3 ○C Pressure drop between the inlet and throat of metering venturi EDP kPa # .01 kPa Air flow Q S m3/min. # .5% of NIST value. CFV inlet depression PPI kPa # .055 kPa Temperature at venturi inlet T V ○C # 2.2 ○C (4) Set up equipment as shown in Figure 6 in Appendix A to subpart and eliminate leaks. (Leaks between the flow measuring devices and the critical flow venturi will seriously affect the accuracy of the calibration.) (5) Set the variable flow restrictor to the open position, start the blower, and allow the system to stabilize. Record data from all instruments. (6) Vary the flow restrictor and make at least eight readings across the critical flow range of the venturi. (7) Data analysis. The data recorded during the calibration are to be used in the following calculations: (i) The air flow rate (designated as Q s ) at each test point is calculated in standard cubic feet per minute from the flow meter data using the manufacturer's prescribed method. (ii) Calculate values of the calibration coefficient for each test point: E:GRAPHICSER17JN94.023 Where: Q s = Flow rate in standard cubic meter per minute, at the standard conditions of 0 ○C, 101.3 kPa. T v = Temperature at venturi inlet, ○K. P v = PB - PPI (= Pressure at venturi inlet, kPA) Where: P PI = Venturi inlet pressure depression, (kPa). (iii) Plot K v as a function of venturi inlet pressure. For choked flow, K v will have a relatively constant value. As pressure decreases (vacuum increases), the venturi becomes unchoked and K v decreases. (See Figure 7 in appendix A to this subpart.) (iv) For a minimum of eight points in the critical region calculate an average K v and the standard deviation. (v) If the standard deviation exceeds 0.3 percent of the average K v , take corrective action. (e) CVS system verification. The following ``gravimetric'' technique can be used to verify that the CVS and analytical instruments can accurately measure a mass of gas that has been injected into the system. (Verification can also be accomplished by constant flow metering using critical flow orifice devices.) (1) Obtain a small cylinder that has been charged with 99.5 percent or greater propane or carbon monoxide gas (Caution_carbon monoxide is poisonous). (2) Determine a reference cylinder weight to the nearest 0.01 grams. (3) Operate the CVS in the normal manner and release a quantity of pure propane into the system during the sampling period (approximately 5 minutes). (4) The calculations are performed in the normal way except in the case of propane. The density of propane (0.6109 kg/m3/carbon atom)) is used in place of the density of exhaust hydrocarbons.
