FR940118-0-00057 FR940118-0-00014 (i) The 20 percent threshold in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; (ii) The 25 percent threshold in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and (iii) The 35 percent threshold in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; Provided that, the Secretary may in the alternative reduce the 35 percent threshold by 10 percentage points for three population census tracts. (4) Rounding up of percentages. In making the calculations required by this section, the Secretary shall round all fractional percentages of one-half percentage point or more up to the next highest whole percentage point figure. (c) Noncontiguous areas. There can be no more than 3 noncontiguous areas if the nominated area is located within one state; noncontiguous areas are not allowed in the multistate areas. Each such parcel must separately meet the poverty criteria set forth in this section. (d) Area not within census tracts. In the case of an area that does not have population census tracts, the block numbering area shall be used for purposes of determining poverty rates. Subpart C_Nomination Procedure ยง25.200 Nominations by State and local governments. (a) Nomination criteria. One or more local governments and the State or States in which an area is located must nominate such area for designation as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community; if: (1) The rural area meets the requirements for eligibility described in ยง25.100 and ยง25.103 of this part; (2) The rural area is entirely within the jurisdiction of the nominating State or States and local government(s); such governments must have the authority to nominate the area for designation and provide written assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the strategic plan described in paragraph (c) of this section will be implemented; (3) All information furnished by the nominating State(s) and local government(s) is determined by the Secretary to be reasonably accurate; and (4) The State(s) and local government(s) certify that no portion of the area nominated is already included in an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community under this Act or in an area otherwise nominated to be designated under this section. (b) Nomination for designation. No rural area may be considered for designation pursuant to subpart D of this part unless the application for designation: (1) Demonstrates that the nominated rural areas satisfies the eligibility criteria set forth at ยง25.100 of this part; (2) Includes a strategic plan, as described in paragraph (c) of this section; and (3) Includes such other information as may be required by USDA in a Notice Inviting Applications, to be published in the Federal Register . (c) Strategic plan. Each application for designation must be accompanied by a strategic plan, which must be developed in accordance with four key principles that will be utilized to evaluate the plan. These key principles are: (1) Economic opportunity, including job creation within the community and throughout the region, entrepreneurial initiatives, small business expansion, and training for jobs that offer upward mobility; (2) Sustainable community development, to advance the creation of liveable and vibrant communities through comprehensive approaches that coordinate economic, physical, environmental, community and human development; (3) Community-based partnerships, involving the participation of all segments of the community, including the political and governmental leadership, community groups, health and social service groups, environmental groups, religious organizations, the private and non-profit sectors, centers of learning, and other community institutions and individual citizens; and (4) Strategic vision for change, which identifies what the community will become and a strategic map for revitalization. The vision should build on assets and coordinate a response to community needs in a comprehensive fashion. It should also set goals and performance benchmarks for measuring progress and establish a framework for evaluating and adjusting the revitalization plan. (d) Elements of strategic plan. The strategic plan should: (1) Indicate and briefly describe the specific groups, organizations, and individuals participating in its production, and describe the history of these groups in the community; (2) Explain how participants were selected and provide evidence that the participants, taken as a whole, are broadly representative of the entire community;
