FR941110-0-00220 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We already require the State to transfer Medicare and Medicaid residents to another facility or facilities in immediate jeopardy terminations. In fact, for Medicaid residents, the State is paid up to 30 days of FFP for the safe and orderly transfer to another facility or facilities after termination. We have not accepted the comment that the State be held liable for its action during such transfer. A State's liability should come under the purview of State law. We have no statutory basis to hold States liable for such actions. Therefore, we have not included this provision in the regulation. Comment: One commenter, representing a State Department of Aging, stated that the language in the proposed rule regarding transfer of residents is inadequate and provided a list of minimum requirements for States. The twelve requirements listed have all been covered by the preceding commenters except for the following two instances. The commenter recommends that a facility that is being terminated be monitored daily and also recommends that ongoing counseling for residents include follow-up post- transfer counseling. Response: Although the suggestion that facilities in the process of being terminated be monitored daily is well- intentioned, the specifics of transfer plans are under the purview of the States. We are not mandating that the States take specific action other than that already required and it is unlikely they could implement this suggestion given the uncertainty of how long the process will take and how much funding they will have available. Regarding the suggestion that follow-up post-transfer counseling be provided to residents, again it is the State that determines which services are provided for transfer of residents. Informal Dispute Resolution (§488.331) In the preamble to the proposed rule, we specifically asked for public comment about the desirability and feasibility of establishing a formal conflict resolution process whereby providers dissatisfied with survey findings could request a review of the deficiencies after the survey and prior to the formal administrative and judicial review processes. We also acknowledged the existence of the numerous informal opportunities providers currently have throughout the survey process to challenge survey findings: during the survey, at the exit conference, while awaiting receipt of the official deficiency statement, through dialogue with State and regional officials, and upon receiving the official deficiency statement. The term ``conflict'' resolution has been changed to ``dispute'' resolution in this final rule to be consistent with terminology used in the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act (ADRA) of 1990 and Executive Order 12778, which encourage such a process. Many commenters believe that a dispute resolution process is necessary. A few do not. Comment: The majority of commenters in favor of a dispute resolution process contend that there is currently no means for providers to resolve conflicts with survey findings short of costly litigation. Most say that they are either not afforded the informal opportunities to resolve conflicts to which we referred in the preamble to the proposed rule, or that the outcome of those opportunities is predetermined and, therefore, of little value. Also, many cite the ADRA of 1990 and Executive Order 12778 which (they claim) direct Federal agencies to develop dispute resolution mechanisms in an effort to reduce costly and lengthy litigation. A few commenters believe such a process could also serve as a means to measure surveyor quality assurance. The majority of comments supporting a process suggested that HCFA mandate an informal dispute resolution process, while less than one-third preferred that HCFA mandate a formal one. Several commenters suggested that HCFA adopt the current dispute resolution process of a specific State, for example, Ohio or Louisiana. These commenters contend that existing programs in specific States have been successful in resolving conflicts about survey findings. Others suggested that HCFA require that each State establish a State-specific process, in order to give States the flexibility to work within their existing administrative framework. Commenters proposed that since most States already have some type of dispute resolution process, we need only to require that it be formalized; in other words, in written form and publicly recognized. Commenters also suggested that HCFA establish one process to be used by all States. These comments were presumably based on the belief that a single process mandated by HCFA is the most effective means to ensure that consistent opportunities are offered in a consistent manner to all nursing home providers dissatisfied with survey findings. The proposals we received for a single process varied in extent and sophistication and included suggestions that the dispute resolution process: •Offer resolution opportunities at specific times during the survey (for example, conduct daily exit conferences or communicate at the time a deficiency is identified), and cease offering opportunities beyond specific events (for example, after the exit conference or after the issuance of the deficiency statement); •Provide multi-tiered opportunities that could include monitoring of corrections and mandatory revisits;
