FR941117-2-00082 FR941117-2-00054 What Microsoft is doing is not new. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in Step-Saver Data System, in finding a similar purported license to in fact be a contract for the sale of computer software stated: When form licenses were first developed for software, it was, in large part, to avoid the federal copyright law first sale doctrine. *␣*␣* By characterizing the original transaction between the software producer and the software rental company as a license, rather than a sale, and by making the license personal and non-transferable, software producers hoped to avoid the reach of the first sale doctrine and to establish a basis in state contract law for suing the software rental companies directly. *␣*␣* Under the amended (copyright) statute, a purchaser of a copy of a copyrighted computer program may still sell his copy to another without the consent of the copyright holder. This amendment renders the need to characterize the original transaction as a license largely anachronistic. The purchaser of a copy of a computer program enjoys the same freedom to transfer a copy as the owner of copies of any other form of copyrighted work. Goldstein, Copyright, Vol.1 Section 5.6.1 at p. 607. A copy of a computer program is a fungible good like any other copy of a copyrighted work. Computer programs are copyrightable intellectual property, but like a phono record of a composition, once implanted into a medium and widely distributed to computer owners, are merely copies. When transferred to a readable, it becomes a readily merchantable commodity. ``That a computer program may be copyrightable as intellectual property does not alter the fact that once in the form of a floppy disc or other medium, the program is tangible, moveable and available in the marketplace.'' Like a phono record of a musical composition, once implanted into a medium and widely distributed to computer owners, computer programs become fungible goods. The copyright owner who does not wish to encumber subsequent distribution of copies, embodying his work can do so by initially leasing rather than selling, C.F. Goldstein, Copyright, supra, Section 5.6.1, Vol, 1 at 595. However, once there has been a valid first sale of a copy of computer program, the First Sale Doctrine Act as a defense to any claim of copyright infringement as to subsequent purchases. While perhaps Microsoft desires to control the ultimate disposition of every one of the seventy million odd copies of its software in existence, it may not use the copyright laws to do so. Congress has decided wisely that when an item is sold, purchaser is to take certain minimum rights, among which is the right to resell. Patent decisions and copyright costs by analogy have uniformly recognized that the purpose of patent law is fulfilled with respect to any particular article when the patentee has received his reward for the use of his work by the sale of an article or copy, and that once that purpose is realized, the patent law affords no basis for retaining the use and enjoyment of the thing sold. [Citations omitted]. Construing and applying the patent law so as to give affect to the public policy which limits the granted monopoly strictly to the terms of the statutory grant, the particular form or method by which the monopoly is sought to be extended is immaterial. The first vending of any article manufactured under a patent or a copy of a copyright work puts the article beyond the reach of the monopoly which the patent confers. United States v. Univis Leno Co., et al., 316 U.S. 241, 251&hyph;252 (1942). A copyright, like a patent is a statutory grant of monopoly privileges. Broadcast Music, Inc. v. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., 441 U.S. 1, 29, 99 S. Ct. 1551, 1567 (1979). Being a statutory grant, the rights are only such as the statute confers, and may be enjoined only on the terms and conditions which is specifies. See Loew's Inc. v. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. A copyright owner, like a patentee, may not increase the scope of the monopoly afforded by the copyright through a license agreement with a licensee. F.E.L. Publications v. Catholic Bishop of Chicago, 506 F. Supp. 1127, 1134 (N.D. Ill. 1981) (Plaintiff's attempt to extend his copyright monopoly to the licensing of not-for-profit performances of copyright religious music for worship constituted an antitrust violation.) Microsoft's attempt to extend his monopoly beyond that conferred by statutory grant constitutes misuse and an antitrust violation. In addition its attempt to do so in concert with and by licensure agreement with hardware manufacturer constitutes a conspiracy in violation of the antitrust laws. Microsoft's bundling is an illegal tying arrangement, either cast as a per se tying or a conspiracy under Section 1 of the Sherman Act. Microsoft's ``licenses'' are ``contracts'' within the scope of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, as well as its licensing practices constituting monopolization under Section 2 of the Sherman Act.
