FR940429-0-00305 FR940429-0-00016 Discussion: The regulations require a guaranty agency to provide a hearing by a telephone conference with a borrower who requests that type of hearing. All telephonic costs associated with the hearing will be the responsibility of the guaranty agency. The Secretary believes this option reasonably accommodates borrowers who either choose to or who are unable to attend an in-person hearing with the guaranty agency. The Secretary sees no reason to compel a guaranty agency to tape the hearing, but would not object if an agency wished to do so. The Secretary does not intend to second-guess an agency's decisions about wage garnishments on a case-by-case basis. However, if the Secretary learns that a guaranty agency has failed to comply with procedures prescribed by the HEA and the regulations, or has failed to adhere to the standardized procedures required of all agencies (see note included in the discussion for ยง682.410(b)(10)(i)(G) above), the Secretary will take appropriate action. Change: None. Section 682.410(b)(10)(i)(K) 76. Comment: Some commenters believed that the regulations should clarify that, absent evidence to the contrary, the borrower shall be deemed to have received the notice of intent to garnish five days after its mailing date. The commenters believed this would prevent disputes about the date the borrower received the notice. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Change: The final regulations have been revised to incorporate this clarification in this paragraph, and the associated paragraph 682.410(b)(10)(i)(L). Section 682.410(b)(10)(i)(L) 77. Comment: Some commenters opposed the requirement that a guaranty agency must provide a hearing to a borrower whose written request for the hearing is received later than 15 days after the borrower received a notice of withholding. The commenters believed there is no statutory support for any exception to what they perceive to be a rigid 15-day deadline for a borrower to make such a request. Discussion: The commenters are incorrect. Section 488A(b) of the HEA specifically requires a guaranty agency to provide a hearing upon a borrower's request, even if the borrower's request is not made timely. Although the agency is not required to delay the issuance of a withholding order to the borrower's employer, the agency could do so, as explained in comment 78, if the agency believes a delay would be appropriate. Change: None. 78. Comment: Some commenters believed that even though a borrower's written request for a hearing is submitted late, there could nevertheless be valid reasons why the guaranty agency should not issue a withholding order to the borrower's employer. The commenters believed that this section of the regulations conflicted with ยง682.410(b)(10)(i)(H) which permits a guaranty agency to delay or cancel the withholding order if the agency receives information that it believes justifies the delay or cancellation. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Change: The final regulations have been revised to permit a guaranty agency to exercise this option. Section 682.410(b)(10)(i)(M) 79. Comment: Some commenters believed that the regulations should clarify that guaranty agencies may use alternative types of hearing examiners and are not limited to appointing only an administrative law judge. Discussion: The Secretary did not intend that the regulations be interpreted in the limited manner that some commenters have done, or in a manner that the commenters believe that other parties will do. A guaranty agency's hearing official may be any qualified individual, including an administrative law judge, who is not under the supervision or control of the head of the guaranty agency. Change: The final regulations have been revised to incorporate this clarification. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 682 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Education, Loan programs_education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid, Vocational education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: 84.032 Federal Family Education Loan Program) Dated: April 21, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
