FR940412-1-00097 FR940412-1-00012 §148.325 Wood chips; wood pulp pellets. (a) This part applies to wood chips and wood pulp pellets in bulk that are subject to oxidation leading to depletion of oxygen and an increase in carbon dioxide in the cargo hold. (b) No person may enter a cargo hold containing wood chips or wood pulp pellets, unless_ (1) The atmosphere in the cargo hold has been tested and contains sufficient oxygen to support life; or (2) The person entering the cargo hold is wearing the appropriate self-contained breathing apparatus. §148.330 Zinc ashes; zinc dross; zinc residues; zinc skimmings. (a) The shipper shall inform the cognizant Coast Guard Captain of the Port in advance of any cargo transfer operations involving zinc ashes, zinc dross, zinc residues, or zinc skimmings (zinc material) in bulk. (b) Zinc material must be aged by exposure to the elements for at least one year prior to shipment in bulk. (c) Prior to loading in bulk, zinc must be stored under cover for a sufficient period of time to ensure that it is as dry as reasonably practicable. No zinc material that is wet may be accepted for shipment. (d) Zinc material may not be loaded in bulk if its temperature is greater than 11.1 ○C (20 ○F) in excess of the ambient temperature. (e) Paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section apply only when zinc materials are carried by a manned cargo vessel: (1) Zinc material in bulk must be stowed in a mechanically ventilated hold which_ (i) Is designed for at least one complete air change every 30 minutes based on the empty hold; (ii) Has explosion-proof motors approved for use in Class I, Division 1, Group B atmospheres or equivalent motors approved by the vessel's flag state administration for use in hydrogen atmospheres; and (iii) Has nonsparking fans. (2) Each hold into which zinc material is to be loaded must be fitted with permanently installed combustible gas detectors capable of measuring hydrogen concentrations of 0 to 4.1% by volume. If the concentration of hydrogen in the space above the cargo exceeds 1% by volume, the ventilation system must be run until the concentration drops below 1% by volume. (3) Thermocouples must be installed approximately 6 inches below the surface of the zinc material or in the space immediately above the zinc material. If an increase in temperature is detected, the mechanical ventilation system required by paragraph (d) of this section must be used until the temperature of the zinc material is below 55 ○C (131 ○F). (4) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, the cargo hatches of holds containing zinc material must remain sealed to prevent the entry of seawater. (5) If the concentration of hydrogen is near 4.1% by volume and increasing, despite ventilation, or the temperature of the zinc material reaches 65 ○C (150 ○F) and the weather and sea conditions allow, the cargo hatches must be opened, taking care to prevent sparks and minimize the entry of water. Subpart F_Additional Special Requirements §148.400 Applicability.
