FR940217-2-00109 FR940217-2-00060 Local No. 60 Health and Welfare Fund (the Plan) Located in Leominster, Massachusetts [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;18; Exemption Application No. L&hyph;9526] Exemption The restrictions of sections 406(a), 406 (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act shall not apply to the cash sale of a parcel of real property (the Property) by the Plan to the New England Joint Board of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, AFL&hyph;CIO, for the greater of (1) $170,000 in cash or (2) the fair market value of the Property as of the date of the sale, provided the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the purchase price is not less than the fair market value of the Property on the date of the sale; and (b) the fair market value of the Property is determined by a qualified, independent appraiser as of the date of the sale. For a more complete statement of the facts and representations supporting the Department's decision to grant this exemption, refer to the notice of proposed exemption published on December 17, 1993 at 58 FR 66032. WRITTEN COMMENTS AND HEARING REQUESTS: The Department received one comment with respect to the proposed exemption, but it did not address any issues relating to the subject transaction. The Department received no requests for a hearing with respect to the proposed exemption. Accordingly, the Department has determined to grant the exemption as proposed. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary H. Lefkowitz of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8881. (This is not a toll-free number.) Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company (Penn Mutual), Located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, The Pennsylvania Trust Company (PTC), Located in Radnor, Pennsylvania; Independence Capital Management, Inc. (ICMI), Located in Horsham, Pennsylvania [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;19; Application Nos. D&hyph;9194, D&hyph;9195, D&hyph;9196] Exemption Section I. Covered Transactions The restrictions of section 406(a)(1) (A) through (D) and section 406 (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to: (1) The extension of credit by Penn Mutual, the sponsor and third party guarantor of an investment product involving a guaranteed investment contract (GIC), to a plan invested in the GIC pursuant to the terms of its participation in the Independence Stable Asset Trust (Stable Asset Trust); (2) the sale of the assets of a closed-end collective investment fund (Fund) which is part of the Stable Asset Trust to Penn Mutual upon termination of the Fund, or in connection with a non-benefit withdrawal from the Fund; (3) the transfer of a Fund's assets to Penn Mutual upon termination of the Fund, or in connection with a non-benefit withdrawal from the Fund; and (4) the operation of the Stable Asset Trust in accordance with the letter agreement between Penn Mutual and PTC. The exemption is subject to the following conditions which are set forth below in Section II. Section II. General Conditions The relief provided under Section I is available only if the following conditions are met: 1. The decision to invest in a Fund will be made by a plan fiduciary who is responsible for and knowledgeable regarding the investment of plan assets in GICs and similar investment products and who is independent of Penn Mutual, PTC, and ICMI and any affiliates of such entities (the Independent Fiduciary). 2. Prior to a plan's investment in a Fund, the Independent Fiduciary for such plan receives the following written disclosures: (a) All material facts concerning the structure, operation and investment objectives of the Fund including: i. A copy of the Supplement creating the Fund in which the plan intends to invest which identifies the proposed investment portfolio of the Fund (the Supplement), the Fund Commencement Date and the Scheduled Fund Termination Date, the date projected for the funding of all investments to be made in the Fund, the guaranteed rate of return for the Fund, and any other material terms of the Fund;
