FR940302-1-00036 FR940302-1-00013 International Civil Aviation Organization and Joint Aviation Regulations In keeping with the U.S. obligations under the Convention on International Civil Aviation (ICAO), it is FAA policy to comply with ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices (SARP) to the maximum extent practicable. For this notice, the FAA has determined that this proposal, if adopted, would not present any differences. International Trade Impact Assessment This proposed rule is not anticipated to affect the import of foreign products or services into the United States or the export of U.S. products or services to foreign countries. Federalism Implications This proposed rule would not have substantial direct effects on the states, on the relationship between the national government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612 (52 FR 41685; October 30, 1987), it is determined that this proposed rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Paperwork Reduction Act This proposed rule contains no information collection requests requiring approval of the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3507 et seq.). Conclusion For the reasons discussed in the preamble, and based on the findings in the Regulatory Flexibility Determination and the International Trade Impact Analysis, the FAA has determined that this regulation is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866. In addition, the FAA certifies that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. This regulation is not considered significant under Order DOT 2100.5, Policies and Procedures for Simplification, Analysis and Review of Regulations. A final regulatory evaluation of the regulation, including a final Regulatory Flexibility Determination and International Trade Impact Analysis has been placed in the docket. A copy may be obtained by contacting the person identified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 71 Airspace, Federal Aviation Administration, Navigation (Air).
