FR940602-1-00048 FR940602-1-00013 (6) No load on a mechanically powered vehicle shall be suspended or swung over any employee. (7) When mechanically powered vehicles are used, provisions shall be made to ensure that the working surface can support the vehicle and load, and that hatch covers, truck plates, or other temporary surfaces cannot be dislodged by movement of the vehicle. (8) When mechanically powered vehicles are left unattended, load-engaging means shall be fully lowered, controls neutralized, brakes set and power shut off. Wheels shall be blocked or curbed if the vehicle is on an incline. (9) When lift trucks or other mechanically powered vehicles are being operated on open deck type barges, the edges of the barges shall be guarded by railings, sideboards, timbers, or other means sufficient to prevent vehicles from rolling overboard. When such vehicles are operated on covered lighters where door openings other than those being used are left open, means shall be taken to prevent vehicles from rolling overboard through such openings. (10) Unauthorized personnel shall not ride on mechanically powered vehicles. A safe place to ride shall be provided when riding is authorized. (11) An employee may be elevated by fork lift trucks only when a platform is secured to the lifting carriage or forks. The platform shall meet the following requirements: (i) The platform shall have a railing complying with ยง1917.112(c) of this chapter. (ii) The platform shall have toeboards complying with ยง1917.112(d) of this chapter, if tools or other objects could fall on employees below. (iii) When the truck has controls which are elevated with the lifting carriage, means shall be provided for employees on the platform to shut off power to the vehicle. (iv) Employees on the platform shall be protected from exposure to moving truck parts. (v) The platform floor shall be skid resistant. (vi) A truck operator shall be at the truck's controls when employees are elevated, unless the truck's controls are elevated with the lifting carriage. (vii) While an employee is elevated the truck may be moved only to make minor placement adjustments. ยง1918.66 Cranes and derricks other than vessel's gear. (a) General. The following requirements shall apply to the use of cranes and derricks brought aboard vessels for the purpose of conducting longshoring operations. They shall not apply to cranes and derricks forming part of a vessels permanent equipment. (l) Certification. Cranes and derricks shall be certificated in accordance with part 1919 of this chapter. (2) Posted weight. The crane weight shall be posted on all cranes hoisted aboard vessels for temporary use. (3) Rating chart. All cranes and derricks having ratings that vary with boom length, radius (outreach) or other variables shall have a durable rating chart visible to the operator, covering the complete range of the manufacturer's (or design) capacity ratings. The rating chart shall include all operating radii (outreach) for all permissible boom lengths and jib lengths, as applicable, with and without outriggers, and alternate ratings for optional equipment affecting such ratings. Precautions or warnings specified by the owner or manufacturer shall be included along with a chart. (4) Rated loads. The manufacturer's (or design) rated loads for the conditions of use shall not be exceeded. (5) Change of rated loads. Designated working loads shall not be increased beyond the manufacturer's ratings or original design limitations unless such increase receives the manufacturer's approval. When the manufacturer's services are not available or where the equipment is of foreign manufacture, engineering design analysis shall be performed or approved by a person accredited for certificating the equipment under part 1919 of this chapter. Engineering design analysis shall be performed by a registered professional engineer competent in the field of cranes and derricks. Any structural changes necessitated by the change in rating shall be carried out. (6) Radius indicator. When the rated load varies with the boom radius, the crane or derrick shall be fitted with a boom angle or radius indicator visible to the operator.
