FR940830-1-00113 FR940830-1-00015 * * * * * (h) Handling of licensed vehicles. *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (vi) Necessary to carry fuel for heating or water for home use when such transported fuel or water is the primary source of fuel or water for the household. Households shall receive this resource exclusion without having to meet any additional tests concerning the nature, capabilities, or other uses of the vehicle. Households shall not be required to furnish documentation, as mandated by §273.2(f)(4), unless the exclusion of the vehicle is questionable. If the basis for exclusion of the vehicle is questionable, the State agency may require documentation from the household, in accordance with §273.2(f)(4). * * * * * (3) Each licensed vehicle not excluded under paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall be evaluated individually to determine its fair market value resource exclusion limit, and that portion of the resource exclusion limit which exceeds $4,500 for FY 1993, shall be attributed in full toward the household's resource level regardless of any encumbrances. The $4,500 fair market value resource exclusion limit for licensed vehicles shall remain in effect through August 31, 1994. On September 1, 1994 through September 30, 1995, the fair market value resource exclusion limit shall be increased to $4,550. On October 1, 1995 through September 30, 1996, the fair market value resource exclusion limit shall be increased to $4,600. On October 1, 1996 and each October 1 thereafter, using a base of $5,000, the fair market value resource exclusion limit for licensed vehicles shall be adjusted to reflect changes in the new car component of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the 12-month period ending on June 30 preceding the date of such adjustment and rounded to the nearest $50. Any value in excess of the appropriate fair market value resource exclusion limit shall be attributed in full toward the household's resource level, regardless of any encumbrances on the vehicle. For example, in November 1994 a household owning an automobile with a fair market value of $5,550 shall have $1,000 applied toward its resource exclusion level. Any value in excess of $4,550 (the fair market value resource exclusion limit for that time period) shall be attributed to the household's resource level, regardless of the amount of the household's investment in the vehicle, and regardless of whether or not the vehicle is used to transport household members to and from employment. Each vehicle shall be appraised individually. The fair market value resource exclusion limit of two or more vehicles shall not be added together to reach a total fair market value resource exclusion in excess of the fair market value resource exclusion for the appropriate time period. * * * * * (6) In summary, each licensed vehicle shall be handled as follows: First, the vehicle shall be evaluated to determine if it is an income producer, a home, necessary to transport a disabled household member, or necessary to carry fuel for heating or water for home use. *␣*␣* * * * * * 6. In §273.9: a. Paragraph (c)(1) is revised. b. The first sentence of paragraph (c)(7) is revised and the last sentence is removed. c. Paragraph (d)(4) is amended by removing the words ``$160 per month, per dependent'' in the last sentence and adding in their place the words ``$200 a month for each dependent child under two (2) years of age and $175 a month for each other dependent'' and by adding a new sentence to the end of the paragraph. The revisions read as follows: §273.9 Income and deductions. * * * * * (c) Income exclusions . *␣*␣* (1) Any gain or benefit which is not in the form of money payable directly to the household, including in-kind benefits and certain vendor payments. In-kind benefits are those for which no monetary payment is made on behalf of the household and include meals, clothing, housing, or produce from a garden. A vendor payment is a money payment made on behalf of a household by a person or organization outside of the household directly to either the household's creditors or to a person or organization providing a service to the household. Payments made to a third party on behalf of the household are included or excluded as income in accordance with this paragraph. (i) Public assistance (PA) vendor payments. PA vendor payments are counted as income unless they are made for: (A) medical assistance; (B) child care assistance; (C) energy assistance as defined in paragraph (c)(11) of this section; (D) emergency assistance (including, but not limited to housing and transportation payments) for migrant or seasonal farmworker households while they are in the job stream; (E) housing assistance payments for households living in transitional housing for the homeless; (F) emergency and special assistance. PA provided to a third party on behalf of a household which is not specifically excluded from consideration as income under the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (c)(1)(i)(E) of this section shall be considered for exclusion under this provision. To be considered emergency or special assistance and excluded under this provision, the assistance must be provided over and above the normal PA grant or payment, or cannot normally be provided as part of such grant or payment. If the PA program is composed of various standards or components, the assistance would be considered over and above the normal grant or not part of the grant if the assistance is not included as a regular component of the PA grant or benefit or the amount of assistance exceeds the maximum rate of payment for the relevant component. If the PA program is not composed of various standards or components but is designed to provide a basic monthly grant or payment for all eligible households and provides a larger basic grant amount for all households in a particular category, e.g., all households with infants, the larger amount is still part of the normal grant or benefit for such households and not an ``extra'' payment excluded under this provision. On the other hand, if a fire destroyed a household item and a PA program provides an emergency amount paid directly to a store to purchase a replacement, such a payment is excluded under this provision. If the PA program is not composed of various standards, allowances, or components but is simply designed to provide assistance on an as-needed basis rather than to provide routine, regular monthly benefits to a client, no exclusion would be granted under this provision because the assistance is not provided over and above the normal grant, it is the normal grant. If it is not clear whether a certain type of PA vendor payment is covered under this provision, the State agency shall apply to the appropriate FNS Regional Office for a determination of whether the PA vendor payments should be excluded. The application for this exclusion determination must explain the emergency or special nature of the vendor payment, the exact type of assistance it is intended to provide, who is eligible for the assistance, how the assistance is paid, and how the vendor payment fits into the overall PA benefit standard. A copy of the rules, ordinances, or statutes which create and authorize the program shall accompany the application request.
