FR940721-0-00046 FR940721-0-00014 Like the domestic vehicle manufacturers, the foreign manufacturers recommended numerous other changes in the proposed regulation, relating to such things as how the value of passenger motor vehicle equipment is determined, how the engine and transmission countries of origin are determined, the responsibilities of suppliers, how currencies should be converted, the time when the label must be attached to the vehicle, and what requirements are appropriate with respect to maintenance of records and reporting content information to the agency. NHTSA received comments from several suppliers and one supplier trade association, the Automotive Parts Manufacturers' Association (APMA). That association stated that if the agency does not adopt the AIAG model of content calculation, the regulation should specifically state how outside suppliers should calculate U.S./Canadian content. APMA stated that the proposed rule relies on the definitions of ``value added'' and ``foreign content'' in the statute, but that neither the statute nor the regulation give specific regulatory direction concerning how outside suppliers are to calculate ``value added in the U.S./Canada.'' The agency also received comments from two dealer associations, the National Automobile Dealers Association (NADA) and the American International Automobile Dealers Association (AIADA). These organizations submitted comments which focused on dealer responsibilities and other issues of concern to dealers. NHTSA also received comments from final stage manufacturers and the National Truck Equipment Association (NTEA), a trade association representing distributors and manufacturers of multi-stage produced work-related trucks, truck bodies and equipment. These comments focused on issues of concern to final stage manufacturers. III. Overview of Final Rule Today's final rule establishes a new regulation, 49 CFR Part 583, Automobile Parts Content Labeling, to implement section 210 of the Cost Savings Act. The regulation establishes requirements for (1) Manufacturers of passenger motor vehicles; (2) suppliers of motor vehicle equipment used in the assembly of passenger motor vehicles; and (3) dealers of passenger motor vehicles. A summary of the requirements is set forth below. A. Manufacturers of Passenger Motor Vehicles Beginning on October 1, 1994, vehicle manufacturers are required to affix to all new passenger motor vehicles (this category includes passenger cars, certain small buses, and all trucks and multipurpose passenger vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 8,500 pounds or less) a label which provides the following information: (1) U.S./Canadian Parts Content_ the overall percentage, by value, U.S./Canadian content of the motor vehicle equipment installed on the carline of which the vehicle is a part; (2) Major Sources of Foreign Parts Content_ the names of the two countries, if any, other than the U.S./Canada, which contributed the greatest amount (at least 15 percent), by value, of motor vehicle equipment for the carline, and the percentage, by value, of the equipment originating in each such country; (3) Final Assembly Point_ the city, state (where appropriate), and country in which the final assembly of the vehicle occurred; (4) Country of Origin for the Engine Parts; (5) Country of Origin for the Transmission Parts.
