FR941117-0-00074 FR941117-0-00011 (2) In view of unique or unusual factual circumstances of the instant case, application of the rule(s) would be inequitable, unduly burdensome or contrary to the public interest, or that the applicant has no reasonable alternative. (b) The FCC, in its discretion, may give public notice of the filing of a waiver request and seek comment from the public or affected parties. (c) Denial of a rule waiver request associated with an application renders that application defective unless it contains an alternative proposal that fully complies with the rules, in which event the application is processed using the alternative proposal as if the waiver had not been requested. Applications rendered defective may be dismissed without prejudice. §22.120 Application processing; initial procedures. This section contains rules governing the initial processing of applications for authority to operate a station in the Public Mobile Services. (a) File numbers. Applications received by the FCC are assigned file numbers. Assignment of a file number to an application is for administrative convenience and does not constitute a determination that the application is acceptable for filing. Assignment of a file number does not preclude the subsequent return or dismissal of an application. For administrative efficiency, the FCC, in its discretion, occasionally consolidates separate applications filed simultaneously by the same applicant into a single application (with one file number) and splits applications comprising two or more severable proposals into separate applications (with different file numbers). (b) Received date. The FCC records the date on which each application is received. This date is used to determine compliance with applicable cut-off dates or filing windows and for other purposes. (c) Initial review for completeness (prescreening). Each application is reviewed for completeness. The purpose of this initial review is to identify applications that are defective in an obvious way (e.g. not signed, missing pages, improper or missing fee payment). Applications found to be defective in this review are unacceptable for filing and may be returned to the applicant with a brief statement indicating the nature of the defect(s) found. Applications for which no obvious defects are discovered in the initial review are acceptable for filing. (d) Public notice; acceptance for filing. The FCC periodically issues Public Notices that list applications that are acceptable for filing. The listing of an application on a Public Notice as acceptable for filing provides notices to the public that the application has been filed; it does not preclude dismissal of the application if it is subsequently found to be defective or otherwise subject to dismissal under §22.128. §22.121 Repetitious, inconsistent or conflicting applications. Repetitious, inconsistent or conflicting applications are not accepted for filing by the FCC. Unless the FCC in a particular case determines otherwise, such applications are not returned to the applicant. (a) While an application is pending, any subsequent inconsistent or conflicting application submitted by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of the same applicant, its successor or assignee will not be accepted for filing. (b) If an applicant has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing with respect to an application for a new station or an enlargement of service area, and the FCC has, after hearing or default, denied the application or dismissed it with prejudice, the FCC will not consider a like application for service of the same type to the same area by that applicant, or by its successor or assignee, or on behalf of or for the benefit of the parties in interest to the original application, until one year after the effective date of the FCC's action on the original application. (c) If an appeal has been taken from the action of the FCC denying a particular application, a like application for service of the same type to the same area, in whole or in part, filed by that applicant or by its successor or assignee, or on behalf or for the benefit of the parties in interest to the original application, will not be considered until the final disposition of such appeal. (d) If an authorization is voluntarily cancelled or automatically terminated because of failure to commence service to subscribers (see §22.144), the FCC will not consider an application for another authorization to operate a station on the same channel (or, in the case of a 931 MHz paging station, the same frequency range) in the same geographical area by that party, or by its successor or assignee, or on behalf of or for the benefit of the parties in interest to the terminated authorization, until one year after the date the authorization terminated. This paragraph does not apply to authorizations in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service. §22.122 Amendment of applications. Pending applications may be amended as a matter of right if they have not been designated for hearing or listed in a Public Notice for a random selection or competitive bidding process, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and in §22.949. (a) If a petition to deny or other formal objection has been filed, a copy of any amendment (or other filing) must be served on the petitioner. If the FCC has issued a Public Notice stating that the application appears to be mutually exclusive with another application (or applications), a copy of any amendment (or other filing) must be served on any such mutually exclusive applicant (or applicants). (b) Amendments to applications that resolve mutual exclusivity may be filed at any time, subject to the requirements of §22.129. (c) Amendments to applications designated for hearing may be allowed by the presiding officer and amendments to applications selected in a random selection process may be allowed by the FCC for good cause shown. In such instances, a written petition demonstrating good cause must be submitted and served upon the parties of record.
