FR940419-1-00072 FR940419-1-00009 ยง964.15 HUD policy on resident management. It is HUD's policy to encourage resident management. HUD encourages HAs, resident councils and resident management corporations to explore the various functions involved in management to identify appropriate opportunities for contracting with a resident management corporation. Potential benefits of resident-managed entities include improved quality of life, experiencing the dignity of meaningful work, enabling residents to choose where they want to live, and meaningful participation in the management of the housing development. ยง964.16 HUD role in activities under this rule. (a) General. Subject to the requirements of this part and other requirements imposed on HAs by the ACC, statute or regulation, the form and extent of resident participation including resident management are local decisions to be made jointly by resident councils/resident management corporations and their HAs. HUD will promote tenant participation and tenant opportunities programs, and will provide additional guidance, as necessary and appropriate. In addition, HUD will endeavor to provide technical assistance in connection with these initiatives. (b) Monitoring. HUD shall ensure that the requirements under this rule are operating efficiently and effectively. ยง964.18 HA role in activities under subparts B & C. (a) HAs with 100 units or more. (1) A HA shall officially recognize a duly elected resident council as the sole representative of the residents it purports to represent, and support its tenant participation activities. (2) When requested by residents, a HA shall provide appropriate guidance to residents to assist them in establishing and maintaining a resident council. (3) A HA may consult with residents, or resident councils (if they exist), to determine the extent to which residents desire to participate in activities involving their community, including the management of specific functions of a public housing development that may be mutually agreeable to the HA and the resident council/resident management corporation. (4) A HA shall provide the residents or any resident council with current information concerning the HA's policies on tenant participation in management. (5) If requested, a HA shall provide a duly recognized resident council office space and meeting facilities, free of charge, preferably within the development it represents. (6) If requested, a HA shall negotiate with the duly elected resident council on all uses of community space for meetings, recreation and social services and other resident participation activities pursuant to HUD guidelines. Such agreements shall be put into a written document to be signed by the HA and the resident council. If a HA fails to negotiate with a resident council in good faith or, after negotiations, refuses to permit such usage of community space, the resident council may file an informal appeal with HUD, setting out the circumstances and providing copies of relevant materials evidencing the resident council's efforts to negotiate a written agreement. HUD shall require the HA to respond with a report stating the HA's reasons for rejecting the request or for refusing to negotiate. HUD shall require the parties (with or without direct HUD participation) to undertake or to resume negotiations on an agreement. HUD shall take other actions as are necessary to resolve the conflicts between the parties. (7) In no event shall HUD or a HA recognize a competing resident council once a duly elected resident council has been established. Any funding of resident activities and resident input into decisions concerning public housing operations shall be made only through the officially recognized resident council. (8) The HA shall ensure open communication and frequent meetings between HA management and resident councils and shall encourage the formation of joint HA management-resident committees to work on issues and planning. (9) The resident council shall hold frequent meetings with the residents to ensure that residents have input, and are aware and actively involved in HA management-resident council decisions and activities.
