FR940228-1-00029 FR940228-1-00003 (b) Each licensee shall have a program for inspection and routine maintenance of radiographic exposure devices, source changers, associated equipment and storage containers at intervals not to exceed 3 months or before the first use thereafter to ensure the proper functioning of components important to safety. Records of these inspections and maintenance performed must be made in accordance with §34.73. If defects are found, the equipment must be removed from service until repaired, and a record must be made in accordance with §34.73. (c) The opening, repair, or modification of any sealed source must be performed by persons specifically authorized to do so by the Commission or an Agreement State. §34.32 [Removed] 26. Section 34.32 is removed. 27. Section 34.33 is revised to read as follows: §34.33 Permanent radiographic installations. (a) Each entrance that is used for personnel access to the high radiation area in a permanent radiographic installation must have either (1) Entrance controls of the type described in §20.1601(a)(1) of this chapter; or (2) Both visible and audible warning signals to warn of the presence of radiation. The visible signal must be actuated by radiation whenever the source is exposed. The audible signal must be actuated when an attempt is made to enter the installation while the source is exposed. (b) The alarm system must be tested for proper operation at the beginning of each day the installation is used for radiographic operations. The test must include a check of the visible and audible signals by turning on the exposure device before using the room. Entrance control devices must be tested monthly. If a control device or alarm is operating improperly, it must be immediately labeled as defective and repaired before industrial radiographic operations are resumed. Test records must be maintained in accordance with §34.75. 28. Section 34.35 is added to read as follows: §34.35 Labels, storage, and transportation precautions. (a) Labels. (1) The licensee may not use a source changer or container to store licensed material unless the source changer or the container has securely attached to it a durable, legible, and clearly visible label. The label must contain the radiation symbol specified in §20.1904 of this chapter and the wording Caution (or Danger) Radioactive Material_Do Not Handle Notify Civil Authorities (or Name of Company) (2) The licensee may not transport licensed material unless the material is packaged, and the package is labeled, marked, and accompanied with appropriate shipping papers in accordance with regulations set out in 10 CFR Part 71, including documentation of the Quality Assurance (QA) program requirements outlined in §71.105 of this chapter. (b) Security precautions during storage and transportation. (1) Locked radiographic exposure devices and storage containers must be physically secured to prevent tampering or removal by unauthorized personnel in accordance with the requirements in §34.23. The licensee shall store licensed material in a manner which will minimize danger from explosion or fire. (2) The licensee shall lock and physically secure the transport package containing licensed material in the transporting vehicle to prevent accidental loss, tampering, or unauthorized removal of the licensed material from the vehicle. 29. A new heading for subpart D, consisting of §§34.41&hyph;34.57, is added to read as follows: Subpart D_Radiation Safety Requirements 30. Section 34.41 is revised to read as follows: §34.41 Conducting radiographic operations. (a) Whenever radiography is performed at a location other than a permanent radiographic installation, the radiographer must be accompanied by at least one other qualified radiographer or an individual who has at a minimum met the requirements of §34.43(b). The additional qualified individual(s) shall observe the operations and be capable of providing immediate assistance to prevent unauthorized entry. Radiography may not be performed if only one qualified individual is present. (b) All radiographic operations conducted at locations of use authorized on the license must be conducted in a permanent radiographic installation, unless specifically authorized by the Commission.
