FR940106-0-00042 FR940106-0-00015 IV. Statutory Authority Authority for the actions promulgated in this final rule is granted to EPA by section 371 of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act of 1993, Public Law 103&hyph;182. V. Administrative Designation Under Executive Order 12866, the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and, therefore, subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The order defines a ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. It has been determined that this rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under the terms of Executive Order 12866 and is therefore not subject to OMB review. VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1990, which requires federal agencies to identify potentially adverse impacts of federal regulations upon small entities, does not apply to this rulemaking. Section 604 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act requires analyses only for final rules for which a general notice of proposed rulemaking is required. As discussed in section III, a general notice of rulemaking would be unnecessary and impracticable and, thus, is not required for this rule. VII. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements Under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq., EPA must obtain Office of Management and Budget clearance for any activity that will involve collecting substantially the same information from ten or more non-Federal respondents. This regulation does not impose any new information requirements or contain any new information collection requirements and will result in no change in the reporting burden. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 600 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Energy conservation, Fuel economy, Gasoline, Imports, Labeling, Motor vehicles, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: December 30, 1993. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
