FR941110-0-00141 FR941110-0-00016 We chose not to set the minimum amount of notice required any higher than 2 days in the case of immediate jeopardy because the longer immediate jeopardy persists, the greater the likelihood that actual harm or even death may result or continue. We have, for the reasons cited in the paragraph immediately preceding determined that a facility be given no less than 2 days before imposition of sanctions. Besides, it has been our experience that, as a practical matter, it takes longer than 2 days to complete termination proceedings once they are begun. It is our belief that we have struck a fair balance between giving facilities fair notice and a reasonable chance to correct deficiencies and fulfilling our responsibility to safeguard the health or safety of residents. We have chosen 15 days in the case of nonimmediate jeopardy by carefully weighing the same considerations. It is important to understand that we are bound by Federal law to minimize the time between the identification of violations and final imposition of remedies. While sections 1819 and 1919 of the Act do not require giving specific notice before the imposition of remedies, constitutional principles of due process generally do require such a notice of agency adverse action. On the other hand, neither the Act nor the Constitution require that providers have the opportunity to correct deficiencies before sanctions are imposed. In other words, there is a need for prior notice, but not an entitlement on the providers' part to an opportunity to correct deficiencies. This policy, we believe, satisfies due process concerns of providers. As we have said, the only exception is the immediate imposition of a State monitor when there is an immediate jeopardy situation, because, above all else, it is our responsibility to protect the lives of residents. The facility will not be required to pay the salary of the State monitor; nor will the State monitor have managerial authority to obligate facility funds. (That authority is reserved for the temporary manager who could be installed a couple of days later.) The State monitor can be appointed immediately, while other sanctions are pending during notice periods to protect residents. With respect to civil money penalties, we do not believe that any notice is required before HCFA or a State advises a facility that noncompliance has occurred and that a penalty is to be imposed. As the statute clearly suggests, civil money penalties may be imposed for past periods of noncompliance even if a facility is currently in compliance. Notice is required, however, before a civil money penalty can be collected, and the regulations call for exactly this procedure. Like any other commercial enterprise, nursing homes must structure their debits and credits around their cash flow. We believe that notifying a facility that it must pay a civil money penalty instantly is unfair, unrealistic, and not in accordance with the basic principles of due process. In this final rule, we are removing the provision requiring a maximum of 4 days notice before the imposition of a sanction in ยง488.402(f). We may impose a remedy for immediate jeopardy, as ยง488.410 allows, as long as we give the facility at least 2 days' notice before the imposition of the remedy and no more than 23 days from the last day of the survey to remove the jeopardy or be terminated. In actual practice, the facility is notified that there is an immediate jeopardy deficiency as soon as the survey has been completed. It is only the official notice of the imposition of a remedy that may not be sent until later, as long as it is received by the facility at least two days before the effective date of the remedy.
