FR941222-2-00128 FR941222-2-00100 Each grant made under the COPC program will be for a maximum two year period of performance. The maximum size of any grant will be $750,000, while the minimum will be $250,000. HUD has the authority to reduce the grant amount. Several applications were disqualified last year because they exceeded the maximum amount. Each applicant must submit an application within this range. Institutions of higher education which received COPC grants in FY 1994 are not eligible to receive another COPC grant under this funding round. C. Description of Competition The Congress has mandated that the Department carry out ``a 5-year demonstration to determine the feasibility of facilitating partnerships between institutions of higher education and communities to solve urban problems through research, outreach and the exchange of information.'' The COPC Act stipulates that grants are to go to public and private institutions of higher education to establish and operate Community Outreach Partnership Centers (COPC). These COPCs shall: ``(A) Conduct competent and qualified research and investigation on theoretical or practical problems in large and small cities; and (B) Facilitate partnerships and outreach activities between institutions of higher education, local communities, and local governments to address urban problems.'' The specific problems that grants under the COPC program must focus on are ``problems associated with housing, economic development, neighborhood revitalization, infrastructure, health care, job training, education, crime prevention, planning, community organizing, and other areas deemed appropriate by the Secretary.'' Furthermore, the COPC Act states: ``The Secretary shall give preference to institutions of higher education that undertake research and outreach activities by bringing together knowledge and expertise in the various disciplines that relate to urban problems.'' Local COPC programs must combine research with outreach, work with communities and local governments and address the multi-dimensional problems that beset urban areas. The Department is mindful that, for some institutions, such a comprehensive approach may be beyond the current capacity of the institution. Because HUD is interested in funding as wide a range of eligible institutions as possible, it is making a change in the focus of the program. This year applications do not have to be comprehensive in their approach to local problems. However, while single purpose applications (e.g., assisting the homeless, small business development) will not be eligible, a less than comprehensive scope, addressing three or more urban problems will be acceptable (see Selection Factor # 1 for the comprehensive list of urban problems that the program can cover). To be most effective during the term of the demonstration, the assisted research must have a clear near-term potential for solving specific, significant urban problems. The selected institutions must have the capacity to apply their research results and to work with communities and local institutions, including neighborhood groups, in applying these results to specific real-life urban problems. D. Eligible Applicants Applicants for this competition must be public or private nonprofit institutions of higher education granting four year degrees and accredited by a national or regional accrediting agency recognized by the Department of Education. Consortia of institutions are eligible to apply. The Department is interested in expanding the outreach capacity of not only colleges and universities but also junior, technical, and community colleges. While some four-year colleges will want to apply directly for a COPC, others may not feel they have the credentials or the capacity to operate a COPC. Two-year colleges by themselves are not eligible, but they can apply with a school offering a four-year program. But both four-year and two-year colleges by themselves have strengths they could bring to a COPC. Thus, a selection factor has been added to encourage the creation of such consortia. If the application is submitted on behalf of a consortium of institutions, one institution must be designated as the legal applicant. Each institution may be part of only one consortium or submit only one application, although the application can include various schools within the institution. While the program focuses on ``urban'' problems, applicants do not have to be located in or assist urban areas. E. Program Requirements Grantees must meet the following program requirements: 1. Responsibilities. In accordance with section 851(h) of the HCD Act of 1992, each COPC shall: ``(a) Employ the research and outreach resources of its sponsoring institution of higher education to solve specific urban problems identified by communities served by the Center; (b) Establish outreach activities in areas identified in the grant application as the communities to be served; (c) Establish a community advisory committee comprised of representatives of local institutions and residents of the communities to be served to assist in identifying local needs and advise on the development and implementation of strategies to address those issues; (d) Coordinate outreach activities in communities to be served by the Center; (e) Facilitate public service projects in the communities served by the Center; (f) Act as a clearinghouse for dissemination of information; (g) Develop instructional programs, convene conferences, and provide training for local community leaders, when appropriate; and (h) Exchange information with other Centers.'' The clearinghouse function in (f) above refers to a local or regional clearinghouse for dissemination of information and is separate and distinct from the functions in (h) above, which relate to the provision of information to the National Clearinghouse which, as mentioned in section I.A. above will serve all funded COPCs. 2. Match. Grantees must meet the following match requirements: (a) Research Activities. 50 percent of the total project costs of establishing and operating research activities. (b) Outreach Activities. 25 percent of the total project costs of establishing and operating outreach activities. This non-Federal share may include cash or the value of non-cash contributions, equipment and other allowable in-kind contributions as detailed in Attachment E of OMB Circular No. A&hyph;110, Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Nonprofit organizations. Because there was confusion last year about the calculation of the match, an example is provided. Assume that the total project cost for a COPC was $1 million, with $250,000 for research and $750,000 for outreach. Note that this project meets the requirement that no more than 25 percent of the total project costs be for research. The total amount of the match required to be provided would be $312,500. The research match would be $125,000 ($250,000 X 50 percent) and the outreach match would be $187,500 ($750,000 X 25 percent). The Federal grant requested would be $687,500 ($1 million minus the match of $312,500). In calculating the match, administrative costs should be applied to the appropriate attributable outreach or research component. 3. Administrative. The grant will be governed by the provision of OMB Circulars A&hyph;110 (Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and other Nonprofit Organizations), A&hyph;122 (Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations), and A&hyph;133 (Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and other Nonprofit Institutions), as implemented at 24 CFR part 45. F. Eligible Activities Eligible activities include: 1. Research activities which have practical application for solving specific problems in designated communities and neighborhoods. Such activities may not total more than one-quarter of the total project costs contained in any grant made under this NOFA (including the required 50 percent match). 2. Outreach, technical assistance and information exchange activities which are designed to address specific problems in designated communities and neighborhoods. Such activities must total no less than three-quarters of the total project costs contained in any grant made under this NOFA (including the required 25 percent match). Examples of outreach activities include, but are not limited to: (a) Job training and other training projects, such as workshops, seminars and one-on-one and on-the-job training; (b) Design of community strategies to resolve urban problems of communities and neighborhoods; (c) Innovative use of funds to provide direct technical expertise and assistance to local community groups and residents to help them resolve local problems such as homelessness and housing discrimination; (d) Assistance in business start-up activities for low-and moderate-income individuals and organizations, including business start-up training and technical expertise and assistance, mentor programs, assistance in developing small loan funds, business incubators, etc; and (e) Assistance to communities to improve consolidated housing and community development plans and remove impediments to design and implementation of such plans. 3. Funds for faculty development including paying for course time or summer support to enable faculty members to work on the COPC. 4. Funds for stipends for students (which can not cover tuition and fees) when they are working on the COPC.
