FR940304-1-00122 FR940304-1-00014 Lastly, some comments urged changes in the ranges and ovens test procedure as well as the microwave oven test procedure. Aloha Systems, Inc. commented that the present test procedure using an aluminum block is not realistic, and that induction cooking cannot be evaluated with the present test procedure since that procedure requires iron pots and pans. (Aloha Systems, Inc., No. 2, at 2). Whirlpool Corporation and the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers both urged the Department to change its microwave test procedure to the 1988 International Electrotechnical Commission test procedures for measuring microwave power and energy use. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 18; Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers No. 61A at 25.) Modifications to the test procedures for kitchen ranges and ovens, which address these issues, are contained in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking referenced above. 6. Pool Heaters Classes. With regard to comments on pool heater classes, Southern Gas Association, Energen, South Carolina Gas and Electric, Laclede, and the Oklahoma Gas Co. proposed that an additional product class for pool heaters be established_gas pool heaters with automatic ignition. (Southern Gas Association, No. 4 at 8; Energen, No. 12 at 15; South Carolina Gas and Electric, No. 34 at 6; Laclede, No. 55 at 6; and Oklahoma Gas Company, No. 57 at 7.) The Department believes there is no significant difference in consumer utility between gas-fired pool heaters which use electricity and those which do not. In addition, pool heaters are customarily installed adjacent to the pump and filter. Therefore, electricity will be readily available for the pool heater. The Department decided to keep gas-fired pool heaters as one class and to consider electricity-using design options as another design option. Accordingly, the installation and maintenance expenses (in addition to increased manufacturer costs) associated with design options using electricity were considered in the economic calculations. Another product class issue dealt with heat pump pool heaters. Air Energy Heat Systems (Air Energy Heat Systems, No. 44 at 1) provided efficiency data. The company stated that coefficients of performance are available in the mid five's and will reach the low six's in the future. The Department has adopted American National Standards Institute Standards Z21.56&hyph;1989 and Z21.56a&hyph;1990 as the test procedure for pool heaters. The American National Standards Institute standards apply to gas-fired pool heaters only, not electric resistance pool heaters or electric heat pump pool heaters. Since a test procedure does not exist for electric pool heaters, coefficients of performance data were not used in the analysis. Design options. As for pool heater design options, the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association argued that since pool heaters have ``no flues,'' many of the design options listed in the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking are inappropriate, such as use of flue dampers, multiple flues, and increased flue baffling. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 5.) Most pool heaters currently being manufactured pass the water through a heat exchanger pipe which is located inside a combustion chamber above the burner. This design does not have a flue, and would not benefit from design options to improve the flue. The Department agrees with Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association and is not considering these design options. One company took issue with the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association's comments about flue dampers not being an appropriate design for pool heaters. Flair said, ``We know of several manufacturers who build boiler-type pool heaters equipped with flues.'' (Flair, No. 85 at 1.) Flair also recommended that the Department evaluate a water heater design option of automatic ignition with a flue damper for pool heaters. (Flair, No. 85 at 2.) The Department is not aware of any residential pool heaters being manufactured currently with separate boilers or tanks that store water at elevated temperatures. Flue dampers are effective only at reducing standby losses from storage tanks. Therefore, flue dampers were not considered. Automatic ignition was included as a design option. Other comments. One comment dealt with pool heater test procedure issues. The California Energy Commission stated new test procedures are needed for oil-fired, electric resistance, and heat pump pool heaters, and the gas-fired pool heater test needs to include standby losses so that intermittent ignition devices are credited for increasing the energy factor. (Commission Energy Commission, No. 24 at 5.) Modifications to the test procedures for pool heaters, which address these issues, are contained in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking referenced above.
