FR941206-0-00151 FR941206-0-00019 Both Options A and B are estimated to achieve the same level of cancer risk reduction (MIR to 4 × 10 ¢3 and annual cancer incidence to two cases per year). Therefore, the EPA concluded that Options A and B are equally protective of human health and the environment (to the extent ascertainable by this modelling methodology). Historically under RCRA, the EPA has considered control option costs only to select between options estimated to achieve equivalent levels of protection. Therefore, to select between Options A and B, the EPA compared the estimated costs to implement each of the control options. Option B requires the use of air emission controls only on those TSDF tanks, surface impoundments, and containers used to manage hazardous wastes with a volatile organic concentration at the point where the waste is generated equal to or greater than 100 ppmw. Because TSDF owners and operators would need to install and operate air emission controls on fewer TSDF tanks, surface impoundments, and containers, Option B would be less expensive for the TSDF industry to implement than Option A. Therefore, the EPA selected Option B as the basis for the final rule. While Option B does not achieve the target MIR levels historically used for other promulgated RCRA rules, Option B does achieve substantial reductions in cancer risk. The annual cancer incidence is estimated to be reduced by greater than 95 percent from the baseline value. Furthermore, the MIR for most of the 2,300 TSDF nationwide are estimated to achieve the target MIR levels. To address the remaining cancer risk at TSDF after implementation of the air standards promulgated today, the EPA is further evaluating the waste management practices and the specific chemical compounds composing the organic emissions from those individual TSDF for which the MIR values are estimated to be greater than the historical RCRA target MIR levels. Following this evaluation, the EPA will determine what other actions, such as the use of section 3005(c)(3) omnibus permitting authority or additional rulemaking, are necessary to attain the health-based goals of RCRA section 3004(n). VI. Summary of Responses to Comments on Proposed Rule All of the comments on the proposed rule and the EPA's response to each of these comments is presented in ``Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF)_Background Information for Promulgated Organic Air Emission Standards for Tanks, Surface Impoundments, and Containers'', EPA document number EPA&hyph;453/R&hyph;94&hyph;076b (to obtain a copy of this document refer to the ADDRESSES section of this preamble). The EPA's responses to topics addressed by many of the commenters are summarized below. A. Development of Air Standards Under RCRA Comment: Many comments were received regarding the extent to which the congressional directive of RCRA section 3004(n) should be implemented using air standards established by the EPA under Clean Air Act (CAA) authority. Commenters stated the position that protection of human health and the environment from TSDF air emissions is most appropriately, effectively, and efficiently addressed by developing air standards under the CAA authority. Therefore, commenters believe that the EPA should make the determination that the requirements of RCRA section 3004(n) are best fulfilled by deferring to air standards established under CAA authority. Commenters stated that the air standards proposed by the EPA under authority of RCRA section 3004(n) are: (1) Not needed because existing CAA programs adequately address the control of TSDF organic emissions; (2) Duplicative or contradictory of new programs now being implemented by the EPA to control hazardous air pollutants as directed by section 112 of the CAA; (3) Not in compliance with RCRA section 1006(b) regarding duplication or contradiction of CAA requirements; (4) Inconsistent with CAA programs that establish ozone precursor control requirements depending on the national ambient air quality standards attainment status of the region in which a source is located; (5) Inconsistent with the EPA's pollution prevention policy; (6) Contrary to the EPA's ``cluster concept'' of examining and coordinating regulations addressing the same emission source to minimize duplicative or contradictory requirements; and (7) Difficult to administer and enforce because, traditionally, one State regulatory agency administers rules regulating air emissions while another administers rules regulating hazardous waste management.
