FR940512-2-00184 FR940512-2-00078 2. Applicant must describe the fiscal control and accounting procedures that will be used to ensure prudent use, proper disbursement, and accurate accounting of funds received under this program announcement. 3. Applicant must describe how cost-effective use of TLP funds will be ensured by taking maximum advantage of existing resources within the State which would help in the operation or coordination of a TLP, including those resources which are supported by Federal Independent Living Initiatives funds. Also, applicant must describe efforts to be undertaken over the length of the project which may increase non-Federal resources available to support the TLP. Duration of project: Because successful applicants will receive grants with funds appropriated by Congress for FY 1995, project periods for these new awards will begin when FY 1995 funds are appropriated and made available to ACYF, but in no case will they begin prior to October 1, 1994. This announcement solicits TLP applications for projects of up to three years duration (36-month project periods). Initial grant awards, made on a competitive basis, will be for a one-year (12-month) budget period. Applications for continuation grants beyond the one-year budget period, but within the 36-month project period, will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis, subject to the availability of funds, satisfactory progress of the grantee and determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the government. Federal share of project costs: Up to $200,000 per year, which equals a maximum of $600,000 for a 3-year project period. Applicant share of the project: The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act requires a non-Federal matching requirement of ten percent of the total Federal funds. For example, a project requesting $600,000 in Federal funds over a three-year project period (based on an award of $200,000 per twelve-month budget period) must include a match of at least $60,000 (10% of the Federal share). D. Training and Technical Assistance Grants (T&TA) Eligible applicants: Statewide and regional nonprofit organizations, and combinations of such organizations, with demonstrated experience in providing services to runaway and homeless youth service providers. Program purpose, goals and objectives: The Administration on Children, Youth and Families expects to fund up to ten cooperative agreements to improve the programmatic and administrative capacities of public and private agencies to provide services to runaway and homeless youth by the provision of technical assistance and short-term training. Applications to provide such assistance may cover one or more Federal Regions or may be restricted to a smaller geographic area (e.g., one or more States). Background information: Over the years, many State and local agencies and programs have been established to provide needed short- and long-term services to runaway and homeless youth. These agencies are both public and private, profit-making and nonprofit. Some focus on a single concern, such as drug abuse or dropout prevention, while others are multi- or even all-purpose agencies, with specific components that deal with the physical health, mental health, family reunification and functioning, employment, education and transitional living of these young people. Notwithstanding the significant numbers of effective agencies and competent professional staff dedicated to assisting runaway and homeless youth across the country, services in some areas are inadequate or non-existent. In other cases, existing programs lack staff members with the full range of skills required to carry out the responsibilities with which the individual programs are charged. Also, many of the developed and tested curricula and models are little known or understood, even among the programs and staff where they could be of greatest use. Further, as new issues and problems emerge (for example, the glamorization of the youth drug culture by the news and entertainment media, and the placement of troublesome youth in private mental institutions to remove them from the streets), even experienced staff need to enhance their existing skills and to develop new ones. To address these issues, the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act, section 342, and the Drug Abuse Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth, section 3511 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, both administered by the Family and Youth Services Bureau, authorize support to nonprofit organizations for the purpose of providing training and technical assistance (T&TA) to runaway and homeless youth service providers. To effectively provide such assistance, extensive interaction with grantees, integration and sharing of knowledge, coordination with components supporting the runaway and homeless youth system, and a cooperative relationship among training and technical assistance providers is needed.
