FR941006-1-00002 FR941006-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 75 [Docket No. 94&hyph;061&hyph;1] Equine Infectious Anemia AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: We are proposing to amend the regulations concerning interstate movement of horses that test positive for equine infectious anemia to allow the horses to be moved interstate directly to slaughter under a permit and in a sealed conveyance, as an alternative to the horses being officially identified prior to the interstate movement with a hot iron or chemical brand, freezemarking, or a lip tattoo. This proposed change in the regulations would provide owners of equine infectious anemia reactors with an alternative means of handling their animals while preventing the spread of this communicable disease. DATES: Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before December 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 94&hyph;061&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Tim Cordes, Senior Staff Veterinarian, Sheep, Goat, Equine and Poultry Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 769B, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;3279. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 75 (referred to below as the regulations) contain provisions for the interstate movement of horses, asses, ponies, mules, and zebras that test positive for communicable diseases, including equine infections anemia (EIA). The purpose of these provisions is to prevent the spread of communicable diseases, including EIA. A viral disease of equines, EIA, also known as swamp fever, may be characterized by sudden fever, swelling of the legs and lower parts of the body, severe weight loss, and anemia. Section 75.4(a) of the regulations defines an EIA reactor as any horse, ass, mule, pony or zebra which is subjected to an official test and found positive. Under ยง75.4(b) of the regulations, no EIA reactor may be moved interstate unless the reactor is officially identified and meets certain other requirements. Section 75.4(a) of the regulations defines ``officially identified'' as the permanent identification of a reactor with markings permanently applied by an Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) representative, a State representative, or an accredited veterinarian using a hot iron or chemical brand, freezemarking or a lip tattoo. APHIS believes that EIA reactors could be moved interstate to slaughter under a permit and in a sealed conveyance, as an alternative to being officially identified prior to the interstate movement. Moving EIA reactors interstate to slaughter under a permit and in a sealed conveyance would ensure that the animals are not diverted for other uses. Therefore, we are proposing to amend the requirements for interstate movement in ยง75.4(b) by adding a provision stating that ``Official identification is not necessary if the animal is moved directly to slaughter, traveling under a permit and in a sealed conveyance.'' In addition, we propose to add definitions to ยง75.4(a) for ``official seal'' and ``permit.'' An official seal would be defined as a ``serially numbered metal or plastic strip, or a serially numbered button, consisting of a self-locking device on one end and a slot on the other end, which forms a loop when the ends are engaged and which cannot be reused if opened. It is applied by an APHIS representative or State representative.'' A permit would be defined as an ``official document (VS Form 1&hyph;27 or a State form which contains the same information, but not a `permit for entry') issued by an APHIS representative, State representative, or accredited veterinarian which lists the owner's name and address, points of origin and destination, number of animals covered, purpose of the movement, and one of the following: The individual animal registered breed association registration tattoo, individual animal registered breed association registration number, or similar individual identification, including name, age, sex, breed, color, and markings.'' Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget.
