FR941020-2-00065 FR941020-2-00038 Section S5K.10␣The Office of Disclosure Policy_(Organization) ODP, under the leadership of the Director of the Office of Disclosure Policy, includes: A. The Director of the Office of Disclosure Policy (S5K). B. The Immediate Office of the Director of the Office of Disclosure Policy (S5K) Section S5K.20␣The Office of Disclosure Policy_(Functions) A. The Director of the Office of Disclosure Policy (S5K) is directly responsible to the Deputy Commissioner, Policy and External Affairs (DCPEA), for carrying out ODP's mission and provides managerial direction to the major components of ODP. B. The Immediate Office of the Director of the Office of Disclosure Policy (S5K) provides the Director with staff assistance on the full range of their responsibilities. 1. Develops and interprets SAA policy governing requests for information made under the provisions of the Privacy Act. 2. Develops national standards relating to the release and exchange of personal data in SSA data bases. Manages SSA's interaction with other agencies in negotiating data releases and exchanges. Develops and interprets SSA policy related to personal access initiatives which allow individuals to use technology (e.g., personal computers, kiosks) to access their records from SSA data bases. 3. Negotiates with various federal government entities regarding electronic data sharing, direct terminal access to SSA computer records and use of the Social Security Number. 4. Assures Agencywide sensitivity to importance of privacy considerations in all situations involving disclosure of SSA data about individuals. Reviews Agency projects and initiatives to ensure compliance with the Privacy Act and related laws and regulations. Examines public service issues related to handling various information requests from the public. Develops decisions on Privacy Act appeals for the Commissioner. 5. Develops and interprets SSA policy governing requests for information made under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). Directs FOIA activities in SSA, develops SSA's FOIA policies and procedures, and prepares the Annual Report to Congress on these activities. Decides whether records are required to be disclosed to members of the public. Develops decisions on FOIA appeals for the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner.
