FR940919-2-00121 FR940919-2-00048 Bureau of Land Management [AZ&hyph;020&hyph;04&hyph;4333&hyph;01] Notice of Availability of the Draft Cyprus Tohono Corporation Proposed Mine Expansion Draft Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of Availability of the Draft Cyprus Tohono Corporation Proposed Mine Expansion Draft Environmental Impact Statement, Phoenix District. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, and The United States Department of the Interior Secretarial Order No. 3087, Section 5, Amendment No. 1, The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) has prepared an Environmental Impact Statement for the Cyprus Tohono Corporation's proposed mine expansion on the Tohono O'odham Nation, Papago Indian Reservation. The proposed action (Alternate A) consists of the conversion from in situ to open pit mining operations at Cyprus, the creation of a new overburden storage site, and a new copper oxide ore heap leach pad. Cyprus proposes production of approximately one billion pounds of copper during the thirteen year life of the proposal. A description of existing facilities and a detailed proposed plan of operations is presented in the Mine Plan of Operations for Expanded Open Pit and Heap Leach Operations (Cyprus Casa Grande Corporation 1993). The project was developed in response to three underlying needs: mining lease compliance, continued industrial economic support for the Nation, and copper production. Implementation of Alternative A would result in the disturbance of a total of approximately 1,660 acres, or approximately 0.06 percent of total Nation lands. Alternative A involves the development, operation, performance and maintenance of the following major project components: open pit mine expansion, overburden disposal area, heap leach pads and ponds, stormwater collection and recycling, processing facilities, access and service roads, support facilities, utilities, spill prevention, health and safety plans, and reclamation and closure. There would be increases in royalties and employment. Scholarships would be established. Each of the major project components re described in the main body of the Draft EIS. Alternative B was developed to minimize potential impacts to biological and visual resources. Alternative B includes the same basic project components as Alternative A, however, some of the components would be moved south of an existing access road. Movement of the proposed project elements south of the existing mine access road serves to limit disturbance of natural drainages, reduce potential disturbance to bat colonies north of the site, and to provide a visual screen of existing mine plant site structures. Alternative B would disturb a total of approximately 1,850 acres. DATES: The protest period will begin upon publication of this notice in the Federal Register and will run for 60 days after which public comments will be incorporated into a Final Document. These procedures can be found in the Code of Federal Regulations (43 CFR 1610.5&hyph;2). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A limited number of copies of the EIS are available upon request to the: Phoenix District Manager, Bureau of Land Management, 2015 West Deer Valley Road, Phoenix, Arizona 85027. There are also copies available for review at the above location. Public meetings will be held to receive comments on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement. Location, dates, and times of these meetings will be announced in the local media. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Bureau of Land Management, Attn: Paul J. Buff, 2015 West Deer Valley Road, Phoenix, Arizona 85027 (602) 780&hyph;8090. Dated: September 9, 1994. G.L. Cheniae, District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23077 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;32&hyph;M
