FR941227-0-00020 FR941227-0-00005 Programs Affected This action affects the following programs as listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance: 10.406_Farm Operating Loans 10.407_Farm Ownership Loans Environmental Impact Statement This document has been reviewed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1940, subpart G, ``Environmental Program.'' It is the determination of CFSA that this action does not constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, and, in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Public Law 91&hyph;190, an Environmental Impact Statement is not required. Background In July 1993, Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) initiated, under Section 2501 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, the Outreach and Assistance Grants for Socially Disadvantage Farmers and Ranchers program. The program was established by an internal funds transfer, in the amount of $1 million received on August 13, 1993, from Extension Service. A Notice was published in the Federal Register on July 2, 1993, [58 FR 35911&hyph;35914], Outreach and Assistance Grants for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers, and no adverse comments were received. The Notice was to solicit recipients and give guidance to eligible applicants on submitting proposals for the program. Discussion of Interim Rule Outreach and Assistance Grants for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers is authorized under Section 2501 of the Food Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279). Three million dollars will remain available until expended. It was the intent of Congress to have funds available to provide outreach and technical assistance to encourage and assist socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers to own and operate farms and ranches and to participate in agricultural programs. This assistance should enable socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers to obtain information on application and bidding procedures, farm management, and other essential information to participate in agricultural programs. The definition of Agricultural programs contained in 1943.104 of this subpart is based on the programs authorized by the statutes referenced in Section 2501 (e)(3) of the FACT Act. As authorized by Section 2501 (e)(3)(G), FmHA has designated additional USDA programs as Agricultural program based on its belief that the participation of socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in these programs will serve an important public purpose. The definition of Agricultural program references many of USDA's programs, however, the list is not intended to be all inclusive. Rather, the regulation intends to increase participation by socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in all USDA programs which are agricultural in nature. However, because the program is carried out by CFSA employees, the outreach efforts by CFSA personnel to recipients will require the personnel to provide information about CFSA agricultural loans only until such time as information on the other USDA agricultural programs becomes available. Need for the Interim Rule: •To implement, this year, a program that directly addresses the decline of minority farmers and ranchers. •To immediately put into effect what is a clear and pressing goal of the Administration. On November 1, 1993, President Clinton issued Executive Order 12876, that directs the Government to support Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU's) and to provide opportunities to participate in and benefit from federal programs. These institutions are a major beneficiary of this funding. •In addition, under Section 2501, Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers, non-HBCU's entities, i.e., Indian Tribal community colleges and Hispanic serving post-secondary educational institutions will be in the population served. •To allow funds to be used in FY 95 that will provide assistance in advance of planting and building for the upcoming crop year. •The application of this program will help in development of the components in the '95 Farm Bill aimed at stabilizing socially disadvantaged family farmers. •As services are consolidated and agencies change as a result of reorganization of USDA, the socially disadvantaged population, whom these funds are targeted at, will be able to receive the necessary assistance to understand and gain access to the newly reorganized USDA. It is the policy of this Department that rules relating to public property, loans, grants, benefits, or contracts will be published for comment not withstanding the exemption of 5 U.S.C. 553. However, the Department is publishing this rule as an interim rule which will take effect immediately upon publication in the Federal Register without securing prior public comment. The Agency is taking this action because the funds which will be distributed in the fiscal year 1995 are not being distributed under a typically new action or proposal which will affect the public. Rather the funds will go to organizations whose five years' plans were selected for funding pursuant to the July 2, 1993, Notice so that the organizations can continue to provide information and assistance to socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers. Moreover, since that Notice provided the criteria for obtaining funding, the organizations which are affected by this action (which contains similar requirements) have actual notice of the applicable standards.
