FR940921-0-00054 FR940921-0-00016 EPA's proposed procedures for conversions of vehicles whose engines were originally certified on an engine dynamometer (i.e., most heavy-duty engines) are quite different than CARB's. As was previously mentioned, the Agency proposed that conversions in this category be certified using the test procedure used to certify the original engine. That procedure is the engine dynamometer-based heavy-duty transient test. CARB's procedures use the chassis dynamometer-based urban dynamometer driving cycle for conversions of vehicles 14,000 pounds and under gross vehicle weight (GVW). For conversions of vehicles greater than 14,000 pounds GVW, CARB's procedures allow for either steady-state chassis dynamometer testing or an engine dynamometer test approved by the CARB Executive Officer. Most of the comments received on this issue requested that, in order to reduce compliance costs, EPA adopt the CARB test procedures for aftermarket conversions. One commenter also suggested that it is unfair to require conversions for heavy-duty engines to be certified using the heavy-duty transient test because there are few available testing facilities at which one could get the required testing done. EPA response to comments: The Agency continues to believe that the most appropriate way to determine whether an aftermarket conversion meets the emission standards that the original vehicle or engine was certified to is to use the same test procedures that were used in certifying the original vehicle or engine. As the comments suggest, this is only an issue for the conversions intended for vehicles originally certified using the engine dynamometer procedures. While the Agency understands the concerns voiced by the commenters, it does not believe that there is an adequate alternative to using the original test procedures when attempting to demonstrate compliance with the original standards. In the case of the CARB procedures, CARB uses an approach whereby compliance is determined by comparing post-conversion emissions performance with pre-conversion performance, and allowing for some increase in emissions to account for test to test variability. Given this approach, it is not nearly as important for CARB to use the same test procedures that were used to certify the original vehicle because the standards being certified to are not those the vehicle was originally certified as meeting. However, by taking this approach it is possible that an aftermarket conversion which exceeds the original configuration's emissions standards could be certified, which is in conflict with the anti-tampering provisions of the Act.
