FR941222-0-00017 FR941222-0-00003 C.7. Comment. One commenter wants to know who evaluates the insertion or retrieval of the DSC for excessive vibration and what is the result of excessive vibration. Would this allow crud to be released? Response. The NRC Certificate of Compliance, Section 1.2.9 provides that the cask user observe the transfer system during DSC insertion or retrieval to ensure that motion or excessive vibration does not occur. It also prescribes certain follow-up actions to be taken by the cask user in the event that alignment tolerances are exceeded and excessive vibration occurs. It is possible that excessive vibration could dislodge crud. However, the crud would be contained within the DSC and would not be released to the atmosphere because the DSC is a sealed vessel. Any opening of the DSC will be under controlled conditions that should safely contain the crud and prevent its release to the environment. C.8. Comment. Several commenters wanted the NRC to set definite methods for the required surveillance and monitoring of NUHOMS, including the daily temperature measurements, so that data are uniform and standardized for future reference on different modules at different reactor locations. Response. The NRC Certificate of Compliance for the Standardized NUHOMS has required temperature measurements. However, the licensee or vendor has latitude in determining how the performance-based temperature requirements will be met. The NRC is not convinced that the possible benefits of a uniform, but prescriptive, surveillance and monitoring system or technique would outweigh the costs of curtailing the freedom of cask users to design an implementation scheme suited to their individual needs. The collection of uniform data for possible future use, but without a specific regulatory need could lead to additional exposure to workers, or adversely affect safety without any offsetting benefit. C.9. Comment. One commenter asked about the design life of this NUHOMS module and on how this is documented. Will the canister be removed from the concrete module at a specific time and be opened? Response. The design life of the Standardized NUHOMS is 50 years as described in the SAR. The Certificate of Compliance has a 20-year approval period that can be renewed by NRC for another 20 years following a safety reevaluation. It is expected, that at the end of operation, the canister will be removed from the concrete module and will be opened in the spent fuel pool facility or an adequate dry environment alternative. The fuel will be transferred to an NRC-approved shipping cask for off-site transportation and ultimate disposal by the DOE. C.10. Comment. One commenter believed it prudent to monitor temperature and air flow to ensure that temperature excursions are not experienced. Response. NRC believes the required temperature measurement stated in Specification 1.3.2 of the Certificate of Compliance, plus the daily visual inspection of HSM air inlets and outlets, are adequate to ensure that temperature excursions exceeding the design basis are not experienced and to determine when corrective action needs to be taken to maintain safe storage conditions. Therefore, air flow measurements are not required to assure safety.
