FR940318-0-00004 FR940318-0-00002 12. Adding an alternative laboratory procedure for mycoplasma hemagglutination inhibition (HI) testing using a microtiter technique; 13. Providing for the most contemporary laboratory methods for use in environmental sample selection, Salmonella isolation, examination of Salmonella reactors, and program monitoring procedures for egg-type chicken breeding flocks, meat-type chicken breeding flocks, and waterfowl, exhibition poultry, and game bird breeding flocks; and 14. Amending the procedure for determining the status and effectiveness of sanitation monitored programs. In addition to the changes discussed above, we also proposed to redesignate, revise, or amend certain footnotes in the regulations and remove paragraph designations where they appeared before individual definitions. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 30-day comment period ending September 24, 1993. We received three comments by that date, from a State department of agriculture, a college of veterinary medicine, and a veterinary research laboratory. These comments are addressed below. One comment referred to our proposal to amend §145.23(d)(1) to allow the use of a federally licensed Salmonella enteritidis bacterin to vaccinate birds in egg-type chicken multiplier breeding flocks following the bacteriological examination of environmental samples collected when the birds were 2 to 4 weeks of age. The commenter asked if there was a decrease in the efficacy of the bacterin when older birds were vaccinated. The label on the licensed bacterin calls for birds to be vaccinated twice, once at 10 to 12 weeks of age, and again at 17 to 18 weeks of age; there are no instructions regarding older birds. Because the bacterin must be used in accordance with the label instructions, we believe that the regulations need not address the vaccination of older birds. In our proposed amendment to §147.7, ``Standard test procedures for mycoplasma,'' the second sentence of paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(C) states that the dilution required to give four hemagglutination (HA) units is calculated by dividing the stock antigen HA titer by 8. One commenter stated that the stock antigen HA titer should be divided by 4 instead of 8. We disagree. The antigen titration is done with volumes of 50 μL. In the HI test, 25 μL of antigen is added to 25 μL of serum dilution. The antigen, then, must contain 4 HA units in 25 μL; the 4 HA units would then be doubled for 50 μL, so dividing by 8 is correct. Therefore, we did not make any changes in response to the comment. Also in our proposed amendment to §147.7, paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(E) calls for the serial dilution of 25 μL from a specified number of wells. One commenter suggested that such multiple transfers of volumes as small as 25 μL may be difficult using a multichannel pipettor due to incomplete volume transfer. We believe that no change in the regulations is necessary because multichannel pipettors calibrated to deliver the proper volume are readily available from commercial sources. Proposed paragraph (e)(iv)(B)(3) of §147.7 states that for the assay described in the paragraph to be valid, the backtitration of the antigen must be 1:4 or 1:8. One commenter suggested that the latter number should be omitted because a backtitration of 1:8 would result in potentially suppressed HI titers. We believe that the 4&hyph;HA to 8&hyph;HA range allows for realistic performance variation within the test while maintaining stringent quality control. As proposed, the protocol stated that the positive control must be within one dilution of the previously determined titer, so any loss of sensitivity would be detected if a backtitration approaching 8 HA units was suppressing the HI titers of samples. Therefore, we did not make any changes in response to the comment. One commenter pointed out that the 1:5 serum dilution referred to in paragraph (e)(2)(v)(D)( 1 ) of the proposed amendment to §147.7 should actually be a 1:5.5 serum dilution. While 1:5.5 is actually correct, the ultimate serial dilutions of the sample would be 1:11, 1:22, 1:44, etc., each of which can be presented as the nearest standard dilution (1:10, 1:20, 1:40, etc.) without a loss of accuracy in the test. Therefore, we did not make any changes in response to the comment. Proposed new paragraph (a)(5) of §147.11 stated that the Analytical Profile Index for Enterobacteriaceae (API) system may be used to aid cultural identifications. One commenter noted that API is not the only such system that could be used. We agree and have changed §147.11(a)(5) to indicate that systems other than API are available. Two of the comments encouraged us to amend illustration 1 in §147.11 to accurately reflect the procedures called for in the text of proposed new paragraph (a)(1) of §147.11. As proposed, the text of §147.11(a)(1) required the inoculation of non-selective plates in addition to two selective plating media. The commenters pointed out that the upper right-hand block of illustration 1 did not include the inoculation of non-selective plates. We agree, and have added the inoculation of non-selective plates to the upper right-hand block of illustration 1. The probability of isolating Salmonella from organ tissues will be enhanced if non-selective plating media are used in addition to selective plating media.
