FR940412-1-00053 FR940412-1-00008 ␣ 1Line 1Ratemaking projections for basic pilotage 1. i3+ Revenue (from step 3). 2. i3^ Operating Expenses (from step 1). 3. i3^ Pilot Compensation (from step 2). n,s 4. i3= Operating Profit/(Loss). 5. i3^ Interest Expense (from Audit reports). n,s 6. i3= Earnings Before Tax. 7. i3^ Federal Tax Allowance. n,s 8. i3= Net Income. 9. i3Return Element (Net Income + Interest). 10. i3 Investment Base (from step 4) n,s 11. i3= Return on Investment. (2) The Director will compare the projected return on investment (as calculated using the formula above) to the target return on investment (from step 5), to determine whether an adjustment to the basic pilotage rates is necessary. If the projected return on investment is significantly different from the target return on investment, the revenues which would be generated by the current pilotage rates are not equal to the revenues which would need to be recovered by the pilotage rates. (3) The basic pilotage revenues that are needed are calculated by substituting in a figure for the projected revenue which will make the target return on investment equal to the projected return on investment. This ``projection of revenue needed'' is used in determining the basis for proposed adjustments to the basic pilotage rates. The mechanism for adjusting the basic pilotage rates is discussed in Step 7 below. The required return, tax, and interest elements may be considered additions to the operating expenses and pilot compensation components of the hourly charge for basic pilotage service, which is discussed in Step 7.A. below. Step 7: Adjustment of Pilotage Rates (1) The final step in the Great Lakes pilotage ratemaking methodology is to adjust Great Lakes pilotage rates if the calculations from Step 6 show that pilotage rates in a pilotage area should be adjusted, and if the Director determines that it is appropriate to go forward with a rate adjustment. Rate adjustments are calculated in accordance with the procedures found in this step. However, pilotage rates calculated in this step are subject to adjustment based on requirements of the Memorandum of Arrangements between the United States and Canada, and other supportable circumstances which may be appropriate. Pilotage rate adjustments consist of the following: (a) Calculation of the hourly pilotage charge; (b) calculation of pilotage charges for unspecified trips; (c) calculation of pilotage charges for specified trips; (d) calculation of pilotage charges for ancillary services; and (e) adjustment of pilotage charges for vessel size. Each of these is detailed below. Step 7.A._Calculation of Hourly Charge (1) The Director determines a proposed hourly charge for basic pilotage service in each pilotage area. This hourly charge is used in the calculation of pilotage rates discussed in Steps 7.B., 7.C., and 7.D., below. (2) The proposed total hourly charge for pilotage service in each pilotage area consists of two components, i.e., pilot compensation, and operating expenses. (3) The pilot compensation component of the hourly charge is derived by dividing the projected target pilot compensation for each area, by the estimated pilotage hours (i.e., bridge hours) for that area. This calculation results in a pilot compensation charge for each hour of pilotage service in that pilotage area. (4) The operating expense component of the hourly charge is derived by dividing the projected operating expenses for each pilotage district, including the constructed amount necessary to bring the Associations to the ROI standard, by the estimated pilotage hours (bridge hours). This calculation results in an operating expense charge for each hour of pilotage service in that pilotage district. (5) The total hourly charge for basic pilotage service in each pilotage area is derived by adding the pilot compensation charge for that area to the operating expense charge for the district in which that area is located. These calculations are adjusted for average ship size as discussed in Step 7.E., below.
