FR940930-0-00098 FR940930-0-00017 (ii) Continue to be organized and operated and to pay for basic health services in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(4) of this section, respectively. (6) Time-phased plan. The entity gives assurances as follows: (i) It will implement a time-phased plan acceptable to HCFA that_ (A) May not extend for more than 3 years from the date of HCFA's determination; and (B) Specifies definite steps for meeting, at the time of renewal of each group or individual contract, all the requirements of subparts B and C of this part. (ii) Upon completion of this time-phased plan, it will_ (A) Provide basic and supplemental services to all of its enrollees; and (B) Be organized and operated, and provide services, in accordance with subparts B and C of this part. (7) Contracts entered into after the date of HCFA's determination. The entity gives assurances that, with respect to any group or individual contract entered into after the date of HCFA's determination, it will_ (i) Be organized and operated in accordance with subpart C of this part; and (ii) Provide basic health services and any supplemental health services included in the contract, in accordance with subpart B of this part. (e) Failure to sign assurances timely. If HCFA determines that an entity meets the requirements for qualification and the entity fails to sign its assurances within 30 days following the date of the determination, HCFA gives the entity written notice that its application is considered withdrawn and that it is not a qualified HMO. (f) Qualification of regional components. An HMO that has more than one regional component is considered qualified for those regional components for which assurances have been signed in accordance with this section. (g) Special rules: Enrollees entitled to Medicare or Medicaid. For an HMO that accepts enrollees entitled to Medicare or Medicaid, the following rules apply: (1) The requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of the Act, as appropriate, take precedence over conflicting requirements of sections 1301(b) and 1301(c) of the PHS Act. (2) The HMO must, with respect to its enrollees entitled to Medicare or Medicaid, comply with the applicable requirement of title XVIII or XIX, including those that pertain to_ (i) Deductibles and coinsurance; (ii) Enrollment mix and enrollment practices; (iii) State plan rules on copayment options; and (iv) Grievance procedures. (3) An HMO that complies with paragraph (g)(2) of this section may obtain and retain Federal qualification if, for its other enrollees, the HMO meets the requirements of sections 1301(b) and 1301(c) of the PHS Act and implementing regulations in this subpart D and in subparts B and C of this part. (h) Special rules: Enrollees under the Federal employee health benefits program (FEHBP). An HMO that accepts enrollees under the FEHBP (Chapter 89 of title 5 of the U.S.C.) may obtain and retain Federal qualification if, for its other enrollees, it complies with the requirements of section 1301(b) and 1301(c) of the PHS Act and implementing regulations in this subpart D and subparts B and C of this part. 4. Section 417.144 is revised to read as follows: ยง417.144 Evaluation and determination procedures. (a) Basis for evaluation and determination. (1) HCFA evaluates an application for Federal qualification on the basis of information contained in the application itself and any additional information that HCFA obtains through on-site visits, public hearings, and any other appropriate procedures.
