FR941013-1-00032 FR941013-1-00005 Application for Registration §1309.31 Time for application for registration; expiration date. (a) Any person who is required to be registered and who is not so registered may apply for registration at any time. No person required to be registered shall engage in any activity for which registration is required until the application for registration is approved and a Certificate of Registration is issued by the Administrator to such person. (b) Any person who is registered may apply to be reregistered not more than 60 days before the expiration date of his registration. (c) At the time a person is first registered, that person shall be assigned to one of twelve groups, which shall correspond to the months of the year. The expiration date of the registrations of all registrants within any group will be the last day of the month designated for that group. In assigning any of the above persons to a group, the Administration may select a group the expiration date of which is less than one year from the date such business activity was registered. If the person is assigned to a group which has an expiration date less than eleven months from the date of which the person is registered, the registration shall not expire until one year from that expiration date; in all other cases, the registration shall expire on the expiration date following the date on which the person is registered. §1309.32 Application forms; contents; signature. (a) Any person who is required to be registered pursuant to §1309.21 and is not so registered, shall apply on DEA Form 510. (b) Any person who is registered pursuant to §1309.21, shall apply for reregistration on DEA Form 510a. (c) DEA Form 510 may be obtained at any divisional office of the Administration or by writing to the Registration Unit, Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice, Post Office Box 28083, Central Station, Washington, DC 20005. DEA Form 510a will be mailed to each List I chemical registrant approximately 60 days before the expiration date of his or her registration; if any registered person does not receive such forms within 45 days before the expiration date of the registration, notice must be promptly given of such fact and DEA Form 510a must be requested by writing to the Registration Unit of the Administration at the foregoing address. (d) Each application for registration shall include the Administration Chemical Code Number, as set forth in §1310.02 of this chapter, for each List I chemical to be distributed, imported, or exported. (e) Registration shall not entitle a person to engage in any activity with any List I chemical not specified in his or her application. (f) Each application shall include all information called for in the form, unless the item is not applicable, in which case this fact shall be indicated.
