FR940207-1-00067 FR940207-1-00013 v. Miscellaneous A. Paperwork Reduction Act There are no information collection requirements in this proposed rule. B. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 57735, October 4, 1993) the Agency must determine whether this regulation, if promulgated, is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. This action is not a significant regulatory action as that term is defined in Executive Order 12866, since it will not result in an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or another adverse economic impact; it does not create a serious inconsistency or interfere with another agency's action; it does not materially alter the budgetary impacts of entitlements, grants, user fees, etc.; and it does not raise novel legal or policy issues. Thus, EPA has determined that rescinding subpart T as it applies to owners and operators of uranium mill tailings disposal sites that are licensed by the NRC or an affected Agreement State is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under the terms of Executive Order 12866 and is therefore not subject to OMB review. C. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 603, requires EPA to prepare and make available for comment an ``initial regulatory flexibility analysis'' which describes the effect of the proposed rule on small business entities. However, section 604(b) of the Act provides that an analysis not be required when the head of an Agency certifies that the rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Most firms that own uranium mill tailings piles are divisions or subsidiaries of major U.S. and international corporations. Many are parts of larger diversified mining firms which are engaged in a number of raw materials industries; the disposal of uranium mill tailings piles represents only a small portion of their overall operations. Others are owned by major oil companies and electric utilities which were engaged in horizontal and vertical integration, respectively, during the industry's growth phase in the 1960s and 1970s. It was found in 1989 rulemaking that there was no significant impact on small business entities. There has been no change in this, and no new tailings piles have been constructed since 1989. I certify that this proposed rule to rescind 40 CFR part 61, subpart T as applied to owners and operators of NRC licensed non-operational uranium mill tailings disposal sites, if promulgated as a final rule, will not have significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 61 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Arsenic, Asbestos, Benzene, Beryllium, Hazardous substances, Mercury, Radionuclides, Radon, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Uranium, Vinyl chloride. Dated: January 31, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
