FR940712-1-00022 FR940712-1-00006 (D) The quality control sampling and testing is evaluated by an IA program. (v) If the results from the quality control sampling and testing are used in the acceptance program the SHA shall establish a dispute resolution system. The dispute resolution system shall address the resolution of discrepancies occurring between the verification sampling and testing and the quality control sampling and testing. The dispute resolution system may be administered entirely within the SHA. (2) The IA program shall evaluate the qualified sampling and testing personnel and the testing equipment. The program shall cover sampling procedures, testing procedures, and testing equipment. The program shall be performed by the SHA or its designated agent. Each IA program shall include the following: (i) A schedule of frequency for IA evaluation. The schedule may be established based on either a project basis or a system basis. The frequency can be based on either a unit of production or on a unit of time. (ii) The testing equipment can be evaluated by using frequent calibration checks, split samples, or proficiency samples. (iii) Split samples or proficiency samples shall be used to evaluate testing personnel. A reasonable amount of the evaluations shall include observation of the sampling and testing procedures. (iv) A prompt comparison and documentation shall be made of test results obtained by the tester being evaluated and the IA tester. The SHA shall develop guidelines for the comparison of test results. (v) If the SHA uses the system approach to the IA program the SHA shall provide an annual report to the FHWA summarizing the results of the IA program. (3) The preparation and submission of a materials certification, conforming in substance to Appendix A of this regulation, to the FHWA Division Administrator for each construction project which is subject to FHWA construction oversight activities. (b) [Reserved] ยง637.209 Laboratory and sampling and testing personnel qualifications. (a) Laboratories. After ( 2 years after the date of publication of the final rule in the Federal Register ), (1) All contractor, vendor, and SHA testing shall be performed by qualified laboratories. (2) Each SHA shall have its central laboratory accredited by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA. (3) Any non-SHA designated laboratory which performs IA sampling and testing shall be accredited in the testing to be performed by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA. (4) Any laboratory that is used in dispute resolution sampling and testing shall be accredited in the testing to be performed by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA. (b) Sampling and testing personnel. After ( 2 years after the date of publication of the final rule in the Federal Register ), all sampling and testing performed for the contractor/vendor and the SHA shall be executed by qualified sampling and testing personnel. (c) Conflict of interest. In order to avoid an appearance of a conflict of interest, any non-SHA qualified laboratory shall perform only one of the following types of testing on the same project: verification testing, quality control testing, IA testing, or dispute resolution testing. Appendix A to Subpart B_Guide Letter of Certification by SHA Engineer Date Project No. This is to certify that: The results of the tests used in the acceptance program indicate that the materials incorporated in the construction work, and the construction operations controlled by sampling and testing, were in conformity with the approved plans and specifications. (The following sentence should be added if the IA testing frequencies are based on project quantities. All independent assurance samples and tests compare favorably to the samples and tests that are used in the acceptance program.) Exceptions to the plans and specifications are explained on the back hereof (or on attached sheet). Director of SHA Laboratory or other appropriate SHA Official. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16718 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;P
