FR940228-2-00050 FR940228-2-00026 The previous priority lists of hazardous substances were based on the most comprehensive and relevant information available when the lists were developed. More comprehensive sources of information on the frequency of occurrence and the potential for human exposure of substances at NPL sites became available for use in the 1991 priority list with the development of ATSDR's HazDat database; additional information from HazDat has become available for this year's listing activity. In the initial listing activities (1987&hyph;1990), new substances were added to the end of the list, without a comparative reranking. A notice announcing the intention of ATSDR and EPA to revise and rerank the priority list of hazardous substances was published on June 27, 1991 (56 FR 29485). In this year's listing activity, as in the previous two years, new candidate substances (substances found at three or more NPL sites) were assigned a toxicity/environmental score (TES) using the EPA Reportable Quantity methodology, and were added to the pool of substances previously considered for the annual list. All substances were then evaluated together for consideration on the priority list. The approach used to generate the 1991 revised priority list was summarized in the ``Revised Priority List of Hazardous Substances'' (56 FR 52166, October 17, 1991). Using the same approach, and the same algorithm this year, over 700 candidate substances have been ranked to create the current list of 275 substances. The additional information used in this year's listing activity was entered into ATSDR's HazDat database since the development of the 1992 Priority List of Hazardous Substances. As with other site-specific information used in the listing activity, this information has been collected from ATSDR Public Health Assessments and from site file data packages used in the development of Public Health Assessments. The new information includes more recent NPL frequency of occurrence data, additional concentration data, and more information on exposure or potential exposure to substances present at NPL sites. At this time the list includes 275 substances which ATSDR and EPA have determined to pose the most significant potential threat to human health based on the criteria of CERCLA section 104(i)(2) (42 U.S.C. 9604(i)(2)). All candidate substances have been analyzed and ranked with the current algorithm, and may become the subject of toxicological profiles in the future. The addition of approximately 12,800 contaminant data records (for air, water and soil) to the HazDat database since October 1992 has allowed the agencies to better assess the potential for human exposure to substances at NPL hazardous waste sites. With this additional data, 10 new candidate substances have been added to the list, and 13 substances under consideration last year have moved onto the list. Accordingly, 23 substances have been replaced on the list of the 275 substances. These changes in the order of substances appearing on the CERCLA priority list of hazardous substances will be reflected in the program activities which rely on the list for future direction. For example, Dicofol moved up significantly (to number 107) on the 1993 list when compared to last year's list. As a result it will be included in the pool of substances that may become the subject of new toxicological profiles in the next fiscal year. Similarly, alpha-Endosulfan (number 33) moved well into the range of those substances to be considered for the development of updated toxicological profiles (CERCLA also requires ATSDR to evaluate new information on profiled substances for potential revision every three years). These changes reflect the dynamic nature of scientific data on substances present at NPL (and other) hazardous waste sites. This annual evaluation activity and announcement of a revised priority list of hazardous substances fulfills the conditions of CERCLA section 104(i), as amended, which requires ATSDR and EPA to revise the list yearly to include additional hazardous substances. The agencies intend to revise the list of hazardous substances annually thereafter to reflect changes and improvements in data collection and availability. Additional information on the methodology used in the development of the CERCLA Priority List of Hazardous Substances can be found in the Federal Register notices mentioned above. Administrative Record ATSDR and EPA are establishing a single administrative record entitled ATSDR&hyph;78 for materials pertaining to this notice. All materials received as a result of this notice will be included in the public file which is available for inspection from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal legal holidays, at the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, # 4 Executive Park Drive, Suite 2400, Atlanta, Georgia. Dated: February 18, 1994. Walter R. Dowdle, Deputy Administrator, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4446 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;70&hyph;P
