FR940812-2-00186 FR940812-2-00068 The voltage repair limits are: (1) for 2.2 cm [7/8 inch] diameter tubes: •Indications below 2.0 volts as measured by bobbin coil may remain in service; •Indications between 2.0 and 5.6 volts as measured by bobbin coil can remain in service if motorized rotating pancake coil (MRPC) inspections do not confirm the indications; and •Indications between 2.0 and 5.6 volts as measured by bobbin coil that are confirmed by MRPC and indications exceeding 5.6 volts as measured by bobbin coil must be repaired. (2) For 1.9 cm [3/4-inch] diameter tubes. •Indications below 1.0 volt as measured by bobbin coil may remain in service; •Indications between 1.0 and 2.7 volts as measured by bobbin coil can remain in service if MRPC inspections do not confirm the indications; and •Indications between 1.0 and 2.7 volts as measured by robin coil that are confirmed by MRPC and indications exceeding 2.7 volts as measured by bobbin coil must be repaired. The voltage-based repair limits of this generic letter were determined considering the entire range of design basis events that could challenge tube integrity. The voltage repair limits ensure structural integrity and leakage limits for all postulated design basis events. The structural criteria are intended to ensure that tubes subjected to the voltage repair limits will be able to withstand a pressure of 1.4 times a maximum possible main steam line break (MSLB) differential pressure postulated to occur at the end of the operating cycle consistent with the criteria of Regulatory Guide 1.121. The leakage criteria ensure that for tubes subject to the voltage repair limits, induced leakage under worst-case MSLB conditions calculated using licensing basis assumptions, will not result in offsite dose releases that exceed the applicable limits of 10 CFR Part 100. Requested Actions Implementation of the guidance in this generic letter is voluntary. If a licensee chooses to implement these criteria, the following should be included in the proposed program: (1) Implementation of the inspection guidance discussed in Section 3 of Enclosure 1. The inspection guidance ensures that the techniques used to inspect steam generators are consistent with the techniques used to develop voltage-based repair limit methodology. (2) Calculation of leakage per the guidance of Section 2.b of Enclosure 1. This calculation, in conjunction with the use of licensing basis assumptions for calculating offsite releases, enables licensees to demonstrate that the applicable limits of 10 CFR Part 100 continue to be met. (3) Calculation of conditional burst probability per the guidance of Section 2.a of Enclosure 1. This is a calculation to assess the voltage distribution left in service against a threshold value. (4) Implementation of the operational leakage limits identified in Section 5 of Enclosure 1. The operational leak limit is a defense-in-depth measure that provides a means for identifying leaks during operation to enable repair before such leaks result in tube failure. (5) Review of leakage monitoring measures including the procedures for timely detection, trending, and response to rapidly increasing leaks. The objective is to ensure that should a significant leak be experienced in service, it will be detected and the plant shut down in a timely manner to reduce the likelihood of a potential rupture. (6) Acquisition of tube pull data per the guidance of Section 4 of Enclosure 1. It is necessary to acquire pulled tube data to confirm the degradation mechanism. (7) Reporting of results per the guidance of Section 6 of Enclosure 1. (8) Submittal of a technical specification (TS) amendment request that commits to the above and provides TS pages per the guidance of Enclosure 2 including the associated consideration of no significant hazards consideration (10 CFR 50.92) and supporting safety analysis. Licensees that plan to adopt this TS amendment are encouraged to follow the guidance given in Enclosures 1 and 2. The staff requests that licensees following the guidance of this generic letter submit their TX amendment request at least 90 days prior to the beginning of the refueling outage during which the alternate repair criteria are to be implemented. Backfit Discussion Licensee action to propose TS changes under the guidance of this generic letter is voluntary; therefore, such action is not a backfit under the provisions of 10 CFR 50.109. Paperwork Reduction Act Statement [To Be Provided in the Final Generic Letter] Enclosures: 1. Guidance for a Proposed License Amendment to Implement an Alternate Steam Generator Tube Repair Limit for Outside Diameter Stress Corrosion Cracking at the Tube Support Plate Intersections 2. Model Technical Specifications 3. List of Recently Issued NRC Generic Letters
