FR940930-0-00029 FR940930-0-00005 (3) Origin and Destination airport codes. (4) Published OAG departure and arrival times for each scheduled operation of the flight. (5) CRS scheduled arrival and departure time for each scheduled operation of the flight. (6) Actual departure and arrival time for each operation of the flight. (7) Difference in minutes between OAG and CRS scheduled arrival times. (8) Difference in minutes between OAG and CRS scheduled departure times. (9) Actual wheels-off and wheels-on times for each operation of the flight. (10) Date and day of week of scheduled flight operation. (11) Scheduled elapsed time, according to CRS schedule. (12) Actual elapsed time. (13) Amount of departure delay, if any. (14) Amount of arrival delay, if any. (15) Amount of elapsed time difference, if any. (b) When reporting the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section for a diverted flight, a reporting carrier shall use the original scheduled flight number and the original scheduled origin and destination airport codes. (c) A reporting carrier shall report the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section for a new flight beginning with the first day of the new scheduled operation. (d) A reporting carrier shall not report the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section for any discontinued or extra-section flight. * * * * * 4. Section 234.5 is be revised to read as follows: ยง234.5 Form of reports. Except where otherwise noted, all reports required by this part shall be filed within 15 days of the end of the month for which data are reported. The reports must be submitted to the Office of Airline Statistics on ADP computer tape in the format specified in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Director of that office. 5. Section 234.6 is revised to read as follows: ยง234.6 Baggage-handling statistics. Each reporting carrier shall report monthly to the Department on a domestic system basis, excluding charter flights, the total number of passengers enplaned systemwide, and the total number of mishandled-baggage reports filed with the carrier. The information shall be submitted to the Department within 15 days of the end of the month to which the information applies and must be submitted with the transmittal letter accompanying the data for on-time performance in the form and manner set forth in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Director, Office of Airline Statistics. 6. Section 234.8 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) to read as follows: ยง234.8 Calculation of on-time performance codes. (a) Each reporting carrier shall calculate an on-time performance code in accordance with this section and as provided in more detail in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Director, Office Airline Statistics. The calculations shall be performed for each reportable flight, except those scheduled to operate three times or less during a month. In addition, each reporting carrier shall assign an on-time performance code to each of its single plane one-stop or multi-stop flights, or portion thereof, that the carrier holds out to the public through a CRS, the last segment of which is a reportable flight. (b) The on-time performance code shall be calculated as follows: (1) Based on reportable flight data provided to the Department, calculate the percentage of on-time arrivals of each nonstop flight. Calculations shall not include discontinued or extra-section flights for which data are not reported to the Department. * * * * * 7. Section 234.12 is revised to read as follows: ยง234.12 Waivers. Any carrier may request a waiver from the reporting requirements of this part. Such a request, at the discretion of the Administrator, Research and Special Programs Administration, may be granted for good cause shown. The requesting party shall state the basis for such a waiver. Issued in Washington, D.C. on September 23, 1994. D.K. Sharma, Administrator, Research and Special Programs Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24169 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6901&hyph;05&hyph;P
