FR940617-1-00103 FR940617-1-00012 ( 2 ) Another option is to treat the log counts as numerical data and evaluate using the Student's t-test or similar procedure. The large variance that usually occurs with this type of data may cause problems with tests of significance and construction of confidence intervals. However, Monte Carlo techniques indicate that if entry is limited to subjects that exhibit 1.5x10 5 to 10 6 counts, then the reductions are rather homogeneous and the large variance problem is alleviated. If the variances are large, the sample size must be increased considerably to retain the same level of the test, same power, and same difference to be ruled out. (2) Effectiveness testing of an antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash. An antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash drug product in finished form suitable for topical application will be recognized as effective provided that the formulated drug product at its recommended use concentration: (i) Contains an ingredient in §333.410 (a) or (b). (ii) Demonstrates in vitro activity against organisms as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. (iii) When tested, in vivo, by the test method for the evaluation of antiseptic or health-care personnel handwash drug products described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, reduces the number of the indicator organism on each hand 2 log 10 within 5 minutes after the first wash and demonstrates a 3-log 10 reduction of the indicator organism on each hand within 5 minutes after the tenth wash. (A) Apparatus._ ( 1 ) Colony Counter. Any of several types may be used. ( 2 ) Incubator. Any incubator capable of maintaining a temperature of 25 # 2 ○C may be used. This temperature is required to assure pigment production by the Serratia marcescens . ( 3 ) Sterilizer. Any suitable steam sterilizer capable of producing conditions of sterility is acceptable. ( 4 ) Timer (stop clock). A timer that can be read in minutes and seconds. ( 5 ) Hand washing sink. A sink of sufficient size to permit panelists to wash without touching hands to sink surface or other panelists. ( 6 ) Water faucet(s). Water faucet(s) should be located above the sink at a height that permits the hands to be held higher than the elbows during the washing procedure. (It is desirable for the height of the faucet(s) to be adjustable.) ( 7 ) Tap water temperature regulator and temperature monitor. Device(s) to monitor and regulate water temperature to 40 # 2 ○C. (B) Materials and reagents. _( 1 ) Bacteriological pipets. Pipets of 10.0 and 2.2 or 1.1 milliliter capacity are recommended. ( 2 ) Water-dilution bottles. Any sterilizable glass container having a 150 to 200 milliliter capacity and tight closures may be used. ( 3 ) Erlenmeyer flask. A 2-liter capacity for culturing test organism is recommended. ( 4 ) Baseline control soap. A liquid castile soap or other liquid soap containing no antimicrobial. ( 5 ) Test formulation. Directions used to demonstrate the effectiveness of the test formulation are to be the same as those proposed for the use of the product. If no directions are available, use directions provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(H)( 5 ) of this section. ( 6 ) Positive control formulation. Any health-care personnel handwash formulation approved by the Food and Drug Administration is acceptable. ( 7 ) Gloves/bags. Sterile loose fitting gloves of latex, unlined, possessing non-antimicrobial properties or sterile polyethylene bags are to be used. ( 8 ) Sampling solution. Dissolve 0.4 gram potassium phosphate, monobasic, 10.1 gram sodium phosphate, dibasic, and 1 gram Triton X&hyph;100 in 1 liter distilled water. Adjust to ph 7.8 with 0.1 Normal hydrochloric acid or 0.1 Normal sodium hydroxide. Dispense 50 to 100 milliliter volumes into water dilution bottles, or other suitable containers, and sterilize for 20 minutes at 121 ○C.
