FR940505-1-00188 FR940505-1-00012 g. Federal Implementation and Delegation to Local Agencies. As discussed below in section III.J of this preamble, if EPA reclassifies the ozone nonattainment areas of the Sacramento Valley Air Basin as ``severe'', the applicable portions of the California SIP must be revised to meet the CAA requirements for a severe ozone nonattainment area and submitted to EPA on or before the date of final promulgation of this FIP. Until such time as EPA approves the revisions for the NSR portions of the applicable SIP, the NSR requirements of this FIP shall apply. When the revisions are approved into the SIP, EPA will withdraw this NSR portion of the FIP. EPA will encourage delegation of the final version of this NSR rule to the local Districts prior to SIP approvability, thus eliminating the need for sources to apply for permits from both the EPA and the local permitting agency. To do so, Districts must revise their existing NSR rule to meet the requirements of this federal rule, or adopt EPA's final NSR rule, through their existing notice and comment rulemaking procedures. The revised rule must then be submitted to EPA, which will evaluate the NSR rule for consistency with the requirements of the NSR portion of the Federal Implementation Plan. EPA will then delegate to the District, by letter, the authority to implement and enforce those portions of the FIP that are consistent with District requirements. When the revisions are ultimately approved in the SIP, EPA will withdraw the NSR portion of the FIP. Revision of the District regulations is necessary to allow the local agencies to use their own requirements, such as fee provisions and enforcement procedures, to implement the requirements of this NSR rule. While both SIP revisions and delegation will require revision of the District regulations, delegation is a much more expedient process than EPA approval of revisions as part of the SIP. 5. TCMs to offset VMT increases. If bumped up to a severe nonattainment classification, Sacramento would also need to consider the requirements of Section 182(d)(1)(A). This section requires States containing severe ozone nonattainment areas to submit a SIP that identifies and adopts specific, enforceable transportation control measures, as necessary, to offset growth in vehicle emissions due to growth in vehicle miles traveled. Beyond demonstrating that these measures offset growth in emissions, they must be sufficient to allow total regional emission levels to comply with the reasonable further progress and attainment requirements of the Act. As described in the General Preamble to Title I of the CAAA, 57 FR 13498 (April 16, 1992), the TCM offset SIPs required from areas already designated severe or extreme must: (1) Identify and adopt specific and enforceable transportation control strategies and TCMs to offset any growth in emissions from growth in VMT or number of vehicle trips; (2) identify and adopt specific and enforceable transportation control strategies and TCMs that attain reductions in motor vehicle emissions (in combination with other emission reduction requirements) as necessary to comply with RFP milestones; and (3) identify and adopt specific and enforceable transportation control strategies and TCMs that attain reductions in motor vehicle emissions (in combination with other emission reduction requirements) as necessary to demonstrate attainment of the NAAQS. As discussed in the General Preamble, EPA has interpreted the provision to offset any growth in VOC from VMT increases to ``require that sufficient measures be adopted so that projected vehicle VOC emissions will never be higher during the ozone season in one year than during the ozone season in the year before.'' Further, the attainment year is the last year for which this test applies. The calculation of VOC emissions from on road mobile sources may ``include the effects of Federal measures such as new motor vehicle standards, Phase II RVP controls, and reformulated gasoline, as well as Clean Air Act-mandated SIP requirements such as enhanced I/M, the fleet clean-fuel vehicle program, and the employer trip reduction program.'' For Sacramento, as can be seen in the Technical Support Document, on-road mobile source emissions through 2005 are never projected to be greater in one year than the year before once the FIP control strategies are implemented. Therefore, there is no need for TCMs in Sacramento to offset emissions increases from growth in VMT. As for requirements (2) and (3) pertaining to TCMs for RFP and attainment demonstration, the FIP has addressed TCMs for Sacramento in the discussion of Employee Commute Options (III.F.2) and the discussion pertaining to fees on light duty vehicles (III.D.2.f). 6. Reformulated fuel. a. Provision satisfied in FIP/SIP actions above. Reclassification of the Sacramento area to ``Severe'' would mandate sale of reformulated gasoline in the area, effective one year after reclassification. There may be no emission reduction benefits from applying the federal reformulated fuel requirements to Sacramento, however, since the California reformulated fuel program already applies throughout the State. If the federal reformulated fuel program achieves greater reductions than the California program, EPA will impose the federal requirement in Sacramento. If the California program is more stringent, EPA would consider modifications to its enforcement program to avoid duplication with California's program. G. Section 182(e)(5) New Technology Measures for the South Coast 1. Introduction. After application of the FIP's stationary, area, and mobile source rule requirements, the ozone attainment requirements for the South Coast demand further reductions from the same source categories in order to achieve cumulative reductions from 1990 baseyear emissions of approximately 90 percent VOC and 70 percent NO X .
