FR940525-0-00071 FR940525-0-00026 (e) Any time limit prescribed in this section may be extended for a period not to exceed 30 days by the Regional Director for good cause, either upon his or her own motion or upon written request from the appellant stating the reason(s) therefor. 9. Section 685.17 is revised to read as follows: ยง685.17 Availability of records for inspection. Any fish dealer shall provide an authorized officer access for inspecting and copying all records of fish purchases, sales, or other transactions involving fish taken or handled by vessels that have permits issued under this part or that are otherwise subject to this part, including, but not limited to, information concerning: (a) The name of the vessel involved in each transaction and the owner or operator of the vessel; (b) The amount, number, and size of each species of fish involved in each transaction; and (c) The price(s) paid by the buyer and proceeds to the seller in each transaction. 10. Section 685.18 is added to subpart A to read as follows: ยง685.18 Framework procedures. (a) Introduction. New management measures may be added, through rulemaking, if new information demonstrates that there are biological, social, or economic concerns in the fishery. The following framework process allows for measures that may affect operation of the fisheries, gear restrictions, quotas, or reductions or increases in longline catch and/or effort, if the information supports such a change. Additional information may indicate the need for new management measures for other sectors of the fishery, such as harvest guidelines, permits for certain classes of vessels, or reporting requirements. (b) Annual report _(1) Assessment of the fisheries. By June 30 of each year, the Council-appointed Pelagics Plan Team will prepare an annual report on fisheries in the fishery management area, containing the following: (i) Fishery performance data (e.g., landings, effort, value of landings, species composition); (ii) Summary of recent research and survey results; (iii) Habitat conditions and recent alterations; (iv) Enforcement activities and problems; (v) Administrative action (e.g., data collection and reporting, permits); (vi) State and territorial management actions; and (vii) Assessment of need for Council action (including biological, economic, social, enforcement, administrative, and state/Federal needs, problems, and trends). Indications of potential problems warranting further investigation may be signaled by indicator criteria. These criteria could include, but are not limited to, important changes in: Mean size of the catch of any species; estimated ratio of fishing mortality to natural mortality for any species; decline in catch per unit effort by any sector; ex-vessel revenue of any sector; relative proportions of gear in and around the EEZ; rate of entry/exit of fishermen in the fisheries; revenues for a significant percentage of any sector; total pelagic landings; species composition of the pelagic landings; research results; habitat or environmental conditions; or level of interactions between pelagic fishing operations and protected species in the EEZ or surrounding waters; (viii) Recommendations for Council action; and (ix) Estimated impacts of the recommended action. (2) Recommendations for management action. The annual report shall specify any recommendations made by the Pelagics Plan Team to the Council. Recommendations may cover actions suggested for Federal regulations, state/territorial action, enforcement or administrative elements, and research and data collection. Recommendations will include an assessment of urgency and the effects of not taking action and will indicate whether changes involve existing measures, which may be changed under paragraph (c) of this section, or new measures, which may be implemented under paragraph (d) of this section. (c) Procedure for changing established measures. (1) Established measures are those that are or have been in place via rulemaking procedures for various sectors of the fisheries, including, but not limited to, requirements governing: Longline general permits; Hawaii longline limited entry permits; longline logbooks and other reporting requirements; longline area closures; and longline gear marking requirements. The estimated and potential impacts of these measures have been evaluated in past Fishery Management Plan amendments and associated documents. (2) The Council will identify problems that may warrant action through the annual report described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or a separate report from the Pelagics Plan Team, the Advisory Subpanel, Pelagics Review Board, Scientific and Statistical Committee, pelagic fishery sector, enforcement officials, NMFS, or other sources. Identified problems will be addressed as follows: (i) At a Council Meeting following completion or receipt of a report identifying a problem, the Council will discuss whether changes to established conservation and management measures would resolve the problem. Notice to the public and news media preceding the meeting will indicate that the Council intends to discuss and possibly recommend regulatory adjustments through the framework process for established measures to address the issue or problem. The notice must summarize the issue(s) and the basis for recommending the measures being reviewed and would refer interested parties to the document(s) pertaining to the issue.
