FR941027-2-00050 FR941027-2-00027 In the absence of a withholding agreement, the Social Security number will be furnished only to a taxing jurisdiction which has furnished this agency with evidence of its independent authority to compel disclosure of the Social Security number, in accordance with section 7 of the Privacy Act. Routine use for disclosure to the Department of Justice for use in litigation: It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such reports by the Department of Justice is deemed by the Federal Election Commission to be relevant and necessary to the litigation provided, however, that in each case the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Routine use for Agency disclosure in litigation: It shall be a routine use of records maintained by this agency to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency, or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the Federal Election Commission determines that, on a case-by-case basis, use of such records is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that the agency determines that disclosure of the records is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Computer disk packs within central processing unit. Retrievability: On line access program utilizing employee social security number. Safeguards: Overall password for group number; individual password for each program; knowledge of password limited to appropriate personnel. Retention and disposal: Disposition of records shall be in accordance with the HB GSA Records Maintenance and Disposition System (OAD P 1820.2). System manager(s) and address: The Assistant Staff Director for Administration, Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463, (202/219&hyph;3440). Notification procedures: Refer to Commission access regulations at 11 CFR 1.1 et seq., 41 FR 43064 (1976). Record access procedures: Same as above. Contesting record procedures: Same as above. Record source categories: The subject individual; the Federal Election Commission. FEC 9 System name: Litigation Actions. System location: Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals who have brought judicial action against the Commission and individuals against whom the Commission has brought judicial action pursuant to 2 U.S.C. 437g or 437h, 26 U.S.C. 9011 or 9041, 5 U.S.C. 552 or any other statute. Categories or records in the system: All papers incident to a law suit, including discovery materials, motions, briefs, and orders. Authority for maintenance of the system:
