FR941006-2-00202 FR941006-2-00113 c. Report of Current Project Activities. A discussion of the status of all activities conducted during the previous project period. Applicants should identify any activities that were not completed, and explain why. A continuation application requesting a package grant must describe separately the activities undertaken in each of the projects included within the proposed package. d. Evaluation Findings. The key findings, impact, or recommendations resulting from the evaluation of the project, if they are available, and how they will be addressed during the proposed continuation. If the findings are not yet available, applicants should provide the date by which they will be submitted to the Institute. Ordinarily, the Board will not consider an application for continuation funding until the Institute has received the evaluator's report. e. Tasks, Methods, Staff and Grantee Capability. A full description of any changes in the tasks to be performed, the methods to be used, the products of the project, how and to whom those products will be disseminated, the assigned staff, or the grantee's organizational capacity. Applicants should include, in addition, the criteria and methods by which the proposed continuation project would be evaluated. A continuation application for a package grant must address these issues separately for each project included in the proposed package, using the same alphabetic identifiers and project titles as in the original application. f. Task Schedule. A detailed task schedule and time line for the next project period. A continuation application for a package grant should include a separate task schedule and timeline for each project included in the proposed package, as well as a schedule and time line that covers the package of projects as a whole. The same alphabetic identifiers and project titles used in the original application should be used to identify the component projects in the renewal application. g. Other Sources of Support. An indication of why other sources of support are inadequate, inappropriate or unavailable. 4. Budget and Budget Narrative Provide a complete budget and budget narrative conforming to the requirements set forth in paragraph VII.D. Changes in the funding level requested should be discussed in terms of corresponding increases or decreases in the scope of activities or services to be rendered. A continuation application for a package grant must include a separate budget narrative identified alphabetically (i.e. A, B, C) and by project title for each project component. 5. References to Previously Submitted Material An application for a continuation grant should not repeat information contained in a previously approved application or other previously submitted materials, but should provide specific references to such materials where appropriate. 6. Submission Requirements, Review and Approval Process, and Notification of Decision The submission requirements set forth in section VII.E., other than the deadline for mailing, apply to applications for a continuation grant. Such applications will be rated on the selection criteria set forth in section VIII.B. The key findings and recommendations resulting from an evaluation of the project and the proposed response to those findings and recommendations will also be considered. The review and approval process, return policy, and notification procedures are the same as those for new projects set forth in sections VIII.C.&hyph;VIII.E. B. On-going Support Grants 1. Purpose and Scope On-going support grants are intended to support projects that are national in scope and that provide the State courts with services, programs or products for which there is a continuing important need. An on-going support grant may also be used to fund longitudinal research that directly benefits the State courts. On-going support grants are subject to the limits on size and duration set forth in V.C.2 and V.D.2. A project is eligible for consideration for an on-going support grant if: a. The project is supported by and has been evaluated under a grant from the Institute;
