FR940831-2-00033 FR940831-2-00025 [Project Nos. 2251&hyph;MI; 2579&hyph;IN] Indiana Michigan Power Co.; Public Scoping Meetings August 25, 1994. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission) has received applications for new license (relicense) for the following two existing hydropower projects operated by the Indiana Michigan Power Company on the mainstem St. Joseph River: (1) the Buchanan Project (FERC No. 2551) located in Berrien County, Michigan; and (2) the Twin Branch Project (FERC No. 2579) located in St. Joseph County, Indiana. Upon review of the applications, supplemental filings, and intervenor submittals, the Commission staff has concluded that, given the locations and existing status of the projects, staff will prepare one Environmental Assessment (EA) that describes and evaluates the probable impacts of the applicant's proposed and alternative operating strategies, environmental enhancement measures, and improve public recreational access and facilities for both projects. One element of the EA process is scoping. Scoping activities are initiated early to: •Identify reasonable alternative operational procedures and environmental enhancement measures that should be evaluated in the EA; •Identify significant environmental and public recreational access issues related to the operation of the projects; •Determine the depth of analysis for issues that will be discussed in the EA; and •Identify resource issues that are of lessor importance and, consequently, do not require detailed analysis in the EA. Scoping Meetings Staff will hold two meetings. An evening scoping meeting is designed primarily for receiving public input, whereas an agency meeting will focus on federal, state, and local government concerns. We invite all interested agencies, tribes, organizations, and individuals to attend either or both meetings and to assist staff in identifying the scope of environmental issues that should be analyzed in the EA. The evening meeting for the general public will be held from 6:30 p.m. until 9 p.m. on Tuesday, September 20, 1994, at the Bittersweet Branch of the Mishawaka_Penn Public Library, located at 602 Bittersweet Road in Mishawaka, Indiana. The agency-oriented meeting will be held from 9 a.m. until 1 p.m. on Wednesday, September 21, 1994, in the Commission Chamber of Buchanan City Hall, located at 302 N. Redbud Trail in Buchanan, Michigan. Procedures Both meetings, which will be recorded by a stenographer, will become part of the formal record of the Commission's proceeding on the Buchanan and Twin Branch Projects. Individuals presenting statements at the meetings will be asked to sign in before the meetings start and identify themselves for the record. Concerned parties are encouraged to offer us verbal guidance during the public meetings. Speaking time allowed for individuals at the evening public meeting will be determined before that meeting, based on the number of persons wishing to speak and the approximate amount of time available for the session, but all speakers will be provided at least five minutes to present their views. Scoping Meeting Objectives At the scoping meetings, the staff will: •Summarize the environmental issues tentatively identified for analysis in the multiple-project EA; •Identify resource issues that are of lessor importance and, therefore, do not require detailed analysis; •Solicit from the meeting participants all available information, especially quantifiable data, concerning significant local resources; and •Encourage statements from experts and the public on issues that should be analyzed in the EA. Information Requested Federal and state resource agencies, local government officials, interested groups, area residents, and concerned individuals are requested to provide any information they believe will assist the Commission staff to analyze the environmental impacts associated with relicensing the Buchanan and Twin Branch Projects. The types of information sought include the following: •Data, reports, and resource plans that characterize existing (baseline) physical, biological, or social environments in the vicinity of the projects; •Information and data that helps staff identify or evaluate significant environmental and recreational issues; and •Information from any EA, environmental impact statement or study (completed, in progress, or planned) relevant to the Buchanan and Twin Branch relicensing. Scoping information and associated comments should be submitted to the Commission no later than September 30, 1994. Written comments should be provided at the scoping meetings or mailed to the Commission at the following address: Lois Cashell, Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol St., NE., Washington, DC 20426. All correspondence should clearly show the following caption on the first page of each submittal: Buchanan Project, FERC No. 2552 Twin Branch Project, FERC No. 2579 Intervenors are reminded of the Commission's Rule of Practice and Procedure requiring them to serve a copy of all documents filed with the Commission on each person whose name is listed on the service listed for the Buchanan and Twin Branch Projects. For further information, please contact Jim Haimes of the Commission's Division of Project Review in Washington, DC at (202) 219&hyph;2780. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21462 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
