FR941017-2-00094 FR941017-2-00058 The proposal would also require member organizations that maintain proprietary or customer account positions in expiring options to be responsible for ensuring that final exercise decisions are communicated to the Exchange regarding such positions. 19 In addition, member organizations which have accepted the responsibility to indicate final exercise decisions on behalf of another member organization or non-member firm shall take reasonable steps to ensure that such decisions are properly indicated to the Exchange. Member organizations may establish an internal processing cut-off time prior to 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.) at which time final exercise decisions from their customers will no longer be accepted by them for expiring options. 20 19 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 20 See Amendment Nos. 1 and 2, supra note 4. With certain minor modifications, the proposal maintains the current exceptions to Rule 780. The proposal, however, adds language to Rule 780(b) to expressly state that the burden of establishing an exception to the Exercise Cut-Off Time rests solely on the member organization seeking to rely on such exception. As proposed, each member organization shall prepare a memorandum of every final exercise decision for which a Contrary Exercise Advice is required. 21 In the event a member organization makes a final exercise decision after the Exercise Cut-Off Time in reliance on one of the above exceptions, the responsible member organization must prepare a written memorandum describing the surrounding circumstances and must file a copy of the memorandum with the Exchange's Market Surveillance Department not later than 12:00 p.m. (E.S.T.) on the business day following that expiration. 22 21 The memorandum must also include the time when such final exercise decision was made or, in the case of a customer, was received. 22 The Exchange has represented that effecting an exercise decision in an expiring equity option on the basis of material information obtained after the Exercise Cut-Off Time would be deemed to be activity inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. Telephone conversation between Holly Duffy, Director, Options and Special Products, NYSE, and Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, OMS, Division, Commission, on September 16, 1994. The Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to national securities exchanges, particularly, Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. 23 Specifically, the Commission believes the Exchange's proposal is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to protect investors and the public interest. 23 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1988). Although all options exchanges currently have a uniform 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.) Exercise Cut-Off Time on Expiration Fridays for expiring equity options, the OCC's rules permit the OCC to accept exercise notices for expiring equity options from clearing firms until 12:00 a.m. (E.S.T.) on the expiration date ( i.e. , the Saturday after an Expiration Friday). This additional time within which to receive exercise notices from clearing members was provided to accommodate corrections of mistakes made in good faith, trade reconciliations, and certain exceptional circumstances that affected a customer's ability to inform its brokerage firm or affected a firm's ability receive final exercise decisions before the Exercise Cut-Off Time. Nevertheless, there have been situations where member organizations have either delayed making exercise decisions until after 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.) on Expiration Friday in anticipation of the release of material news concerning a particular underlying company, or having made decisions prior to 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.), changed these decisions based upon such material news. 24 In this regard, the Commission believes that it is consistent with this approval for the Exchange to interpret its rules to deem the submission of a Contrary Exercise Advice on the basis of material information released after the Exercise Cut-Off Time as activity inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. 25 24 See, e.g., In re Farmers Group Stock Options Litigation, Master File No. 88&hyph;4994 (E.D.Pa). 25 See supra notes 11 and 22. The Commission believes that the proposed exercise procedures should enhance the Exchange's ability to surveil for violations of Rule 780 by providing an enhanced audit trail for identifying late exercises. Specifically, every time an exercise decision is made contrary to OCC Rule 805, a Contrary Exercise Advice must be filed with the Exchange, in addition to submitting an exercise instruction to a clearing member as is currently required. 26 Similarly, the proposal requires that documentation must be prepared and submitted to the proper options exchange whenever a late exercise decision is made in reliance on one of the exceptions to Rule 780, with the burden of establishing the existence of the exception on the party submitting the Contrary Exercise Advice. The proposed rule change, therefore, should facilitate the Exchange's ability to monitor and enforce compliance with Rule 780. Accordingly, because the proposed rule change significantly bolsters the Exchange's existing procedures regarding the exercise of expiring equity options and helps to ensure compliance with their rules, the Commission believes that the proposal is consistent with the Act. 27 26 See supra note 12. 27 The Commission notes that the NYSE has represented that it will prepare (in cooperation with the other options exchanges) and distribute a notice to member organizations describing the new procedures set forth above, and notifying member organizations as to when the new procedures will be fully in effect. See supra notes 5 and 15. Even though the proposed rule change significantly improves the Exchange's audit trail with respect to late exercises, the Commission believes that the Exchange should continue to examine ways of ensuring compliance with the Exercise Cut-Off Time and the other requirements of Rule 780. 28 Furthermore, the Commission also encourages the Exchange to review the permitted exceptions to Rule 780 and consider ways of establishing parameters as to the extent of the exceptions. 29 28 For example, the NYSE may wish to consider adopting additional penalties in those situations where a member organization is unable to establish the existence of one of the exceptions to Rule 780 for a particular trade or trades. 29 For example, the Exchange may want to define expressly in the rule the circumstances that qualify for a good faith exception.
