FR941227-0-00027 FR941227-0-00006 Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Parts 318, 381 and 391 [Docket No. 94&hyph;033I] RIN: 0583&hyph;AB87 Reduction of Accreditation Fees for FSIS Accredited Laboratories AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Interim rule with request for comments. SUMMARY: The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is amending provisions of the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulations to reduce the fees charged participants in the Agency's Accredited Laboratory Program (ALP). Non-Federal analytical laboratories are qualified under the ALP to conduct analyses of official meat and poultry samples. Laboratory accreditation fees that cover the costs of the ALP are mandated by the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (the 1990 Farm Bill), as amended. The same Act mandates annual payment of the fees on the anniversary date of each accreditation. FSIS has determined that reduced ALP administrative expenditures for fiscal year 1995 will enable the Agency to charge a smaller accreditation fee than last year. However, because the laboratory accreditation fee is set forth in the regulations, the regulations must be changed before the Agency can charge a different fee. Since the anniversary date of most current accreditations is December 13, FSIS would like to begin billing the laboratories at the reduced rate on that date. FSIS is also making an editorial correction to the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulations. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 27, 1994. Comments must be received by: January 26, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send written comments, in triplicate, to Policy, Evaluation and Planning Staff, ATTN: Diane Moore, FSIS Docket Clerk, room 3171, South Building, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Oral comments, as provided by the Poultry Products Inspection Act, should be presented to Dr. Jess Rajan, Chief, Quality Systems Branch, Chemistry Division, Science and Technology, (202) 205&hyph;0679. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Jess Rajan, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, room 516A, Annex Building, 300 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20250&hyph;3700, (202) 205&hyph;0679. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments concerning this interim rule. Written comments should be sent in triplicate to the Policy, Evaluation and Planning Staff and should refer to docket number 94&hyph;033I. Any person desiring opportunity for oral presentation of views, as provided under the Poultry Products Inspection Act, must make such request to Dr. Rajan so that arrangements may be made for such views to be presented. A record will be made of all views orally presented. All comments submitted in response to this interim rule will be available for public inspection in the FSIS Docket Room, room 3171, South Agriculture Building, Washington, DC 20250, from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Background To assure compliance with the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA_21 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) and the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA_21 U.S.C. 451 et seq. ), and regulations promulgated under the Acts, samples of meat and poultry products are tested periodically to determine protein, moisture, fat, and salt content. Analyses are also conducted to determine the presence of any violative concentrations of drugs or other chemical residues. When FSIS finds that a product is not in compliance, the Agency is required to take appropriate action against the processor of that product. Depending on the type of product and the severity of the noncompliance, such action may range from product reprocessing to litigation proceedings. In view of the critical nature of product testing, it is necessary for laboratories that analyze official samples of meat and poultry products to maintain a high degree of integrity. A processor whose sample is to be analyzed generally has the option of using either an FSIS laboratory or an accredited laboratory. The cost of FSIS analysis is borne by the Government while the cost of non-Federal analysis is borne by the processor. Due to the limited number of FSIS laboratories and their heavy workload, many processors prefer to use the non-Federal laboratories either for convenience of location or to obtain test results more quickly.
