FR940628-2-00066 FR940628-2-00053 Environmental Assessment The USIBWC received on June 3, 1994, from Quisto a completed Environmental Assessment (EA) for the proposed gas well and related features. The EA is currently available for review and comment. Finding of the Environmental Assessment The EA finds that the proposed action for Quisto to construct, operate, and maintain a gas well within the Main Floodway of the USIBWC LRGRCP (and the USIBWC to issue a license for such work) does not constitute a major federal action which would cause a significant local, regional, or national adverse impact on the environment based on the following facts: 1. The United States Army Corps of Engineers has determined that no waters of the United States including wetlands will be impacted by the proposed gas well and related features. 2. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that federally listed endangered or threatened species are unlikely to be adversely affected by the proposed gas well and related features. 3. The Texas Historical Commission and Department of Antiquities Protection have determined that no survey is required and the project may proceed. 4. The USIBWC Water Resources Investigations Division has determined that the proposed gas well and related features will have no significant effect upon the flood carrying capacity of the Main Floodway. On the basis of the Quisto EA, the USIBWC has determined that an environmental impact statement is not required for the issuance of a license to Quisto to construct, operate, and maintain a gas well and install related features within the Main Floodway of the USIBWC LRGFCP and hereby provides notice of finding of no significant impact (FONSI). An environmental impact statement will not be prepared unless additional information which may affect this decision is brought to our attention within thirty (30) days of the date of this Notice. A limited number of copies of the EA and FONSI are available to fill single copy requests at the above address. Dated: June 17, 1994. Suzette Zaboroski, Staff Counsel. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15558 Filed 6&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;03&hyph;M
