FR941207-0-00131 FR941207-0-00022 73. We will adopt Metricom's proposal, and create a limited exemption from the control group requirement for small, publicly-traded corporations with widely dispersed voting stock ownership. As Metricom points out, a significant number of small, publicly traded companies have such widely dispersed voting stock ownership that no identifiable control group exists or can be created. Without a control group, such companies may not be able to bid for entrepreneurs' block licenses or quality for small business status even though their gross revenues and assets meet our financial caps. It was not the Commission's intent that these companies be denied the opportunity to bid on the entrepreneurs block, or to qualify for treatment as a small business. 74. Consistent with Metricom's proposal, a small, publicly-traded corporation will be found to have dispersed ownership of voting stock if no person (including any ``group'' as that term is used in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) 41 has the power to control the election of more than 15 percent of the corporation's directors. In addition, we will require that no person shall have an equity interest in the applicant for more than 15 percent, which is consistent with out revised equity requirements for small business applicants utilizing a control group. Under those requirements small business principals in an applicant's control group must hold at least 15 percent interest in the applicant (in combination with an additional, 10 percent equity interest that may come from ``nonqualifying'' sources). A 15 percent equity requirement is appropriate here because the same percentage of equity is needed for a small business applicant's control group to satisfy its equity obligations (unless it is a preexisting company), and because a 15 percent equity cap is likely to ensure that no control questions arise. We, emphasize that this control group exemption will only apply to an applicant or licensee that is not controlled by any entity or group other than corporate management, as should be the case where there is no identifiable group of shareholders holding a controlling interest in the company's voting stock. A small corporation that has dispersed voting stock ownership and no controlling affiliates will therefore not be required to aggregate with its own revenues and assets the revenues and assets of management and shareholders for purposes of entrepreneurs' block eligibility or small business status. 41 15 U.S.C. 78(a) et seq. (Section 13(d) and Section 13(g) state that ``when two or more persons act as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate, or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding, or disposing of securities in an issuer, such syndicate or group shall be deemed a `person' and therefore required to make the disclosures indicated in those subsections''). 75. Small, publicly-traded corporations that choose to exempt themselves from the control group requirement must own all the equity and voting stock of the applicant or licensee. We find their ability to reply on the corporation's existing capital structure to introduce new passive investment on an ongoing basis provides a level of flexibility that is comparable to applicants/licensees with an identifiable control group. We note that minority and/or women-owned businesses would not qualify for this exemption since a control group is necessary to determine whether the applicant is controlled by minorities or women. 76. Finally we consider a few other points. First, as BET requests, we clarify that an individual can be the control group of an applicant, so long as our equity requirements and other provisions are satisfied. In response to Lehman Brothers' concerns, we clarify the control group requirements to provide that control group investors must receive dividends, profits, and regular and liquidating distributions in proportion to their actual possession of equity holdings, rather than in proportion to their interest in the total equity (which may include options not yet exercised). Finally, we see no conflict in our rules with a Pacific Telesis' proposal to allow designated entities and their partners to allocate amongst themselves tax benefits on a non-pro rata basis. De Facto Control Issues and Management Contracts 77. In the Fifth Report and Order, we provided that the designated entity control group must have de facto as well as de jure control if the applicant and must be prepared to demonstrate that it controls the enterprise. The requirement of de facto control arises from Section 310(d) of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 310(d), which prohibits any transfer or assignment of license or transfer of control of a corporation holding a license without the Commission's authorization. To help in determining what constitutes a transfer of control under this statutory provision we follow precedent defining de facto control. 42 We also apply this standard in the case of designed entities to determine whether the applicant is in fact controlled by qualifying individuals or entities. Several petitioners seek reconsideration or clarification of our de facto control standard, particularly as it applies to questions of de facto control by the designated entity control group and use of management contracts by licensees. 42 See Rochester Telephone v. United States, 23 F. Supp. 634, 636 (S.D.N.Y 1938), aff'd, 307 U.S. 125 (1939); Lorain Journal Co. v. FCC, 351 F.2d 824, 827&hyph;828 (D.C. Cir. 1965, cert. denied, 383 U.S. 967 (1966). Definition of De Facto Control 78. The Fifth Report and Order does not set forth specific guidelines defining de facto control in the entrepreneurs' block context. Because issues of de facto control are necessarily fact-specific, we have treated the issue as one to be handled on a case-by-case basis. 43 Consequently, a wide variety of factors may be relevant to determining whether a control group Has de acto control of a particular applicant, applying in the entrepreneurs' blocks. 43 Stereo Broadcasters, Inc., 55 FCC 2d 819, 821 (1975), modified, 59 FCC 2d 1002 (1976). 79. Some petitioners ask us to provide more specific guidelines with respect ti what dies and does not constitute de facti control. Omnipoint states that such guidelines would help designated entity applicants in setting up their management structure Others seek assurance that designated entity control groups can meet the de facto control test even if they enter into agreements containing ``standard'' covenants for the protection of non-majority or non-voting shareholders, e.g., supermajority voting requirements for major corporate changes, liquidation preference (commonly in the form of preferred stock), rights of first refusal, veto rights concerning particular corporate transactions, or the preemptive right to purchase stock to prevent dilution. 80. We continue to believe that determinations of de factir control for purposes of determining designated entity eligibility for entrepreneurs' blocks are inherently factual therefore will require case-by-case determination Nevertheless, to provide a level of certainty for designated entities and to ensure that designated entities maintain de facto control, we believe it is appropriate to articulate some guidelines for defining de facto control in this context. We therefore clarify that a designated entity or entrepreneurs' control group must demonstrate at least the following indicia of control to establish that it retains de facto control of the applicant (1) The control group must constitute or appoint more than 50 percent of the board of directors or partnership management committee; (2) the control group must have authority to appoint, promote, demote and fire senior executives that control the day-to-day activities of the licensee; (3) the control group must play in integral role in all major management decisions; and (4) in the case of applicants controlled by minorities and women, at least one minority or female control group member must have senior managerial responsibility over day-to-day operations, e.g., as President or CEO of the licensee. 44 We emphasize, however, that these criteria are guidelines only and are not necessarily dispositive of the issue of de facto control in all situations. Even where these criteria are met, therefore, the determination of whether de facto control exists will depend on the totality of circumstances in the particular case. 44 These same four indicia will be used to determine whether the ``qualified'' members of the control group ( i.e., women, minorities, and small business or entrepreneurial principals) have de facto control over the control group. For example, in a women-owned limited partnership applicant with one corporate general partner, the women shareholders of that corporation must constitute, or be able to appoint, more than 50 percent of the board, appoint and fire senior executives, play an integral role in all major management decisions, and at least one of the women must have senior managerial responsibility over day-to-day operations.
