FR940105-1-00006 FR940105-1-00002 In the event of its adoption, no retroactive effect would be given to this proposed rule, and applicable administrative procedures must be exhausted before any judicial challenge to the application of these provisions. Those administrative procedures are set forth in 9 CFR 381.35. Effect on Small Entities The Administrator, FSIS, has determined that the proposed rule would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The proposed rule would permit the use of TSP at the establishment's option. Establishments that decide to use TSP as an antimicrobial agent on their products would incur a one-time expense for the necessary equipment and an ongoing cost for purchasing TSP. The cost for the treatment equipment would be approximately $45,000 per processing line. The cost for the TSP would average about 1/2 cent per bird. The production of ready-to-cook poultry containing lower amounts of bacteria than such poultry now available would contribute to the national effort to reduce the incidence of pathogenic bacteria in foods. Most consumers are willing to pay more for poultry products that are raised or processed in a way that reduces the levels of Salmonella on such products. 1 Therefore, the market for TSP-treated poultry carcasses would likely attract most consumers who desire additional protection from harmful microorganisms. In turn, poultry establishments that market TSP-treated poultry carcasses could benefit from increased sales. 1 Rhone-Poulenc Food Buyer Telephone Survey, January 1993. A copy of this survey is available for public inspection in the office of the FSIS Hearing Clerk. Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments concerning this proposal. Written comments should be sent to the Policy Office at the address shown above and should refer to Docket Number 92&hyph;026P. Any person desiring opportunity for oral presentation of views, as provided under the PPIA, should make such request to Dr. James at (202) 720&hyph;3219 so that arrangements may be made for such views to be presented. A record will be made of all such oral comments. Copies of all comments submitted in response to this proposal will be available for public inspection in the Policy Office between 9 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. and between 1:30 and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Background FSIS is responsible for assuring that poultry products distributed in commerce are wholesome, not adulterated, and properly marked, labeled, and packaged. Under the PPIA (21 U.S.C. 451&hyph;470), FSIS provides mandatory inspection of poultry and poultry products shipped in interstate and foreign commerce, as well as in designated States. Continuous inspection of poultry slaughtering establishments is intended to assure that fresh, ready-to-cook poultry carcasses and parts are free of visible signs of disease and contamination. FSIS inspectors examine the outside, inside, and viscera of all birds presented for inspection.
