FR941212-0-00149 FR941212-0-00019 ROTC_Reserve Officer's Training Corps SJA_staff judge advocate SOFA_Status of Forces Agreement SPCMCA_special court-martial convening authority TAJAG_The Assistant Judge Advocate General TDA_table of distribution and allowances TDY_temporary duty TGBL_through Government bill of lading TJAG_The Judge Advocate General UCMJ_Uniform Code of Military Justice USAFAC_U.S. Army Finance and Accounting Center USAR_U.S. Army Reserve USARCS_U.S. Army Claims Service USAREUR_U.S. Army, Europe USARSO_U.S. Army South VA_Department of Veterans Affairs WESTCOM_U.S. Army Western Command Terms Affirmative Claims The Government's statutory right to recover money, property, or repayment in kind incurred as a result of property loss, damage, or destruction by any individual, partnership, association, or other legal entity, foreign or domestic, except an instrumentality of the United States. Also, the Government's statutory right to recover the reasonable medical costs expended for hospital, medical, surgical, or dental care and treatment (including prostheses and medical appliances) incurred under circumstances creating tort liability upon some third person. Civilian employee A person whose activities the Government has the right to direct and control, not only as to the result to be accomplished but also as the means used. This includes, but is not limited to, full-time Federal civilian officers and employees. This term should be distinguished from ``independent contractor'' for whose actions the Government generally is not liable. The decision as to who is a civilian employee is a Federal question determined under Federal, not under local law. Claim A demand for payment of a specified sum of money (other than the ordinary obligations incurred for services, supplies, or equipment) and, unless otherwise specified in this regulation, in writing and signed by the claimant or a properly designated representative. Claim file A file containing the report of the claims officer or other report of investigation, supporting documentations, and pertinent correspondence. Claim approval authority Except for claims under subpart G, I, and K and subject to any limitations found in specific provisions of this regulation, the authority to approve and pay a claim in the amount presented or in a lesser amount upon the execution of a settlement agreement by the claimant. Under subpart K the authority of a designated Government agent to adjudicate and pay a claim in a meritorious amount within the monetary limits prescribed in that subpart. A person with approval authority may not disapprove a claim in its entirety or to make a final offer subject to any limitations found in specific provisions of this regulation. Claim settlement authority The authority to approve a claim, deny a claim in its entirety, or make a final offer subject to any limitations found in specific provisions of this regulation. Claims attorney A DA or DOD civilian attorney assigned to a judge advocate or legal office who has been designated by the Commander, U.S. Army Claims Service. Claims judge advocate An officer of the Judge Advocate General's Corp designated by a command or staff judge advocate to be in immediate charge of claims activities of the command. Claims officer A commissioned officer, warrant officer, or qualified civilian employee detailed by the commander of an installation or unit who is trained or experienced in the investigation of claims. Claimant An individual, partnership, association, corporation, country, state, territory, or other political subdivision of such country. It does not include the U.S. Government or any of its instrumentalities, except as prescribed by statute. Indian tribes are not proper party claimants but individual Indians can be claimants. Combat activities Activities resulting directly or indirectly from action by the enemy, or by the U.S. Armed Forces engaged in, or in immediate preparation for, impending armed conflict. Disaster A sudden and extraordinary calamity occasioned by activities of the Army, other than combat, resulting in extensive civilian property damage or personal injuries and creating a large number of potential claims. Federal agency A Federal agency includes executive departments and independent establishments of the United States and corporations acting as instrumentalities or agencies of the United States but does not include any contractor with the United States. Final offer An offer of payment by a settlement authority in full and final settlement of a claim which, if not accepted, constitutes a final action for purposes of filing suit under subpart D or filing an appeal under subpart C or F provided such offer is made in writing and meets the other requirements of a final action as set forth in this regulation. Government vehicle A vehicle owned or on loan to any agency of the U.S. Government, or privately owned and operated by a member or civilian employee of the Army in the scope of his or her office or employment with the U.S. Government, including vehicles being operated on joint operations of the U.S. Armed Forces. Medical claims judge advocate A judge advocate assigned to an Army Medical Center, under an agreement between The Judge Advocate General and The Surgeon General, to perform the primary duty of investigating and processing medical malpractice claims.
