FR940505-1-00451 FR940505-1-00012 (j) Inspection failure. (1) If a subject vehicle fails any phase of the enhanced emission inspection, the vehicle owner shall have the vehicle repaired and submit the vehicle for retesting along with a repair form supplied by the test provider (to be completed by the vehicle repair provider). No reinspection shall occur without a completed repair form. (2) If the subject vehicle fails the retest, and it otherwise meets the waiver requirements for enhanced I/M programs addressed under 40 CFR 51.360(a), the vehicle owner may apply for a waiver. (k) Enhanced I/M program requirements. The FIP I/M program design shall include the following program elements: (1) Network type. Testing shall be performed through a centralized system of official emission inspection stations which shall be operated by one or more test provider(s) under agreement with the Administrator. (2) Test-only. Official emission inspection stations shall conduct vehicle emission testing only and shall not perform vehicle repairs, except to restore the vehicle to the as-received condition after testing (including the reattachment of hoses disconnected for the evaporative system check). Official emission inspection stations shall meet all the requirements for test-only stations established in 40 CFR 51.353. (3) Geographic coverage. The FIP I/M program shall cover the same geographic areas within the Sacramento, Ventura and South Coast FIP areas as are covered by the existing California Smog Check program as of [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ]. (See 40 CFR part 52, subpart GGG, appendix A for a detailed listing of I/M FIP area coverage by zip code.) (4) Exhaust emission test type. All 1966 and newer subject vehicles shall be tested using the IM240 transient mass emission test as specified by EPA guidance and regulation. (5) Emission control device visual inspection. All 1971 and newer subject vehicles shall be visually inspected for the presence and proper connection of the air pump and positive crankcase ventilation (PCV) systems. The visual inspection of these components shall be conducted in compliance with procedures established by EPA guidance and regulation. (6) Evaporative system tests. All 1971 and newer subject vehicles shall be subject to an evaporative system pressure test and an evaporative system purge test conducted as specified by EPA guidance and regulation. (7) Onroad testing. Onroad testing shall be conducted on approximately 10 percent of the subject fleet using RSD on an annual basis. Subject vehicles have been targeted by RSD as potential high-emitters shall be subject to out-of-cycle testing requirements as specified in paragraph (t) of this section. (l) Documentation of compliance for vehicles operated on Federal installations. Federal installations located within the FIP I/M program area shall provide annual documentation of proof of compliance with paragraphs (c)(5) and (c)(6) of this section to EPA. This documentation shall be updated periodically, but at least once per inspection cycle. The installation shall use one of the following methods to establish proof of compliance: (1) Presentation of a valid certificate of compliance with or waiver from the FIP I/M program or a comparable I/M program (i.e., one meeting the enhanced I/M performance standard as set forth in 40 CFR 51.351). In the event the FIP I/M program adopts an electronic-based instrument for certifying vehicle compliance, the test provider(s) shall make arrangements for issuing a special ``Federal vehicle,'' paper-based certificate of compliance. Such a certificate of compliance shall clearly read ``Not Valid for Vehicle Registration in the State of California'' in a point size and location which will make it impossible to remove this message without destroying the certificate. (2) Presentation of proof of vehicle registration for each vehicle operating on the grounds of the Federal installation which is already registered within the geographic area covered by the FIP I/M program. (m) Emission inspection criteria for vehicles operated with miscellaneous motor vehicle business registration plates or dealer registration plates. A subject vehicle which displays a miscellaneous motor vehicle business registration plate or a dealer registration plate shall be exempt from the requirements for emission inspection until it reaches two years of age (based on model year) at which that time it shall be subject to emission inspection. (n) Repair technician training. Repair technician training shall be provided to all qualified applicants. This training will include, at a minimum:
