FR940930-0-00070 FR940930-0-00011 (i) Home Health Care Demonstration; and (ii) Home Health Care-Case Management Demonstration. (q) Premiums_ (1) Rates. Premium rates will be established by the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) for two rate groups_individual and family. Eligible beneficiaries will select the level of coverage they require at the time of initial enrollment (either individual or family) and pay the appropriate premium payment. The rates are based on Federal Employee Health Benefit Program employee and agency contributions required for a comparable health benefits plan, plus an administrative fee. The administrative fee, not to exceed ten percent of the basic premium amount, shall be determined based on actual expected administrative costs for administration of the program. Premiums may be revised annually and shall be published annually for each fiscal year. Premiums will be paid by enrollees quarterly. (2) Effects of failure to make premium payments. Failure by enrollees to submit timely and proper premium payments will result in denial of continued enrollment and denial of payment of medical claims. Premium payments which are late 30 days or more past the start of the quarter for which payment is due will result in the ending of beneficiary enrollment. Beneficiaries denied continued enrollment due to lack of premium payments will not be allowed to reenroll. In such a case, benefit coverage will cease at the end of the ninety day (90) period for which a premium payment was received. Enrollees will be held liable for medical costs incurred after losing eligibility. (r) Transitional provisions. (1) There will be a sixty-day period of enrollment for all eligible beneficiaries (outlined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) whose entitlement to regular military health services system coverage ended on or after August 2, 1994, but prior to the CHCBP implementation on October 1, 1994. (2) Enrollment in the U.S. VIP program may continue up to October 1, 1994. Policies written prior to October 1, 1994, will remain in effect until the end of the policy life. (3) On or after the October 1, 1994, implementation of the Continued Health Care Benefit Program, beneficiaries who enrolled in the U.S. VIP program prior to October 1, 1994, may elect to cancel their U.S. VIP policy and enroll in the CHCBP. (4) With the exception of persons enrolled in the U.S. VIP program who may convert to the CHCBP, individuals who lost their entitlement to regular military health services system coverage prior to August 2, 1994, are not eligible for the CHCBP. (s) Procedures. The Director, OCHAMPUS, may establish other rules and procedures for the administration of the Continued Health Care Benefit Program. Dated: September 26, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24289 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
