FR940810-0-00331 FR940810-0-00022 In granting an exception, the Secretary will not be waiving any statutory requirements. SEAs and LEAs will continue to evaluate the effectiveness of their Chapter 1 programs under section 1019, in accordance with less prescriptive standards contained in these regulations. SEAs and LEAs will also continue to perform the annual review required under section 1021(a), measure sustained program gains under sections 1019(a)(3) and 1021(a)(2), identify schools and students in need of program improvement under section 1021(b) and (f), and meet schoolwide project accountability requirements under section 1015(e), using the State assessment and any other sources of information deemed appropriate. Similarly, under the MEP, SEAs will still need to ensure that they and their operating agencies adhere to the requirements of sections 1012(b), 1019(b), and 1202(a)(6) to use desired outcomes for evaluating performance, to collect and report demographic and performance data, and to examine sustained gains for formerly migratory children. The Secretary wishes to emphasize that no State is required to make any changes in its Chapter 1 or MEP testing programs as a result of these regulations. Rather, the exceptions are intended to provide flexibility to enable States to use their own assessment systems for Chapter 1 and MEP purposes if they wish to do so. Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the NPRM, 17 parties submitted comments on the proposed regulations. An analysis of the comments is published as an appendix to this document. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order, the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential benefits associated with these regulations are clear. Rather than continuing to operate multiple assessment systems for Federal and State purposes, some States may use their State systems to evaluate their Chapter 1 and MEP programs. Moreover, the potential costs associated with these regulations are negligible. Because the regulations permit States to use their own assessment systems, States will incur few, if any, additional costs. To the contrary, these regulations will result in reduced costs for States that might otherwise have had to operate multiple assessment systems. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Section 200.90 contains information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of these sections to the Office of Management and Budget for its review. (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)) These proposed regulations would affect SEAs and LEAs that have developed assessment systems that support their educational reform efforts but that are inconsistent with the national evaluation standards in Subpart H of Part 200 or Subpart E of Part 201. The Department needs the information to grant exceptions to the national evaluation standards. A one-time public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average two hours per response for a maximum of 52 respondents, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, Room 10235, New Executive Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. List of Subjects 34 CFR Part 200 Administrative practice and procedure, Education of disadvantaged, Elementary and secondary education, Grant programs_education, Juvenile delinquency, Neglected, Private schools, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, State-administered programs. 34 CFR Part 201 Children, Coordination, Education, Eligibility, Evaluation, Grant programs_education, Identification and recruitment, Local educational agencies, Migrant student record transfer system, Migratory children, Migratory workers, Needs assessment, Priorities, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Special educational needs, State educational agencies, Subgrants. Dated: August 3, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: 84.010, Chapter 1 Program in Local Educational Agencies; 84.011, Migrant Education Basic State Formula Grant Program; 84.012, Chapter 1 Programs_State Administration)
