FR940317-1-00110 FR940317-1-00013 (b) Limitations on amount. If the General Court-Martial Convening Authority (GCMCA), or designee, acting on the claim determines that an assessment against a soldier in excess of $10,000 for a single incident is meritorious, he or she will assess the pay of that soldier in the amount of $10,000 and forward the claim to the Commander, USARCS with his or her recommendation as to the additional amount that should be assessed. (1) A SPCMCA has authority to approve a pay assessment not to exceed $5,000 on a single incident and deny a claim in any amount. (2) A GCMCA, or designee, has authority to approve a pay assessment in an amount not to exceed $10,000 on a single incident. (3) Only the Commander, USARCS, or designee, has authority to approve a pay assessment in an amount greater than $10,000 on a single incident. (c) Direct damages. Assessments are limited to direct damages for the loss or damage to property. Indirect, remote, or consequential damages may not be considered under this chapter. ยง536.143 Procedure. Area claims offices and claims processing offices with approval authority are responsible for publicizing the Article 139 program and maintaining a log for Article 139 claims presented in their areas (see DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 10&hyph;6). Area claims offices and claims processing offices with approval authority are required to monitor action taken on Article 139 claims and ensure that time requirements are met. If assessment action on a particular claim will be unduly delayed, the office may consider the claim under 31 U.S.C. 3721 and chapter 11 of this regulation if it is otherwise cognizable under that authority. The office will counsel the claimant to repay any overpayment if the Article 139 claim is later successful (see ยง516.163(d)(1). (a) Form of a claim and presentment. A claim must be presented by the claimant or his or her authorized agent orally or in writing. The claim must be reduced to writing, signed, and for a definite sum in U.S. dollars within 10 days after oral presentment. (See ยง536.20(d)(1)(i)) (b) Action upon receipt of a claim. Any officer receiving a claim will forward it within 2 working days to the SPCMCA over the soldier or soldiers against whom the claim is made. If the claim is made against soldiers under the jurisdiction of more than one such convening authority who are under the same general court-martial convening authority, the claim will be forwarded to that general court-martial convening authority, who will designate one SPCMCA to investigate and act on the claim as to all soldiers involved. If the claim is made against soldiers under the jurisdiction of more than one SPCMCA at different locations and not under the same general court-martial convening authority, the claim will be forwarded to the SPCMCA whose headquarters is closest to the situs of the incident, who will investigate and act on the claim as to all soldiers involved. If a claim is made against a member of one of the other Military Services, the claim will be forwarded to the commander of the nearest MACOM of that Service. (c) Action by the SPCMCA. (1) If the claim appears to be cognizable, the SPCMCA will appoint an investigating officer within 4 working days of receipt of a claim. The investigator will use the procedures of this chapter supplemented by the procedures of AR 15&hyph;6, chapter 4, applicable to informal investigations. The claims officer of a command, if he or she is a commissioned officer, may be appointed as the investigating officer. (2) If the claim is not made against a person who is a member of the armed forces of the United States at the time the claim is received, or if the claim otherwise does not appear to be cognizable under Article 139, the SPCMCA may refer it for legal review (see paragraph (e) of this section) within 4 working days of receipt. If, after legal review, the SPCMCA determines that the claim is not cognizable, he or she may take final action disapproving the claim (see paragraph (f)) without appointing an investigating officer. (d) Action by the investigating officer. The investigating officer will provide notification to the soldier against whom the claim is made. (1) If the soldier indicates a desire to make voluntary restitution, the investigating officer may, with the convening authority's concurrence, delay proceedings until the end of the next pay period to accomplish this. If the soldier makes payment to the claimant's full satisfaction, the claim will be dismissed.
