FR940505-1-00402 FR940505-1-00012 (i) Current hourly ozone level, in ppm, measured in the portion of the local air district that falls within the boundaries of the Sacramento FIP area; (ii) Predicted meteorology including wind speed, and mixing height; and (iii) Forecast temperature. (4) Permitting . Agricultural burning is prohibited unless a valid burn permit is obtained from the appropriate designated agency. (5) Restrictions . (i) Agricultural burning shall be prohibited on a no-burn day. (ii) Open burning shall be prohibited on a no-burn day. (6) Exemptions . [Reserved]. (l) Emissions of Oxides of Nitrogen from Natural Gas-fired Water Heaters . (1) Applicability . For the purposes of paragraph (l) of this section, the affected area includes the Sacramento Metro Area as described for ozone in 40 CFR 81.305. The requirements of paragraphs (l)(1) through (6) of this section shall apply to any person who manufactures, offers for sale, sells, or installs any natural gas-fired water heater with a rated heat input capacity less than 75,000 British thermal units per hour (Btu/hr). (2) Definitions . For the purposes of paragraph (l) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in §52.2950. British thermal unit (Btu) means the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water from 59 ○F to 60 ○F at one atmosphere. Heat input means the actual amount of heat released by natural gas burned in a water heater. Heat output means the product obtained by multiplying the recovery efficiency, as defined by Title 20, California Administrative Code, Chapter 2, Subchapter 4, Article 4, Sections 1603 and 1607, by the heating value of the natural gas furnished to the water heater. Natural gas means a mixture of gaseous hydrocarbons containing at least 80 percent methane by volume as determined according to American Standard Test Method (ASTM) D1945&hyph;64. Rated heat input capacity means the heat input capacity specified on the nameplate of the combustion unit. If the combustion unit has been altered or modified such that its maximum heat input is different than the heat input capacity specified on the nameplate, the new maximum heat input shall be considered as the rated heat input capacity. Water heater means a device that heats water at a thermostatically-controlled temperature for delivery on demand. (3) Standards . After May 31, 1995, no person shall manufacturer, offer for sale, sell, or install any natural gas- fired water heater with NO X emissions in excess of 40 nanograms calculated as weight equivalent NO X per joule (ng/j) [93 pounds per billion Btu (93 lb/10 9 Btu)] of heat output. (4) Exemptions . The provisions of this section shall not apply to: (i) Water heaters with a rated heat input of 75,000 Btu/hr or greater. (ii) Water heaters used in recreational vehicles. (iii) Water heaters used exclusively to heat swimming pools and hot tubs. (5) Reporting and Recordkeeping . (i) Compliance Report . A manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a Compliance Report which demonstrates that each water heater model complies with the section. A manufacturer shall submit a new Compliance Report for any water heater model whose design is changed in any manner which may alter NO X emissions. Compliance Reports, for either new models or altered models, shall be submitted to the Administrator at least 30 days before the water heater model is offered for sale, sold, or installed in the control area. The Compliance Report shall contain the following information: (A) General Information . ( 1 ) Name and address of manufacturer; ( 2 ) Brand name and model; ( 3 ) Model number as it appears on the rating plate of each water heater; and ( 4 ) Description of each water heater model being certified. (B) Test Report . ( 1 ) All compliance test procedures and results for each water heater model; and
