FR940323-0-00091 FR940323-0-00023 Response: The Act requires notification of various parties at certain stages in the rulemaking process. The Service attempts to notify all interested parties of all notices and rules and to solicit data and comments when appropriate. Notification is provided and comments solicited by correspondence, public hearings (if requested), newspaper notices, press releases, and Federal Register notices. Newspaper notices were published in the Las Vegas Daily Optic on December 23, 1992, and in the Santa Fe New Mexican on January 1, 1993. Both are newspapers of general circulation within the vicinity of Pecos, New Mexico. A notice of the upcoming hearing was also published in the Federal Register on January 13, 1993 (58 FR 4144). In cases where numerous landowners are involved, the Service attempts to contact the major owners. The Santa Fe National Forest, which contains most of the known Holy Ghost ipomopsis plants, was notified of the public hearing. Several individuals in the local area were notified in writing of the public hearing. The former president of the homeowners' association was advised by telephone on November 30, 1992, and was later sent a letter (January 13, 1993), notifying him of the proposed listing and upcoming hearing. Issue 4: Is Holy Ghost ipomopsis a distinct species? Response: The senior author of the paper describing Holy Ghost ipomopsis as a species is a leading authority on the phlox family (Polemoniaceae), of which Holy Ghost ipomopsis is a member. The paper (Wilken and Fletcher 1988) was published in a peer-reviewed journal and met the general professional requirements for naming new species. The paper has been reviewed by Service botanists and others who find no reason to doubt Wilken and Fletcher's findings. Also, Wolf et al. (1991), using electrophoretic enzyme analysis, confirmed that Holy Ghost ipomopsis is a distinct species. Issue 5: Does unique flower coloration make Holy Ghost ipomopsis a distinct species? Response: This species is unique among plants of the genus Ipomopsis in having pink-purple flowers, but even more significant are the anatomical differences. The flower's ovary and stigma are shorter in Holy Ghost ipomopsis than in any other species in the genus. Issue 6: Were enough field surveys conducted to determine that Holy Ghost ipomopsis has a very restricted distribution? Response: Wilken and Fletcher (1988) surveyed within a 24-km (15-mi) radius of the known locality for this species in July 1986, but failed to locate additional plants. Dr. Wilken visited the area and adjacent areas at least three times in 1987, 1989, and 1990, but failed to locate additional plants in similar habitats in either the Pecos River drainage or adjoining drainages in eastern Santa Fe County, southeastern Taos County, or western San Miguel County (Dieter Wilken, Colorado State University, in litt. , 1992). He also conducted an exhaustive search of U.S. herbaria and failed to locate any additional collections of this species. The State of New Mexico (Sivinski 1991) also surveyed for Holy Ghost ipomopsis but failed to find additional plants. The Service believes sufficient searches have been made to confirm that Holy Ghost ipomopsis is a very rare species. However, the Service also believes that other natural populations may be found and will likely recommend additional searches as part of the recovery program for the species. Issue 7: Two other possible populations of Holy Ghost ipomopsis were mentioned at the public hearing, one between Glorieta and Pecos, New Mexico, and one near the Grand Canyon in Arizona. Response: The Service relies on the best available biological information when determining to propose or list a species as endangered or threatened. No reference to either of these populations was available in the literature or through contacts with botanists who are familiar with the species. The State of New Mexico surveyed between Glorieta and Pecos during the summer of 1993, but no Holy Ghost ipomopsis was found (Robert Sivinski, New Mexico Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department, pers. comm., 1993). There is no way to verify the location or the identity of the plant from the Grand Canyon. However, Arizona has been botanically explored for at least 100 years, and if Holy Ghost ipomopsis did occur there, it is likely that a specimen would have been collected, deposited in a herbarium, and then noted during Dr. Wilken's examination of herbarium specimens. Issue 8: Is Bacillus thuringiensis (BT) a threat to Holy Ghost ipomopsis? Response: The biological pest control BT is commonly used for outbreaks of spruce budworm. Both the U.S. Forest Service and the State of New Mexico (Forestry and Resources Conservation Division of the Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department) have used BT to control spruce budworm in New Mexico. Because of the anatomical characteristics of its flowers, Holy Ghost ipomopsis is thought to be pollinated by various moths and butterflies, which are highly susceptible to BT. Elimination of these pollinators could reduce seed production and seedling recruitment, and contribute to a decline in the population and range of Holy Ghost ipomopsis.
