FR940516-0-00009 FR940516-0-00003 This is considered to be interim action until final action is identified, at which time the FAA may consider further rulemaking. After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the changes previously described. The FAA has determined that these changes will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD. The FAA estimates that 9 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this AD, that it will take approximately 1 work hour per airplane to accomplish the required AFM revision, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. The cost for required parts is expected to be negligible. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $495, or $55 per airplane. This total cost figure assumes that no operator has yet accomplished the requirements of this AD. Should an operator elect to accomplish the optional terminating action that is provided by this AD action, the number of work hours required to accomplish it is approximately 159 per airplane, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Required modification parts would be supplied by Jetstream at no cost to operators. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the AD for accomplishment of the optional terminating action is $8,745 per airplane. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A final evaluation has been prepared for this action and it is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends 14 CFR part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. §39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive: 94&hyph;08&hyph;01␣British Aerospace (Commercial Aircraft), Limited: Amendment 39&hyph;8872. Docket 93&hyph;NM&hyph;98&hyph;AD. Applicability: All Model ATP airplanes, certificated in any category. Compliance: Required as indicated, unless accomplished previously. To prevent loss of multiple engine power during flight in freezing precipitation, accomplish the following: (a) Within 30 days after the effective date of this AD, revise the Limitations Section of the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to include the following statement. This may be accomplished by inserting a copy of this AD in the AFM. ``Flight is prohibited into forecast or reported freezing precipitation conditions where the outside air temperature is between +5 ○C and ^5 ○C.'' (b) Accomplishment of the actions specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5) constitutes terminating action for the AFM revision required by paragraph (a) of this AD. (1) Revise the Limitations section and the Normal Procedures section of the FAA-approved AFM, to include the information specified in Temporary Revision No. T/33, Issue 1, dated November 1, 1993, and Temporary Revision No. T/38, Issue 1, dated February 16, 1994, which introduce procedures for operation in icing conditions, as specified in the temporary revision; and operate the airplane in accordance with those limitations and procedures. Note 1: This may be accomplished by inserting copies of Temporary Revision No. T/33 and No. T/38 in the AFM. When these temporary revisions have been incorporated into general revisions of the AFM, the general revisions may be inserted in the AFM, provided the information contained in the general revisions is identical to that specified in Temporary Revision No. T/33 and No. T/38. (2) Incorporate a revision into the FAA-approved maintenance program that provides for replacement of engine igniter plugs at the intervals specified in Jetstream Service Bulletin ATP&hyph;80&hyph;06, Revision 1, dated October 22, 1993. Initial replacement of an engine igniter plug with a new plug shall be accomplished prior to the accumulation of 200 total hours time-in-service on the engine igniter plug, or within 50 hours time-in-service after incorporating the maintenance program revision, whichever occurs later.
