FR940602-2-00029 FR940602-2-00026 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Organization of Public Meetings EPA intends that the three public meetings will allow for a fruitful exchange of information and views among the various interested parties, the affected States, and EPA. The meetings will be organized as ``roundtable'' discussions. In order to promote an interactive discussion, EPA has retained a facilitator to direct discussions among the various parties. EPA will arrange for representatives of the various stake-holders, including the States, the auto manufacturers, other industry, and environmental interest groups, to be seated at a table with EPA. The facilitator will direct discussion first among these representatives. All members of the public are encouraged to attend and participate, and the public will have an opportunity to comment on the discussion of each discrete topic on the agenda. EPA believes that an opportunity for public interactive discussions will provide a valuable opportunity for EPA to refine and synthesize information from individual participants relevant to its action on the OTC's recommendation. EPA is not, however, establishing the representatives invited to participate in the roundtable discussions as an advisory committee, and EPA is not seeking a group opinion or recommendation from these representatives. II. Agendas for Discussion EPA's announcement of its receipt and availability of the OTC's recommendation provides a short background discussion of the recommendation and its context, 59 FR 12914 (March 18, 1994). EPA's recent notice of proposed rulemaking, 59 FR 21720 (April 26, 1994), provides a detailed description of the framework for EPA's action on the recommendation and the issues EPA is considering in reaching a decision. The reader should refer to these earlier notices for a full understanding of the OTC's recommendation and the issues EPA is interested in pursuing at the public meetings. Additional information may be obtained from the docket for this rulemaking (A&hyph;94&hyph;11), which includes a transcript of the May 2&hyph;3 public hearing held on EPA's notice of proposed rulemaking. The description of the agendas for the public meetings, below, presumes familiarity with these notices. To allow participants to focus their attention and prepare for topics on the agenda in advance, the Agency is disinclined to substantially change these agendas. As the process advances, however, the Agency may make slight changes in light of new issues that may emerge or to proceed quickly through issues that may require less time and attention than originally scheduled. A. First Meeting; Philadelphia, PA on June 8, 1994 At the first meeting, EPA intends the morning discussion to focus on the legal and policy aspects of the standard or test the Agency should apply in analyzing the OTC's recommendation. The Agency believes this is an overarching issue that should be addressed at the outset. Background for this topic can be found in EPA's proposal, 59 FR at 21725&hyph;27. The agenda for the morning session is as follows: Interpretation of ``Necessity'' Finding 1. Relevance of standard under Section 211(c)(4)(C). 2. Relevance of alternatives. 3. Criteria for alternatives: standards for cost-effectiveness, practicability and reasonableness. 4. Deference to the OTC and EPA's factual burden. 5. The need for a timely decision based on available information despite scientific uncertainty. At the first meeting, EPA intends in the afternoon session to shift the discussion to focus on the recommended OTC LEV program, itself. Background information for this topic can be found in EPA's proposal, 59 FR at 21722&hyph;23, 21730&hyph;31, and 21734&hyph;36. EPA believes there are both important legal and policy, as well as technical aspects of the OTC LEV program that merit discussion. Of course, the Agency has an obligation to evaluate whether the recommended program is consistent with the Act. While many issues regarding the legality of an OTC LEV program have been the subject of litigation and may be addressed adequately in written submissions, EPA believes that discussion of certain issues would be helpful. The agenda for the afternoon session is as follows: OTC LEV 1. Required elements of an OTC LEV program for purposes of consistency with Sections 177 and 209. 2. Reductions from an OTC LEV program: what; where; when. 3. Cost-effectiveness of an OTC LEV program. 4. Assumptions about fuel used throughout the OTR, including attainment areas.
