FR940428-1-00015 FR940428-1-00006 (3) The nature of the Government's waiver, exception, and enforcement procedure. The Contracting Officer will promptly review the matter and advise the Contractor whether or not the need to allocate has been substantiated. If the law, regulation, or order requiring the Contractor to reduce deliveries ceases to be effective, the Contractor shall resume deliveries in accordance with the original Schedule. (d) If, as a result of reduced deliveries permitted by (a), (b) or (c) above, the Contracting Officer decides that continuation of this contract is no longer in the best interests of the Government, the Government may terminate this contract or any quantity thereunder, by written notice, at no cost to the Government. However, the Government shall not be relieved of its obligation to pay for supplies actually delivered to and accepted by it. (d) Except as otherwise stated in paragraph (b), any volumes omitted pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this clause shall be deleted from this contract, and the Contractor shall have no continuing obligation, so far as this contract is concerned, to make up such omitted supplies. [End of Clause] 5452.249&hyph;9F02 Domestic Allocation. The Defense Fuel Supply Center will use the following clause in domestic bulk, bunkers, and posts, camps, and stations solicitations/contracts when a fixed-price contract is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to exceed the small purchase limitation. 5452.249&hyph;9F02 Domestic Allocation (DFSC) (Jun 1989) (Deviation) (a) If the Contractor's total available supply of refined petroleum products is reduced due to factors beyond its control and without its fault or negligence, and if as a result of this reduced supply, the Contractor is forced to allocate remaining supplies among its regular customers and does so on a fair and equatable basis, then the Contractor may reduce the quantity of product due the Government under this contact on a pro rata basis with the Contractor's other regular customers. (b) The contractor shall provide prompt written notice to the Contracting Officer of its intention to allocate, provide evidence substantiating the necessity for allocation, and describe the allocation rates applicable to all regular customers. (c) If, as a result of reduced deliveries permitted by paragraph (a) above, the Contracting Officer decides that continuation of this contract is no longer in the best interests of the Government, the Government may terminate this contract or any quantity thereunder, by written notice and at no cost to the Government. However, the Government shall pay for supplies actually delivered to and accepted by it. (d) Department of Energy priority orders and allocation regulations will take precedence over any provisions of this clause. (e) For domestic bulk and bunkers solicitations/contracts, the provisions contained in (a) above shall be inoperative where the Secretary of Defense makes a written determination that it is essential to the National Defense that the Defense Fuel Supply Center be provided contract volumes exceeding the amount of product to which it would otherwise be entitled. However, in no case will the Contractor be required, under this contract, to supply more than 100 percent of the quantity specified in the Schedule. [End of Clause] 5452.249&hyph;9F04 Product Availability. The Defense Fuel Supply Center will use the following clause in all domestic into-plane solicitations/contracts when a firm fixed-price contract is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to exceed the small purchase limitation. 5452.249&hyph;9F04 Product Availability (DFSC) (Jun 1979) (Deviation) (a)(1) If, a result of the actions of the supplier(s) listed by reference in the Economic Price Adjustment clause which are beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor, reduced supply of a referenced product is made available to the Contractor, and (2) If, as a result of this reduced supply the contractor allocates its remaining supply among it regular customers on a fair and reasonable basis, the contractor may reduce the quantity of product due the Government under this contract on a pro rata basis with the Contractor's other regular customers. (b) The Contractor will provide prompt written notice to the Contracting Office of its intention to allocate, provide evidence substantiating the necessity for allocation, and describe the allocation rates applicable to all regular customers. (c) If, as a result of reduced deliveries permitted by (a)(2) above, the Contracting Officer decides that continuation of this contract is no longer in the best interest of the Government, the Government may terminate this contract, or any quantities thereunder, by written notice at no cost to the Government. [End of Clause] Marilyn S. Barnett, Executive Director (Procurement). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9961 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3620&hyph;01&hyph;M
