FR940912-2-00141 FR940912-2-00098 Federal Transit Administration Innovative Financing Initiative: Notice of Funding Availability and Request for Information Agency: Federal Transit Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice solicits project proposals and information from transit authorities, planning officials, States, the private sector and the public for the Federal Transit Administration's (FTA) Innovative Financing initiative. Specifically, the agency seeks identification of issues and obstacles to innovative financing of transit capital or operating needs, as well as local project proposals that demonstrate or test an innovative financing mechanism. DATES: Proposals shall be received on or before October 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Proposals should be sent in triplicate to Janette Sadik-Khan. Associate Administrator, Office of Budget and Policy, Room 9310, 400 Seventh Street SW, Washington, DC 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul Marx (202) 366&hyph;1675 or Janette Sadik-Khan (202) 366&hyph;4050. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA) provides various tools for more efficient management and enhancement of our Nation's public transit infrastructure. Moreover, the President's guidance on infrastructure investment urges all levels of government to foster economic growth by supporting integrated investment in infrastructure; Executive Order 12893, ``Principles for Federal Infrastructure Investments,'' signed by the President on January 26, 1994, directs each executive department ``to ensure efficient management of infrastructure *␣*␣* '' and ``to encourage private sector investment, which is a key objective of our efforts to promote innovative financing.'' By encouraging private sector investment in transit infrastructure, FTA hopes to bring market-oriented and results-driven project analysis and management techniques to bear on meeting the nation's current and projected transit infrastructure needs. Our challenge therefore is to facilitate a program of public and private transit infrastructure investment that both preserves the existing base of transit assets and ensures that investment for transit system expansion can be made as needed. Such a program of infrastructure preservation and enhancement must take maximum advantage of existing capital markets and techniques for leveraging the effectiveness of infrastructure investment by all levels of government. It must increase private capital participation while maintaining or expanding public sector investment. Department of Transportation Secretary Federico Peña, responding to this challenge, requested that FTA explore innovative ways to finance the transportation needs of our nation, taking into account a continuing Federal commitment to transit support as well as a growing private sector interest in transportation investment. FTA has identified specific provisions that were added to the Federal transit laws by ISTEA that make it easier for States and localities to plan and execute integrated public transit investment programs, but more is needed. Issues and Proposals In preparation for the FY 1996 budget process, FTA is asking for (1) identification of joint public and private ventures in public transportation that demonstrate the effectiveness of private capital investment in transit, (2) identification of projects to remove or modify rules and policies that inhibit effective transit infrastructure management, and (3) specific local transit project proposals that would test or implement innovative financing techniques. We believe the most effective way to do this is to rely upon those who have led their industry in developing such techniques and projects for applicable examples. FTA will use the innovations proposed to support discussions for the next surface transportation authorization, summarize and disseminate the results of projects for peer review and, to the extent possible, provide technical assistance in project advancement. Innovative Concepts The types of projects that FTA seeks should use innovative financing concepts that enhance the effectiveness of public transit investment by either generating increased investment or by reducing overall project costs. The following techniques and ISTEA provisions are illustrative of the types of innovation that we are seeking: •Structured leasing of fixed transit facilities, through the use of Certificates of Participation (COP's), Grant Anticipation Notes, or other mechanisms that generate cost reductions or net present value benefits;
