FR940603-1-00114 FR940603-1-00009 Alternate bid No. XXXX , $ XXXX . Alternate bid No. XXXX , $ XXXX . Alternate bid No. XXXX , $ XXXX . Alternate bid No. XXXX , $ XXXX . The Total Contract Price is $ XXXX XXXX Owner By XXXX President Attest: XXXX Secretary Dated XX [End of clause] §1726.330 [Reserved] §1726.331 Bid bond, REA Form 307. The bond form in this section shall be used when a Bid Bond is required by REA Form 200, 203, 257, 764, 830, or 831. Bid Bond 1. Know all men that we, XXXX , as Principal, and XXXX , as Surety, are held and firmly bound unto XXXX (hereafter called the ``Owner'') in the penal sum of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the bid referred to in paragraph 2 below, but not to exceed XXXX dollars ($ XXXX ), as hereinafter set forth and for the payment of which sum well and truly to be made we bind ourselves, our executors, administrators, successors and assigns, jointly and severally, by these presents; 2. Whereas, the Principal has submitted a bid to the Owner for the construction of the Rural Electrification Administration Project known as Project XXXX . 3. Now, therefore, the condition of this obligation is such that if the Owner shall accept the bid of the Principal, and (a) the Principal shall execute such contract documents, if any, as may be required by the terms of the bid and give such Contractor's Bond or Bonds for the performance of the contract and for the prompt payment of labor and material furnished for the Project as may be specified in the bid, or (b) in the event of the failure of the Principal to execute such contract documents, if any, and give such Contractor's Bond or Bonds, if the Principal shall pay to the Owner the difference, not to exceed the penal sum hereof, between the amount specified in the bid and such larger amount for which the Owner may in good faith contract with another party to construct the Project, then this obligation shall be void, otherwise to remain in full force and effect. In witness whereof, the undersigned have caused this instrument to be executed and their respective corporate seals to be affixed and attested by their duly authorized representatives this XX day of XXXX , 19 XX . Principal XXXX (Seal) By XXXX Title XXXX Attest: XXXX (Secretary) Surety XXXX (Seal) By XXXX Title XXXX Attest: XXXX (Secretary) [End of clause] §§1726.332&hyph;1726.339 [Reserved] §1726.340 Substation and switching station erection contract, REA Form 764. The contract form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Substation and Switching Station Erection Contract Notice and Instructions to Bidders 1. Sealed proposals for the construction, including the supply of necessary labor, materials and equipment, of a rural electric project of XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Owner'') to be known as Project XXXX will be received by the Owner on or before XX o'clock XX M., 19 XX , at its office at XXXX at which time and place the proposals will be publicly opened and read. Any proposal received subsequent to the time specified will be promptly returned to the Bidder unopened. 2. Description of Project: The Project will consist of the following Substations and other Major Facilities: Name XXXX KVA XXXX Voltage XXXX Name XXXX KVA XXXX Voltage XXXX Name XXXX KVA XXXX Voltage XXXX
