FR941227-2-00146 FR941227-2-00094 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20786; File No. 812&hyph;9136] Investment Company Act of 1940, SunAmerica Inc., et al. December 20, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: SunAmerica Inc., Anchor National Life Insurance Company (``Anchor National''), Variable Separate Account (``Separate Account'') and SunAmerica Capital Services, Inc. (collectively, ``Applicants''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act granting an exemption from Section 22(d) thereof. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to the extent necessary to permit Anchor National or any other insurance company controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, Anchor National (collectively, ``Affiliated Insurers'') to waive, in certain circumstances, the contingent deferred sales load that otherwise would be imposed on certain individual and group flexible payment deferred variable annuity contracts (``Contracts'') issued and to be issued by Anchor National or the other Affiliated Insurers. FILING DATE: The application was filed initially on August 2, 1994; an amended application was filed on November 15, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing on this application by writing to the Secretary of the SEC and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on January 17, 1995, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issue contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESS: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, c/o Routier, Mackey and Johnson, P.C., 1700 K Street, N.W., Suite 1003, Washington, D.C. 20006. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrice M. Pitts, Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Public Reference Branch of the SEC. Applicants' Representations 1. Anchor National, a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of the State of California, is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of SunAmerica Inc., a financial services company. 2. Anchor National established the Separate Account on June 25, 1981, to fund variable annuity contracts. The Separate Account is registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. 3. SunAmerica Capital Services, Inc. (``SEC''), the principal underwriter for certain of the existing Contracts, is a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. SCS also is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of SunAmerica Inc. 4. The Contracts are or will be issued by Anchor National or other Affiliated Insurers and offered through the Separate Account or any other separate account (as defined in Section 2(a)(37) of the 1940 Act) of the issuing Affiliated Insurer that is registered as an investment company under the 1940 Act (collectively, ``Eligible Account(s)''). The Contracts will provide for accumulation of contract values and payment of benefits on a variable basis. Fixed accumulation and/or payment options also may be available under the Contracts. (In the case of group Contracts, the term ``Contract,'' as used herein, will include a certificate issued to a participant in the group; the term ``Contract owner'' will include such a participant.) 5. Various fees and charges may be deducted from contract values or the assets of an Eligible Account to pay for expenses incurred in connection with administering and selling the Contract and for assuming certain risks thereunder. All such charges will be permitted either pursuant to rules adopted under the 1940 Act or by order of the Commission, and will be fully disclosed in the prospectuses for the Contracts. 6. A contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') may be imposed upon certain withdrawals from the Contracts. The CDSC may vary in amount, according to a schedule contained in the applicable Contract and described in its prospectus, depending upon the contribution year of the purchase payment being withdrawn. Purchase payments withdrawn after a specified period of time will not be subject to the CDSC and may be withdrawn free of such charge. The applicable Contracts prescribe the circumstances in which the CDSC may be reduced or waived, including in connection with the ``Confinement Waiver benefit'' described below. 7. Under a Contract to which the ``Confinement Waiver benefit'' applies, the CDSC will be waived upon the Contract owner's request for full or partial surrender of the Contract value prior to the annuity date. This ``Confinement Waiver benefit'' will be available if: •The Contract owner is confined to an eligible nursing home and/or hospital for at least 60 consecutive days while the Contract is in force; •A surrender or partial withdrawal request and adequate proof of confinement are received by the Affiliated Insurer either while the Contract owner is confined or within 90 days of the Contract owner's discharge from the nursing home or hospital; and •Confinement in the nursing home and/or hospital is prescribed by a physician and is medically necessary.
