FR940603-1-00022 FR940603-1-00007 The Council included this provision to make allowance for a vessel lost or destroyed before and during the moratorium. The January 1, 1989, date was selected because the Council determined that an owner of a vessel lost or destroyed prior to 1989 is likely to have received insurance claims, and already obtained a replacement vessel. 11. Salvage of Lost or Destroyed Vessel A qualifying vessel that was lost or destroyed on or after January 1, 1989, may be salvaged and remain a qualifying vessel. The Council chose this date because the owner of a vessel lost or destroyed prior to 1989 is likely to have received insurance claims, and already have obtained a replacement vessel. However, the Council created an exception for a qualifying vessel that was lost or destroyed before January 1, 1989. It could be salvaged and remain moratorium eligible if: a. The salvage operations began by June 24, 1992; and b. the salvaged vessel makes a landing from a moratorium fishery within 2 years of the date of implementation of the moratorium. The provision to allow the salvage of a vessel before January 1, 1989, was added at the Council's August 1992 meeting based on public testimony received at that meeting. The Council chose June 24, 1992, because that was the date the Council approved the motion on the moratorium. The Council required such a salvaged vessel to make a landing within 2 years of the moratorium implementation date to ensure that the vessel was participating in a moratorium fishery. 12. Exemptions to the Moratorium The Council included three exemptions to the moratorium. First, a vessel that participates in moratorium fisheries in the GOA that does not exceed 26 ft (7.9 m) LOA, and a vessel that participates in moratorium fisheries in the BSAI that does not exceed 32 ft (9.8 m) LOA would be exempt, providing such vessel lengths are not increased beyond these LOA limits. The Council provided these exemptions because, according to the EA/RIR/IRFA, vessels less than 36 ft (11 m) LOA in the BSAI and GOA were responsible for less than 1 percent of the moratorium fisheries landings and comprised approximately 65 percent of the fleet of qualified vessels in 1991. Eliminating the smaller vessels from the moratorium would lessen the burden on small vessel owners, while not compromising the goals of the moratorium. The limit was set at 26 ft (7.9 m) LOA or less in the GOA because vessels of this size represent the typical skiff fleet. In the BSAI, 32 ft (9.8 m) LOA represents the historical length restriction imposed on vessels participating in the Bristol Bay drift gillnet salmon fishery. Second, a newly constructed vessel that was constructed pursuant to an approved Community Development Plan (CDP) under provisions of 50 CFR parts 675 and 676 would be exempted if: a. It were constructed solely for the purpose of furthering the goals of a CDP; b. it were a specialized vessel designed and equipped to meet the needs of a community or group of communities that have specific and unique operating requirements; and c. it were 125 ft (38.1 m) LOA or less. Such a vessel could participate in Community Development Quota (CDQ) and non-CDQ fisheries during the moratorium subject to other regulatory provisions. Such a vessel would lose its exempt status and would be restricted from participating in any of the moratorium fisheries, if it were transferred to a non-CDQ entity during the moratorium, unless the vessel subsequently received transferred moratorium qualification. Third, a halibut or sablefish fixed gear vessel operating under the provisions of the Individual Fishery Quota (IFQ) program would be exempted from the vessel moratorium, as it affects directed halibut and sablefish operations. The Secretary approved the IFQ program for the halibut and sablefish fixed gear fishery on January 29, 1993 (58 FR 59375, November 9, 1993). A non-qualifying vessel that is harvesting IFQ halibut or sablefish would not be able to participate in any other directed moratorium fishery, but would be permitted to retain moratorium species other than halibut and sablefish in amounts up to 20 percent of the amount of halibut and sablefish on board. 13. Appeals The Council's preferred alternative provides for an administrative appeal of an initial denial of a vessel permit or license. The intent of the Council, in recommending the opportunity for an administrative appeal, was to allow for an administrative solution to contested eligibility without the expense of a court proceeding. The Council determined that most appeals under the moratorium would be resolved through the examination of records. In the event that review of an appeal would require more than a review of the records and application of the regulations and would benefit from industry expertise, the Council recommended establishment of an adjudication or appeals board to review the appeals. Implementation of the Moratorium If approved by the Secretary, the moratorium would be effective for 3 years from its implementation date, as recommended by the Council. If approved, NMFS intends to implement the moratorium on January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1997. Permit Requirements Under the moratorium, NMFS is proposing that only a vessel that is issued a permit would be able to participate in the moratorium fisheries. Currently, an owner of a vessel harvesting halibut in the waters in and off of Alaska must obtain a vessel license from the IPHC, a groundfish harvesting, processing or support vessel in Federal waters off of Alaska must obtain a vessel permit from NMFS, and a king or Tanner crab harvesting, processing, or support vessel in Federal and State waters must obtain a vessel permit from the State.
