FR940607-1-00022 FR940607-1-00004 In the context of listed debt, the proxy rules, for the most part, cover solicitations to modify the terms of a trust indenture. Given the strictures already imposed by the indenture contract, as well as the Trust Indenture Act, comment is solicited as to whether the benefits to debtholders from the application of the proxy rules to debt securities listed on a national securities exchange outweigh the costs to the issuers in complying with the proxy rules in connection with proxy or consent solicitations. 30 If the proxy rules provide important protections with respect to publicly-traded debt securities that should be preserved, does the need for these protections derive from the listing of the security on a national securities exchange or rather because it is traded in the public debt markets? If the latter is the case, should the Commission seek to extend the proxy rules to all publicly-traded debt securities, similar to the treatment of equity securities under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act? Comment also is solicited as to whether an issuer's solicitation of holders of debt securities listed on a national securities exchange should remain subject to the antifraud proscriptions of Rule 14a&hyph;9 31 and/or the rules adopted under Section 14 of the Exchange Act to facilitate the transmission of proxy and consent materials to beneficial owners, 32 even if exempted from other proxy regulation. Finally, is the application of the proxy rules currently part of the expectations of the parties negotiating an indenture agreement, or of investors purchasing a listed debt security? If so, should the proposed exemption be prospective in nature and thus inapplicable to classes of debt listed before the effective date of the exemption? 30 When Congress first began to consider the need for 12(g), an earlier version of Senate Bill 1168 would have subjected issuers with more than $1 million of debt securities outstanding to registration and the proxy rules. The Senate Committee on Banking and Currency, however, ``recognized that debt security holders are normally better protected, from a financial standpoint, by the fixed dollar obligation in the debt contract than are holders of equity securities, and hence eliminated the debt security test from the provisions of the bill.'' S. Rep. No. 700, 85th Cong., 1 Sess. 6 (1957). 31 17 CFR 240.14a&hyph;9. 32 Rules 14a&hyph;13 [17 CFR 240.14a&hyph;13], 14b&hyph;1 [17 CFR 240.14b&hyph;1], and 14b&hyph;2 [17 CFR 240.14b&hyph;2]. D. Automatic Effectiveness of Form 8&hyph;A and Elimination of Filing Fee The Commission proposes to reduce or eliminate some of the procedural costs of listing debt on a national securities exchange, both through rulemaking and through practical modifications to filing procedures. 33 Currently, Form 8&hyph;A registration statements must be declared effective by the staff, pursuant to delegated authority, which necessitates coordination among the issuer, its counsel, the Commission staff, and the national securities exchange. A rule change is proposed to provide for the automatic effectiveness of registration statements on Form 8&hyph;A, including amendments, that pertain only to the listing of debt securities on a national securities exchange. 34 In the case where debt securities of the class being registered were concurrently being registered under the Securities Act, the Form 8&hyph;A would become effective simultaneously with the effectiveness of the related Securities Act registration statement if certification by the national securities exchange had been received by the Commission on or before the effectiveness of the related Securities Act registration statement. If, however, that class of debt securities was not concurrently being registered under the Securities Act, then the Form 8&hyph;A would become effective upon filing if certification by the exchange had been received by the Commission on or before the filing of the form. 35 33 The Commission will accept the filing of a combined Form 8&hyph;A and NYSE Listing Application on behalf of any issuer listing debt securities on the NYSE. The combined Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application will include all the current disclosure requirements of Form 8&hyph;A and the listing application requirements of NYSE. The NYSE intends to assist its listed companies by filing the combined Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application with the Commission on behalf of the issuer and as its agent. The issuer, however, may choose to file the Form 8&hyph;A itself. Regardless of whether the issuer or the national securities exchange files the Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application, the issuer is solely responsible for the filing and its contents. National securities exchange representatives wishing to use a similar procedure should contact Joseph P. Babits at (202) 942&hyph;2910. National securities exchanges that intend to use a combined Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application that will become effective upon filing must confirm that the combined Form has been in fact filed with the Commission prior to the commencement of trading in the class of securities. A national securities exchange using such a procedure may wish to make Form 8&hyph;A filings with the Commission in paper, whether or not the registrant is subject to mandated electronic filing via the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (EDGAR). Accordingly, the Division of Corporation Finance will consider requests for a continuing hardship exemption pursuant to Rule 202 of Regulation S&hyph;T [17 CFR 232.202] from any national securities exchange filing Forms 8&hyph;A on behalf of electronic filers. 34 Proposed amendments to Rule 12d1&hyph;2 and Instruction A of Form 8&hyph;A. Forms 8&hyph;A that register both debt and equity securities would not be encompassed by the proposed amendments. 35 If an issuer elects to file the Form 8&hyph;A (or Form 8&hyph;A/Listing Application) itself, it must ensure that the Commission has received certification from the exchange on or before the date of filing the Form if automatic effectiveness is requested, or, if concurrent effectiveness is requested, on or before the Securities Act registration statement has been declared effective. An issuer may contact the Office of Quality Control at (202) 942&hyph;8970 (ext. 4475) to verify that certification has been received by the Commission. To the extent that multiple debt issues are being registered on a single Form 8&hyph;A, then certification for each issue must be received by the Commission prior to effectiveness. Where a Form 8&hyph;A relates to debt securities to be listed on multiple national securities exchanges ( e.g., the NYSE and the Boston Stock Exchange), then certifications must be received by the Commission from each exchange prior to effectiveness.
