FR940406-0-00182 FR940406-0-00012 After considering the comments on the new emissions test procedure requirements, NHTSA has concluded that the simplest and most equitable procedure for both manufacturers and the Federal government is to continue fuel economy certification using LVW values for all classes of vehicles. NHTSA has informed EPA of its decision and, in a March 4, 1993 letter to NHTSA, EPA agreed to abide by NHTSA's decision and stated that it would undertake ``the regulatory and guidance revisions needed to allow dual testing.'' D. Phase-Out of Chlorofluorocarbons Under terms of the international Montreal Protocol, the United States and other industrialized nations have agreed to halt production of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) by the year 2000. In February 1992, President Bush announced that the United States would phase out production by the end of 1995. Both Ford and General Motors identified weight penalties for eliminating the use of CFCs in their vehicles' air conditioning systems of seven pounds or less for each MY 1995&hyph;97. NHTSA estimated that these weight additions could result in an average fuel economy penalty of 0.02 mpg. These weight effects are included in the manufacturers' fuel economy projections. V. Domestic/Import Fleet Distinction In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed to eliminate the requirement that captive imports and other light trucks be required to meet light truck CAFE standards separately. This requirement has been in effect since MY 1980 (see 42 FR 63184, Federal Register , December 15, 1977). At the time the agency introduced these separate categories, it believed that the division would prevent light truck CAFE standards from acting as an incentive for the domestic manufacturers to increase the numbers of captive import vehicles in their fleets. Over the past decade, however, the captive import sector of the fleet has become insignificant. Whereas in 1980, captive imports accounted for 14.7 percent of the overall light truck market, in 1992 they made up less than 0.5 percent of that market. GM and Ford no longer have any captive import light trucks. Chrysler's captive import fleet consisted, for MY 1993, of only about 6,000 vehicles (compact pickups produced in Japan by Mitsubishi). Given the changes in market conditions, NHTSA tentatively concluded in the NPRM that there is no need or reason to continue to maintain the separate categories. While the Act specifies a similar two-fleet rule for passenger automobiles, it does not require the agency to provide similar treatment to light trucks. In their comments to the NPRM, the domestic manufacturers and the AAMA supported elimination of the captive import category. The agency did not receive any other comments that addressed the issue.
