FR940104-0-00075 FR940104-0-00016 (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) ยง685.101 Participation in the Direct Loan Program. (a)(1) Colleges, universities, graduate and professional schools, vocational, and technical schools selected by the Secretary may participate in the Direct Loan Program. Participation in the Direct Loan Program enables an eligible student or parent to obtain a loan to pay for the student's cost of education at the school. (2) The Secretary has the authority to permit a school to participate in both the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program, as defined in 34 CFR part 600 and the Direct Loan Program. A school permitted to participate in both the FFEL Program and the Direct Loan Program may certify loans under the FFEL Program according to the terms of its agreement with the Secretary. (b) An eligible student who is enrolled at a school participating in the Direct Loan Program may borrow under the Federal Direct Stafford Loan and Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan programs. A parent of an eligible dependent student may borrow under the Federal Direct PLUS Program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) ยง685.102 Definitions. (a)(1) The following definitions are set forth in the Student Assistance General Provisions, 34 CFR part 668: Academic year Campus-based programs Dependent student Eligible program Eligible student Enrolled Federal Consolidation Loan Program Federal Direct Student Loan Program (Direct Loan Program) Federal Pell Grant Program Federal Perkins Loan Program Federal PLUS Program Federal-State Student Incentive Grant Program Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program Federal Work-Study Program Independent student Parent State U.S. citizen or national (2) The following definitions are set forth in the regulations for Institutional Eligibility Under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 34 CFR part 600: Accredited Clock hour Educational program Eligible institution Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program Institution of higher education Nationally recognized accrediting agency or association Preaccredited Program of study by correspondence Secretary (3) The following definitions are set forth in the regulations for the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program, 34 CFR part 682: Act Endorser Expected family contribution Federal Insured Student Loan (FISL) Program Federal Stafford Loan Program Foreign school Full-time student Graduate or professional student Guaranty agency Holder Legal guardian Lender Totally and permanently disabled Undergraduate student (b) The following definitions also apply to this part: Alternative originator: An entity that originates Direct Loans to students and parents of students who attend a Direct Loan Program school that does not have an agreement with the Secretary to originate loans.
