FR940707-2-00081 FR940707-2-00049 The institutionalization of action strategies that promote culturally competent policies and practices which are family-centered and community-based will depend on the ease with which physicians and other practitioners successfully incorporate ethnic and cultural factors in their work. For example, issues of importance may include: cultural and ethnic background of the health care professionals; sensitivity and competence of the health care professionals to deal with cultural and ethnic factors; or language and the strength of cultural and ethnic identification. • Minimum Requirements for Project Design: ADD is seeking Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), grassroots organizations, racial and ethnic coalitions, civil rights and other private non-profit organizations experienced in working with culturally diverse populations to develop successful models for accessing services; and supporting the ability of these constituencies with developmental disabilities to perform leadership functions, and make their own choices_personal or professional. In order to successfully compete under this priority area, the application must include activities which would: •Strengthen the ability of members of culturally diverse racial and ethnic groups with disabilities to serve as leaders and advocates on critical issues in the developmental disabilities field, particularly in their own communities; •Enable and actively support members of culturally diverse racial and ethnic groups with disabilities and their families to take part in and benefit from advocacy in accessing health care services; recreational activities, public education efforts and employment programs; •Support and train members of culturally diverse racial and ethnic groups with disabilities and their families to participate on boards of organizations that plan for and make decisions on their behalf; •Support and train members of culturally diverse racial and ethnic groups and their families in establishing effective methods of communication at the community level, and establishing collaborative relationships between local systems in the provision of individualized services that they have choice and control of; •Develop and implement public awareness campaigns and other written materials specifically geared toward members of culturally diverse groups with disabilities to inform them of the services available in their catchment areas; •Provide evidence of the applicant's ability to establish an advisory board comprised of 51% persons with disabilities and 51% persons from culturally diverse groups. Applicants must also commit to including members of the project's advisory body into the board membership of the organization. A plan to accomplish this goal must be submitted to ADD; and •Provide leadership development and training to increase and strengthen active participation by individuals with developmental disabilities and their families from culturally diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds. •Proposals should also include provisions for the travel of two key personnel during the first and last year of the project to Washington, DC. for a one day meeting with ADD staff. •Describe an evaluation component which will measure the project's effectiveness in achieving desired objectives. •In addition, proposals should provide for the widespread dissemination of their products (reports, summary documents, audio-visual materials, and the like) in accessible formats. A plan to accomplish this goal must be submitted to ADD. • Project Duration: This announcement is soliciting applications for project periods up to three years under this priority area. Awards, on a competitive basis, will be for a one-year budget period, although project periods may be for three years. Applications for continuation grants funded under this priority area beyond the one-year budget period, but within the three year project period, will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis, subject to the availability of funds, satisfactory progress of the grantee and determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the Government.
