FR940505-1-00277 FR940505-1-00012 (2) If any changes are made to capture equipment, then affected facilities must notify EPA of these changes and a new test may be required by EPA. (3) All affected facilities must notify the Administrator 30 days prior to performing any capture efficiency test. At that time, the source must notify the Administrator which capture efficiency protocol will be used. (4) All affected facilities utilizing a PTE must demonstrate that this enclosure meets the requirement given in Procedure T in appendix B of 40 CFR 52.741 at all times. (5) All affected facilities utilizing a TTE must demonstrate that their TTE meets the requirements given in Procedure T in appendix B of 40 CFR 52.741 for a TTE during testing of their control device. The source must also provide documentation that the quality assurance criteria for a TTE have been achieved. (iv) Control Device Efficiency Testing and Monitoring. (A) Control Efficiency Test. The control device efficiency shall be determined by simultaneously measuring the inlet and outlet gas phase VOC concentrations and gas volumetric flow rates in accordance with the gas phase test methods specified in paragraph (a)(4)(vi) of this section. (B) Continuous Monitoring. Any owner or operator that uses an afterburner or carbon adsorber to comply with any requirement of this section shall use continuous monitoring equipment which is installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to vendor specifications and which meets EPA-approved performance specifications at all times when the afterburner or carbon adsorber is in use. The continuous monitoring equipment must automatically monitor and record the following parameters: (1) Combustion chamber temperature of each afterburner. (2) Temperature rise across each catalytic afterburner bed or VOC concentration exhaust. (3) The VOC concentration of each carbon adsorption bed exhaust. (C) Recordkeeping and Reporting. (1) All affected facilities must maintain a copy of all control efficiency test protocols for a period of five (5) years. All control test results must be reported to EPA within sixty (60) days of the test date. A copy of the results must be kept on file with the source for a period of five (5) years. (2) All affected facilities must maintain copies of all required continuous monitoring records for a period of five (5) years. (3) If any changes are made to control equipment, affected facilities must notify EPA of these changes and a new control efficiency test may be required by EPA. (4) All affected facilities must notify the Administrator 30 days prior to performing any control efficiency test. At that time, the source must notify the Administrator which test methods will be used. (v) Overall Efficiency. (A) The overall efficiency of each emission control system shall be determined as the product of the capture system efficiency and the control device efficiency or by the liquid/liquid test protocol as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(A)(2) of this section for each solvent recovery system. (B) The overall efficiency of the capture system and control device used to control VOC emissions from a paper, fabric, film, can, coil, or miscellaneous metal parts and products coating line, as determined by the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(iii), (a)(4)(iv), and (a)(4)(v)(A) of this section, shall be no less than the equivalent overall efficiency which shall be calculated by the following equation: E = ([VOC a _VOC 1 ]/VOC a ) × 100 where: E=Equivalent overall efficiency of the capture system and control device as a percentage, VOC a = Actual VOC content of a coating, or the daily-weighted average VOC content of two or more coatings (if more than one coating is used), as applied to the subject coating line as determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section in units of kg VOC/l (lb VOC/gal) of coating solids as applied, and
