FR940505-2-00031 FR940505-2-00024 Proposed Decision and Order of the Department of Energy Implementation of Special Refund Procedures Date: April 28, 1994. Names of Firms : Aptos Shell, et al. Date of Filing : July 20, 1993. Case Numbers : LEF&hyph;0092, et al. On July 20, 1993, the Economic Regulatory Administration of the Department of Energy (ERA) filed a Petition requesting that the Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) formulate and implement subpart V special refund proceedings. Under the procedural regulations of the DOE, special refund proceedings may be implemented to refund monies to persons injured by violations of the DOE petroleum price regulations, provided DOE is unable to readily identify such persons or to ascertain the amount of any refund. 10 CFR 205.280. We have considered the ERA's request to formulate refund procedures for the disbursement of monies remitted by Aptos Shell and 4 other firms pursuant to a Remedial Order (hereafter, the Order) issued by OHA on December 14, 1981, and have determined that such procedures are appropriate. Each firm's name, case number and amount of money it remitted under the Order has been set out in the appendix immediately following this Decision. The firms remitted a total of $21,764.57 to the DOE to remedy pricing violations which occurred during the period covered by the ERA's audit. These funds are being held in an escrow account established with the Treasury pending a determination of their proper distribution. See Memorandum from George B. Breznay, Director OHA, to James T. Campbell, Comptroller, ``Transferring Funds to Escrow Account,'' August 30, 1993. OHA's tentative plan to distribute those funds is set forth in this Decision. Specific application requirements appear in Section III. Because these procedures are set forth in proposed form, refund applications should not be filed at this time. Comments are solicited. I. Jurisdiction and Authority The general guidelines that govern OHA's ability to formulate and implement a plan to distribute refunds are set forth at 10 CFR part 205, subpart V. These procedures apply in situations where the DOE cannot readily identify the persons who were injured as a result of actual or alleged violations of the regulations or ascertain the refund amount each person should receive. For a more detailed discussion of subpart V and OHA's authority to fashion procedures to distribute refunds, see Office of Enforcement, 9 DOE ¶82,508 (1981) and Office of Enforcement, 8 DOE ¶82,597 (1981). II. Background The facts alleged in the Order were undisputed. Aptos and each of the 4 firms identified in the Appendix to this Decision were ``retailers'' of motor gasoline as that term has been defined at 10 CFR 212.31 and were therefore subject to the provisions of 10 CFR part 210 and 10 CFR part 212, subpart F. The Order states that, during the period covered by the ERA's audit, each retailer charged prices higher than those permitted by 10 CFR 212.93(a)(2); levied a cents-per-gallon fee for services associated with the sale of motor gasoline in violation of 10 CFR 210.62(d)(1) and refused to make its records available for inspection in violation of 10 CFR 210.92(b). The retailers were ordered to reduce their prices for motor gasoline by specified amounts until sufficient volumes of gasoline could be sold at the reduced prices to remedy the violations. 1 After decontrol, the Order was modified to require direct monetary restitution to the Treasury instead. See Sunset Boulevard Car Wash, 20 FERC ¶62,319 at 63,537 (1982). The retailers objected. The Order has since been affirmed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in a Proposed Order issued on August 13, 1982. Id. FERC issued a final Order adopting its Proposed Order on September 29, 1982. 1 The Order imposed no sanctions upon the firms for failing to provide records pursuant to 10 CFR 210.92(b). See Remedial Order. III. The Proposed Refined Product Refund Procedures This section sets forth the considerations that will be used to evaluate refund applications payable from the monies remitted by the retailers. We propose implementing a two stage refund proceeding. Purchasers of motor gasoline from any one of the gasoline retailers considered in this proceeding will have an opportunity to submit refund applications in the first stage. In the event that money remains after all first stage claims have been disposed of, the remaining funds will be disbursed in accordance with the provisions of the Petroleum Overcharge Distribution and Restitution Act of 1986 (15 U.S.C. 4501) (PODRA). Refund applications submitted in this special refund proceeding will be evaluated in exactly the same manner as applications submitted in other refined product proceedings. Refunds will be granted to applicants who satisfactorily demonstrate they were injured by the pricing violations and who document the volume of motor gasoline they purchased from one or more of the retailers during the relevant audit period. In order to permit applicants to participate in the refund proceeding without incurring inordinate expense and to facilitate OHA's consideration of refund applications, we plan to adopt certain presumptions regarding the nature and extent of the pricing violations and the requirement that applicants demonstrate injury. Our authority to adopt presumptions in refund cases is set forth at 10 CFR 205.282(e). With regard to the pricing violations, we propose adopting a rebuttable presumption that such violations were dispersed equally throughout each retailer's sales of motor gasoline during the appropriate audit period and that refunds should therefore be made on a pro rata or volumetric basis. Under this volumetric refund approach, applicants will be eligible to receive refunds that are equal to the gallons of gasoline they purchased multiplied by the per gallon refund amount (volumetric), plus accrued interest. We propose that a separate volumetric be set for each retailer. The volumetrics for each retailer appear in the Appendix. Each was obtained by dividing the funds the retailer remitted to the DOE by the total gallons of motor gasoline we believe that retailer sold during the period covered by the ERA's audit. 2 A higher volumetric may be used to calculate an applicant's refund provided he satisfactorily demonstrates that he was disproportionately overcharged by one or more of the retailers, during a relevant audit period. 2 In the absence of accurate figures indicating the amount of motor gasoline sold by each firm during the audit period, we have estimated the volume of their sales using the best available data. Our estimate is that each gasoline retailer sold 50,000 gallons of motor gasoline per month for each month of its audit period. This figure was used to calculate each retailer's volumetric. Should the claims submitted pursuant to this Order indicate that our sales volume estimate was inaccurate, it may be necessary to reestimate the volumetric. The potential applicants in this proceeding are likely to fall into just two categories since each of the Remedial Order firms was a retailer of motor gasoline. We will provide a presumption of injury for both categories of applicants; that is, end-users of petroleum products whose businesses were unrelated to the petroleum industry and were therefore not subject to the regulations promulgated under the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973 (EPAA), 15 U.S.C. 751&hyph;760h, and retailers or resellers.
