FR940826-0-00138 FR940826-0-00020 116. Consistent with Congress's concern that auctions not operate to exclude small businesses, the provisions relating to installment payments for minorities and/or women also were intended to assist only minorities and women who are small businesses. The House Report states that these related provisions were drafted to ``ensure that all small businesses will be covered by the Commission's regulations, including those owned by members of minority groups and women. '' 160 (emphasis added). It also states that the provisions in section 309(j)(4)(A) relating to installment payments were intended to promote economic opportunity by ensuring that competitive bidding does not inadvertently favor incumbents with ``deep pockets'' ``over new companies or start-ups.'' 161 Because the Congressional objective here was to assist ``new companies or start-ups,'' we therefore concluded that the Commission should use installment payments only for smaller sized entities. As indicated by the legislative history, large entities with established revenue streams were not intended to be beneficiaries of this particular means of financial assistance. We concluded that the statutory language, when read in conjunction with the legislative history, does not indicate that Congress's purpose was to accord special financial assistance measures under section 309(j)(4)(A) to entities other than those with small economic status. 162 In this regard, we reject petitioner's proposals to allow installment payments for rural telephone companies or other designated entities irrespective of their size. We will continue to determine on a service-specific basis the appropriate economic eligibility criteria for installment payments. And we may, as we did in the context of broadband PCS, establish different installment payment options for entities who face different economic barriers. 160 Id. 161 Id. 162 Under authority of Section 309(j)(4))(D), we have, however, afforded other types of financial assistance measures, such as bidding credits, to other designated entities. See e.g., Third Report and Order, in PP Docket No. 92&hyph;253, 59 FR 26741, May 24, 1994, at ¶¶72&hyph;81 (which provides bidding credits to businesses owned by minorities and/or women). 117. In addition, and consistent with our decision to limit installment payments to small entities, we decline to make installment payments available for all licenses in all auctions. Rather, in order to match the provisions with eligible recipients, we will continue to make installment payments available only for certain licenses that do not involve the largest spectrum blocks and service areas. In this regard, in the context of narrowband PCS, we adopted installment payments only for the regional, MTA and BTA licenses. Similarly, for broadband PCS, we limited eligibility for installment payments to the BTA licenses contained in the entrepreneurs' blocks. We continue to believe that where large, valuable blocks of spectrum are being auctioned we should not give ineligible entities the incentive to create small business ``fronts,'' thereby enabling large businesses to become eligible for low-cost government financing. Nor do we desire to delay service to the public by encouraging under-capitalized firms to receive licenses for facilities which they may lack the resources adequately to finance. 163 Accordingly, we will continue to allow installment payments only for licenses in those smaller spectrum blocks and service areas that are most likely to match the business objectives of bona fide small entities in the context of a particular service. The particular spectrum block sizes that will be eligible for installment payments will be decided in the context of each particular service taking into account the cost of acquiring the spectrum and constructing the system. 163 See 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(3)(A). G. Rural Telephone Company Partitioning 118. Petitions. SDN requests that rural telephone companies be allowed to partition their rural service areas either pursuant to an agreement with the BTA or MTA licensee, or by licensing a separate PCS service area using a system similar to the cellular unserved area application process. 164 164 See SDN Petition at 7. 119. Several commenters responding to the NPRM in this proceeding suggested that the Commission allow partitioning of PCS licenses so as to permit rural telephone companies to hold licenses to provide service only in their service areas. 165 In the Second Report and Order we recognized that partitioning may be an effective means to achieve Congress's goal of ensuring that advanced services are provided in rural areas. 166 In the context of broadband PCS, we adopted a system of geographic partitioning, for rural telephone companies which allows rural telephone companies to acquire partitioned broadband PCS licenses in one of two ways: (1) they may form bidding consortia to participate in auctions, and then partition the licenses won among consortia participants, or (2) they may acquire partitioned broadband PCS licenses from other licensees through private negotiation and agreement either before or after the auction (provided the partitioned area is reasonably related to the size of the rural telephone company's rural service area). 167 We require that partitioned areas conform to established geopolitical boundaries and that each area include the wireline service area of the rural telephone company applicant. We believe that this system of partitioning of rural service areas will provide a significant opportunity for many of these designated entities who desire to offer PCS to their customers as a complement to their local telephone services. Therefore, we will retain the flexibility in the generic auction rules to adopt a system of partitioning on a service-specific basis where the capital requirements and construction costs are such that a system is necessary to assist rural telephone companies who cannot afford or do not desire to bid for or construct systems for an entire service area. 168 165 See, e.g., comments of GVNW at 2&hyph;4, and NTCA at 13. 166 See Second Report and Order at ¶243 n. 186. 167 See Fifth Report and Order at ¶152. 168 In a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in this docket, the Commission will also explore the merits of allowing businesses owned by minorities and/or women to acquire partitioned PCS licenses, as well as partitioned licenses in other services.
