FR941012-0-00168 FR941012-0-00011 (vii) The chain saw shall be started with the chain brake engaged. (viii) The chain saw shall be held with the thumbs and fingers of both hands encircling the handles during operation unless the employer demonstrates that a greater hazard is posed by keeping both hands on the chain saw in that particular situation. (ix) The chain-saw operator shall be certain of footing before starting to cut. The chain saw shall not be used in a position or at a distance that could cause the operator to become off-balance, to have insecure footing, or to relinquish a firm grip on the saw. (x) Prior to felling any tree, the chain-saw operator shall clear away brush or other potential obstacles which might interfere with cutting the tree or using the retreat path. (xi) The chain saw shall not be used to cut directly overhead. (xii) The chain saw shall be carried in a manner that will prevent operator contact with the cutting chain and muffler. (xiii) The chain saw shall be shut off or at idle before the feller starts his retreat. (xiv) The chain saw shall be shut down or the chain brake shall be engaged whenever a saw is carried further than 50 feet (15.2 m). The chain saw shall be shut down or the chain brake shall be engaged when a saw is carried less than 50 feet if conditions such as, but not limited to, the terrain, underbrush and slippery surfaces, may create a hazard for an employee. (f) Machines. (1) General requirements. (i) The employer shall assure that each machine, including any machine provided by an employee, is maintained in serviceable condition. (ii) The employer shall assure that each machine, including any machine provided by an employee, is inspected before initial use during each workshift. Defects or damage shall be repaired or the unserviceable machine shall be replaced before work is commenced. (iii) The employer shall assure that operating and maintenance instructions are available on the machine or in the area where the machine is being operated. Each machine operator and maintenance employee shall comply with the operating and maintenance instructions. (2) Machine operation . (i) The machine shall be started and operated only by a designated person. (ii) Stationary logging machines and their components shall be anchored or otherwise stabilized to prevent movement during operation. (iii) The rated capacity of any machine shall not be exceeded. (iv) The machine shall not be operated on any slope which is greater than the maximum slope recommended by the manufacturer. (v) Before starting or moving any machine, the operator shall determine that no employee is in the path of the machine. (vi) The machine shall be operated only from the operator's station or as otherwise recommended by the manufacturer. (vii) The machine shall be operated at such a distance from employees and other machines such that operation will not create a hazard for an employee. (viii) No employee other than the operator shall ride on any mobile machine unless seating, seat belts and other protection equivalent to that provided for the operator are provided. (ix) No employee shall ride on any load. (x) Before any machine is shut down, the machine brake locks or parking brakes shall be applied. Each moving element, such as but not limited to, such as blades, buckets and shears, shall be grounded. (xi) After the machine engine is shut down, pressure or stored energy from hydraulic and pneumatic storage devices shall be discharged. (xii) The rated capacity of any vehicle transporting a machine shall not be exceeded. (xiii) The machine shall be loaded, secured and unloaded so that it will not create a hazard for any employee. (3) Protective structures. (i) Each tractor, skidder, swing yarder, log stacker and mechanical felling device, such as tree shears or feller-buncher, placed into initial service after February 9, 1995 shall be equipped with falling object protective structure (FOPS) and/or rollover protective structure (ROPS). The employer shall replace FOPS or ROPS which have been removed from any machine. Exception : This requirement does not apply to machines which are capable of 360 degree rotation. (ii) ROPS shall be installed, tested, and maintained in accordance with the Society of Automotive Engineers SAE J1040, April 1988, ``Performance Criteria for Rollover Protective Structures (ROPS) for Construction, Earthmoving, Forestry, and Mining Machines.'' This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096. Copies may be inspected at the Docket Office, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., room N2625, Washington, DC 20210, or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., suite 700, Washington, DC.
