FR940429-0-00087 FR940429-0-00011 Comment: Some commenters urged the Secretary to allow all institutions to challenge their default rates on the basis of improper servicing or collection. Response: Section 435(a)(3) specifically allows only institutions with cohort default rates above certain threshold levels to challenge their rate based on allegations of improper loan servicing. The Secretary believes that this limitation was intentional and reasonable in light of the significant burdens placed on guaranty agencies and the Secretary in reviewing challenges based on allegations of improper loan servicing or collection. Comment: Some commenters urged the Secretary to require institutions to provide evidence of improper loan servicing prior to requesting access to loan servicing records. Response: The HEA does not require institutions to provide evidence of improper loan servicing or collection prior to filing a challenge of its cohort default rates. Comment: Some commenters requested that institutions be required to submit a complete appeal before the guaranty agency is required to meet the time deadlines required by the regulations. Response: These comments were based on the assumption by the commenters that the institution would be required to submit evidence of improper loan servicing before the guaranty agency would be required to respond to the institution's appeal. Under these regulations, the institution will only need to notify the guaranty agency that it is appealing the calculation of the cohort default rate and provide a copy of the list of borrowers included in the calculation of the rate. Accordingly, the Secretary believes it is unlikely that an institution will not submit a complete notification to the guaranty agency. However, an institution which does not submit the notice and list to the guaranty agency as required by the regulation may be barred from pursuing an appeal. Comment: Some commenters suggested that loans serviced by lenders or servicers who have been designated as exceptional performers under section 428I of the HEA should not be included in any loans reviewed for improper servicing or collection on the ground that these loans are presumed to be serviced or collected properly. Response: The Secretary does not believe that it is appropriate to exclude loans serviced by exceptional performers from the process for determining appeals based on allegations of improper servicing or collection. The exceptional performer designation is related only to the lender's receipt of payments from the guaranty agency. It should not be used to limit the institution's opportunity to challenge the calculation of its cohort default rate. Comment: A number of commenters urged the Secretary to provide institutions more time to complete and submit appeals to the guaranty agencies and the Secretary. Response: The Secretary believes that the regulations provide sufficient time for an institution to complete and submit appeals. The Secretary believes that the regulations are consistent with the tight time constraints on the time period for appeals included in the HEA. Comment: Some commenters recommended that the Secretary consider the quality of education provided by an institution in determining whether an institution should be sanctioned based on its excessive default rates. Response: The statute sets forth specific grounds for challenges to an institution's cohort default rates. The quality of education is not included as a basis for appeal of a default rate based on allegations of improper loan servicing or collection. The Secretary notes, however, that institutions which are subject to the loss of FFEL Program participation under section 435(a)(2) of the HEA may appeal on the grounds of exceptional mitigating circumstances as defined by the Secretary's regulations. Comment: Some commenters recommended that the Secretary grant an institution's appeal if the guaranty agency does not provide the servicing and collection records within the time set forth in the regulations. Response: The Secretary does not believe it is appropriate to automatically grant an institution's appeal if the guaranty agency misses a deadline to provide records to the institution. In most cases, the institution continues to participate in the program and is not harmed by a short delay. The Secretary believes that the guaranty agencies must take appropriate steps to provide records within the regulatory time frames. However, in appropriate cases, the Secretary may consider taking action to levy a financial penalty or limit, suspend or terminate a guaranty agency's participation in the FFEL program based on violations of the regulatory time frames. Comment: One commenter recommended that loans which have been improperly serviced or collected be removed only from the numerator of the calculation of the cohort default rate but not from the denominator. Response: The Secretary construes section 435(a)(3) to require that loans which are determined to have defaulted due to improper loan servicing or collection be ``exclude[d]'' from the calculation of the cohort default rate entirely. Executive Order 12866 The contents of this final rule have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order, the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of the procedures in this rule. The potential costs associated with the contents of this rule are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering the FFEL program effectively and efficiently. In assessing the potential costs of these procedures, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of these procedures justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that the contents of this rule do not unduly interfere with State, local and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. The contents of this rule are consistent with the requirements of the HEA and promote the President's priorities.
