FR941121-2-00138 FR941121-2-00099 (1) Testing accommodations and adaptations. When adaptations and accommodations are made to permit students with disabilities to participate in outcome assessments, how are the technical characteristics of the assessments affected? How can the results be interpreted? To what degree can these scores be aggregated with nonadapted assessments? What are the best methods for selecting appropriate accommodations and adaptations? How can testing accommodations be related to instructional accommodations? (2) Alternative assessments. When alternative assessments (such as performance assessments or portfolio assessments) are provided for students with disabilities, how can these assessments be compared with conventional assessments? What technical criteria can appropriately be applied to these assessments when used with students with disabilities? (3) Development of assessments. How can general educational assessments be developed to be more inclusive for students with disabilities? How can problematic items and item formats be identified? How can students with disabilities be adequately represented in test development and validation samples? What are the effects when tests developed for general populations are administered to students with disabilities? (4) Including students with disabilities in general assessments. How should decisions be made and documented to include or exclude students with disabilities in general educational assessments or alternative assessments? What factors influence these decisions? (5) Standards and outcomes. How can standards and outcomes be developed for diverse populations? How can their appropriateness be judged? (6) System development. How can assessment and accountability systems be developed with the range and flexibility to accommodate diverse student populations? How can accountability and individualization both be maintained? (7) Basic concepts and principles. How can basic concepts and principles in assessment be revised to reflect new approaches to assessment and new roles and challenges in outcome assessment for diverse populations? (b) Produce and disseminate information that can be applied in educational programs, as well as in subsequent research; and (c) Coordinate their activities, as appropriate, with the Center to Support the Achievement of World Class Outcomes for Students with Disabilities, and with other related projects funded under The Goals 2000: Educate America Act. A project must budget for two trips annually to Washington, D.C., for (1) a two-day Research Project Directors' meeting; and (2) another meeting, to meet and collaborate with the project officer of the Office of Special Education Programs and the other projects funded under this priority, to share information and to discuss findings and methods of dissemination.
