FR940610-2-00158 FR940610-2-00078 [Release No. 34&hyph;34163; International Series Release No. 670; File No. SR&hyph;ISCC&hyph;94&hyph;2] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by International Securities Clearing Corporation Relating to an Amendment to the Linkage Agreement With Japan Securities Clearning Corporation June 6, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on May 26, 1994, International Securities Clearing Corporation (``ISCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by ISCC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change ISCC is filing the proposed rule change to amend its linkage agreement with the Japan Securities Clearing Corporation (``JSCC'') to allow ISCC to provide JSCC access, through ISCC, to the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC'') New York Window (``NYW'') services. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, ISCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. ISCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, an C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and the Statutory Basis For, the Proposed Rule Change (a) ISCC is a wholly owned subsidiary of NSCC and is a member of NSCC for the purposes of obtaining access to NSCC services on behalf of foreign financial institutions with whom ISCC enters into linkage agreements. JSCC is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Tokyo Stock Exchange and provides clearing services for securities listed on stock exchanges in Japan. JSCC acts as the central depository for foreign shares, including U.S. shares, listed on stock exchanges in Japan for the benefit of the beneficial owners thereof. It appoints local custodians with respect to non-Japanese securities. In 1988, ISCC and JSCC entered into a linkage agreement which permitted JSCC to obtain access through ISCC to certain services of the Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') for U.S. shares listed on stock exchanges in Japan and included in JSCC's central depository clearing system for foreign shares. ISCC and JSCC are entering into an amendment to the linkage agreement which will permit JSCC to obtain access through ICC to NSCC's NYW services for initial public offerings of U.S. securities listed on exchanges in Japan until such time as such securities are eligible for deposit at DTC. The services provided through the NYW will be similar to that which JSCC obtains through ISCC from DTC for DTC eligible securities. Deliveries and receives of these securities would be free of payment and would be initiated based on instructions received from JSCC. The securities held by NSCC would be used as the basis for the bookkeeping entries at JSCC. At such time as these securities become eligible at DTC they would be deposited at DTC for credit to the account of JSCC. At that time, the services that ISCC. At that time, the services that ISCC provides to JSCC for these issues will be the services covered under the terms of the original linkage agreement. (b) The proposed rule changes fosters cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in the clearance and settlement of securities transactions and as such is therefore consistent with Section 17A of the Act. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition ISCC does not believe that the proposed rule change imposes any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others ISCC has received no written comments. ICC will notify the Commission of any written comments received by ISCC. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action. Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period: (i) As the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consent, the Commission will: A. By order approve the proposed rule change, or B. Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC, 20549. Copies of such filing also will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;ISCC&hyph;94&hyph;2 and should be submitted by July 1, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14126 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
