FR941212-1-00044 FR941212-1-00012 §1.177 Reissue in divisions. The Commissioner may, in his or her discretion, cause several patents to be issued for distinct and separate parts of the thing patented, upon demand of the applicant, and upon payment of the required fee for each division. Each division of a reissue constitutes the subject of a separate specification descriptive of the part or parts of the invention claimed in such division; and the drawing may represent only such part or parts, subject to the provisions of §§1.83 and 1.84. On filing divisional reissue applications, they shall be referred to the Commissioner. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commissioner upon petition and payment of the fee set forth in §1.17(i)[(1)], all the divisions of a reissue will issue simultaneously; if there be any controversy as to one division, the others will be withheld from issue until the controversy is ended, unless the Commissioner shall otherwise order. 29. Section 1.312 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §1.312 Amendments after allowance. * * * * * (b) Any amendment pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section filed after the date the issue fee is paid must be accompanied by a petition including the fee set forth in §1.17(i)[(1)] and a showing of good and sufficient reasons why the amendment is necessary and was not earlier presented. 30. Section 1.313 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §1.313 Withdrawal from issue. (a) Applications may be withdrawn from issue for further action at the initiative of the Office or upon petition by the applicant. Any such petition by the applicant must include a showing of good and sufficient reasons why withdrawal of the application is necessary and, if the reason for the withdrawal is not the fault of the Office, must be accompanied by the fee set forth in §1.17(i)[(1)]. If the application is withdrawn from issue, a new notice of allowance will be sent if the application is again allowed. Any amendment accompanying a petition to withdraw an application from issue must comply with the requirements of §1.312. * * * * * 31. Section 1.314 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.314 Issuance of patent. If payment of the issue fee is timely made, the patent will issue in regular course unless the application is withdrawn from issue (§1.313), or issuance of the patent is deferred. Any petition by the applicant requesting a deferral of the issuance of a patent must be accompanied by the fee set forth in §1.17(i)([(1)] and must include a showing of good and sufficient reasons why it is necessary to defer issuance of the patent. 32. Section 1.666 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §1.666 Filing of interference settlement agreements. * * * * * (b) If any party filing the agreement or understanding under paragraph (a) of this section so requests, the copy will be kept separate from the file of the interference, and made available only to Government agencies on written request, or to any person upon petition accompanied by the fee set forth in §1.17(i)[(1)] and on a showing of good cause. * * * * *
