FR940523-1-00006 FR940523-1-00002 Shifting regulatory status of the proponent's plant between orders creates uncertainty, which is not conducive to maintaining market stability in the Southern Michigan market, and may affect other markets adversely, as well. For example, the Class I differential at the Wyoming location, $1.70 under the Southern Michigan order, ranges for the four orders under which the plant has been regulated from $1.175 under the New Orleans-Mississippi order to $1.54 under the Southeastern Florida order, a range of 36.5 cents per hundredweight. Such price changes create serious marketing problems to the proponent in determining what price to place on the various UHT products. The supplying cooperatives also experience difficulty in pricing milk to White Knight due to the broad geographic area of the plant's product distribution, and uncertainty about the level and the basis of returns they receive for their milk if the regulatory status of the plant is unstable. Prices received by producers under an order are influenced by the amount of the Class I differential, the market utilization of milk, the applicable location adjustments, and method of payment. Since these factors vary from order to order, producer prices at the White Knight UHT plant vary considerably when the plant shifts regulation from one order to another on the basis of sales shifts. Under these disorderly circumstances, producers would find it disruptive to their operations and long-range planning to shift from one market to another. When regulated by one order, pay prices for producers supplying the proponent's plant would be the same as for other producers shipping to plants in the same zone. In addition, producers whose milk is pooled regularly under the various orders under which White Knight may become regulated may find their pay prices fluctuating and disrupted. The record evidence indicates that both the proponent and its milk suppliers are concerned with the possibility that the plant might be regulated under an order with a base-excess plan during months in which milk in excess of an established base is assigned a lower value. Without an established milk production base, the milk would be priced at the excess price. 2 White Knight would be unable to attract an adequate supply of milk if it were known that the milk would be excess milk in a marketing area with a base-excess plan. Therefore, the continued milk supply for the UHT plant is threatened unless current order provisions are amended. Under the circumstances described in the record, consideration must be given to regulating the plant in the market in which there is reasonable assurance that it will have available an adequate supply of producer milk. 2 Currently, 7 of 39 orders have this plan; months in which excess milk is assigned a lower value than base milk range from February through August depending on the order. It is concluded that overall market stability will tend to be maintained and the regulatory stability of the White Knight UHT plant (or any other such plant) will tend to be assured if the order is modified along the lines proposed. The order will specify that the principal activity at such a plant must be the processing and distribution of aseptically processed fluid milk products. Such a requirement is intended to assure that a plant would not be able to be pooled under the particular pooling provision at issue unless at least one-half of the plant's fluid milk receipts are processed and distributed in the form of aseptically processed fluid milk products. Thus, the plant would have some operating flexibility. Under the lock-in provision adopted herein, the Southern Michigan order would regulate the Wyoming UHT plant (or any other similar plant) even though it had a greater proportion of its route distribution in the marketing area of another order. The intent of this pooling arrangement may be in conflict with the pooling requirements of another order since the other order may not have a complementary provision which will permit the plant to be locked in under the Southern Michigan order. It is not possible to eliminate pooling conflicts between the provisions of the Southern Michigan order and other orders by amending only the Southern Michigan order. Thus, whenever such a pooling conflict arises, an administrative decision as to the order under which the plant shall be pooled may be necessary, depending upon the particular provisions of each order and the intent of maintaining Southern Michigan regulation for a UHT plant located within the marketing area. 4. Emergency Action. The omission of a recommended decision was proposed by proponent of the lock-in proposal that was discussed above as issue 3. The witness representing the supplying cooperatives also stated support for an emergency decision. No testimony was received in opposition to emergency action. The testimony and data in the record of this proceeding strongly indicate the need for prompt amendatory action. The evidence shows it is desirable to have an amended order effective as soon as possible to minimize the disorderly marketing conditions currently facing the UHT plant. The normal procedure of issuing a recommended decision and providing time to file exceptions thereto would further the disorderly market conditions that the UHT plant is facing. It is therefore found that due and timely execution of the Secretary's function in this proceeding imperatively and unavoidably requires omission of the recommended decision and the opportunity for filing exceptions thereto. Rulings on Proposed Findings and Conclusions A brief and proposed findings and conclusions were filed on behalf of White Knight. The brief, proposed findings and conclusions, and the evidence in the record were considered in making the findings and conclusions set forth above. No opposition to either the lock-in proposal or to emergency consideration was received in testimony or in proposed findings and conclusions. General Findings The findings and determinations hereinafter set forth supplement those that were made when the Southern Michigan order was first issued and when it was amended. The previous findings and determinations are hereby ratified and confirmed, except where they may conflict with those set forth herein.
