FR940607-2-00026 FR940607-2-00021 DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD Resolution of Potential Conflict of Interest The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Board) has identified and resolved a potential conflict of interest situation related to its contractor, Mr. Duane C. Sewell. This Notice satisfies the requirements of 10 CFR 1706.8(e) with respect to publication in the Federal Register . Under the Board's Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interests Regulations, 10 CFR part 1706 (OCI Regulations), an organizational or consultant conflict of interest (OCI) means that because of other past, present or future planned activities or relationships, a contractor or consultant is unable, or potentially unable, to render impartial assistance or advice to the Board, or the objectivity of such offeror or contractor in performing work for the Board is or might be otherwise impaired, or such offeror or contractor has or would have an unfair competitive advantage. While the OCI Regulations provide that contracts shall generally not be awarded to an organization where the Board has determined that an actual or potential OCI exists and cannot be avoided, the Board may waive this requirement in certain circumstances. The Board's mission is to provide advice and recommendations to the Department of Energy (DOE) regarding public health and safety matters related to DOE's defense nuclear facilities. This includes the review and evaluation of the content and implementation of health and safety standards including DOE orders, rules, and other safety requirements, relating to the design, construction, operation, and decommissioning of DOE defense nuclear facilities. In late 1991, Congress amended the Board's enabling Act, broadening the Board's jurisdiction over defense nuclear facilities to include the assembly, disassembly, and testing of weapons. With this increase in responsibility, the Board revised its priorities to include reviews of additional facilities, including principally the Pantex Plant, Nevada Test Site (NTS), the weapons design laboratories, and additional facilities at Oak Ridge Y&hyph;12 Plant. Two matters of immediate concern to the Board were the safety of ongoing weapons disassembly operations and maintenance of the capability to safely conduct nuclear testing operations. While the DOE had been engaged in these activities for decades, significant changes in the national security posture resulted in shifts in emphasis within DOE. Unprecedented numbers of simultaneous nuclear weapon retirements strained DOE's capabilities to develop and implement safe and well-engineered procedures. A Congressionally-mandated and Presidentially-extended nuclear testing moratorium removed the primary mechanism ( i.e., an active, on going testing program) by which the capability to execute tests safely was exercised and ensured. At the same time, the weapons programs at the nuclear weapons laboratories were losing skilled and experienced personnel due to retirement, downsizing, and reassignments. This combination of issues required the Board to increase its attention, and with it the number of associated reviews, at both Pantex and the NTS. Further, the Board recognized that it needed individuals with expertise in multiple technical disciplines, not previously required, to effectively meet the challenges and responsibilities of its new authority. These technical disciplines included conventional and nuclear explosive technology and safety, nuclear materials handling and storage, criticality safety, and nuclear weapons assembly, disassembly, storage and testing.
