FR940811-0-00043 FR940811-0-00016 20. Preliminary Drafts of the Proposed SMMP One commentor stated that the Proposed Rule does not reflect comments received by the agency on various preliminary drafts of the SMMP. Response As indicated above, on April 20, 1994, EPA issued a Public Notice soliciting comment on its proposed SMMP which set forth proposed monitoring and management measures for the SF&hyph;DODS. In addition, the Public Notice accompanying the Proposed Rule designating the SF&hyph;DODS broadly outlined EPA's proposed site monitoring and management measures for the SF&hyph;DODS. The provisions in the Final Rule setting forth site monitoring and management requirements for the SF&hyph;DODS now being promulgated by EPA reflect the public comments received in response to these two Public Notices, as well as all other comments EPA previously received concerning preliminary drafts of the SMMP. 21. Enforceability of the Proposed SMMP One commentor stated that both permit conditions and the site management and monitoring provisions themselves must be enforceable not only by EPA, but by members of the public with standing to represent the marine resources at risk. Response As indicated above, the Final Rule has been revised to include specific provisions governing site monitoring and site management. These provisions establish the legal basis for requiring site monitoring and site management and establish the basic criteria for adequate site monitoring and management measures. These provisions will be enforceable by EPA as well as by citizens who meet the requirements for filing suit under MPRSA section 105(g), 33 U.S.C. 1415(g). 22. Performance of Site Monitoring Field Work Some commentors were concerned that reliable information may not be collected if site monitoring field work could be conducted by the permittee or, for federal projects, by the Corps of Engineers. These commentors recommended that all site monitoring work be conducted by EPA and/or by independent third parties. Response The Final Rule has been revised to clarify that monitoring information required to be submitted by permittees must be collected and/or certified as being accurate by independent Quality Control contractors, who are not employees of the permittee. However, the Corps of Engineers shares site management and enforcement authority with EPA and, for disposal operations conducted by or for the Corps of Engineers, the Corps of Engineers may directly collect and submit the required information. EPA and the Corps of Engineers retain the authority to independently monitor, and conduct surveillance and enforcement operations on, all permitted disposal operations at the site. In addition, EPA may independently monitor Corps of Engineers disposal operations. 23. Relevance of Navy Monitoring Data One commentor recommended that the U.S. Navy mid-point monitoring data should not be used or cited because a final report has not yet been received on this monitoring. Response References to the Navy mid-point monitoring have been retained, since this work entails the only monitoring of actual dredged material disposal to date in the vicinity of the SF&hyph;DODS. Given concerns expressed in public comments about the actual (versus modeled) behavior of disposed dredged material at what will be the deepest ocean disposal site so far designated in the U.S., EPA believes that the information is very relevant. Although the Navy's final monitoring report has not yet been received, the results contained in the preliminary reports reviewed by EPA are adequate to reach basic conclusions about site performance regarding plume behavior and deposition of dredged material on the bottom. 24. Corps of Engineers Site Designation Authority One commentor requested that the Final Rule include more specific and accurate language regarding the responsibilities of the Army Corps of Engineers in issuing permits for dredging projects and managing the disposal site, and questioned whether the prohibition on site use (if the site management and monitoring provisions are not implemented) affects the Army Corps of Engineers' independent authority to designate temporary (project-specific) disposal sites under Section 103 of the MPRSA. Response Nothing in the Rule affects the independent authorities of other agencies. The Corps' authority to issue permits for ocean disposal is fully described in 40 CFR part 225. Also, under Section 103 of the MPRSA, the Army Corps of Engineers may designate temporary, project-specific ocean disposal sites if an EPA-designated (Section 102) ocean disposal site is unavailable. If, due to a lack of funding to implement the site management and monitoring provisions required in the Final Rule, EPA's SF&hyph;DODS site were technically ``unavailable'' for use, the Army Corps of Engineers could propose to designate a temporary site. However, under these circumstances, it is likely that the SF&hyph;DODS site itself is the only location that could be justified or designated for temporary use, since EPA's Final EIS identified it as the best overall location for disposal. Proposed use of any other location would likely require the collection of substantial supplemental data, and could result in greater cumulative impacts than continued use of SF&hyph;DODS. It is EPA's position that responsibility to implement all monitoring requirements for use of a temporary Corps-designated site would rest with the Corps, and that temporary designation of the SF&hyph;DODS site by the Corps would require them to fully implement the site's existing monitoring requirements. 25. Detailed Comments on the Proposed SMMP Several comments were received regarding specific details of the proposed SMMP as summarized in the site designation Proposed Rule. These included comments regarding methods for monitoring impacts to particular marine resources, and specific methods (including specific instrumentation) for tracking the dispersal and migration of sediments suspended in the water column. Response The SMMP included in the Final Rule incorporates overall requirements for site monitoring and management. However, all the operational details for achieving the SMMP requirements are not included in the Rule itself. This is because there are in many cases more than one methodology or technology that could be used to achieve the SMMP goals. It would be unreasonable to require more specific methodologies in the Rule itself, since the ability to select alternate approaches that may be more effective or efficient would be restricted by the requirement to first go through formal rulemaking. EPA believes that the degree of specificity in the SMMP is appropriate for the Final Rule. In addition, particular technologies and methodologies to be used at any time will be specified in the separate SMMP Implementation Manual, which will be subject to ongoing public review (also see response to comment number 14, above).
