FR940214-2-00093 FR940214-2-00056 [Release No. 34&hyph;33594; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;93&hyph;49] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Regarding Unbundling of PACE Orders February 8, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on November 3, 1993, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On February 1, 1994, the Phlx submitted Amendment No. 1 to the proposal. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 See letter from Gerald D. O'Connell, Vice President, Market Surveillance, Phlx, to Sandy Sciole, Branch Chief, Commission, dated February 1, 1994. The amendment clarified the language of the rule to prohibit any such action for the purpose of attaining PACE guarantees by removing the word ``primary'' which originally preceded ``purpose''. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Phlx, pursuant to Rule 19b&hyph;4 of the Act, proposes to adopt Commentary .19 to Phlx Rule 229 2 to prohibit the unbundling of orders entered for execution through the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Automated Communication and Execution System (``PACE''). 3 Specifically, Commentary .19 would read as follows: 2 Rule 229 details the execution guarantees due a PACE order. See Philadelphia Stock Exchange Rules, Rule 229. 3 PACE is the Phlx's small order entry execution system. Orders received by a member from a customer may not be unbundled for the purpose of availing upon PACE volume and size execution guarantees, nor may a firm solicit a customer to unbundle an order the purpose of availing upon PACE volume and size execution guarantees. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Phlx proposes to adopt Commentary .19 to Phlx Rule 229 in order to prohibit the unbundling of certain types of orders. PACE is the Exchange's automated order routing, delivery and execution system for equity securities. Pursuant to Phlx Rule 229, customer orders entered through PACE are entitled to certain execution guarantees. For example, limit orders for less than 600 shares become due an execution once 1,000 shares of that security prints at the limit price or better on the New York Stock Exchange (``primary market guarantee''). 4 4 See Phlx Rule 229, Supplementary Material .10(a). Unbundling occurs when a member organization or its agent splits a larger sized order into two or more small-sized orders to take advantage of PACE execution guarantees for orders of less than 600 shares. The Phlx proposal would prohibit members from soliciting their customers to unbundle orders for the purpose of taking advantage of these guarantees. However, the proposed prohibition against unbundling does not extend to any orders broken up by a non-member customer at his or her own discretion as long as the customer was not solicited to do so by the Phlx member firm for the aforementioned purpose. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act in general, and in particular, with section 6(b)(5), in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, as well as to protect investors and the public interest, consistent with section 6(b)(5).
