FR940217-1-00087 FR940217-1-00014 The Secretary believes that receipt of a copy of the contract is necessary because it states the services that a third-party servicer performs for a guaranty agency. With this information, the Secretary will be better able to monitor program compliance and integrity of the guaranty agency's portfolio that the servicer is administering. These changes would parallel the requirements concerning contracts between institutions and third-party servicers. Note that section 552 of the Administrative Procedure Act does not require disclosure to the public, under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), of subject matter that is deemed to be a trade secret or is of commercial or financial interest or is of a privileged or confidential nature (note also that the entity submitting the information is responsible for identifying information that is not subject to the FOIA's disclosure requirements). Section 682.413␣Remedial actions. The Secretary proposes to revise this section of the regulations to clarify a lender's and its third-party servicer's responsibility to pay liabilities if the servicer has not complied with FFEL program statutes or regulations with respect to services it has contracted with a lender to perform. Under this section, a third-party servicer and lender under whose contract the servicer committed the violation would be considered jointly and severally liable for paying to the Secretary any interest benefits and special allowance or any compensation the servicer has received on any loan from the lender from the date that the servicer fails to comply with any of the requirements in §682.406(a)(1)&hyph;(a)(6), (a)(9), and (a)(12), for any period when the loan has lost its eligibility for reinsurance coverage as a result of the third-party servicer's actions, and for any period after it erroneously bills the Secretary for interest benefits and special allowance. The Secretary would vigorously attempt to collect any of those liabilities first from the lender and, if the lender does not repay those liabilities within 30 days or does not make arrangements satisfactory to the Secretary to repay those liabilities, pursue the third-party servicer for the payment of those liabilities. This proposed section would also clarify a guaranty agency's and its third-party servicer's responsibilities to pay liabilities to the Secretary if the servicer has not complied with FFEL program statutes or regulations with respect to services that it has contracted with a guaranty agency to perform. Under this proposed provision, the Secretary would require a guaranty agency to repay to the Secretary any reinsurance payments the guaranty agency received on a loan if the third-party servicer contracting with the guaranty agency causes a loan to lose its eligibility for reinsurance. In addition to the repayment of reinsurance, if a third-party servicer makes an incomplete or incorrect statement in connection with any agreement entered into under this part or any other Federal requirement, the guaranty agency with which it has entered into a contract may be subjected by the Secretary to return payments made by the Secretary to the agency, have its payments withheld by the Secretary, or have its participation in the FFEL programs limited, suspended, or terminated. In addition to these penalties, the guaranty agency and its third-party servicer may be fined, may be required to repay any payments the Secretary became obligated to make to others as a result of an incomplete or incorrect statement or violation of any Federal requirement, or be responsible for repaying any interest benefits, special allowance, or reinsurance paid on a Consolidation loan for a violation of 34 CFR 682.206(f)(1). The guaranty agency and its third-party servicer would be considered jointly and severally liable for any of those liabilities. The method by which the Secretary would collect any liability would parallel the proposed provisions governing the circumstances under which a lender and third-party servicer would be jointly and severally liable to the Secretary. In the negotiated rulemaking sessions, the issue of third-party servicer liability generated controversy and dissension among the negotiators. With regard to liabilities assessed against a third-party servicer under the FFEL programs, many negotiators raised the same objections previously discussed in connection with liability for servicers under 34 CFR part 668. Negotiators raised an additional objection, suggesting that liabilities assessed against third-party servicers under the FFEL programs are unnecessary given the ability of the Secretary to determine a loan to be uninsured and thus able to be collected directly from a lender or guaranty agency. In response to these objections, the Secretary offered the same modification of the concept of joint and several liability discussed previously in 34 CFR part 668. As noted, no consensus was reached. However, the Secretary agreed to incorporate language into these proposed regulations to specify that the Secretary would first attempt collection from a lender or guaranty agency in the event of liability on the part of a third-party servicer. The Secretary included this provision at the request of negotiators because the Secretary believes that this provision would not adversely impact the integrity of the FFEL programs. The Secretary specifically invites further public comment on the issue of joint and several liability for servicers contracting with lenders and guaranty agencies in order to obtain additional advice from the higher education community in the development of final regulations. The Secretary specifically invites public comment on whether, and how, the Secretary should hold a third-party servicer that administers FFEL programs jointly and severally liable for any violation of an FFEL program requirement by that servicer and whether any alternative less than assumption of full liability is sufficient to protect the public interest. The Secretary notes that substantial losses have occurred in the FFEL programs due to third-party servicer violations.
