FR940405-1-00030 FR940405-1-00011 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Office of the Attorney General 28 CFR Part 0 [AG Order No. 1863&hyph;94] Costs of Incarceration AGENCY: Department of Justice. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule provides for the collection and establishment of a fee to cover the cost of incarceration of inmates committed to the custody of the Attorney General, and for the further administration of this procedure by the Director, Bureau of Prisons. This rule is promulgated to implement newly enacted statutory authority on recovering the costs of incarceration. The rule also is intended to help ensure the continued efficient operation of federal correctional institutions, including the provision of beneficial programming for inmates. DATES: Comments must be submitted by May 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Roy Nanovic, Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, HOLC room 754, 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534, telephone (202) 514&hyph;6655. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On June 28, 1993, the Department of Justice published a proposed rule, to be codified at 28 CFR part 505, establishing procedures for the assessment and collection of a fee to cover the costs of incarceration for federal inmates. (58 FR 34541) In response to public comment and for reasons of administrative management, the Department is publishing those provisions relating to statutory authority, applicability, and establishment of the fee again for notice and comment. Further provisions relating to the determination of the average cost of incarceration have been added to the proposed rule. As an administrative measure, this rule delegates authority to the Director, Bureau of Prisons (Bureau), to promulgate regulations for collecting the costs of incarceration for inmates committed to the custody of the Attorney General and to collect such fees. The provisions in the Bureau of Prisons regulations (for example, procedures for exemption, waiver, or proration of fee assessment, calculation of assessment, and payment and appeal procedures) will be based upon the previously published proposed rule. Response to public comment on the previously published proposed rule relating to statutory authority, applicability, establishment of fee, the determination of the average cost, and administrative procedure is summarized below. Response to public comment relating to other provisions of the previously published proposed rule will be contained in the commentary for the separate Bureau of Prisons rule. Comments on the proposed rule were received from seven individuals (a federal employee, a law professor, and five federal inmates). An additional comment was received later from one of the original commenters purporting to contain the comments of two additional federal inmates. One commenter was in favor of the proposed rule, responding that criminal defendants should be required not only to pay the costs of their incarceration, but also to bear the burden of the social and economic costs of their crimes. The Department has carefully reviewed the public comments received concerning the proposed rule and has determined that a revised rule should be published for comment. Attorney General's Certification and Rule Indexing Two commenters contested the validity of the rule on procedural grounds. One commenter disagreed with the Attorney General's certification pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This commenter argues that the rule will have a significant financial impact on various inmates and their families owning joint property or filing joint tax returns. The Attorney General's certification pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;12, is appropriate in this case. Under the RFA, neither an inmate or the inmate's family satisfies the definition of a ``small entity,'' which is defined by the Act as a ``small business,'' ``small organization,'' or ``small governmental jurisdiction''. 5 U.S.C. 601(6). Further discussion of the agency provisions for the amelioration of the potential hardships faced by certain inmates and their families due to the imposition of a fee for costs of incarceration will be contained in the commentary for the final rule to be issued by the Bureau of Prisons. The second procedural comment received made the proposition that because the proposed rule was indexed in the Federal Register under ``justice'' rather than ``prisons,'' notice of the proposed rule may have been improper. However, this choice of indexing was due to the fact that the Bureau of Prisons is within the Department of Justice and under the oversight authority of the Attorney General. Likewise, the rule was originating from the Attorney General and the Department of Justice. Thus, the rule was properly indexed under ``justice'' rather than ``prisons'' and no notice provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act were violated.
