FR940919-2-00114 FR940919-2-00046 Process Analysis The Team utilized a document prepared by the SSA Office of Workforce Analysis in April 1993 which outlines the ``as-is'' disability claim and appeal processes of SSA. The document contains a description of claim processing tasks performed by line-employees in the seven operational components that deal with the disability claim process. Team members also collected, reviewed, and researched an extensive amount of existing procedural guides, laws/regulations, studies conducted by internal and external components, processing time and quality management information, workflows, cost data, etc. Computer Modeling Computer models are close representations of work processes that, if properly constructed, allow for better understanding, testing or forecasting, and study. Team members worked with modeling professionals in SSA to build the models used to predict the operation of a redesigned process. A model was built to represent both the current and proposed processes. The model helped the Team assess the best features and performance of the new disability process; to better judge the magnitude of change from one process to another; and to do some ``what-if-nothing- changes'' analysis to get a feel for the impact of inactivity. A summary of the model assumption and results appears in Appendix II. Release of Initial Team Proposal The product of the Team's effort was a redesign proposal that was presented to the Commissioner and Executive Steering Committee on March 31, 1994. The proposal provided the Team's view of the best process improvement and process innovation ideas. The proposal is a high-level concept that provides a broad understanding of how a redesigned process would work but leaves operational, organizational, and other details for later development. The Team distributed the proposal as widely as possible throughout SSA, the State DDSs, and to interested public and private individuals and organizations with the goal of seeking reactions, items of concern and additional ideas for improvement. Copies of a shorter 25-page version of the Proposal were distributed to all SSA and DDS employees in early April 1994. Copies of the complete 132-page Proposal and Background Report were also distributed to each SSA DDS facility in sufficient numbers to make it easily available to staff. A 30-minute videotape containing remarks by Commissioner Chater and a presentation of the proposal by members of the Reengineering Team was distributed for use in all SSA and DDS facilities. Group feedback discussions with SSA and DDS employees were held in all ten regions and in SSA headquarters components. A survey was distributed to each SSA and DDS employee to assist employees in providing comments. The Proposal and Background Report was published in the Federal Register on April 15, 1994 (59 FR 18188). A 60-day comment period was established to invite public comment on the proposal. A public hearing on the proposal was held in Washington, DC on May 16, 1994. Team members conducted extensive briefings on the proposal with interested parties, including employee unions, professional association groups, disability advocates, the legal community, other Federal agencies, and Congressional staffs. During the comment period that ended on June 14, 1994, the Team received over 6,000 written responses from all interested parties. The Team reviewed and analyzed each comment received. A summary of the comments is included in Appendix III. In response to reactions received during the comment period, the Team made changes to the original proposal and submitted a revised proposal to the Commissioner and the Executive Steering Committee on June 30, 1994. After extensive consultation with the members of the Executive Steering Committee, SSA senior staff, representatives from employee unions and associations, disability advocates and others, the Commissioner accepted the Team's recommendations for a redesigned disability process.
