FR940711-1-00057 FR940711-1-00015 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 90-Day Finding and Commencement of a Status Review for a Petition To List the Plant Lathyrus Grimesii (Grimes Vetchling) AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of petition finding and status review. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 90-day finding on a petition to list the plant Lathyrus grimesii (Grimes vetchling) under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The petition was found to present substantial information indicating the requested action may be warranted. The Service requests information regarding the status of this species. DATES: The finding announced in this notice was made on June 27, 1994. Comments and information concerning this finding must be submitted by August 10, 1994 to be considered in the 12-month finding for this petition. ADDRESSES: Data, information, comments, or questions concerning this finding should be sent to the Field Supervisor, Nevada Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 4600 Kietzke Lane, Building C, Room 125, Reno, Nevada 89502. The petition, finding, and supporting data are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Janet J. Bair, Botanist, at the above Nevada Field Office address (702/784&hyph;5227). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of the receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . This finding is based on information contained in the petition and otherwise available to the Service at the time the finding is made. If the finding is that substantial information was presented, the Service also is required to promptly commence a review of the status of the species involved, if one has not already been initiated under the Service's internal candidate assessment process. On May 19, 1993, the Service received a petition dated May 10, 1993, from Ms. Mary Pat Matheson, Director of the University of Utah's Red Butte Garden and Arboretum, to list Lathyrus grimesii as an endangered species using the emergency provisions of the Act. The Red Butte Arboretum is a Participating Institution of the Missouri Botanic Garden's Center for Plant Conservation, a network of 20 botanical gardens and arboreta dedicated to the conservation of rare and endangered plants in the United States. A member of the pea family (Fabaceae), L. grimesii is a prostrate perennial herb. The distribution and habitat of the species are limited. It is an endemic species, known only from the central portion of the Independence Mountains of Elko County, Nevada. Lathyrus grimesii is generally restricted to steep, barren slopes with stony-clay talus substrates at high (7,000 to 8,000 foot) elevations. The species was originally collected in vegetative condition in 1941, but was not recognized as a previously undescribed species until it was collected in reproductive condition in 1980. The technical description of Lathyrus grimesii was published in 1989 (Cronquist et al. 1989). At the time the petition was submitted, L. grimesii was known from a 1-square mile area in the Dorsey Creek drainage of the Independence Mountains. More recent information indicates that the species' distribution is more extensive. Aerial surveys conducted in August 1993 resulted in new findings north of the Dorsey Creek drainage, in the following drainages and tributaries: Deep Creek, Ott Creek, Sheep Creek, Frost Creek, and Cap Winn Creek; and in the Bull Run Mountains, located west of the Independence Mountains (John C. Parks, Independence Mining Company, Elko, Nevada, in litt.). Lathyrus grimesii is located on appropriate substrates scattered within an area of approximately 50 square miles to the north and northwest of the Dorsey Creek drainage, and several isolated populations are located outside of this area.
