FR941202-2-00106 FR941202-2-00070 Size of Envelope The envelope in which each application is mailed must be BETWEEN 6 inches and 10 inches (15 cm to 25 cm) IN LENGTH, and BETWEEN 31/2 inches and 41/2 inches (9 cm to 11 cm) IN WIDTH. This is necessary to assist the automated processing of the mail. Information Which Must be Included With Application for Registration There is no application fee or special application form. The request for registration in the lottery must furnish the following information on a plain sheet of paper. All answers must be typed or clearly printed in the Roman alphabet. Each application must be in the following format: 1. Applicant's Full Name Last Name, First Name and Middle Name (Underline Last Name/Surname/Family name) Example: Public , George Quincy 2. Applicant's Date and Place of Birth Date of birth: Day, Month, Year Example: 15 November 1961 Place of birth: City/Town, District/County/Province, Country Example: Munich, Bavaria, Germany 3. Name, Date and Place of Birth of Applicant's Spouse and Children, if any The spouse and child(ren) of an applicant who is registered for DV&hyph;96 status are automatically entitled to the same status. To obtain a visa on the basis of this derivative status, a child must be under 21 years of age and unmarried. Note: Do NOT list parents as they are not entitled to derivative status. 4. Applicant's Mailing Address The mailing address must be clear and complete, since it will be to that address that the notification letter for the persons who are registered will be sent. A telephone number is optional. 5. Applicant's Native Country if Different from Country of Birth See the answer to Question 1 in this notice regarding the meaning of ``native'' for the purposes of the DV&hyph;96 program. Frequently Asked Questions About DV&hyph;96 Registration 1. How is the Term ``Native'' Defined? Are There Any Bases Upon Which Persons Who Have Not Been Born in a Qualifying Country May Qualify for Registration? Native means BOTH someone born within one of the qualifying countries AND someone entitled to be ``charged'' to such country under the provisions of Section 202(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. Applicants for DV&hyph;96 registration may be charged to the country of birth of a spouse; a minor dependent child can be charged to the country of birth of a parent; and an applicant born in a country of which neither parent was a native or a resident at the time of his/her birth may be charged to the country of birth of either parent. An applicant who claims the benefit of alternate chargeability must include a statement to that effect on the application for registration, and must show the country of chargeability on the upper left hand corner of the envelope in which the registration request is mailed. 2. May Persons who Are in the U.S. Apply for Registration? Yes, an applicant may be in the U.S. or in another country, and the application may be mailed in the U.S. or abroad. 3. Is Each Applicant Limited to Only one Application During This DV&hyph;96 Registration Period? Yes, the law allows only ONE application BY OR FOR each person; submission of more than one application will disqualify the person from registration. Applicants will be disqualified if more than one entry is detected, regardless of where they are in the application process or whether the visa has already been issued; disqualification may occur, for example, at the time of registration, at the time of visa interview, or at any other time. 4. May a Husband and a Wife Each Submit a Separate Application? Yes, if otherwise qualified, a husband and a wife may each submit one application for registration; if either is registered, the other would be entitled to derivative status. 5. Must Each Applicant Submit His/Her own Request, or may Someone act on Behalf of an Applicant?
