FR940819-1-00009 FR940819-1-00001 ( 2 ) Documentation that the quality of the supply meets the chemical, physical and bacteriological standards of the regulatory authority having jurisdiction. The maximum contaminant levels of U.S. EPA shall apply. Individual water systems must be tested for quantity and bacteriological quality. Where problems are anticipated with chemical quality, chemical tests may be required. Chemical tests would be limited to analysis for the defects common to the area such as iron and manganese, hardness, nitrates, pH, turbidity, color, or other undesirable elements. Polluted or contaminated water supplies are unacceptable. In all cases, assurance of a potable water supply before loan closing is required. (C) Supporting information for individual wastewater disposal systems with subsurface discharge provided by a soil scientist, geologist, soils engineer, or other person recognized by the local regulatory authority. This data should include the following: ( 1 ) Assurance of nonpollution of ground water. The local regulatory authority having jurisdiction must be consulted to ensure that installation of individual wastewater systems will not pollute ground water sources or create other health hazards/or otherwise violate State water quality standards. ( 2 ) Records of percolation tests. Guidance for performing these tests is included in the EPA design manual, ``Onsite Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems.'' (This may be waived by the State Director when the State has established other acceptable means for allowing onsite disposal.) ( 3 ) Determination of soil types and description. The assistance of the SCS or other qualified persons should be obtained for soil type determination and a copy of its recommendations included in the documentation. ( 4 ) Description of ground water elevations, showing seasonal variations. ( 5 ) Confirmation of space allowances. An accurate drawing to indicate that there is adequate space available to satisfactorily locate the individual water and/or wastewater disposal systems; likewise, documented assurance of compliance with all local requirements. Structures served by wastewater disposal systems with subsurface discharge require larger sites than those structures served by another type system. ( 6 ) Description of exploratory pit observations, if available. (D) Supporting information for individual wastewater disposal systems with surface discharge covering the following points: ( 1 ) Effluent standards issued by the appropriate regulatory agency that controls the discharge of the proposed individual systems. Assurance from this regulatory agency that the effluent standards will not be exceeded by the individual systems being proposed. ( 2 ) Program of maintenance, parts and service available to the system-owner for upkeep of the system. ( 3 ) A plan for local inspection of the system by a responsible agency with the authority to ensure compliance with health and safety standards. (b) Electric service. The power supplier will be consulted by the applicant to assure that there is adequate service available to meet the needs of the proposed development. Underground service is preferred. (c) Gas service . Gas distribution facilities, if provided, will be installed according to local requirements where adequate and dependable gas service is available. (d) Other utilities. Other utilities, if available, will be installed according to local requirements. §1924.108 Grading and drainage. (a) General. Soil and geologic conditions must be suitable for the type of construction proposed. In questionable or unsurveyed areas, the applicant or developer will provide an engineering report with supporting data sufficient to identify all pertinent subsurface conditions which could adversely affect the structure and show proposed solutions. Grading will promote drainage of surface water away from buildings and foundations, minimize earth settlement and erosion, and assure that drainage from adjacent properties onto the development or from the development to adjacent properties does not create a health hazard or other undesirable conditions. Grading and drainage will comply with Exhibit B, paragraphs III and IV, of this subpart. (b) Cuts and fills. Development requiring extensive earthwork, cuts and fills of 4 feet or more shall be designed by a duly licensed or registered engineer. Where topography requires fills or extensive earthwork that must support structures and building foundations, these must be controlled fills designed, supervised and tested by a qualified soils engineer. (c) Slope protection. All slopes must be protected from erosion by planting or other means. Slopes may require temporary cover if exposed for long periods during construction. (d) Storm water systems. The design of storm water systems must consider convenience and property protection both at the individual site level and the drainage basin level. Storm water systems should be compatible with the natural features of the site. In areas with inadequate natural and/or man-made drainage systems, permanent and/or temporary storm water storage shall be an integral part of the overall development plan. Design of these facilities shall consider safety, appearance and economical maintenance operations. §§1924.109&hyph;1924.114 [Reserved] §1924.115 Single Family Housing site evaluation. (a) Site review. The site approval official will evaluate each site (developed or undeveloped) to determine acceptance for the program. Information on the site will be provided by the appraiser on a form provided by the Agency and available in any Agency office. The review appraiser and/or the site approval official will review the information, complete any required information, and sign the back of the form. If the site is new construction in a subdivision, the builder will provide Form HUD&hyph;92541, ``Builder's Certification of Plans, Specifications, and Site'', available in any Agency office. The site approval official must complete the proper environmental review required by subpart G of part 1940 of this chapter for each site. (See §1924.105(b)(2) of this subpart.) (b) Site access. Each site must be contiguous to and have direct access from: (1) A hard surfaced or all weather street or road which is developed in full compliance with public body requirements, dedicated for public use, and is being maintained by a public body or a Home Owners Association that has demonstrated its ability or can clearly demonstrate its ability to maintain the street, or (2) An all weather extended driveway which can serve no more than two sites connecting to a hard surface or all weather street or road that meets the requirements of the above paragraph, or (3) A hard surfaced street in a condominium or townhouse complex which: (i) Is owned in common by the members or a member association and is maintained by a member association that has demonstrated its ability or can clearly demonstrate its ability to maintain the street, and
