FR940513-1-00048 FR940513-1-00012 The proposed regulations presume that if an activity relating to a lobbying communication was engaged in for a non-lobbying purpose prior to the first taxable year preceding the taxable year in which the lobbying communication is made, that activity was engaged in for all periods solely for that non- lobbying purpose. The Commissioner can rebut this presumption in part (it cannot be rebutted entirely because the presumption only operates if the taxpayer establishes that the activity has been engaged in for a non-lobbying purpose) by establishing that the activity was also engaged in for the purpose of making or supporting a lobbying communication. Thus, for example, if a taxpayer regularly conducts an activity in the ordinary course of its business operations beginning at least two taxable years before the taxable year in which the lobbying communication is made, it would be presumed that the continuing activity was not engaged in to support the lobbying communication, even during the taxable year in which the lobbying communication is made (and the preceding taxable year). In this regard, it is expected that whether a course of conduct spanning a period of time is a single activity will be determined based on all the facts and circumstances. In particular, it is expected that a substantial change in the way an activity is conducted will result in the revised activity being considered a separate activity from the earlier conduct of the activity. The proposed regulations also presume that if an activity relating to a lobbying communication was engaged in during the same taxable year as the communication is made or in the immediately preceding taxable year, and is not within the presumption described in the preceding paragraph, that activity was engaged in for the sole purpose of making or supporting that communication. The taxpayer may rebut this presumption (in whole or part) by establishing that the activity was engaged in (entirely or partially) for a non-lobbying purpose. If, during the same taxable year, the taxpayer commences an activity that relates directly to the subject matter of specific legislation (then in existence) and makes a lobbying communication with respect to that legislation, it is expected that the taxpayer generally will be unable to rebut the presumption. The proposed regulations treat certain activities as engaged in without a purpose of making or supporting a lobbying communication. These activities consist of performing an activity for purposes of complying with the requirements of any law, reading any general circulation publications, or viewing or listening to other mass media communications available to the general public. In addition, if, prior to evidencing a purpose to influence specific legislation (or similar legislation), a taxpayer determines the existence or procedural status of that legislation; determines the time, place, and subject of any hearing to be held by a legislative body with respect to that legislation; or prepares routine, brief summaries of the provisions of that legislation, the taxpayer is treated as engaging in that activity without a purpose of making or supporting a lobbying communication. The proposed regulations provide a special rule for so- called ``paid volunteers.'' If, for the purpose of making or supporting a lobbying communication, one taxpayer uses the services or facilities of a second taxpayer and does not compensate the second taxpayer for the full cost of the services or facilities, the purpose and actions of the first taxpayer are imputed to the second taxpayer. Thus, for example, if a trade association uses the services of a member's employee, at no cost to the association, to conduct research or similar activities to support the trade association's lobbying communication, the trade association's purpose and actions are imputed to the member. As a result, the member is treated as influencing legislation with respect to the employee's work in support of the trade association's lobbying communication. The proposed regulations also provide a general anti-avoidance rule. The regulations are proposed to be effective for amounts paid or incurred on or after May 13, 1994. Taxpayers will be required to adopt a reasonable interpretation of section 162(e)(1)(A) for amounts paid or incurred prior to this date. Modification of 1993 Proposed Regulations On December 27, 1993, the IRS issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (IA&hyph;57&hyph;93) concerning the allocation of costs to lobbying activities. Section 1.162&hyph;28(g)(3) of those proposed regulations provides a general rule for determining whether a meeting with certain specified government officials or employees constitutes a lobbying activity (a term that includes influencing legislation). Because the proposed regulations contained in this document provide rules for determining whether a taxpayer is engaged in influencing legislation, the IRS will amend ยง1.162- 28(g)(3), when it is promulgated as a final regulation, to conform that provision to these proposed regulations. As a result, whether sponsoring or attending a meeting constitutes influencing legislation will be determined under the rules which are the subject of these proposed regulations. Thus, for example, if a taxpayer attends a speech by a legislator at which specific legislation is discussed, the taxpayer will not necessarily be considered to be influencing legislation unless the taxpayer makes a communication with the legislator which refers to specific legislation and reflects a view on that legislation. However, if the taxpayer makes a lobbying communication with respect to that legislation (or similar legislation) within the same or the succeeding taxable year, the presumptions provided in these proposed regulations will apply. Grass Roots Lobbying The proposed regulations do not address grass roots lobbying. Although the proposed regulations provide a definition of influencing legislation that is similar to the definition of direct lobbying communication under the section 4911 regulations, it should not be inferred that the IRS will adopt the definition of grassroots lobbying communication under the section 4911 regulations for purposes of section 162(e)(1)(C). As noted above, the prior law rules disallowing business deductions for expenses for grassroots lobbying and participation in political campaigns remain in effect under OBRA 1993. Special Analyses
