FR941116-0-00062 FR941116-0-00011 (3) For filings pursuant to §342.4(a) of this chapter, the schedule must include the proposed rates, the rates which would be permitted under §342.3 of this chapter, and the revenues to be realized from both sets of rates. (c) Content of statements. Any cost-of-service rate filing must include supporting statements containing the following information for the test period. (1) Statement A_total cost of service. This statement must summarize the total cost of service for a carrier (operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization, return, and taxes) developed from Statements B through G described in paragraphs (c) (2) through (7) of this section. (2) Statement B_operation and maintenance expense. This statement must set forth the operation, maintenance, administration and general, and depreciation expenses for the test period. Items used in the computations or derived on this statement must consist of operations, including salaries and wages, supplies and expenses, outside services, operating fuel and power, and oil losses and shortages; maintenance, including salaries and wages, supplies and expenses, outside services, and maintenance and materials; administrative and general, including salaries and wages, supplies and expenses, outside services, rentals, pensions and benefits, insurance, casualty and other losses, and pipeline taxes; and depreciation and amortization. (3) Statement C_overall return on rate base. This statement must set forth the rate base for return purposes from Statement E in paragraph (c)(5) of this section and must also state the claimed rate of return and the application of the claimed rate of return to the overall rate base. The claimed rate of return must consist of a weighted cost of capital, combining the rate of return on debt capital and the real rate of return on equity capital. Items used in the computations or derived on this statement must include deferred earnings, equity ratio, debt ratio, weighted cost of capital, and costs of debt and equity. (4) Statement D_income taxes. This statement must set forth the income tax computation. Items used in the computations or derived on this statement must show: return allowance, interest expense, equity return, annual amortization of deferred earnings, depreciation on equity AFUDC, underfunded or overfunded ADIT amortization amount, taxable income, tax factor, and income tax allowance. (5) Statement E_rate base. This statement must set forth the return rate base. Items used in the computations or derived on this statement must include beginning balances of the rate base at December 31, 1983, working capital (including materials and supplies, prepayments, and oil inventory), accrued depreciation on carrier plant, accrued depreciation on rights of way, and accumulated deferred income taxes; and adjustments and end balances for original cost of retirements, interest during construction, AFUDC adjustments, original cost of net additions and retirements from land, original cost of net additions and retirements from rights of way, original cost of plant additions, original cost accruals for depreciation, AFUDC accrued depreciation adjustment, original cost depreciation accruals added to rights of way, net charge for retirements from accrued depreciation, accumulated deferred income taxes, changes in working capital (including materials and supplies, prepayments, and oil inventory), accrued deferred earnings, annual amortization of accrued deferred earnings, and amortization of starting rate base write-up. (6) Statement F_allowance for funds used during construction. This statement must set forth the computation of allowances for funds used during construction (AFUDC) including the AFUDC for each year commencing in 1984 and a summary of AFUDC and AFUDC depreciation for the years 1984 through the test year. (7) Statement G_revenues. This statement must set forth the gross revenues for the actual 12 months of experience as computed under both the presently effective rates and the proposed rates. If the presently effective rates are not at the maximum ceiling rate established under §342.4(a) of this chapter, then gross revenues must also be computed and set forth as if the ceiling rates were effective for the 12 month period. 6. Part 347 is added to subchapter P to read as follows: PART 347_OIL PIPELINE DEPRECIATION STUDIES Sec. 347.1␣Material to support request for newly established or changed property account depreciation studies. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7101&hyph;7352; 49 U.S.C. 60502; 49 App. U.S.C. 1&hyph;85. §347.1 Material to support request for newly established or changed property account depreciation studies. (a) Means of filing. Filing of a request for new or changed property account depreciation rates must be made with the Secretary of the Commission. Filings made by mail must be addressed to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with the envelope clearly marked as containing ``Oil Pipeline Depreciation Rates.'' (b) Number of copies. Carriers must file three paper copies of each request with attendant information identified in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. (c) Transmittal letter. Letters of transmittal must give a general description of the change in depreciation rates being proposed in the filing. Letters of transmittal must also certify that the letter of transmittal (not including the information to be provided, as identified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section) has been sent to each shipper and to each subscriber. If there are no subscribers, letters of transmittal must so state. Carriers requesting acknowledgement of the receipt of a filing by mail must submit a duplicate copy of the letter of transmittal marked ``Receipt requested.'' The request must include a postage paid, self-addressed return envelope.
