FR940922-2-00042 FR940922-2-00019 Bonneville Power Administration Floodplain and Wetlands Involvement for BPA's Hot Springs-Garrison Fiber Optic Project AGENCY: Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), DOE. ACTION: Notice of Floodplain and Wetlands Involvement. SUMMARY: BPA proposes to upgrade its existing operational telecommunications equipment in Northwestern Montana from BPA's Hot Springs Substation to Garrison Substation, a distance of 190 kilometers (120 miles). This upgrade will involve replacing existing microwave equipment with fiber optic cable and equipment. The fiber optic cable will be strung on existing structures on BPA's Hot Springs-Garrison line and will use existing access roads and rights-of-way. No new structures will be needed for this project. This 190 kilometer line will span both floodplains and wetlands located in the counties of Sanders, Lake, Missoula, Granite, and Powell, Montana. In accordance with DOE regulations for compliance with floodplain and wetlands environmental review requirements (10 CFR Part 1022), BPA will prepare a floodplain and wetlands assessment and will perform this proposed action in a manner so as to avoid or minimize potential harm to or within the affected floodplain and wetlands. The assessment will be included in the environmental assessment being prepared for the proposed project in accordance with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act. A floodplain statement of findings will be included in any finding of no significant impact that may be issued following the completion of the environmental assessment. DATES: Comments are due to the address below no later than October 10, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kevin A. Ward, Bonneville Power Administration, P.O. Box 3621, Portland, Oregon, 97208&hyph;3621, phone number 503&hyph;230&hyph;5511, fax number 503&hyph;230&hyph;3984. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Within the transmission line corridor, wetlands can be found in association with various river systems and drainages. Many wetlands found along the Clark Fork river are remnants of old river channels, some of which were isolated during construction of Interstate 90, while others are due to the natural shifting of the channels (oxbows). Small wetlands have formed in a few areas adjacent to small drainages, such as Flint Creek. All wetlands are spanned by the fiber optic cable and avoided by access roads; therefore, there would be no direct impacts to wetlands from the proposed project. Appropriate mitigation measures will be used to reduce potential indirect impacts to wetlands. The transmission line corridor crosses or has structures located in areas identified as 100-year floodplains. These are areas that have a 1-percent chance of being flooded in a given year. The corridor crosses floodplains associated with the Clark Fork River, Flint Creek, Rattlesnake Creek, Grant Creek, Butler Creek, Flathead River, Little Bitterroot River, and Valley Creek. There are twenty-six structures located in 100-year floodplains. Of these, three (structures 24/8, 25/2, and 91/4) have been identified as pulling and tensioning sites. Overall impacts to floodplains would be short-term and low; the proposed project activities would not alter floodplain characteristics or create the potential for greater loss of property or life during flooding. No new access roads or structures would be needed. At pulling and tensioning sites disturbance would occur from vehicles and machines, but all three sites are agricultural and would be returned to their original condition following construction. BPA will endeavor to allow 15 days of public review after publication of this statement of findings prior to implementing the proposed action. Maps and further information are available from BPA at the address above. Issued in Portland, Oregon, on September 13, 1994. John M. Taves, NEPA Compliance Officer, Transmission Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23479 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
