FR940919-2-00200 FR940919-2-00083 c. Studies of the mechanism(s) by which HIV and related retroviruses cause disease, including studies of the immune deficiency induced by HIV and related retroviruses; d. Studies of the pathophysiology of host response to HIV infection; e. Studies of in vivo or in vitro models of human HIV infection and its sequelae; f. Epidemiologic studies of HIV and related retrovirus infection; g. Clinical trials involving prophylaxis or therapy for HIV infection or its sequelae; h. Preclinical studies aimed at the development of therapy for or prevention of HIV infection and the immunodeficiency caused by HIV infection and its sequelae; i. Cofactors predisposing to acquiring HIV infection and/or the progression of HIV-related disease; j. Basic studies and clinical trials involving vaccines, or other immunological or chemotherapeutic interventions for the prevention of HIV infection and its sequelae; k. Studies into the transmission of HIV involving high risk behaviors and research concerning the interruption of transmission by behavioral change and pharmacologic intervention; and l. Basic studies of the societal impact of and response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, including subgroups within the population. (2) AIDS researchers include scientists who are intellectually engaged in the process of providing scientific direction and guidance in programs of original AIDS research, specifically, epidemiologists, statisticians, and others who are involved in the design and conduct of research studies. The duties of such scientists may include the generation and design of studies and collation and analysis of data; and/or the preparation and publication, as author or co-author, of studies in peer-reviewed journals. (3) AIDS researchers include physicians and registered nurses who are providing care for HIV-infected individuals who are subjects of HIV-related research. Eligibility Criteria Specific eligibility criteria with regard to participation in the NIH AIDS Research Loan Repayment Program include the following: (1) Participants must be U.S. citizens, nationals, or permanent residents; (2) Participants must have a Ph.D., M.D., D.O., D.D.S., D.M.D., D.V.M., B.S.N. or A.D.N., or equivalent degree; (3) Participants must have qualifying educational debt in excess of 20 percent of their annual NIH salary at their expected date of program eligibility. In the case of U.S. Commissioned Corps employees, their NIH salary includes base pay plus quarters, subsistence, and variable housing allowances. Special and bonus pays, such as board certified, contract, and variable incentive pays, are not considered in the LRP's calculation of salary. For those employed under the Civil Service General Schedule, salary does not include Physicians Comparability Allowances (PCAs). However, PCA recipients who are accepted into the LRP will have their PCAs reduced by the amount of loan repayments to be received. The expected date of program eligibility is the date by which the following conditions will be met: (a) An applicant agrees to begin qualified AIDS research as a NIH employee, and (b) the Secretary is expected to execute their LRP contract; (4) Participants must be considered employees of the NIH. The following are among those NOT considered NIH employees: (a) Visiting fellows (i.e. foreign scientists), (b) Intramural Research Training Award (IRTA) recipients, (c) National Research Service Award (NRSA) recipients, (d) Guest Researchers or Special Volunteers, (e) NIH-National Research Council (NRC) Biotechnology Research Associates Program participants, and (f) Intergovernmental Personnel Act (IPA) participants; (5) Participants may be appointed under a temporary or permanent employment mechanism, so long as their employment in an LRC-approved AIDS research assignment has the potential to last a minimum of 2 years; (6) Individuals with existing service obligations to Federal, State, or other entities will not be considered for the Program unless and until the existing service obligation is discharged or deferred for the length of Program participation; (7) Applicants will not be excluded from consideration under the Program on the basis of age, race, culture, religion, gender, disability, or other non-merit factors. Additional Program Information This program is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. This program is subject to OMB clearance under the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. A Request for OMB Review and Approval of information collection associated with the program is being prepared by the NIH. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number for the Program is 93.936. Dated: June 17, 1994. Ruth L. Kirschstein, Deputy Director, NIH. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23135 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;P
