FR940616-0-00108 FR940616-0-00012 Changes: A new provision has been added (ยง386.31(c)) stating that the requirement for a grantee to use at least 75 percent of the total award for scholarships does not apply for the remainder of the project period for multi-year projects in existence as of October 1, 1994. Comments: One commenter expressed concern that directing long-term training programs to use at least 75 percent of their total award for scholarships will reduce cross-training of professionals who work with individuals with disabilities. Discussion: The Secretary believes that rehabilitation short-term, continuing education, and in-service training programs offer excellent opportunities for cross-training of rehabilitation professionals. In addition, the Secretary believes that existing professional program accreditation processes and individual licensure and certification procedures by national, State, and professional organizations are attentive to cross-training needs. Changes: None. Comments: Several commenters observed that scholarships are not needed in a prosthetic or orthotic curriculum because programs attract more than enough qualified students. Moreover, it was noted that prosthetic and orthotic programs are costly to operate. Students attend labor intensive lab classes with a low student to instructor ratio. Although programs are making changes that will reduce expenses, supply and equipment costs are high, and without additional Federal support, it would be difficult to operate them. Many students now take loans to pay for their education, are supported by employers, or are self-supporting. Supplementation of these resources with direct student support from RSA could be useful, but the commenters do not feel this should be the primary method of support. Discussion: The Secretary acknowledges that prosthetics and orthotics (P & O) rehabilitation training is highly individualized and often requires intensive lab supervision and high equipment costs. The Secretary will take these unique circumstances, to the extent that they are supported with evidence in the proposal, into consideration in reviewing the requirement to direct at least 75 percent of the total award for scholarships. The Secretary is concerned by the argument that scholarships are not needed in P & O because the field attracts more than enough students. The purpose of the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program is to provide academic training in areas of personnel shortages identified by the Secretary. P & O has been identified as an area with personnel shortages, and providing students with scholarships ensures that the work-or-repay provisions of the Rehabilitation Act will direct graduates to service in support of State rehabilitation agencies in areas of personnel shortages. Changes: None. Comments: A number of commenters requested that the current regulations be maintained to address specialized nonacademic programs in deafness, blindness, mental illness, independent living, and in vocational evaluation because unique, one-of-a-kind projects currently funded under long-term training would no longer be eligible for support under the new regulations.
