FR940104-2-00066 FR940104-2-00044 • Engineering reviews will be performed for shoring and temporary supports (if required) in the excavation area. • Gasoline powered equipment will be refilled using small containers and the number of containers within the excavation area will be restricted. This is in accordance with the existing station procedures. • Worker training and shift briefings will be conducted for all aspects of the project. • Severe weather procedures will be used to provide notification to clear the area of vehicles and loose materials in the event of a tornado watch or other high wind conditions. • Adequate wind protection and heating will be provided during freezing weather conditions. Considering the existing design features and compensatory measures proposed by the licensee, the likelihood of damage to the exposed auxiliary SWS lines from postulated missiles generated by natural phenomena is minimal. Also, based on the compensatory measures provided, assurance exists that the ability to bring the plant to a safe shutdown will be maintained following any natural phenomena, including tornadoes or other severe weather which could result in airborne missiles. Therefore, there is reasonable assurance that the proposed GDC&hyph;2 exemption will present no undue risk to public health and safety. III The Commission has determined, pursuant to 10 CFR 50.12(a), that special circumstances as set forth in 10 CFR 50.12(a)(2)(v). The exemption would provide only temporary relief from the applicable regulation (GDC&hyph;2). The exemption is requested for a specific time period after which the facility would again be in conformance with all the requirements of GDC&hyph;2. The licensee has made good faith efforts in considering alternatives to the exemption requests and has concluded that the Phase 1, Stage 4 SWS refurbishment and restoration program can only be conducted without the subject exemption during a period when both NA&hyph;1&2 are shut down and defueled. The impact of scheduling such a dual-unit outage would have significant consequences in terms of power supply, fuel storage, capacity, and replacement power costs. Finally, the exemption will indirectly result in benefits to the public from increased reliability of the upgraded safety-related SWS. Based on the above and on review of the licensee's submittal, as summarized in the Safety Evaluation dated December 27, 1993, the NRC staff concludes that the likelihood of unacceptable damage to the exposed auxiliary SW lines due to tornadoe-borne missiles during the exemption period is low. Based on the low probability of unacceptable events, coupled with the comprehensive compensatory measures which the licensee has committed to, the NRC staff finds the proposed exemption from GEDC&hyph;2 acceptable. IV Accordingly, the Commission has determined that, pursuant to 10 CFR 50.12, the subject exemption is authorized by law, will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety, and is consistent with the common defense and security. The Commission further determines that special circumstances, as provided in 10 CFR 50.12(a)(2)(v), are present justifying the exemption; namely, that the exemption would provide only temporary relief from the applicable regulations and that the licensee has made good faith efforts to comply with the regulations. Therefore, the Commission hereby approves the following exemption: NA&hyph;1&2 may operate without conforming to the requirements of GDC&hyph;2 as they apply to the buried portions of the auxiliary SWS lines from Lake Anna to the main SWS header providing that compensatory measures as described herein are continued for the period of the exemption. Pursuant to 10 CFR 51.32, the Commission has determined that granting the above exemption will have no significant impact on the quality of the human environment (October 7, 1993, 58 FR 52332). The subject Phase 1, Stage 4 SWS GDC&hyph;2 exemption is effective from its date of issuance through October 14, 1994. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 27th day of December 1993. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Gus C. Lainas, Acting Director, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 93&hyph;54 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
