FR940912-1-00045 FR940912-1-00010 A performance test to demonstrate compliance of a vent stream control device with the organic compound reduction efficiency requirement shall use Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, to select sampling sites. The mass flow rate of organics entering and exiting the control device shall be determined by using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of part 60, as appropriate, to determine the volume exhausted and by using Method 18 of appendix A of part 60, or any other test method validated according to the procedures in Method 301 of appendix A of part 63, to determine total organic concentration. A performance test to demonstrate compliance with the mass removal provision shall consist of a determination of mass removal required to be achieved and a determination of mass removal actually achieved. The total required mass removal is calculated by adding together the required mass removal for each individual affected stream to be combined for treatment. The required mass removal for each affected wastewater stream prior to combination of the streams for treatment shall be determined using the wastewater average flow rate and volatile organic average concentration at the point of generation for each affected wastewater stream to be combined for treatment. The actual total volatile organic mass removal in the wastewater stream shall be determined using the same procedures as described for noncombustion treatment processes complying with the percent reduction requirement. Finally, a performance test to demonstrate compliance of a biological treatment process with the 95-percent mass reduction requirement must be conducted using the procedures specified in the proposed rule. The control efficiency of the biological treatment unit is a function of the fraction biodegraded in a properly operated biological treatment unit. This fraction shall be determined using the procedures in appendix C of 40 CFR part 63. A performance test is not specified for the design steam stripper; installation of the specified equipment, along with monitoring to show attainment of the specified operating parameter levels, demonstrates compliance with the equipment design and operation provisions. Each vapor collection system, closed-vent system, fixed roof, cover, or enclosure must be evaluated initially and at annual intervals using Method 21 of appendix A of part 60 to determine the presence of detectable emissions from leaks. Method 21 represents the best available method for detecting leaks from these sources. K. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements The reporting requirements necessitated by the proposed standard are authorized by section 114 of the Act. In addition to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements specified in the part 60 General Provisions, the proposed standard would require the submittal of several types of reports. First, the part 60 General Provisions would require notification reports, which inform the Agency of facilities subject to the NSPS. These reports include notification of construction, anticipated and actual startup dates, and physical or operational changes. In addition to the information required by the General Provisions, owners or operators would be required to provide information with the notice of construction identifying the process unit and stream as well as a brief description of the intended treatment and/or control technology. As part of the notification of startup, sources would also be required to provide more detailed information on the waste stream and waste management units. For example, sources would provide information on the chemical manufacturing processes that are subject to the proposed rule, information on the intended compliance strategy, and any required control device parameter ranges, unless the parameter ranges have already been established in the operating permit. Reports of the required design analysis (for steam strippers) or of performance test results of emission control systems would be required as well. These reports show whether a facility is initially meeting the level of the standard. The proposed rule would override the General Provisions requirements for quarterly reports for excess emissions and monitoring systems performance. Instead, semi-annual reports would be required in the event of each control equipment failure or instance when monitored parameters are not within their established values. Each semi-annual report shall include the date of the inspection, identification of each waste management unit in which a control equipment failure was detected, description of the failure, and description of the nature of and date the repair was made. The semi-annual report shall also contain information on monitoring results that exceed the boundaries established in the operating permit.
