FR940505-1-00469 FR940505-1-00012 (iv) Emissions fee. (A) Emissions fees imposed on a commercial aircraft operator pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(B) of this section will be calculated using emissions and activity data reported by that operator in the annual submitted under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)(1 ) of this section. The provisions of this section apply separately for VOC and NO X emissions. (B) Emissions fees will be based on the quantity of pollutants emitted in excess of the emission rates presented in Tables 2970&hyph;1 and 2970&hyph;2, calculated as follows: ( 1 ) The applicable emission rate from Tables 2970&hyph;1 and 2970&hyph;2 is multiplied by the operator's reported Passenger Equivalent Unit (PEU) control period total to determine the operator's total emission quantity target for the relevant year. ( 2 ) This total emission quantity target is subtracted from the operator's reported emissions for the relevant year to determine the quantity of pollutants emitted in excess of the total emission quantity target. ( 3 ) This excess quantity of pollutants is subject to the emissions fee described in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(C) of this section. (C) Emissions fee rate. [Reserved] (D) Emissions fees paid pursuant to the provisions of this section must be remitted along with the relevant annual report submitted under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)( 1 ) of this section. (E) A commercial aircraft operator subject to the requirements of this section who fails to pay fees as required under paragraphs (b)(2)(iv) (A) through (D) of this section will be subject to enforcement as described in paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section. (v) Recordkeeping. Commercial aircraft operators subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section shall collect and record all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section and maintain the information for a period of three (3) years. The information shall be collected and recorded each day of the control period beginning in 1999. (vi) Exemptions. [Reserved] (vii) Enforcement. [Reserved] (c) General aviation control measures. (1) Applicability. The provisions of ยง52.2970 (c) shall apply to all general aviation operations in the South Coast, Ventura, and Sacramento control areas as defined in 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Specific provisions. (i) All general aviation aircraft subject to paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall pay a fee for each operation during the control period beginning in 2001, except for those aircraft operations exempted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section. (ii) For the purpose of this section, general aviation operations subject to this fee are defined as take-offs from airports located in the control areas. (iii) Reporting. (A) General aviation operation certificate. (1 ) All airports with general aviation operations subject to paragraph (c)(1) of this section must obtain a General Aviation Operation Certificate. ( 2 ) All airports with general aviation operations subject to paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall submit to the Administrator an application for a general aviation operation certificate. ( 3 ) This application shall include the following information: ( i ) Airport name; ( ii ) Airport location, including latitude and longitude; ( iii ) Number of general aviation operations in 1999; ( iv ) Number of general aviation aircraft based at the airport; and ( v ) Services provided at the airport. ( 4 ) This application shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than March 20, 2000. ( 5 ) The accuracy of all information submitted pursuant to this section shall be certified according to the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(C) of this section. ( 6 ) Airports with general aviation operations in the absence of a general aviation operation certificate after January 1, 2001 will be subject to enforcement as described in paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section. (B) Monthly general aviation activity reports.
