FR940203-2-00019 FR940203-2-00012 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Department of the Army Intent To Prepare a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS) for the Palm Beach County, Florida, Beach Erosion Control Project AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Jacksonville District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The Jacksonville District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers intends to prepare a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement for the Palm Beach County Shore Protection Project. The SEIS concerns the Ocean Ridge Segment of the project. The authorized project provides for the restoration and periodic nourishment of a section of beach starting at the south jetty of South Lake Worth Inlet and extending south 1.6 miles. The nourishment of the Ocean Ridge segment will provide protection to beachfront properties from wave damage and beach erosion. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Jacksonville District, Environmental Branch, Planning Division, P.O. Box 4970, Jacksonville, Florida 32232&hyph;0019. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Michael Dupes, (904) 232&hyph;1689. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. The Beach Erosion Control Project for Palm Beach County, Florida, was authorized on 23 October 1962, by Public Law 87&hyph;874. A General Design Memorandum (GDM) and Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for Palm Beach County was published in April 1987. The FEIS addressed the alternative methods of accomplishing the project goals and the impacts associated with those alternatives. The project sponsor is the County of Palm Beach. A Supplemental Design Memorandum and SEIS are currently being prepared for the Ocean Ridge segment to discuss the specific location of the borrow area and because several alternative design modifications to the authorized project are being considered. Environmental considerations will include the potential presence of historic and archeological resources, aesthetics, endangered or threatened species, and adjacent marine habitats. 2. Scoping: The scoping process will involve Federal, State, county and municipal agencies, and other interested persons and organizations. A scoping letter (December 7, 1993) has been sent to interested Federal, State, county and municipal agencies requesting their comments and concerns. Any persons and organizations wishing to participate in the scoping process should contact the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at the address given in this notice. Significant issues that are anticipated include concern for offshore hard bottom communities, fisheries, water quality, sea turtles and sea turtle nests. Consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) during the development of the FEIS indicated that historical and archaeological resources may be present in the project area. Further coordination with the SHPO will occur during the preparation of the SEIS. 3. Coordination with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service will be accomplished in compliance with section 7 of the Endangered Species Act. Coordination required by applicable Federal and State laws and policies will be conducted. Since the project will require the discharge of material into waters of the United States, the discharge will comply with the provisions of section 404 of the Clean Water Act as amended. 4. SEIS Preparation: It is estimated that a draft SEIS will be available to the public in June 1994. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2361 Filed 2&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;IJ&hyph;M
