FR941117-0-00076 FR941117-0-00011 (g) Cellular Radiotelephone Service. In the Cellular Radiotelephone Service, filings are major if they: (1) Request an authorization to operate a new cellular system; (2) Request an authorization for facilities that would expand the cellular geographic service area (CGSA) of an existing cellular system, except during the applicable five year build-out period, if any; (3) Request an authorization for facilities that would produce a de minimis service area boundary extension (see §22.911(c)(1)); (4) Request that a CGSA boundary or a portion of a CGSA boundary be determined using an alternative method (see §22.911(b)); (5) Amend a pending application to change the requested channel block; or, (6) Amend a pending application by modifying the CGSA of the proposed cellular system to include area that_ (i) Was not included in the CGSA as previously proposed in the application and_ (ii) Is not included in the currently authorized CGSA, if any. (h) Air-ground Radiotelephone. In the Air-ground Radiotelephone Service, filings are major if they: (l) Request an authorization for a new General Aviation ground station or to relocate an existing General Aviation ground station; (2) Request the first authorization for a new Commercial Aviation ground station at a location other than those listed in §22.859; (3) Request authorization to add a channel to or change a channel of an existing General Aviation ground station; or, (4) Amend a pending application to change the requested channel or channel block. (i) Offshore Radiotelephone. In the Offshore Radiotelephone Service, filings are major if they: (1) Request an authorization for a new offshore central or subscriber station; (2) Request authorization to add a channel to or change a channel of an existing offshore central or subscriber station; or, (3) Amend a pending application to change the technical proposal substantially from that which was coordinated with other users prior to filing. (j) Clerical errors. Amendments are classified as minor if they only correct typographical, transcription or similar clerical errors that are clearly demonstrated (e.g. by reference to other parts of the application) to be mistakes, and whose discovery and correction does not change information previously listed in a Public Notice. §22.124 Notification processing. This section contains rules governing the processing of notifications (filed on FCC Form 489) in the Public Mobile Services. (a) File numbers. Notifications received by the FCC are assigned file numbers. Assignment of a file number to a notification is for administrative convenience and does not constitute a determination that the notified action has been examined and not rejected by the FCC. Assignment of a file number does not preclude the return of a notification subsequently found to be defective. (b) Defective notifications. A notification is defective if: (1) It is unsigned or incomplete with respect to required answers to questions, informational showings, or other matters of a formal character; (2) It notifies of an action that does not comply with one or more of the FCC rules; (3) It notifies of an action for which an application for authorization is required; (4) It is submitted without the required microfiche; or, (5) It is untimely filed. (c) Review. After a file number is assigned, each notification is reviewed. The purpose of this review is to identify notifications that are unacceptable (e.g. not signed, missing pages, improper or missing fee payment). Notifications found to be unacceptable may be returned to the licensee with a brief statement describing the deficiency. If a notification is found to be unacceptable, the FCC may direct the licensee to return the station to compliance with its previous license terms. Acceptable notifications are added to the appropriate station files. §22.125 Application for special temporary authorizations. In circumstances requiring immediate or temporary use of Public Mobile Services stations, carriers may request special temporary authority (STA) to operate new or modified equipment. Such requests may be submitted as informal applications (see §22.105) and must contain complete details about the proposed operation and the circumstances that fully justify and necessitate the grant of STA. Such requests should be filed in time to be received by the FCC at least 10 days prior to the date of proposed operation or, where an extension is sought, 10 days prior to the expiration date of the existing STA. Requests received less than 10 days prior to the desired date of operation may be given expedited considerations only if compelling reasons are given, in writing, for the delay in submitting the request. Otherwise, such late-filed requests are considered in turn, but action might not be taken prior to the desired date of operation. Requests for STAs must be accompanied by the proper filing fee. (a) Grant without Public Notice. STAs may be granted without being listed in a Public Notice, or prior to 30 days after such listing, if: (1) The STA is to be valid for 30 days or less and the applicant does not plan to file an application for regular authorization of the subject operation; (2) The STA is to be valid for 60 days or less, pending the filing of an application for regular authorization of the subject operation; (3) The STA is to allow interim operation to facilitate completion of authorized construction or to provide substantially the same service as previously authorized; or (4) The STA is made upon a finding that there are extraordinary circumstances requiring operation in the public interest and that delay in the institution of such service would seriously prejudice the public interest.
