FR941205-0-00189 FR941205-0-00029 §266.520 Program monitoring and compliance. HUD will monitor the performance of the HFA in accordance with the provisions covered under this subpart. Subpart G_Contract Rights and Obligations Mortgage Insurance Premiums §266.600 Mortgage insurance premium: Insurance upon completion. (a) Initial premium. For projects insured upon completion, on the date of the final closing, the HFA shall pay to the Commissioner an initial premium equal to the prescribed percentage, in the sliding scale chart that is shown in §266.604(b), of the face amount of the mortgage. (b) Premium payable with first payment of principal. On the date of the first payment of principal the HFA shall pay a second premium (calculated on a per annum basis) equal to the prescribed percentage of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage from the final closing date to the year following the date of the first principal payment, less the amount paid on the date of the final closing. (c) Subsequent premiums. Until one of the conditions is met under §266.606(a), the HFA on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment shall pay to the Commissioner an annual mortgage insurance premium equal to the prescribed percentage of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage, without taking into account delinquent payments, or partial claim payment under §266.630, or prepayments, for the year following the date on which the premium becomes payable. §266.602 Mortgage insurance premium: Insured advances. (a) Initial premium. For projects involving insured advances, on the date of the initial closing, the HFA shall pay to the Commissioner an initial premium equal to the prescribed percentage, in the sliding scale chart that is shown in §266.604(b), of the face amount of the mortgage. (b) Interim premium. On each anniversary of the initial closing, the HFA shall pay an interim mortgage insurance premium equal to the prescribed percentage of the face amount of the mortgage. The HFA shall continue to pay the interim mortgage insurance premiums until the date of the first principal payment. (c) Premium payable with first payment of principal. On the date of the first principal payment, the HFA shall pay a mortgage insurance premium equal to the prescribed percentage of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following the date of the first principal payment. The HFA shall adjust this payment by deducting an amount equal to the portion of the last premium paid that is attributable to the months after the date of the first payment to principal. Any partial month is to be counted as a whole month. The HFA shall remit the net adjusted mortgage premium to the Commissioner and refund the amount of the adjustment (overpayment) to the mortgagor. (d) Subsequent premiums. Until one of the conditions is met under §266.606(a), the HFA on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment shall pay to the Commissioner an annual mortgage insurance premium equal to the prescribed percentage of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage, without taking into account delinquent payments, prepayments, or a partial claim payment under §266.630, for the year following the date on which the premium becomes payable. §266.604 Mortgage insurance premium: Other requirements. (a) Premium calculations on or after first principal payment. The premiums payable to the Commissioner on and after the first principal payment shall be calculated in accordance with the amortization schedule prepared by the HFA for final closing and the prescribed percentage as set forth in the sliding scale chart in paragraph (b) of this section without taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments.
