FR940503-1-00077 FR940503-1-00012 E. EPA Seeks Comment on Today's Proposal, or Any Alternative Approaches Today's proposal is an attempt to resolve the issue of baselines for foreign refiners in a more appropriate manner, with the intent of achieving several important, but different, goals. One goal is that the environmental benefits intended for reformulated gasoline by the Clean Air Act be realized. The other goal is that all regulated parties who are similarly situated be treated alike, with the differences in treatment between domestic and foreign refiners limited to those measures necessary to appropriately accommodate differences in their situations and protect human health and environmental values. EPA recognizes that there may be other methods for regulating imported reformulated gasoline that resolve these two goals in ways that are preferable to the approaches contained both in the Final Rule and in today's proposal. EPA requests comment as to any alternative approaches to regulating imported reformulated gasoline that achieves the environmental benefits required by the Clean Air Act for reformulated gasoline, and that treats domestic and foreign refiners in a manner consistent with the provisions of the GATT. IV. Public Participation EPA invites comment on all aspects of today's notice. EPA has specifically requested comments on a number of areas throughout the previous discussion. A list of these and other areas for comment are the following: •Any alternative approaches to regulating imported reformulated gasoline that achieve the environmental benefits required by the Clean Air Act for reformulated gasoline, and that treat domestic and foreign refiners in a manner consistent with the provisions of the GATT. •The accuracy of any foreign refinery baseline that would be established under the proposal. •The identification of the refinery of origin of any imported gasoline that would use an individual foreign refinery's baseline under today's proposal. •Whether today's proposal would result in the environmental benefits that are intended by the reformulated gasoline provisions of the Clean Air Act. •The issue of when foreign refinery baseline petitions would be due. •The appropriate approach for correlating the volume determination at the foreign refinery and at the U.S. port of entry. •The adequacy of the proposed attest procedures. •The proposed requirement that independent laboratories and CPA's be U.S. corporations or citizens. •The proposal for combining gasoline imports in 1994 and 1995 for purposes of applying the proposed volume constraint on use of an individual foreign refinery's baseline. •The proposed mechanism for calculating an expanded 1990 individual foreign refinery baseline volume for use during 1994 and 1995. V. Administrative Designation and Regulatory Analysis A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities;
