FR940119-1-00053 FR940119-1-00013 Technical Changes to the Regulations NMFS proposes two revisions to correct and clarify the regulatory text and to improve the effectiveness of management. A technical revision to the regulatory text is proposed to omit obsolete references contained in ยง285.31(a)(30). Also, NMFS proposes to specify in ยง285.31(a)(37) that, in order to retain fish less than 70 inches, vessels must have an Angling category permit or must have taken the small bluefin pursuant to the incidental catch allowance of the Purse Seine category fishery. This change is needed due to the implementation of the Angling category permit promulgated in a prior rulemaking dated August 27, 1993 (58 FR 45286). Classification This proposed rule is published under the authority of the ATCA, 16 U.S.C. 971 et seq. The AA has preliminarily determined that this proposed rule is necessary to implement the recommendations of ICCAT and is necessary for management of the Atlantic tuna fisheries. The General Counsel of the Department of Commerce has certified to the Small Business Administration that this proposed rule, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because the fishing category quotas proposed for 1994 will remain the same as current quotas. Also, the proposed changes to the Incidental Catch category would alleviate some of the restrictions imposed on fishermen landing bluefin taken incidental to longlining for swordfish, sharks and other tunas. These changes should facilitate enforcement of bluefin regulations, would have a modest positive economic impact for some longline fishing trips and should help prevent waste of bluefin tuna which would otherwise be discarded dead. Since the proposed changes would not significantly affect a substantial number of small entities, a regulatory flexibility analysis was not prepared. This proposed rule is not subject to review under E.O. 12866. This rule involves a clarification of an existing collection-of-information requirement subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act that has been approved by OMB (control number 0648&hyph;0239). This change, in reference to the daily dealer report, clarifies the requirement to indicate the type of measurement recorded for bluefin tuna weights and lengths. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 3 minutes per response for completing the requirement and faxing to NMFS. Send any comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this requirement, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to NMFS and OMB (see ADDRESSES ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 285 Fisheries, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Treaties. Dated: January 12, 1994. Rolland A. Schmitten, Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 50 CFR part 285 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 285_ATLANTIC TUNA FISHERIES 1. The authority citation for part 285 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 971 et seq.
