FR940919-0-00111 FR940919-0-00016 ii. Other Newly Identified Wastes In addition to organic TC wastes, the wastes affected by today's final rule include coke by-product and chlorotoluene wastes. Based on an economic analysis conducted by the Agency for the listing of coke by-product waste, generators recycle these wastes rather than disposing of them in Subtitle C landfills. Therefore, EPA estimates that negligible volumes of coke by-product wastes would be affected by this rule. For the chlorotoluene waste volumes, EPA conducted a detailed cost analysis using site specific data. iii. Testing, Recordkeeping, and Permit Modification Costs In addition to the costs for treatment of wastes, EPA estimated the incremental costs of the testing and recordkeeping requirements in today's rule. Testing and recordkeeping costs were developed for all wastes addressed in today's rule. The Agency examined the incremental cost of the testing requirements under today's rule. The Agency considered the baseline scenario to include testing for waste identification. The post-regulatory scenario would include testing for waste identification, testing to determine the number and concentration of constituents requiring treatment, and testing following treatment to ensure compliance with the standards. For the analysis of recordkeeping costs, the Agency employed the estimates developed in the Information Collection Request (ICR) for today's rule. These estimates were employed in a facility specific analysis to develop a total incremental cost associated with the testing and recordkeeping requirements in today's rule. The Agency also performed a sensitivity analysis on potential permit modification costs for facilities which may switch to on-site treatment. EPA applied a schedule of payments based on the costs of permit modifications to a group of nine facilities. The results of this analysis are provided in the Background Document RIA. c. Waste Minimization Methodology Since reducing waste generation may be less costly than treating these wastes to LDR standards, the Agency performed an analysis examining the potential waste minimization alternatives available to facilities. The analysis followed a multi-step methodology which included: (1) Develop a profile of the industries which indicated plans for waste minimization in the 1992 TC Survey Database, (2) select industries to examine which would be representative of the TC waste universe, (3) make telephone data verification calls to facilities within these industries, (4) determine the cost components for the post-regulatory and waste minimization scenarios for all wastestreams for those facilities, (5) estimate whether potential total costs/cost savings for the waste minimization and the post-regulatory (i.e., without waste minimization) scenarios would be a profitable investment for the firms, and (6) extrapolate results to the TC waste universe, and determine overall cost/cost savings. d. Economic Impact Methodology The economic effects of today's final rule are defined as the difference between the industrial activity under post-regulatory conditions and the industrial activity in the absence of regulation (i.e., baseline conditions). It should be noted that the volumes used for the economic impacts analysis do not include the reduction in volumes, and thus in costs, from waste minimization practices. The Agency has evaluated the economic impacts for facilities managing organic TC wastes on a facility specific basis, limited only by the extent that data were available. EPA estimated the economic effects by comparing incremental annual compliance costs to a number of company financial measures, such as revenues, cost of operations, operating income, and net income. Financial data were obtained from Standard & Poor's Corporation Descriptions for the last fiscal year reported. Since EPA believes that no costs will be associated with the treatment standards for coke by-products in the final rule, no economic impacts will be associated with regulation of these wastes. Economic impacts of compliance for facilities currently land disposing chlorotoluenes were evaluated in aggregated form, as information relating to these wastes are proprietary. e. Benefits Methodology This section discusses the benefit estimates for today's rule. The section includes: i. Analysis of the universal treatment standards, ii. hazardous waste recycling exemption, iii. groundwater pathway benefits, and iv. air pathway benefits. i. Analysis of the Impact of the Universal Treatment Standards To determine the cost implications of the Universal Treatment Standards (UTS), the Agency compared the UTS levels for each constituent to those levels established for each constituent in each waste code in the Land Disposal Restrictions (LDR) program to date. The Agency assumed that there would only be a cost impact when the levels were sufficiently different to require a change in the treatment technology used in order to meet the new UTS levels. The comparison of levels rendered three results: (a) No cost impact because the constituent levels were the same, (b) no cost impact because the constituent levels were within one order of magnitude of each other, or (c) a potential cost impact because the constituent levels were greater than one order of magnitude apart. Upon identifying those waste code/constituent pairs which were significantly different (i.e., greater than one order of magnitude), the Agency developed an estimate of the costs/cost savings based on the incremental difference in the previous technology required and the new technology required to meet the specified levels. ii. Hazardous Waste Recycling Exemption The Agency also estimated the potential cost savings resulting from the hazardous waste recycling exemption for K069 wastes. Obtaining volumes data from the Biennial Reporting System (BRS), and employing unit cost data, the Agency calculated the cost savings associated with the change allowed in management practices. The Agency limited the analysis to K069 wastestreams that are not mixed with other hazardous waste codes, since these mixtures may not be amenable or legal for recycling. iii. Human Health Risk Reduction_Groundwater Pathway The Agency evaluated two types of human health benefits for today's rule: reduction in human health risks via the groundwater pathway, and reduction in human health risks via the air pathway. EPA's analysis of the benefits of today's rule covers TC wastes only. These wastes dominate the other wastestreams covered by today's rule in terms of volume. Moreover, these are the only wastes for which the Agency had the data necessary to conduct a benefits assessment, in terms of attributes such as constituent concentrations and facility-specific wastestream volumes. The fundamental assumption underlying EPA's approach for assessing groundwater risk reduction is that Subtitle C containment is completely effective in the short-term, i.e., over a period of about 30 years, but that in the longer term, containment systems will fail. The benefits analysis performed for today's rule examines this potential long-term risk which would be avoided under today's rule (i.e., only occurring at least 30 years into the future). The difference in risks from the baseline to the post-regulatory condition is the measure of incremental benefit associated with today's rule.
