FR940110-1-00062 FR940110-1-00006 Section 960.7(b)(3) of the proposed rule provides that within 30 calendar days of each Bank's approval of the AHP applications for a given AHP funding cycle, the Bank shall forward to the Board a summary of each approved AHP application. The summary shall: (i) Briefly describe the project, including the applicant, the loan fund or loan consortium, if applicable, and the sponsor_ whether nonprofit, for-profit or public agency, the type of housing, the location, the long-term period committed to, the number of housing units including the number of units affordable for very low-, low- or moderate-income households or for households at any other income levels committed to in the AHP application, the development cost, other financing sources, and special needs populations served; (ii) State the reason for the points awarded under each of the Bank's scoring criteria for the project; (iii) Indicate whether a subsidized advance or direct subsidy was approved by the Bank for the project, the use of such funds, and the amount of such funds approved; if a subsidized advance was approved, the summary shall indicate the amount of the advance, the advance rate, the amortization schedule for the advance, the term to maturity, the applicable cost of funds, and the date as of which the cost of funds was determined; (iv) Indicate whether the project received approval in a prior AHP funding cycle, or whether the project is an extension, expansion, continuation or reconfiguration of a previously approved AHP project; (v) Describe how the project will be monitored and by what entity; (vi) Describe the legal mechanisms to be used to ensure compliance by the project with the long-term requirement contained in §960.5 of the proposed rule; (vii) Include a summary in chart form showing all AHP applications received by the Bank in the particular AHP funding cycle, with the score each application received for each scoring criterion, and the total score received by each project; and (viii) Include any other information required by the Board. The Board has general oversight responsibility over the AHP under section 10(j) of the Act. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j). In addition, section 10(j)(12)(A) of the Act requires the Board to monitor and report annually to the Congress and the Advisory Council for each Bank the support of low-income housing and community development by the Banks and the utilization of advances for these purposes. Id. §1430(j)(12)(A). Since the Board would no longer be receiving and approving AHP applications under the proposed rule, the Board would no longer have these applications as a source of data to assist the Board in exercising its oversight and monitoring responsibilities and preparing the annual report to the Congress and the Advisory Councils. Accordingly, the Board will need the Banks to provide this additional information to the Board in the summary, as required in proposed §960.7(b)(3). F. Requirements For Approval of AHP Applications 1. General Section 960.8(a) of the proposed rule provides that each Bank shall evaluate the AHP applications received to determine if they satisfy the threshold criteria in proposed §960.9. All applications that meet the threshold criteria shall be scored pursuant to the criteria contained in proposed §960.10 as set forth in the Bank's approved AHP implementation plan. Section 960.8(b) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank shall approve the applications in descending order starting with the highest scoring application until the total AHP funding amount for the particular funding cycle, except for any amount insufficient to fund the next highest scoring project, has been allocated. The Bank also may approve the next four highest scoring applications as alternates and, within one year of approval by the Bank, may fund such alternates if any previously committed AHP funds become available. 2. Threshold Criteria for Approval of AHP Applications Section 960.9 of the proposed rule provides that an AHP application must meet all of the threshold criteria set forth in a. through f. below in order to be considered for scoring under proposed §960.10 and for AHP funding approval. These criteria are discussed in detail below. a. Authorized and required uses requirements. The AHP application must indicate that the use of the subsidized advance or direct subsidy set forth in the AHP application for the proposed project will comply with the requirements for authorized and required uses of such funds contained in proposed §§960.3, 960.4 and 960.5. See proposed §960.9(a). This proposed provision is consistent with the intent of §960.5(a)(1) of the Board's existing AHP regulation. See 12 CFR 960.5(a)(1). b. Fair housing law requirements. The AHP application must indicate that the project sponsor will comply with any applicable fair housing law requirements and must indicate how the sponsor proposes to affirmatively further compliance with such requirements. See proposed §960.9(b).
