FR940429-0-00167 FR940429-0-00015 Calculation of Placement Rate. In response to public comment, the requirement in proposed ยง668.8(g)(1)(ii) that an institution exclude from the calculation of a placement rate students who are hired by the institution has been deleted from these regulations. In response to public comment, a change has been made to the placement rate calculation to clarify that every student must be employed for at least 13 weeks in a recognized occupation for which they were trained or in a related comparable occupation before that student can be counted as placed. The Secretary has amended ยง668.8 by revising paragraph (k) to remove the provision that an institution offering an undergraduate educational program measured in credit hours and at least two academic years in length is exempt from applying the formula contained in paragraph (l) to that program if the program provides an equivalent degree as determined by the Secretary, or if each course within the program is fully acceptable for credit toward that institution's equivalent degree. Paragraphs (k) and (l) were originally published in final regulations on July 23, 1993 (58 FR 39618). In those final regulations, the Secretary exempted from the requirements of the regulations, undergraduate educational programs that were at least two years in length and lead to an associate, bachelor's, professional, or an equivalent degree as determined by the Secretary or if each course within that program was fully acceptable for credit toward one of those degree programs at that institution. The Secretary believed that it was prudent to exempt programs that lead to an equivalent degree because there might be a type of degree being offered (not an associate, bachelor's, or professional degree) that the Secretary had not yet encountered. The Secretary wanted to be able to examine the degree to determine if that degree was in fact equivalent to an associate, bachelor's, or professional degree. If the Secretary determined that the degree was equivalent to an associate, bachelor's, or professional degree, and was at least two academic years in length, the Secretary would exempt from the regulations undergraduate educational programs that lead to the equivalent degree or if each course within the program was fully acceptable for credit toward that institution's equivalent degree. However, since publication of the final regulations on July 23, 1993, the Secretary has yet to encounter a degree that the Secretary would consider to be an equivalent of an associate, bachelor's, or professional degree. Conversely, dozens of institutions have submitted to the Secretary arguments that their diploma programs are the equivalent of an associate degree program. The regulations were never meant to permit a determination that a nondegree program be classified as the equivalent of a degree program. The regulations only applied to a determination of whether a degree resulting from an educational program is equivalent to an associate, bachelor's, or professional degree. Because the diploma programs are not in themselves degree programs, the Secretary does not consider those programs to lead to an equivalent degree. Because of this misconception by many institutions that ``equivalent degree'' means an educational program equivalent to a degree granting program, and because the Secretary has not yet found a true instance of an equivalent degree that is not an associate, bachelor's, or professional degree, the Secretary is removing the phrase ``equivalent degree as determined by the Secretary'' from paragraph (k).
