FR940207-2-00003 FR940207-2-00001 Black Kettle National Grasslands: National Grasslands in Roger Mills County, Oklahoma. Cheyenne Star , published weekly on Thursday in Cheyenne, Roger Mills County, Oklahoma. National Grasslands in Hemphill County, Texas. The Canadian Record, published weekly on Thursday in Canadian, Hemphill County, Texas. McClellan Creek National Grasslands: National Grasslands in Gray County, Texas. The Pampa News, published daily except Saturday, in Pampa, Gray County, Texas. Arizona National Forests Apache Sitgreaves National Forests Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions: The White Mountain Independent, published Tuesday and Thursday semi-weekly in Show Low, Navajo County, Arizona. Notice by District Ranger of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Alpine District: The White Mountain Independent, published Tuesday and Thursday semi-weekly in Show Low, Navajo County, Arizona. Chevelon District: The White Mountain Independent, published Tuesday and Thursday semi-weekly in Show Low, Navajo County, Arizona. Clifton District: Copper Era, published Wednesday weekly in Clifton, Greenlee County, Arizona. Heber District: The White Mountain Independent, published Tuesday and Thursday semi-weekly in Show Low, Navajo County, Arizona. Lakeside District: The White Mountain Independent, published Tuesday and Thursday semi-weekly in Show Low, Navajo County, Arizona. Springerville District: The White Mountain Independent, published Tuesday and Thursday semi-weekly in Show Low, Navajo County, Arizona. Coconino National Forest Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Notice by District Ranger of availability for Comment and Decisions: Beaver Creek District: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Blue Ridge District: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Peaks District: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Long Valley District: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Mormon Lake District: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Sedona District: Red Rock News, Published weekly Wednesday and Friday in Sedona, Coconino County, Arizona. Coronado National Forest Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions: The Arizona Daily Star, published daily, Monday-Sunday, in Tucson, Pima County, Arizona. Notice by District Ranger of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Douglas District: Daily Dispatch, published daily Tuesday-Friday, and Sunday in Douglas, Cochise County, Arizona. Nogales District: Nogales International, published weekly on Tuesday and Friday in Nogales, Santa Cruz County, Arizona. Sierra Vista District: Sierra Vista Herald, published daily Sunday-Friday, in Sierra Vista, Cochise County, Arizona. Safford District: Eastern Arizona Courier, published weekly on Wednesday, in Safford, Graham County, Arizona. Santa Catalina District: The Arizona Daily Star, published daily, Monday-Sunday, in Tucson, Pima County, Arizona. Kaibab National Forest Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Notice by District Ranger of Availability for Comment and Decisions:
