FR941116-0-00174 FR941116-0-00022 (d) The agreement shall provide that producers on the farm shall comply with the terms and conditions of any annual acreage reduction program in effect for each CAB on a farm contracted in IFM. (e) The agreement shall contain such other provisions as CCC determines appropriate to carry out the program established by this part. (f) The agreement shall provide for payment of liquidated damages and termination in the event that the operator or any other producers on the farm fail to comply with their obligations under the agreement. (g) Approved agreements expiring by the crop year 1995 may be renewed once, at the option of the producer, in the crop year that such agreement expires for a period of 3, 4, or 5 years. Such agreements expiring after the 1997-crop year are not renewable. (h) IFM agreements may be canceled by the producer before the end of the acreage reduction program signup period in the year the CCC&hyph;406 is signed. (i) If a producer enrolls into the conservation reserve program for the current program year, in accordance with part 1410 of this chapter: (1) The IFM agreement and the acreage reduction program agreement shall be canceled; (2) A new IFM agreement may be filed within 15 calendar days after the date of notification to the producer of the revised CAB's, and (3) Minimum required resource conservation crop acreage shall be recomputed using the effective CAB after the reduction of such CAB for participation in the conservation reserve program. ยง1414.12 Integrated farm management plan. (a) In implementing the provisions of this part, ASCS shall: (1) Provide the producer and SCS: (i) CAB information; and (ii) The minimum required resource-conserving crop acreage. (2) Provide the producer: (i) The annual acreage reduction program options relative to program planning decisions, and (ii) Assistance in evaluating acreage reduction program options in conjunction with the plan; (3) Provide SCS a copy of the producer's report of acreage; and (4) Provide SCS a copy of the farm's acreage reduction program agreement and IFM agreement approved by the county committee. (b) In implementing the provisions of this part, ES shall provide: (1) Assistance to the producer, as requested, in developing integrated pest management guidelines if they are part of the plan; (2) Assistance to the producer, as requested, in collecting and analyzing soil tests and in developing nutrient management guidelines if they are part of the plan; (3) Assistance to the producer, as requested, with farm management recordkeeping; and (4) Advice for maximizing the utilization of IFM to their farm operation. (c) In implementing the provisions of this part, SCS shall: (1) Develop the plan with the assistance of the producer; (2) Assemble the various components of the plan; and (3) Provide technical assistance to the producer for planning and implementing the conservation plan, erosion control, water management, and water quality components of the plan; (4) Spot check the plans to assure that the elements contained in the plan have been implemented and meet technical standards; and (5) Assist the producer in revising the plan to address changes in farm operations.
