FR940516-2-00057 FR940516-2-00044 (2) The extent to which the service delivery plan addresses the priority health problems of the new patients to be served; (3) The extent to which the proposed expansion plan is a reasonable and cost-effective solution to meet the projected demand; (4) The extent to which the budget is reasonable and appropriate and corresponds to the objective of the request for funds; (5) The extent to which the proposed facility is adequate and available to meet the projected demand of the target population; and (6) Whether the proposed expansion will result in new patients being served through a new service delivery site. The HRSA hopes to achieve a wide geographic dispersion of awards. Contingent upon the outcome of the review process, grant awards will be made in such a manner as to achieve a distribution of resources throughout the country. Special consideration will be given to applicants that received Section 330(c) planning grant funds in FY 1993 to assist in their development of a new CHC. Other Award Information: All grants to be awarded under this notice are subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, as implemented by 45 CFR part 100, which allows States the option of setting up a system for reviewing applications from within their States for assistance under certain Federal programs. The application kit will contain a listing of States which have chosen to set up a review system and will identify a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in each State for the review. Applicants (other than federally-recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC of each affected State. State process recommendations should be submitted to the appropriate Regional Office (see Appendix). The due date for State process recommendations is 60 days after the appropriate application deadline date. The Bureau of Primary Health Care does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its response to State process recommendations received after this date. Public Health System Reporting Requirement: These programs are subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirement, PHS Circular 92.01. Reporting requirements have been approved by the OMB_0937&hyph;0195. Under this requirement, the community-based nongovernmental applicant must prepare and submit a Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS). The PHSIS is intended to provide information to State and local health officials to keep them apprised of proposed health services grant applications submitted by community-based nongovernmental organizations within their jurisdictions. Community-based nongovernmental applicants are required to submit the following information to the head of the appropriate State and local health agencies in the area(s) to be impacted no later than the Federal application receipt due date: (1) a copy of the face page of the application (SF 424); and (2) a summary of the project (PHSIS), not to exceed one page, which provides a description of the population to be served, a summary of the services to be provided and a description of the coordination planned with the appropriate State or local health agencies. In the OMB Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, the number for the Community Health Center program is listed as 93.224 Dated: March 28, 1994. John H. Kelso Acting Administrator
