FR940516-1-00006 FR940516-1-00001 In Interpretative Letter No. 92&hyph;9, 19 the Division permitted a CPO to use a two-part disclosure document for a commodity pool provided, among other things, that both parts of the disclosure document were delivered at the same time and that the first part of the document contained all of the disclosures required by Rule 4.21 except for the disclosures required by Rule 4.21(a)(5) with respect to the performance records of the pool's CTAs, which were required to be included in the second part. By Advisory 27&hyph;92 (June 3, 1992), the Division gave notice that it had no objection to the use of a two-part disclosure document of the nature described above by other CPOs, subject to the conditions set forth in the foregoing letter. 19 (1990&hyph;1992 Transfer Binder), Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶25,300 (June 1, 1992). In reviewing CPO disclosure documents, Division staff has addressed fund-of-funds structures by requiring that certain disclosures be made with respect to investee pools but limiting these disclosures with respect to investee pools allocated less than twenty-five percent of the assets of the pool offered. 20 The Division has also issued interpretative statements and advisories giving guidance with respect to the presentation of past performance in disclosure documents. 21 20 Staff comment letters have stated that pool disclosure documents should provide all information required by Rule 4.21 for each investee pool, ``generally at the same level of detail as though the investee pool were providing its own separate disclosure document,'' but that reduced disclosures were appropriate where less than twenty-five percent of the assets of the pool offered is invested in the investee pool. Moreover, the staff indicated that it is always willing to address specific requests for relief and has done so in appropriate circumstances. 21 See, e.g ., CFTC Advisory 87&hyph;2, (1986&hyph;1987 Transfer Binder) Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶23,624 (June 2, 1987), defining the term ``beginning net asset value'' for purposes of computing rate of return; CFTC Advisory dated February 27, 1991 (1990&hyph;1992 Transfer Binder) Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶25,005, permitting CPOs and CTAs to use alternative rate of return computation methods to more accurately reflect the return on funds available for trading during the period; and CFTC Advisory 93&hyph;13, (Current Transfer Binder) Comm. Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶25,554 (February 12, 1993), permitting the use of an alternative method for computing CTAs' rates of return. The use of this method may result in fewer and simplified performance tables. In developing this proposal, the Commission has taken into account its experience in administering the current regulatory framework, reviewing disclosure documents and responding to requests for relief from registrants. The Commission has also taken into consideration the evolution of the industry, the views of the public and of market participants and the disclosure implications of recently developed trading structures. The Commission also has had the benefit of the work of a Special Committee for the Review of CPO/CTA Disclosure Issues established by the National Futures Association (``NFA'') 22 to review and make recommendations concerning CPO and CTA disclosure documents. The Special Committee's recommendations were presented to NFA's Board of Directors in February 1994. On March 15, 1994, the NFA submitted to the Commission proposed amendments to, and interpretations of, its Compliance Rules which were based upon the Special Committee's recommendations. NFA's rule submission consists of several parts. Proposed revisions of NFA Compliance Rule 2&hyph;13(a) would require CPOs to comply, not only with specified Commission rules applicable to CPOs' and CTAs' activities and disclosures, but also with interpretations of those rules issued by NFA's Board of Directors and approved by the Commission. Separately, new paragraph (b) would be added to Compliance Rule 2&hyph;13 to require CPO disclosure documents to include a ``break-even'' analysis, i.e. , a computation of the trading profit that a pool must realize in its first year for a participant to recoup its initial investment, presented in the manner prescribed by the NFA's Board of Directors, including a tabular presentation of fees and expenses. NFA is also proposing interpretations of proposed Compliance Rule 2&hyph;13 relating to disclosure of past performance information, the computation and presentation of the break-even analysis, the use of pro forma and extracted results in past performance presentations and other topics addressed by this proposal, including the disclosure of business backgrounds of CPO and CTA principals, material litigation against FCMs and other past performance issues. In addition, NFA is proposing to replace paragraph (b)(4) of NFA Rule 2&hyph;29 with a new, more detailed, paragraph (c) concerning the use of hypothetical trading results. References to the NFA proposal are made in appropriate sections of this release. 23 Certain portions of that proposal are being published for comment contemporaneously with this release. The NFA submission is available from the Commission's Office of the Secretariat. 22 NFA is presently the only futures association registered with the Commission pursuant to section 17 of the Act. It has responsibilities with respect to, among others things, oversight of sales practices, including the use of promotional material. 23 The NFA submission also includes proposed new Compliance Rule 2&hyph;34 which would govern the use of non-fully funded accounts. This part of NFA's submission has been remitted by the Commission to NFA for further explanation and supporting material. The Commission is exploring possible mechanisms for addressing CPO and CTA disclosure issues with the benefit of industry and other external input on an ongoing basis.
