FR941222-1-00066 FR941222-1-00008 Discussion Based on response data from the RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire, the 1991 volume reported by the industry for wastewaters from anthraquinone dye and pigment production was 3,988,166 metric tons, or approximately 2.9 million gallons per day, generated at 25 facilities. Most of the wastewater currently is treated and discharged to a surface water under the NPDES system; the remainder is discharged to a POTW (with 5% pretreated prior to discharge). Additional information on volumes and waste managment is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. Of the 25 facilities that generate this waste, the Agency collected a total of seven samples from the four largest contributors to the wastestream and from one small contributor. Information relevant to this discussion is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. As stated above, several compounds used in anthraquinone dye and pigment operations were expected to be present in the waste, based on facility production schedules, and were not detected. In addition, only one compound attributable to anthraquinone dye and pigment production was detected in the waste (refer to the Background Document for this rulemaking located in the RCRA Docket for this rule (see ADDRESSES section) for the methodology used in identifying contaminants attributable to a process). This compound, 3-aminoacetanilide, was present in five of the seven samples collected, at an average concentration of 0.15 ppm. However, health effects information needed to assess the risk posed by this constituent does not currently exist. In order to estimate the potential risk from 3-aminoacetanilide, the Agency performed a risk assessment using methylenephenylenediamine as a surrogate compound. The Agency selected a surrogate compound that is structurally similar to the compound detected in the waste ( i.e. , 3-aminoacetanilide), and is estimated, by means of structural activity relationships (SARs), to be more toxic than the subject compound. This assessment produced a groundwater concentration, prior to dilution and attenuation, of 1.5 times the HBL. Thus, the concentration at the receptor well, following dilution and attenuation, would be expected to be less than the HBL. More detailed discussions on the risk assessment screening and surrogate compounds are presented in Section II.D of this preamble, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, and the Listing Background Document for this proposed rule, which is located in the RCRA Docket for this rulemaking (see ADDRESSES section). In conclusion, because the one compound attributable to anthraquinone dye or pigment production detected in this waste is present in low concentrations, does not have health data needed to assess risk, and does not indicate a risk using surrogate toxicity data, the Agency is proposing not to list wastewaters from the manufacture of anthraquinone dyes and pigments as hazardous. 6.Wastewaters from the production of FD&C colorants. Summary EPA is proposing not to list wastewaters from the production of FD&C colorants as hazardous wastes. This wastestream is not considered to pose significant risks to human health and the environment, based on the analysis of samples of the waste. Only three constituents attributable to FD&C colorant processes were detected in the waste, and these do not present a risk at the concentrations observed. Discussion Based on the 1991 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire data, the volume reported by the industry for the wastewater stream from FD&C colorant production is 3,557,563 metric tons per year, or 2.6 million gallons per day. Information on the percentage of these wastewaters that are currently pretreated and discharged to a POTW and other waste management information relevant to this discussion is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. The Agency collected three samples of wastewaters generated from FD&C operations and did not find any hazardous constituents present at concentrations that pose a risk above EPA's initial risk ``level of concern'' ( i.e. , 1E&hyph;5 for carcinogens, and HQ of 1 or greater). The Agency believes that the samples of wastewaters from the manufacture of FD&C colorants are representative of the industry. In fact, wastewater samples were collected from the two largest-volume FD&C colorant producers in the country, in addition to one smaller manufacturer. Several of the raw materials used in the manufacture of FD&C colorants were dropped from the Agency's target analyte list for analysis of dye and pigment wastes because the few existing health studies on these compounds indicate that the compounds are non-toxic. In addition, many of the raw materials used in the manufacture of FD&C colorants are compounds that contain sulfonic acid functional groups, for which analytical methods do not exist. Examples of FD&C raw materials dropped from the target analyte list for these reasons include p -toluidine- m -sulfonic acid, and sulfanilic acid. The sulfonic acid functional group imparts water solubility to a compound, which generally results in lower toxicity. However, several of these materials may pose a risk when present in the wastestream without the sulfonic acid functional group. For example, without sulfonic acid functional groups, the two compounds listed above ( p -toluidine- m -sulfonic acid and sulfanilic acid) are represented by p -toluidine, and aniline, respectively. In these cases, the precursors to the FD&C reactants ( i.e. , prior to sulfonation) remained as target analytes even when the sulfonated compounds were not on the list. Information relevant to this discussion is not included due to business confidentiality concerns. (Refer to the Dye and Pigment Listing Background Document, located in the RCRA Docket for this proposed rulemaking (see ADDRESSES section), for details on the development of the target analyte list.)
