FR940216-0-00127 FR940216-0-00010 EPA acknowledges that carriers may operate on the instructions of the product owner. In fact, several commenters suggested that carriers are obligated to not deviate from the owner's instructions regardless of whether those instructions are consistent with the reformulated gasoline rules. However, the Interstate Commerce Commission 62 has advised EPA that carriers are not obligated to store or transport gasoline in a manner that violates applicable laws. The ICC view of carrier obligation allows carriers to self-determine which loads they will store or carry. The ICC also observed that a carrier's obligation to accept tenders is superseded by an obligation to comply with applicable law, including regulations that implement the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Accordingly, carriers are not placed in an untenable position by refusing to store or transport gasoline that does not comply with the reformulated gasoline requirements. 62 Per telephone conversation with Charles Wagner, Deputy Director, Operations and Enforcement Section, Office of Compliance and Consumer Assistance, Interstate Commerce Commission. c. Carriers acting as refiners or oxygenate blenders. The final rule provides for a presumption of liability for violations found downstream of a refinery or oxygenate blending facility for all persons who meet the definition of refiner or oxygenate blender, including carriers who meet this definition. 63 63 Liabilities and defenses for refiners and oxygenate blenders are discussed generally in the section on refiners and oxygenate blenders above. A presumption of liability is necessary in the case of a carrier acting as a refiner or oxygenate blender because in both cases the carrier plays a significant role in the actions that establish or change the quality of reformulated gasoline. For example, the practice of splash-blending oxygenates and gasoline in gasoline delivery trucks is a common form of gasoline blending, and the trucks used for splash blending often are operated by truck carriers. Frequently, the carrier truck driver directly controls the volumes of gasoline blendstock and oxygenate that are combined in the truck. In consequence, the carrier is directly responsible for the quality of the finished gasoline in such a splash-blending operation. Commenters observed that in other fuel regulatory programs, carriers acting as refiners or oxygenate blenders are specifically excepted from presumptive liability for violations determined at facilities downstream from the refinery or oxygenate blending facility. This is not accurate. Carriers who meet the refiner or oxygenate blender definition are treated the same under the reformulated gasoline regulations as under other motor vehicle fuel programs. The definition of a ``refiner'' is consistent throughout EPA's fuel regulatory programs, and in all these programs a carrier who meets the refiner definition is subject to the same liability as any other person who meets the refiner definition. Oxygenate blenders are simply a sub-category of refiners who produce gasoline only by oxygenate blending. As a result, carriers acting as oxygenate blenders are regulated consistently with any other oxygenate blender under the program. Carrier-commenters argued that the owner of the gasoline and oxygenate used in an oxygenate blending operation should be responsible for meeting the requirements for sampling and testing, compliance record keeping, reporting and auditing, because only the owner can remedy violations. For the reasons discussed in the refiner and oxygenate blender section of this preamble, EPA has determined that each person who meets the oxygenate blender definition is individually responsible for ensuring that the requirements that attach to an oxygenate blending operation are met. However, as discussed above, carrier-oxygenate blenders and product owner-oxygenate blenders may reach agreements on the allocation of responsibilities for meeting the oxygenate blending requirements within the scope of EPA's enforcement discretion.
