FR941216-2-00030 FR941216-2-00019 Procurement List Additions AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Additions to the Procurement List. SUMMARY: This action adds to the Procurement List tree marking paint and tracer element to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 17, 1995. ADDRESSES: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, Suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On September 2, 1994, the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled published notice (59 FR 45666) of proposed addition to the Procurement List. Comments were received from six members of Congress, the current contractor, two other firms that regularly bid on the items, an association representing paint manufacturers, and several past and present representatives of the Federal agency that is the primary user of the tree marking paints. Several commenters raised questions about the capability of the nonprofit agency to provide the tree marking paints in accordance with the Government's quality, quantity, and delivery requirements, including the possibility of negative effects on the Federal timber management program. They also challenged the nonprofit agency's ability to continue the ongoing product development efforts that are critical to providing the customer with a paint that is as effective and safe as possible. They noted that such development has been facilitated by the competition among paint firms to obtain future contracts: competition that would no longer exist if the paints were added to the Procurement List. Several other points made by more than one commenter related to potential problems associated with the lack of continuing competition if the tree marking paints were added to the Procurement List for future provision by only one organization and its preferred supplier(s). The problems cited include the inability of the Government to continue to realize decreasing prices for the paints; the absence of backup capability to supply the paints in the event the nonprofit agency fails to perform; and adverse impacts on the three firms that have invested significant resources in developing and maintaining the capacity to furnish the paints. Several commenters suggested that in light of these concerns, only a portion of the tree marking paints required by the Government should be added to the Procurement List. With respect to the capability of the nonprofit agency to provide the tree marking paints in accordance with Governmental requirements, both the central nonprofit agency representing the nonprofit agency in question and the Government agency which purchases the paints have inspected the nonprofit agency. Both have informed the Committee that they consider the nonprofit agency capable of supplying the paints in accordance with Governmental quality, quantity, and delivery requirements. The customer has also certified that the nonprofit agency's tree marking paints meet its Qualified Products List requirements. In regard to the other points, the Committee is satisfied that the approach to be used by the nonprofit agency in supplying the paints will avoid the problems raised by the commenters, and has concluded that splitting the requirement would be inappropriate. The nonprofit agency's approach will permit current and past contractors for the paints, as well as other suppliers with expertise in paint formulation, to compete annually to supply the nonprofit agency with the paints or base concentrates that constitute the major part of the end product furnished to the Government. The opportunity for continued substantial involvement_on a competitive basis_in supplying the paints should provide ample incentive for profit-making paint contractors to participate in future development efforts associated with these particular paints. The Committee is also persuaded that the nonprofit agency will be able to support ongoing product development efforts because of its track record in working with paint firms to upgrade and reformulate other paints being supplied to the Government under the JWOD Program. In addition, in the unlikely event that none of the three commenting paint firms decides to compete to supply the paint, the nonprofit agency has promised to work with another firm (or firms) to develop a different Qualified Products List tree marking paint. This will assure that the incentive to continue improving the product to achieve a competitive advantage remains. Continuing competition among qualified firms to supply the paints will also provide the opportunity for further price reductions as a result of competition. If such competition produces reductions in the price of the paints or concentrates, the Committee's fair market pricing system will pass along those reductions to the Government. With respect to backup capability, the continued involvement of the three paint firms which commented in supplying materials for the tree marking paints in question, as well as tree marking paint sales by at least one of those firms to other markets support a conclusion that they could assume responsibility for furnishing the product if the nonprofit agency experienced problems. Moreover, the nonprofit agency has provided information demonstrating backup capability using one of its other facilities as well as commercial aerosol packagers. In considering impact on the three commenting paint firms of adding the tree marking paints to the Procurement List, the Committee noted that each will retain the opportunity to compete to supply a substantial component of the end product. Consequently, any potential impact on those suppliers of placing the tree marking paints on the Procurement List is significantly less than would be the case if they had no sales prospects associated with the paints. However, even in the absence of the opportunity to compete, none of the commenting firms will in the Committee's judgment experience severe adverse impact as a result of the addition of the paints to the Procurement List.
