FR941216-0-00019 FR941216-0-00007 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 100 [CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;009] RIN 2115&hyph;AE46 Special Local Regulations; Citizen Cup Defender Selection Series and Louis Vuitton Cup Challenger Selection Series; San Diego Bay and Mission Bay, CA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule with request for comments. SUMMARY: Temporary special local regulations are being adopted for those portions of the International America's Cup Class (IACC) Citizen Cup Defender Selection Series and the Louis Vuitton Cup Challenger Selection Series that are being conducted in the waters of the Pacific Ocean adjacent to San Diego Bay and Mission Bay on the following dates: January 12, 1995 through January 22, 1995; January 29, 1995 through February 11, 1995; February 14, 1995 through February 27, 1995; and March 2, 1995 through March 12, 1995, inclusive. These regulations are necessary to provide for the safety of life, property, and navigation on the navigable waters of the United States during the scheduled events. DATES: These regulations become effective at 10 a.m. PST on January 12, 1995 and terminate at 7 p.m. PST on March 12, 1995 unless canceled earlier by the District Commander. Comments must be received by January 11, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Lieutenant Cam Lewis, USCG America's Cup Patrol, Naval Training Center, Building 302, San Diego, California 92133&hyph;5000, Attn: CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;009 or may be delivered to the same address between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. The Eleventh Coast Guard District Commander maintains the public docket for this rulemaking. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection or copying at the Eleventh Coast Guard District Office, Operations Division, 501 West Ocean Boulevard, Suite 6200, Long Beach, California 90822&hyph;5399. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant Cam Lewis, America's Cup Patrol, telephone number (619) 557&hyph;2920. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking was not published for this regulation and it is being made effective in less than 30 days after Federal Register publication. Publishing a notice of proposed rulemaking and delaying the effective date of this regulation would be contrary to the public interest since the event is expected to result in a high concentration of spectator and participant vessels, and the actual stipulations of the special local regulations were not finalized in time for publication more than 30 days prior to the start of the event. Although this regulation is published as a final rule without prior notice, an opportunity for public comment is nevertheless desirable to ensure the regulation is both reasonable and workable. Accordingly, persons wishing to comment may do so by submitting written comments to the office listed under ADDRESSES in this preamble. Those providing comments should identify the docket number (CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;009) for the regulation and also include their name, address and reason(s) for each comment presented. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. Based upon the comments received, the scope of the regulation may be changed. Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Lieutenant Cam Lewis, Project Officer for the Patrol Commander, and Lieutenant Commander Craig Juckniess, Project Attorney, Eleventh Coast Guard District Legal Office. Discussion of Regulation The event prompting a need for these Special Local Regulations is the International America's Cup Class (IACC) Citizen Cup Defender Selection Series and the Louis Vuitton Cup Challenger Selection Series which will be conducted in the San Diego area on several series of dates during the period January through mid-March 1995. In addition, races in the Citizen Cup Defender Semi-Final and Final Series, the Louis Vuitton Cup Challenger Semi-Final and Final Series, and the America's Cup Match Races will be held on several series of dates during the period mid-March through May 1995. Special Local Regulations establishing measures promoting the safety of these races are the subject of separate rulemaking (CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;010); as these regulations contain different vessel operating restrictions, publishing a separate set of regulations for the latter period will help reduce confusion to the public. These regulations are intended to promote safe navigation on the waters of San Diego Bay, Mission Bay and the IACC race venue during the Citizen Cup and Louis Vuitton Cup by controlling the traffic entering, exiting, and traveling within these waters. The anticipated concentration of spectator and participant vessels associated with these races poses a safety concern, which is addressed in these special local regulations. Within the geographic area of applicability of these special local regulations, speed limits and operating requirements have been established for orderly passage to and from San Diego Bay and the race venue. Speed limits and operating requirements are also established for other vessel traffic operating within the regulated areas during times when most IACC and spectator vessels are expected to transit the harbors. On each specified race date, these regulations will be in effect in San Diego Bay and Mission Bay during two periods: between the hours of 10 a.m. and 12 noon; and again in the afternoon for a two-hour period which will fall between 2:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. Selection of the afternoon regulatory period will depend on the time of termination of race activities for that date. Notice of commencement and termination of the afternoon regulatory period will be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners; a 15-minute advance notice of commencement of the afternoon regulatory period will also be broadcast. The nature of the winner selection process and other circumstances may dictate that races will not actually be conducted on dates specified as race dates. In the event of cancellation or postponement of races scheduled for a particular date, the Patrol Commander's election not to implement these regulations on that date will be announced via Broadcast Notice to Mariners. The regulations also provide for a one-way traffic pattern and/or a five knot speed limit. These requirements will be activated by the Patrol Commander when necessary to ensure the safety of navigation. In addition, sailing vessels may be restricted to operating under auxiliary power or under tow, and motor-sailing with mainsail only. Activation of these additional regulations will be announced by patrol vessels on scene and by Broadcast Notice to Mariners.
