FR940725-1-00023 FR940725-1-00005 15. The Commission previously examined whether to limit various joint ventures in the context of our broadcast ownership rules. In that context, the Commission examined joint advertising sales, shared technical facilities, and joint programming arrangements (or ``time brokerage''). We noted that such joint ventures are not precluded by any Commission rule or policy so long as the Commission's ownership rules are not violated and the participating licensees maintain ultimate control over their facilities. The Commission did not impose any additional restrictions on operational joint venture arrangements, but noted that all broadcast licensees are subject to compliance with the antitrust laws and maintenance of editorial control. The Commission, however, did limit time brokerage arrangements in the same local market so that: Where an individual or entity owns or has an attributable interest in one or more stations in a market, time brokerage of any other station in that market form more than 15 percent of the brokered station's broadcast hours per week will result in counting the brokered station toward the brokering licensee's permissible ownership totals under the revised local ownership rules. 16. As explained in Radio Ownership Rules, our rules or policies do not prohibit joint marketing ventures so long as a licensee maintains de facto control over the licensed facilities and complies with the antitrust laws. In the context of CMRS or PCS joint ventures, we need not concern ourselves with programming diversity because CMRS providers are, by definition, common carriers and have no control over content. We believe that there may be benefits to consumers from these joint marketing ventures. We are concerned, however, that such arrangements may provide competitors access to information, or have other anticompetitive effects, that could impede vigorous competition. Therefore, commenters should address whether a licensee who enters into a joint marketing venture with one or more licensee whose geographic market area have an overlap of 10 percent of the population should have the interest of the other joint venture licensees attributed to it for purposes of the PCS aggregations limits, the cellular-PCS cost-ownership rules, or a general CMRS spectrum cap. In addition, if the Commission finds such arrangements to be attributable interests, commenters should address whether we should adopt different rules relating to designated entities. C. Procedural Matters A. Ex Parte Rules_Non-Restricted Proceeding 17. This is a non-restricted notice and comment rule making proceeding. Ex parte presentations are permitted except during the Sunshine Agenda period, provided that they are disclosed as provided in the Commission's rules. See generally 47 CFR §§1.1202, 1.1203, 1.1206(a) B. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 18. As required by Section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. §601 et seq. (1981), the Commission has prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) of the expected impact of the policies and rules proposed in this Further Notice on small entities. The IFRA is contained in Appendix A to this Further Notice . The Acting Secretary shall cause a copy of this Further Notice , including the IRFA, to be sent to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration in accordance with Section 603(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. C. Comment Period 19. Interested persons may file comments in this proceeding on or before August 9, 1994, and reply comments on or before August 19, 1994. For filing requirements, see generally 47 CFR §§1.415, 1.419. To file formally in this proceeding, participants must file an original and four copies of all comments, reply comments, and supporting materials. If you want each Commissioner to receive a personal copy of your comments, you must file an original and nine copies. Send comments and reply comments to the Office of the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. In addition, commenters are requested to submit courtesy copies to the Chief, Mobile Services Division, Common Carrier Bureau, 1919 M Street, NW., room 644, Washington, DC 20554, and to the Deputy Chief, Land Mobile and Microwave Division, Private Radio Bureau, 2025 M Street, NW., room 5202, Washington, DC 20554. Comments and reply comments will be available for public inspection during regular business hours in the FCC Reference Center (room 239) at the Commission's headquarters at 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20554. D. Further Information 20. For further information regarding this Further Notice, contact Greg Rosston at (202) 418&hyph;2030 (Office of Plans and Policy) or Leila Brown at (202) 418&hyph;1300 (Common Carrier Bureau, Mobile Services Division). Initial Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis As required by Section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Commission has prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) of the expected impact of these proposed policies and rules on small entities. Written public comments are requested on the IRFA. A. Reason for Action This rule making proceeding was initiated to seek comment with regard to whether management agreements and resale arrangements should be treated as attributable interests for purposes of application of the Commission's rules relating to (1) the personal communications service (PCS) spectrum aggregation cap; (2) the PCS-cellular cross-owner-ship restrictions; (3) any overall commercial mobile radio service (CMRS) spectrum aggregation cap the Commission may establish in this docket; and (4) control of a designated entity. B. Objectives
