FR940317-1-00094 FR940317-1-00013 (2) In a case where litigation is likely, or where this course of action is preferred by the claimant, and it appears to be a proper case for administrative settlement, the claimant will be advised as to the advantages of administrative settlement. If the claim is within the jurisdiction of a higher settlement authority, the claim will be discussed with such authority prior to the furnishing of such advice. The claimant should be familiarized with all aspects of administrative settlement procedures including the administrative channels through which the claim must be processed for approval. He or she may be advised that administrative processing can result in more expeditious processing, whereas litigation may take considerable time, particularly in jurisdictions with crowded dockets. (3) If appropriate, the claimant may be informed that a tentative settlement can be reached for any amount, but that awards in excess of $200,000 are subject to approval by the Attorney General. The claimant should be advised that administrative filing of the claim protects him or her under the statute of limitations for purpose of litigation and that a suit can be filed within 6 months after the date of mailing of notice of final denial by the DA, thus potentially allowing negotiations to continue indefinitely. An attorney representing a claimant should be advised of the limitations on fees for purposes of administrative settlement (20 percent) and litigation (25 percent) and that there is no jury trial under the FTCA. (i) Notification to claimant of action on claim. (1) The filing of an administrative claim and its denial are prerequisite to filing suit. Any suit must be filed not later than 6 months after notification by certified or registered mail of the denial of the administrative claim. Failure of a settlement authority to take final action on a properly filed claim within 6 months may be treated by the claimant as a final denial for the purposes of filing suit. If the claimant has provided insufficient documentation to permit evaluation of the claim, written notice should be given to this effect. Since administrative settlements are a voluntary process, the preferred method of negotiating is to attempt to exchange information on an open basis. (2) Upon final denial of a claim, or upon rejection by claimant of a partial allowance, if further efforts to reach a settlement are not considered feasible (ยง536.21(b)(1)), the settlement authority will inform the claimant of the action on his or her claim by certified or registered mail. Notification will be made as set forth in ยง536.37(b). A copy of this notification will be furnished to Litigation Division, OTJAG, and the Commander, USARCS. In all medical malpractice cases, a copy will be furnished to the Consultation Case Review Branch (CCRB), Office of the Surgeon Command and the SJA, Health Services Command. (3) If a claim has been presented to the DA and, also, to other Federal agencies, without any notification to the DA of this fact, final action taken by the DA prior to that of any other agency is conclusive on a claim presented to other agencies unless another agency decides to take further action to settle the claim. Such agency may treat the matter as a reconsideration under 28 CFR 14.9(b) unless suit has been filed. (See ยง536.82.) The foregoing applies likewise to Army claims in which another Federal Agency has taken final action. (4) If, after final denial by another agency, a claim is filed with the Army, the new submission will not toll the 6 months limitation for filing suit unless the DA treats the second submission as a request for reconsideration under ยง536.82.
