FR941230-2-00134 FR941230-2-00072 Prospective applicants should obtain a copy of OJJDP's Comprehensive Strategy for Serious, Violent, and Chronic Juvenile Offenders and the strategy implementation materials that provide a base for implementing this initiative. These materials identify promising programs in each of the strategy areas, suggest effective assessment tools, and guide implementation at the community level for a continuum of care model. Copies will be available from OJJDP in March 1995. Sites funded under this initiative would be expected to address the needs of at-risk children of all ages, with particular attention to delinquent youth. Sites will be eligible for program development, training, and technical assistance from a variety of OJJDP resources to assist their program implementation efforts, including their efforts to coordinate and maintain a multidisciplinary community team (including law enforcement) that will oversee program implementation. Evaluation Sites would be expected to demonstrate a strong capacity for data collection and analysis in order to support a required and stringent evaluation component addressing both process and outcome measures. Partnerships will also be encouraged with academic institutions to enhance evaluation efforts. Coordination OJJDP would coordinate this program with: •Other Federal agencies including the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Education, Labor, Health and Human Services, the Corporation for National and Community Service, and the Office of National Drug Control Policy. •The business and foundation sectors. Sites would be expected to have completed a needs assessment, including strengths and weaknesses of their service delivery system; a problem statement; and a vision statement. Applicants would also be expected to demonstrate how they have linked their activities with other Federal, State, local, national, and community foundations, and private-sector programs, particularly ongoing programs such as the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Empowerment Zones/Enterprise Communities and Hope Six, the Department of Health and Human Services' Family Preservation and Support Services, the Department of Education's Drug Free and Safe Schools, the Department of Labor's Youth Fair Chance, and the Department of Justice's Operation Weed and Seed, PACT, Community Oriented Policing Services, Boot Camps, Drug Courts, Comprehensive Communities, and the U.S. Attorneys' antiviolence strategies. Prospective applicants would be asked to submit a pre-application concept paper. Based on OJJDP's review of these papers, those best demonstrating an ability to qualify for funding would be invited to compete for selection as a Safe Futures Program site. In their pre-application concept paper, jurisdictions would be asked to provide documentation of existing legislation, executive orders, memoranda of understanding, and other formal commitments of bona fide partnership (e.g., collapsed funding streams, wrap-around services, multiservice centers, and procedures for service coordination). Preference would be given to jurisdictions that demonstrate the ability to provide matching assistance from government, corporate or local businesses, civic organizations and foundations and that demonstrate a concerted effort to link public safety improvements, economic development initiatives, and the Safe Futures Program. Communities that demonstrate commitments from funding sources will receive a point preference under the evaluation criteria established for the award of funds under this program. A prospective applicant developing a Safe Futures program application would be encouraged to secure outside resources to support the establishment of a continuum of care, including other government, business, foundation, and other private funds. This program will be funded for a 5-year project period. First year funding would be up to $1.4 million per site. Evaluation of the Safe Futures: Partnerships to Reduce Youth Violence and Delinquency Program_$150,000 OJJDP proposes to fund five communities (three urban, one rural, and one Native American) under the Safe Futures: Partnerships to Reduce Youth Violence and Delinquency Program. This program would provide a range of coordinated services to meet the needs of at-risk youth and families and juveniles in the juvenile justice system. This program will also serve to strengthen the juvenile justice system; and develop the ongoing sustainability of service collaboration within the jurisdiction.
