FR940128-2-00224 FR940128-2-00143 DEPARTMENT OF STATE [Public Notice 1939] Privacy Act of 1974; Altered System of Records Notice is hereby given that the Department of State proposes to alter an existing system of records, STATE&hyph;51, pursuant to the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a(r)) and the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A&hyph;130, Appendix I. The Department's report was filed with the Office of Management and Budget on January 14, 1994. It is proposed that the current system ``Classification/Declassification Center Part-Time Employee Records'' be renamed ``Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review WAE Re-employed Annuitants and Contractor Records, STATE&hyph;51.'' Also proposed are revisions and/or additions to the classification, the categories of individuals and records covered by the system, authority for maintenance, routine uses, retrievability, safeguards, retention and disposal, system manager, notification procedure, record access and amendment procedures, and record source categories. These changes to the existing system description are proposed in order to reflect more accurately the Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review's enhanced record-keeping system and a reorganization of its activities and operations. Any persons interested in commenting on the altered system of records may do so by submitting comments in writing to Margaret P. Grafeld, Chief, Privacy, Plans and Appeals Division, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review, Room 1239, Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239. This system of records will be effective forty days from the date of publication (March 9, 1994), unless we receive comments which will result in a contrary determination. The ``Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review WAE Re-employed Annuitants and Contractor Records, STATE&hyph;51,'' will read as set forth below. Dated: January 14, 1994. Patrick F. Kennedy, Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Administration. STATE&hyph;51 System name: Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review WAE Re-employed Annuitants and Contractor Records. Security classification: Unclassified. System location: Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW, Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Retired Foreign Service and Civil Service officers and contract employees who serve as re-employed annuitants or contractors, and those eligible for such re-employment, but whose assignments/contracts are pending with the Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review. Categories of records in the system: Manual files, maintained by name of re-employed annuitant, prospective employee or contractor, contain administrative information, such as, full name, home address, home telephone number, bureau endorsements, results of pre-employment panel meetings, annual work schedule preferences, annual work schedules, Social Security Number, date of birth, date and period of appointment, position title and number, and salary at time of retirement. Computer records, maintained primarily by name of the annuitant, include information of area (bureau) specialties, agency from which annuitant retired, approximate number of days that annuitant can work each year, assignment by division, hours worked by pay period, hourly pay rate, grade, and hours worked on special projects or in areas outside of the assigned division. Computer records are also maintained by Freedom of Information Act, Privacy Act and Executive Order request case number which includes information on specific cases assigned to annuitants showing case number, type and size of case, and dates the case was assigned and completed. Authority for maintenance of the system: 22 U.S.C. 2658 (Rules and Regulations; Promulgation by Secretary; Delegation of Authority); 22 U.S.C. 3921 (Secretary of State). Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information in this system is used for scheduling the work of re-employed annuitants and contractors, monitoring and controlling expenditures, tracking and controlling cases, and for accountability and payment of contractors. The information is used primarily by the staff of the Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review; however, some information concerning hours worked and salary costs of annuitants is provided on a need-to-know basis to support other offices when requested. Also see ``Routine Uses'' paragraphs of Prefatory Statement published in the Federal Register (42 FR 49699, September 27, 1977).
