FR941206-1-00103 FR941206-1-00008 1. Paints As-Supplied by the Manufacturer Since the Agency began its program to reduce emissions of volatile organics in the late 1970's, the coating industry has made significant progress in research of new products with increased solids: organic solvent ratios. These liquid paints are of two primary types: waterborne and higher solids. Although many new waterborne products have been developed, manufacturers of marine coatings have reduced solvent primarily by increasing the solids (nonvolatile) content of their products. Use of these concentrated or ``higher solids'' coatings reduce solvent emissions per surface area painted (at same film thickness). Because most hazardous air pollutants are also volatile organics, the VOC program has tended to also reduce HAP. In addition, some coating manufacturers have reportedly been able to reduce the HAP content of certain paints by merely substituting a solvent not on the HAP list yielding paints that contain little or no HAP solvents. A coating reformulated in this manner may have the same or even higher VOC content than the one it replaces. In some cases, the HAP to VOC ratio may even increase when a company develops a new reformulation with lower VOC. (Note, the absolute HAP emissions are likely to go down.) 2. Paints As-Applied by the Shipyard There are several alternatives a shipyard may follow to minimize HAP emissions from as-applied paints. One is to avoid diluting the paint and apply it as-supplied. Another is to only use thinners that contain little or no HAP. A third is to reduce paint viscosity by heating the paint to avoid or minimize the need for thinning. (Paint heaters are heating elements placed in the paint delivery line upstream of the spray gun. Depending on the length of the delivery line, the coating characteristics, and ambient temperature, multiple paint heaters may be required at intervals along the line. These decrease the ease of portability and flexibility of the application system.) ``Add-on'' pollution control systems are often used to control emissions from spray booths when coatings are applied in factory operations. Such systems are not now a practical alternative for many shipyard operations because the size of ship components is too large to enable capturing of the emissions with an enclosure. (There is currently under development a mobile enclosure that, if successful, will offer shipyards a method of capturing both particulate and volatile organics. Metro Machine shipyard in Norfolk, Virginia has developed a prototype portable enclosure that mounts adjacent to the ship and supports an omni-directional elevator platform used by the operator to abrasive blast and paint ship's hulls. The method shows promise of containing particulate and volatile organics of concentrations great enough to make recovery available at reasonable cost. It also provides weather protection thereby allowing work to continued in inclement weather. Final evaluation will likely be completed in 1996.)
