FR940525-1-00068 FR940525-1-00008 (iii) Populations with relatively low blood cholesterol levels tend to have dietary patterns that are not only low in total fat, especially saturated fat and cholesterol, but are also relatively high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products. Although the specific roles of these plant foods are not yet fully understood, many studies have shown that diets high in plant foods are associated with reduced risk of coronary heart disease. These studies correlate diets rich in fruits, vegetables, and grain products and nutrients from these diets, such as some types of fiber, with reduced coronary heart disease risk. Persons consuming these diets frequently have high intakes of dietary fiber, particularly soluble fiber. Currently, there is not scientific agreement as to whether a particular type of soluble fiber is beneficial, or whether the observed protective effects of fruits, vegetables, and grain products against heart disease are due to other components, or a combination of components, in these diets, including, but not necessarily limited to, some types of soluble fiber, other fiber components, other characteristics of the complex carbohydrate content of these foods, other nutrients in these foods, or displacement of saturated fat and cholesterol from the diet. (2) Significance of the relationship between diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber, particularly soluble fiber, and risk of coronary heart disease. (i) Coronary heart disease is a major public health concern in the United States, primarily because it accounts for more deaths than any other disease or group of diseases. Early management of risk factors for coronary heart disease is a major public health goal that can assist in reducing risk of coronary heart disease. There is a continuum of mortality risk from coronary heart disease that increases with increasing levels of blood LDL-cholesterol. Individuals with high blood LDL-cholesterol are at greatest risk. A larger number of individuals with more moderately elevated cholesterol also have increased risk of coronary events; such individuals comprise a substantial proportion of the adult U.S. population. The scientific evidence indicates that reducing saturated fat and cholesterol intakes lowers blood LDL-cholesterol and risk of heart disease in most individuals, including persons with blood cholesterol levels in the normal range. Additionally, consuming diets high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products, foods that contain soluble fiber, may be a useful adjunct to a low saturated fat and low cholesterol diet. (ii) Other risk factors for coronary heart disease include a family history of heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, cigarette smoking, obesity, and lack of regular physical exercise. (iii) Intakes of saturated fat exceed recommended levels in many people in the United States. Intakes of cholesterol are, on average, at or above recommended levels. Intakes of fiber-containing fruits, vegetables, and grain products are about half of recommended intake levels. One of the major public health recommendations relative to coronary heart disease risk is to consume less than 10 percent of calories from saturated fat, and an average of 30 percent or less of total calories from all fat. Recommended daily cholesterol intakes are 300 mg or less. Recommended total dietary fiber intakes are about 25 g daily, of which about 25 percent (about 6 g) should be soluble fiber. (iv) Current dietary guidance recommendations encourage decreased consumption of dietary fat, especially saturated fat and cholesterol, and increased consumption of fiber-rich foods to help lower blood LDL-cholesterol levels. Results of numerous studies have shown that fiber-containing fruits, vegetables, and grain products can help lower blood LDL-cholesterol. (3) Requirements. (i) All requirements set forth in ยง317.314 shall be met. (ii) Specific requirements. (A) Nature of the claim. A health claim associating diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber, particularly soluble fiber, with reduced risk of heart disease may be made on the label or labeling of a meat or meat food product described in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) (B) of this section; Provided, That: ( 1 ) The claim states that diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber ``may'' or ``might'' reduce the risk of heart disease; ( 2 ) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the terms ``heart disease'' or ``coronary heart disease''; ( 3 ) The claim is limited to those fruits, vegetables, and grains that contain fiber; ( 4 ) In specifying the dietary fiber, the claim uses the terms ``fiber,'' ``dietary fiber,'' ``some types of dietary fiber,'' ``some dietary fibers,'' or ``some fibers,'' and the term ``soluble fiber'' may be used in addition to these terms;
