FR941102-0-00078 FR941102-0-00021 (4) Whether the adoption of a 7 percent haze limit for plastic headlamp lenses would create a burden on industry, and if so, the nature and severity of the burden. Ford does not believe that it would create a burden ``except possibly for some initial additional testing.'' (5) Whether the industry favors harmonization of Standard No. 108 with SAE J576 for haze resistance of plastic headlamp lens materials. Ford and another commenter, Truck-Lite, supported application of Standard No. 108 to materials for plastic headlamp lenses, albeit with the more recent versions of SAE J576, those of 1986 and 1991. It appears that the abrasion resistance requirements for replaceable bulb headlamps and the industry practice of hard coating sealed beams already act to prevent haze on plastic headlamp lenses that exceed 7 percent. NHTSA remains interested in any SAE attempts to establish an appropriate haze criterion for headlamp lenses, but it appears that there is no safety need for rulemaking at present. 2. Thermal Degradation of Acrylic Reflex Reflectors Sierra also claimed that current weathering tests do not address the loss of reflector performance for causes other than haze. It criticized the agency for deleting the lens warpage test in 1973 which regulated distortion from heat. Before then, Standard No. 108 incorporated the heat test of SAE Standard J575d which consisted of operating a lamp for one hour in a chamber heated to 120 degrees F. The lamp would reach a temperature higher than that from the heat of the filament. At the conclusion of the test, no warpage could result that would ``affect the proper functioning of the device.'' Since the requirement was ambiguous, NHTSA eliminated it. However, in light of Sierra's complaint, NHTSA has reviewed the matter. When the heat test was deleted, the principal concern of the test seemed to be gross distortions of through-optic lenses. It appears that the heat damage to a lens with an integral reflex reflector was not considered. There are limited data indicating that acrylic reflex reflectors may suffer from heat degradation. The General Electric Company (GE) has reported (NHTSA Docket No. 108&hyph;PRM&hyph;000015&hyph;01) a weathering test in Florida in which amber and yellow acrylic reflex reflectors decreased in specific intensity by 18 to 32 percent after an exposure of one year, regardless of the angle of exposure. GE attributed the decrease in photometric performance to minute distortions of the reflex lens (which the industry calls ``creep'') which occurred when the plastics were exposed to direct sunlight (temperatures of 150 to 160 degrees F). In view of this test, NHTSA sought comments on the potential problem of heat degradation of acrylic plastic reflex reflectors. NHTSA requested commenters to address the following: (1) Whether the commenter has test or other data relating to the performance of acrylic reflectors after exposure to heat. (2) The threshold temperatures for creep and stress relaxation for acrylic plastics used for lamp lenses. (3) Whether creep will stabilize or continue indefinitely. (4) The maximum temperature acrylic lenses may endure without experiencing visible deformation. (5) The length of exposure required for stability at slightly over the threshold temperature and at the maximum temperature stated in response to (4). (6) The maximum loss of photometric performance to be expected if the creep and stress relaxation eventually stabilize. (7) The maximum operating temperature of multiple function rear lamps on passenger cars, trucks, and trailers under realistic extreme conditions. (8) Whether integral reflex reflectors would degrade under the conditions stated in response to (7).
