FR941122-1-00010 FR941122-1-00001 It should be noted here that the Leland Act specifies that there be no mechanism for appropriating funding prior to the next regular legislative session in order to qualify for a delay of the effective date. The language in the Act refers to an appropriating mechanism. If the State legislature fails to appropriate the additional State funds in a regular session, no delay in the effective date will be granted. Also, the Leland Act does not authorize a delay in the effective date if a State legislature is scheduled to meet in regular session in calendar year 1994, but sometime after April 1, 1994. For some State agencies, the State legislature may not be scheduled to meet in regular session during calendar year 1994, but the State's laws allow the State legislature to be called into special session or provide other means (other than a special session) by which the State may appropriate additional funds. A request for a delay of the effective date should be submitted if a State with a biennial legislature which does not meet in calendar year 1994 has no mechanism to appropriate the additional State funds under State law other than to call a special legislative session to appropriate the additional State funds. For purposes of deciding whether or not to grant a request for a delay in the effective date, the Department is proposing to define ``special legislative session'' to mean a legislative session that is not scheduled to occur on a regularly scheduled basis. Thus, a regularly scheduled short legislative session in even number years to consider necessary or emergency bills would be considered a regular legislative session. Legislative sessions that are not scheduled on a standing regular basis and must be called under State law for a specific purpose would be considered a special legislative session. The Department is taking this proposed position because it recognizes that in many cases a special legislative session could cost a State more than the additional State administrative funding that would be involved for the Food Stamp Program. In addition, this position conforms with AFDC's policy and procedures for implementing Section 13741 of the Leland Act which makes a similar change in Federal reimbursement rates for the AFDC Program. State agencies should note that this position treats State agencies with biennial legislatures the same regardless of whether or not the State has called a special session in calendar year 1994 for some specific purpose or has chosen not to call a special session. The Department has also considered how it would interpret the criteria in Section 13971 of the Leland Act that a State have ``no mechanism, under the constitution and laws of the State, for appropriating the additional funds required *␣*␣* before the next such regular legislative session *␣*␣*'' The Act is not clear as to what kind of appropriating mechanism would meet the test. Webster's Third New International Dictionary defines an appropriation as a sum of money set aside or allotted by official or formal action for a specific use. Accordingly, State appropriation mechanisms could be interpreted to include the process by which the State legislature or other entities in the State appropriate funds as well as State procedures to set aside funds from discretionary or emergency accounts for specific purposes. In general, State constitutions and laws provide for appropriation by the State's legislature. However, some State laws also provide other funding mechanisms such as voter initiatives to appropriate funds, procedures allowing State officials or emergency commissions to authorize the spending of funds from the State treasury, another program's revenue account, or an emergency account, and procedures by which funds previously appropriated for one program may be transferred to another program. The Department recognizes that while these mechanisms may exist under State law, they may not be useable by the State for several reasons. Voter initiatives to amend the constitution or law to provide State funding require months just to raise the issue to a sufficient number of voters and schedule an election and are beyond the control of the State. Regarding the spending of discretionary or emergency funds, State officials would be reluctant to declare an emergency in order to utilize emergency procedures to transfer funds from the State Treasury or other accounts to the State's Food Stamp Program for a non-emergency purpose. Further, the interpretation of what is a State appropriation under State law as opposed to emergency funds transfer mechanisms varies by State. The Department believes that State legal officers are in the best position to determine what are the appropriation mechanisms that are readily available and useable under the State law. Accordingly, the Department is proposing to interpret the law to cover only mechanisms by which the State legislature appropriates funding and not to cover voter initiative mechanisms and State transfer mechanisms from discretionary or emergency accounts.
