FR940516-1-00021 FR940516-1-00001 5. Business Background Rule 4.21(a)(2) currently requires disclosure of the business backgrounds of the pool's CPO and CTA, and their principals. This disclosure requirement would be streamlined by: (1) Eliminating the requirement to disclose business backgrounds of CTAs except those of major CTAs, i.e., CTAs allocated at least twenty-five percent of the fund's futures margins and commodity option premiums; and (2) limiting the requirement to disclose business backgrounds of principals 55 of CPOs and CTAs to those principals ``who participate in making trading or operational decisions for the pool or who supervise those so engaged.'' 56 Comment is requested as to whether the business backgrounds of all principals, even those who hold a passive ownership interest in the CPO, should continue to be required to be disclosed. The business backgrounds of trading managers, who represent a subset of CTAs, and their principals who participate in making trading or operational decisions or supervise persons so engaged would also be required to be disclosed. 55 Pursuant to current Rule 4.10(e), the term ``principal'' includes, with respect to an entity, a sole proprietor, general partner, officer or director, or person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions, having the power, directly or indirectly, to exercise a controlling influence over the activities of the entity. Holders and beneficial owners of at least ten percent of the CPO or CTA and persons who contributed at least ten percent of the CPO's or CTA's capital are also included. 56 All principals would continue to be required to be named in the disclosure document. 6. Principal Risk Factors As noted above, current Rule 4.21(a)(17)(ii) requires the inclusion, at the front of the disclosure document, of a ``boiler-plate'' risk disclosure statement that describes generically the risks of pool investments. Proposed Rule 4.24(g) would require, in addition to this required disclosure, a discussion designed to address risk factors specific to the pool offered. This discussion would address the volatility of the pool investment as compared to investments in other types of trading vehicles and other risks relating to the particular trading program to be followed, such as risks resulting from concentration of investments in particular commodities or contracts or from trading foreign contracts that are subject to currency rate fluctuations. Risks relative to transactions in off-exchange instruments, e.g., counterparty creditworthiness risks, 57 or to the lack of relevant experience of the CPO or CTAs should also be addressed. The Commission believes that a succinct ``plain English'' discussion of the risks of the investment being offered would be highly material to the prospective participant's evaluation of the proposed investment and that this type of disclosure warrants particular attention when complex over-the-counter transactions are contemplated. Establishment of an express requirement for disclosure of principal risk factors essentially codifies disclosures that would likely be required under the specific requirements of existing rules or as material information. 58 57 These risks may differ materially from those entailed in exchange-traded futures and option transactions, which are backed by clearing organization guarantees, daily marking-to-market and settlement, and segregation and minimum capital requirements applicable to intermediaries. Transactions entered directly between two counterparties generally do not benefit from such protections and expose the parties to the risk of counterparty default. 58 This requirement is consistent with SEC requirements for public offerings and investment company offerings. See, e.g., Item 3 of Form S&hyph;1, which requires a discussion of the principal factors that make the offering speculative or one of high risk and Item 4(c) of Form N&hyph;1A which requires a brief discussion of the ``principal risk factors associated with investment in Registrant, including factors peculiar to the Registrant as well as those generally attendant to investment in an investment company with investment policies and objectives similar to Registrant's.'' The Commission welcomes comment as to whether additional guidance should be given in the rule as to the types of risk factors that should be discussed and as to any specific factors that should be identified in this context. 7. Use of Proceeds Under current Rule 4.21(a)(1)(viii), the pool operator must describe the types of commodity interests that the pool is expected to trade and any restrictions or limitations on such trading established by the CPO. Current Rule 4.21(a)(9) requires a description of the manner in which the pool will fulfill its margin requirements and of the form in which non-margin funds will be held. The nature of non-cash items must be described and the person to whom any income generated by such items will be paid must be identified. Taken together, Rules 4.21(a)(1)(viii) and (a)(9) call for information concerning all types of trading and investments in which the pool is expected to engage. As a result, under current rules, CPOs generally provide a description of the overall trading activities of the pool, such that the full range of transactions, whether in securities, commodity interests or other types of interests, is disclosed.
