FR940902-0-00146 FR940902-0-00010 (3) An oversight plan for the SDA which includes: (i) A description of the oversight activities of the PIC and the chief elected official(s), and (ii) the SDA administrative entity's monitoring plan which includes the Governor's monitoring requirements for service providers. (c) The Governor may also require that the SDA job training plan contain a capacity building and technical assistance strategy that includes plans for designating capacity building as a staff function, assessing local capacity building needs, and developing and participating in computerized communication mechanisms. (d) The SDA job training plan shall be jointly approved and jointly submitted to the Governor by the PIC and the chief elected official(s) (section 103(d)). (e) Modifications. (1) Any major modification to the SDA job training plan shall be jointly approved and jointly submitted by the PIC and chief elected official(s) of the SDA to the Governor for approval. (2) For the purposes of this section, the circumstances which constitute a ``major'' modification shall be specified by the Governor. ยง628.425 Review and approval. (a) Standards and procedures. The Governor shall establish standards and procedures for the review and approval or disapproval of the SDA job training plan and plan modifications that shall be provided to the SDA's at the same time as the instructions and schedules for preparation of the plans are provided. (b) Plan approval. Except when the Governor makes a finding under the provisions of section 105(b)(1) of the Act, the Governor shall approve the SDA job training plan or plan modification. The notice of approval shall be provided in writing to the chief elected official(s) and to the private industry council. ยง628.426 Disapproval or revocation of the plan. (a) If the Governor disapproves the SDA job training plan or plan modification for any reason, the Governor shall notify the PIC and chief elected official(s) for the SDA in writing as provided in section 105(b)(2) of the Act. (b) If the Governor disapproves the SDA job training plan or plan modification, the Governor shall provide the PIC and the chief elected official(s) for the SDA 30 days to correct the deficiencies and resubmit the plan or plan modification. Within 15 days after the plan or plan modification is resubmitted, the Governor shall make a final decision and shall notify the PIC and the appropriate chief elected official(s) of the SDA in writing of the final disapproval or approval. (c) Governor mediation. If the PIC and the appropriate chief elected official(s) of an SDA are unable to reach an agreement under the provisions of section 103 (b)(1) or (d) of the Act, any such party may request the Governor to mediate. (d) Failure to reach agreement. If the PIC and the chief elected official(s) fail to reach the required agreements in section 103 (b)(1) or (d) of the Act, funds may not be made available to an SDA under section 104 of the Act and the Governor shall merge the affected area into one or more other existing service delivery areas (section 105(c)(1)). (e) Appeals. (1) In accordance with section 105(b)(2) of the Act, any final disapproval by the Governor of the SDA job training plan or modification may be appealed by the PIC and chief elected official(s) of the SDA to the Secretary. (2) The Secretary shall not accept an appeal dated later than 30 days after receipt by the PIC and chief elected official(s) of the final disapproval of the SDA job training plan or modification from the Governor. (3) The Secretary shall accept an appeal under paragraph (e)(1) of this section and shall determine only whether the disapproval is clearly erroneous under section 105(b)(1) of the Act. The Secretary may consider any comments submitted by the Governor. In accordance with section 105(b)(2) of the Act, the Secretary shall make a final decision within 45 days after the appeal is received by the Secretary.
