FR940928-2-00100 FR940928-2-00067 Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, Docket No. 50&hyph;410, Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station, Unit 2, Oswego County, New York Date of amendment request: August 26, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed change would revise Technical Specification (TS) Section 3/4.6.1.3, ``Primary Containment Air Locks.'' Specifically, TS 3/4.6.1.3 would be revised to allow continued plant operation if an interlock becomes inoperable as long as an operable door is locked shut and periodically checked as being locked shut. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The operation of Nine Mile Point Unit 2, in accordance with the proposed amendment, will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The primary containment and containment air locks are not initiators or precursors to an accident. Primary containment integrity ensures that the release of radioactive materials from the containment will be restricted to those leakage paths and associated leak rates assumed in the accident analyses. Therefore, the proposed changes to the air lock ACTION statements cannot affect the probability of a previously evaluated accident. The purpose of a primary containment air lock interlock is to allow only one door to be opened at a time in each penetration. This provision ensures that a gross breach of primary containment does not exist when primary containment is required to be operable. Closure of a single door in each air lock is sufficient to provide a leak tight barrier following postulated events. If an air lock interlock is inoperable, the proposed ACTION requires that an operable door be locked shut and periodically verified locked and shut. This assures that at least one air lock door is closed, which provides the function of the interlock, thereby assuring containment integrity is maintained. Therefore, the proposed change will not significantly increase the consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The operation of Nine Mile Point Unit 2, in accordance with the proposed amendment, will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes to the primary containment air lock specification will allow contained plant operation with an inoperable interlock as long as an operable door is locked closed and periodically verified to be locked closed. The changes do not introduce any new accident precursors and do not involve any alterations to plant configurations which could initiate a new or different kind of accident. The change provides an alternate means of ensuring that only one primary containment air lock door is opened at a time in each penetration. Therefore, the proposed changes will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated.
