FR940920-2-00080 FR940920-2-00035 2. The significance of the proposed activities in relation to the objectives stated in Injury Control in the 1990s: A National Plan for Action. Atlanta: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1993 and Healthy People 2000; 3. National needs; 4. Overall distribution among: •the three priority areas of violence-related injury research: youth suicide, firearm injuries, and interpersonal youth violence; •the major disciplines of violence-related injury prevention: social and behavioral science, biomechanics, and epidemiology; •populations addressed (e.g., adolescents, racial and ethnic minorities, the elderly, children, urban, rural); 5. Budgetary considerations (e.g., preference may be given to applicants who submit proposals requesting funding for research projects of one to two year's duration); 6. Additional consideration may be given to those applicants who provide evidence of an active training program or mentoring program for inexperienced minority injury researchers (``junior investigators''). C. Continued Funding: Continuation awards made after FY 1995, but within the project period, will be made on the basis of the availability of funds and the following criteria: 1. The accomplishments reflected in the progress report of the continuation application indicate that the applicant is meeting previously stated objectives or milestones contained in the project's annual workplan and satisfactory progress has been demonstrated through monitoring presentations or work-in-progress workshops; 2. The objectives for the new budget period are realistic, specific, and measurable; 3. The methods described will clearly lead to achievement of these objectives; 4. The evaluation plan will allow management to monitor whether the methods are effective; and 5. The budget request is clearly explained, adequately justified, reasonable and consistent with the intended use of grant funds. D. Supplementary Funding: Competing Supplemental grant awards may be made when funds are available, to support research work or activities not previously approved by the Injury Research Grants Review Committee (IRGRC). Applications should be clearly labelled to denote their status as requesting supplemental funding support. These applications will be reviewed by the IRGRC and the secondary review group.
