FR940203-0-00008 FR940203-0-00002 (3) Perform a one-time visual inspection to detect cracking, deformation, and/or a missing piece in the bushings in the brake housing, and the bushings in the end of the brake rod, in accordance with Boeing Service Bulletin 767&hyph;32A0126, Revision 1, dated January 13, 1994. (c) For any bushing that is found broken and/or any bushing that is found having a piece missing during the inspection(s) required by paragraphs (a)(2) and/or (b)(3) of this AD, accomplish the requirements of either paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2), as follows: (1) Within 10 flight cycles after detection, repair or replace the bushing in accordance with the appropriate service bulletin. No performance decrements are required within the first 10 flight cycles since detection. Or (2) If the affected bushing has not been replaced within 10 flight cycles after detection, observe one-brake-deactivated performance decrements in accordance with the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) until replacement of the affected bushing is accomplished. Operation must be performed with all brakes and the antiskid system fully functional, while operating with one-brake-deactivated performance decrements for broken bushings and/or a bushing with a missing piece. (d) For any bushing that is found to be cracked or deformed during the inspection(s) required by paragraphs (a)(2) and/or (b)(3) of this AD, accomplish the requirements of either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2), as follows: (1) Within 100 flight cycles since detection, repair or replace the bushing in accordance with the appropriate service bulletin. No performance decrements are required within the first 100 flight cycles since detection. Or (2) If the affected bushing(s) has not been replaced within 100 flight cycles since detection, observe one-brake-deactivated performance decrements in accordance with the FAA-approved AFM until replacement of the affected bushing is accomplished. Operation must be performed with all brakes and the antiskid system fully functional, while operating with one-brake-deactivated performance decrements for cracked bushings. (e) Operators may operate beyond 60 days after the effective date of this AD with one-brake-deactivated performance decrements for cracked or broken bushings, provided that the actions required by paragraphs (a) through (b)(3) of this AD have been accomplished. (f) Revise the Limitations and Flight Performance sections of the FAA-approved AFM (or computer generated takeoff weight tables) to include the following information. (This may be accomplished by inserting a copy of this AD in the AFM.) If the actions required by paragraphs (a) through (b)(3) of this AD have not been accomplished within 60 days after the effective date of this AD, the following two-brake-deactivated performance decrements must be observed until the actions required by paragraphs (a) through (b)(3) of this AD have been accomplished. The following adjustments reflect takeoff and landing performance, assuming failure of two brakes. Operation must be performed with all brakes operative and the anti-skid system operative. ``Option 1 (1) Subtract 70,000 LB ( 31,750 KG) from the takeoff limited weight (the most limiting (lowest) of maximum certified, obstacle clearance, tire speed, brake energy, climb, or field length limited weight). No adjustment to the takeoff speeds for the resulting weight is required. (2) Landing Field Length_Section 4.13 of the Airplane Flight Manual: Multiply `all brakes operative' FAR landing field length by a factor of 1.20. (3) Maximum Quick Turnaround Weight_Section 4.13 of the Airplane Flight Manual: No change from the 'all brakes operative' value. Option 2 (1) Field Length Limited Weight_Section 4.4 of the Airplane Flight Manual: Reduce the `all brakes operative' field length limited weight by 10,500 LB (4,750 KG). The maximum allowable takeoff weight is the most limiting (lowest) of maximum certified, climb, obstacle clearance, tire speed, or this adjusted field length limited weight. (2) Reference V 1(mcg) Limited Accelerate-Stop Distance_Section 4.8 of the Airplane Flight Manual: Increase the reference V 1(mcg) limited accelerate-stop distance by 1000 FT. (3) Takeoff Decision Speed, V 1 _Section 4.7 of the Airplane Flight Manual: Reduce V 1 by the following: Weights below 330,000 LB (150,000 KG): Subtract 4 knots Weights at or above 330,000 LB (150,000 KG): Subtract 3 knots If the resulting V 1 is less than V 1(mcg) , takeoff is permitted with V 1 set equal to V 1(mcg) provided the corrected accelerate-stop distance available exceeds the adjusted reference V 1(mcg) limited accelerate-stop distance from Step 2. (4) Brake Energy Limits_Section 4.7 of the Airplane Flight Manual: Reduce the maximum brake energy speed allowed with all brakes operative by 30 knots. Verify the scheduled V 1 is less than the reduced V MBE . If not, then takeoff weight must be reduced. (5) Landing Field Length_Section 4.13 of the Airplane Flight Manual: Multiply `all brakes operative' FAR landing field length by a factor of 1.20. (6) Maximum Quick Turnaround Weight_Section 4.13 of the Airplane Flight Manual: No change from the `all brakes operative' value. Option 3 Once the following adjustments to corrected accelerate-stop distance and V MBE are determined, the takeoff weights should be calculated in the normal fashion (using these adjusted data) to determine the maximum allowable takeoff weight.
