FR940912-2-00003 FR940912-2-00001 PERMITS: To proceed with the timber harvest as proposed, various permits must be obtained from other agencies. Applications for these permits would take place after the Final EIS is filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and not sooner than 30 days following publication of this decision in the Petersburg Pilot newspaper, published in Petersburg, Alaska. Both the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have been requested to participate as cooperating agencies in preparation of the EIS. The agencies and their responsibilities are as follows: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has the responsibility for approval of discharge of dredged or fill materials into the waters of the United States (Section 404 of the Clean Water Act), and approval of construction of structures or work in navigable waters of the United States (Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899); EPA has responsibility for the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Review (Section 402 of the Clean Water Act). Other agencies which will participate are as follows: State of Alaska, Department of Natural Resources has responsibility for authorization for occupancy and use of tidelands and submerged lands; State of Alaska, Department of Environmental Conservation has responsibility for the Solid Waste Disposal Permit (Section 402 of Clean Water Act) and the Certificate of Reasonable Assurance (Section 404 of Clean Water Act); U.S. Coast Guard has responsibility for Coast Guard Bridge Permits (in accordance with the General Bridge Act of 1946) required for all structures constructed within the tidal influence zone. PUBLIC COMMENT: Interested parties are invited to comment. The comment period on the Draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency Notice of Availability appears in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions ( Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 533 [1978]). Also, environmental objections that could have been raised at the Draft EIS stage may be waived if not raised until after the completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts ( City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 [9th Cir. 1986] and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 [E.D. Wis. 1980]). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45 day comment period so substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft environmental impact statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environment Policy Act in 40 CFR 1503.3 while addressing these points. The responsible official for the decision is Abigail R. Kimbell, Forest Supervisor of the Stikine Area, Tongass National Forest, Alaska Region, Petersburg, Alaska. Dated: September 2, 1994. Abigail R. Kimbell, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22383 Filed 9&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
