FR940513-2-00042 FR940513-2-00028 [FRL&hyph;4884&hyph;5] M.A. Norden Company Site, AL; Request for Amendment to June 15, 1984, Clean Water Act section 404(c) Final Determination AGENCY: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of request for amendment of Section 404(c) final determination and request for comment. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that M.A. Norden Company has petitioned the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for reconsideration of the total site prohibition identified in EPA's June 15, 1984, Final Determination concerning the Norden site in Mobile, Alabama pursuant to section 404(c) of the Clean Water Act (CWA). M.A. Norden has requested this amendment as a prerequisite to seeking CWA authorization to discharge dredged or fill material into wetlands to construct a road across the restricted section 404(c) area in order to provide access to an adjacent parcel of upland property. EPA is requesting comments on M.A. Norden's proposal for reconsideration of the Final Determination's total site prohibition. In particular, EPA is interested in determining whether discharges associated with the proposed road construction will result in unacceptable adverse effects under section 404(c). DATES: Written comments concerning this request for amendment must be submitted to EPA on or before June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the request and supporting documentation are available for public inspection upon request at the following location: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Wetlands, Oceans, and Watersheds Wetlands Division, 499 South Capitol Street SW., Fairchild Building, room 723, Washington, DC 20009. Comments must be submitted in writing to: Joseph P. DaVia, Acting Chief, Elevated Cases Section, Mail Code (4502F), U.S. EPA, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460. Written comments may also be sent by facsimile to Mr. DaVia at (202) 260&hyph;7546. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Specific details are available from Paul Minkin (EPA) at (202) 260&hyph;1901. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 404(c) of the Clean Water Act authorizes EPA to restrict or prohibit the use of an area as a disposal site for dredged or fill material if the discharge will have unacceptable adverse effects on municipal water supplies, shellfish beds and fishery areas (including spawning and breeding areas), wildlife, or recreational areas. Prior to making such a determination, the Administrator of EPA consults with the Chief of Engineers and the applicant/landowner. In the case of the Norden Company site, such consultations did not resolve EPA's concerns over the originally planned use of the site and on June 15, 1984, EPA issued a Final Determination prohibiting the discharge of dredged or fill materials into the site. The Final Determination described the then proposed project, the ecological values associated with the site, project alternatives, and the efforts made to reach a mutually agreeable resolution. Based on the record it had compiled, EPA determined that ``the discharge of the fill materials into the site proposed by the M.A. Norden Company (`the Norden site') would have an unacceptable adverse effect on shellfish beds and fishery areas and wildlife areas'' and prohibited the use of the area for specification as a disposal site. This prohibition prevented the future disposal of any dredged or fill material at the entire 25 acre site.
