FR940927-0-00029 FR940927-0-00003 (l) Prevented planting_ Inability to plant the insured crop with proper equipment by the final planting date designated in the Special Provisions for the insured crop in the county. You must have been unable to plant the insured crop due to an insured cause of loss that has prevented most producers in the surrounding area from planting due to similar insurable causes. The insured cause of prevented planting must occur between the sales closing date and the final planting date for the insured crop in the county. (m) Production guarantee_ The number of pounds determined by multiplying the approved yield per acre by any applicable yield conversion factor for non-irrigated skip-row planting patterns, and multiplying the result by the coverage level percentage you elect. (n) Replanting_ Performing the cultural practices necessary to replace the ELS cotton seed, and replacing the seed with either ELS or AUP cotton seed in the insured acreage with the expectation of growing a successful crop. (o) Skip-row_ A planting pattern that: (1) Consists of alternating rows of cotton and fallow land or land planted to another crop the previous fall; and (2) Qualifies as a skip-row planting pattern as defined by the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service or successor agency. (p) Timely planted_ Planted on or before the final planting date designated in the Special Provisions. (q) Written agreement_ Designated terms of this policy may be altered by written agreement. Each agreement must be applied for by the insured in writing prior to the sales closing date and is valid for one year only. If not specifically renewed the following year, continuous insurance will be in accordance with the printed policy. All variable terms including, but not limited to, crop variety, guarantee, premium rate and price election must be set out in the written agreement. In specific instances a written agreement may be applied for after the sales closing date and approved if, after a physical inspection of the acreage, there is a determination that the crop has the expectancy of making at least the guaranteed yield. However, no prevented planting liability will be established as a result of any request submitted after the sales closing date. All applications for written agreements as submitted by the insured must contain all variable terms of the contract between the company and the insured that will be in effect if the written agreement is disapproved. 2. Unit Division Unless limited by the Special Provisions, a unit as defined in subsection 1.(tt) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), may be divided into optional units if, for each optional unit you meet all the conditions of this section or if a written agreement to such division exists. All optional units must be reflected on the acreage report for each crop year. (a) You must have records, which can be independently verified, of planted acreage and production for each optional unit for at least the last crop year used to determine your production guarantee. (b) You must plant the crop in a manner that results in a clear and discernable break in the planting pattern at the boundaries of each optional unit. (c) You must have records of measurement of stored or marketed production from each optional unit maintained in such a manner that we can verify the production from each optional unit or the production from each optional unit must be kept separate until after loss adjustment under the policy is completed. (d) Each optional unit must meet one or more of the following criteria as applicable: (1) Optional Units by Section, Section Equivalent, or ASCS Farm Serial Number: Optional units may be established if each optional unit is located in a separate legally identified Section. In the absence of Sections, we may consider parcels of land legally identified by other methods of measure including, but not limited to: Spanish grants, railroad surveys, leagues, labors, or Virginia Military Lands as equivalent of Sections for unit purposes. In areas which have not been surveyed using the systems identified above, or another system approved by us, or in areas where such systems exist but boundaries are not readily discernable, each optional unit must be located in a separate farm identified by a single ASCS Farm Serial Number. (2) Optional Units on Acreage Including Both Irrigated and Non-irrigated Practices: In addition to or instead of establishing optional units by Section, section equivalent, or ASCS Farm Serial Number, optional units may be based on irrigated acreage or non-irrigated acreage if both are located in the same Section, section equivalent, or ASCS Farm Serial Number. The irrigated acreage may not extend beyond the point at which your irrigation system can deliver the quantity of water needed to produce the yield on which your guarantee is based and you may not continue into non-irrigated acreage in the same rows or planting pattern. You must plant, cultivate, fertilize, or otherwise care for the irrigated acreage in accordance with recognized good irrigated farming practices. Basic units may not be divided into optional units on any basis (production practice, type, variety, planting period, etc.) other than as described under this section. If you do not comply fully with these provisions, we will combine all optional units which are not in compliance with these provisions into the basic unit from which they were formed. We may combine the optional units at any time we discover that you have failed to comply with these provisions. If failure to comply with these provisions on all optional units is determined to be inadvertent, and the optional units are combined, premium paid for the purpose of electing optional units will be refunded to you. 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities In addition to the requirements of section 3 (Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8) you may select only one price election for all the cotton in the county insured under this policy. 4. Contract Changes The contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date (see the provisions of section 4 (Contract Changes) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8)). 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates
