FR940106-1-00042 FR940106-1-00008 E. Other Requirements The following are minimum standards that apply to all sales and sales allocation meter installations. 1. If, for any reason, the measuring equipment is out of service or malfunctioning so that the quantity of gas delivered is not known, the volume delivered during this period shall be estimated using one of the following methods, in this order of priority: a. Record data on check metering equipment if used in lieu of main meter recordings. If check meters are not installed or are found to be recording inaccurately, then b. Base corrections on the percentage error found during the instrument test. If that is not feasible, then c. Estimate the quantity of gas run, based on deliveries made under similar conditions when the metering equipment was registering accurately. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Estimate volumes delivered during those periods cited using one or more of the approved methods identified in the order of priority and, where necessary, submit a report showing corrected volumes. Abatement Period: 60 days. 2. The Btu content shall be determined at least annually, unless otherwise required by the authorized officer, by means of (1) a recording calorimeter, (2) calculations based on a complete compositional analysis of the gas and the heating value of each constituent, in accordance with AGA Committee Report No. 3, or (3) any other method acceptable to the authorized officer. The authorized officer shall be apprised of the method used for each determination and be furnished with all needed analytical data or other documentation upon request. The Btu content most recently determined and used for royalty purposes shall be reported. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Determine Btu content and submit a report. Abatement Period: 30 days. 3. For purposes of measurement and meter calibration, atmospheric pressure shall be established through an actual measurement or assumed to be a constant value based on the elevation at the metering station. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Recalibrate gas meter and submit a report indicating corrected volumes using the adjusted absolute zero or properly calculated pressure extensions. Abatement Period: 30 days. 4. The method and frequency of determining specific gravity shall be determined by use of one of the following methods: a. Continuous recording gravitometer; b. Complete compositional analysis of a spot or cumulative gas sample determined at least annually. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Determine specific gravity of gas by approved method and submit a report with corrected volume. Abatement Period: 30 days. F. Gas Measurement by Other Methods or at Other Locations Acceptable to the Authorized Officer Using any method of gas measurement other than by orifice meter at a location on the lease, unit, unit participating area, or communitized area, requires prior approval from the authorized officer pursuant to 43 CFR 3162.7&hyph;3. Other measurement methods include, but are not limited to: Turbine metering systems Positive displacement meter Pitot tube Orifice well tester Critical flow prover Gas-oil ratio
