FR940610-1-00064 FR940610-1-00008 Monitoring Compliance With Updated Nutrition Standards The Department also proposes to modify the monitoring requirements to include compliance with the updated nutrition standards. Currently, states monitor compliance with meal pattern components and quantities on a per-meal basis. On the day of a review, the lunch service is observed to ensure that all required food items are offered and, if applicable, that children accept the minimum number of components stipulated both under the standard meal service and the offer versus serve option. Meal services that offer fewer than the five required food items are disallowed for Federal reimbursement, as are meals for which the child has not taken the minimum number of items under the offer versus serve option. States also examine menus and production records for the review period to ensure that all components were available, and that sufficient quantities were offered. Thus, a direct correlation exists between the meal service offered and the meals taken on a given day and the allowable reimbursement for those meals. Under NSMP and ANSMP, Federal reimbursement will continue to be predicated upon similar factors. As noted earlier in this preamble, under NSMP and ANSMP, schools will continue to offer a minimum number of menu items, and children must accept a minimum number of items. Meals which do not meet these requirements will not be eligible for reimbursement. However, to allow school food authorities adequate time to move towards full implementation of NSMP or ANSMP, school food authorities that implement prior to School Year 1998&hyph;1999 will be exempt from Coordinated Review Effort (CRE) Performance Standard 2 on reimbursable meals containing the required food items/components in ยง210.18(g)(2) if they are scheduled for an administrative review prior to School Year 1998&hyph;1999. Under this proposal, in addition to meeting the minimums for the number of menu items, the reimbursable meals offered over a school week must also collectively meet the updated nutrition standards established. To determine compliance with the nutrition standards, State agencies will need to closely examine school food authority's nutrient analysis in the course of a review. While this is a much more precise examination than in past practice, it continues the concept of ensuring that the entire food service, not just an individual meal, conforms to program requirements. State agencies must also observe the meal service to determine if meals claimed for reimbursement contain the appropriate number and type of menu items. The Department is proposing to amend ยง210.19, Additional Responsibilities, to outline review requirements for nutrition standards. The Department is proposing to add the compliance requirements for the nutrition standards to this section rather than to ยง210.18, Administrative Reviews, in order to allow for operational experience and corrective action prior to any imposition of fiscal action. State Agency Responsibilities The following summarizes the State agency's responsibilities under the Department's proposal for general program management, including taking fiscal action against school food authorities that consistently refuse to meet program requirements. While State agencies would probably combine a determination of how the nutrition standards and NSMP/ANSMP are being met with the cyclical administrative review, the Department is also proposing to provide State agencies with flexibility to conduct these important evaluations at other times such as during technical assistance visits or even as a separate, special assessment. However, assessments of compliance with the nutrition standards must be conducted no less frequently than administrative reviews. As proposed by the Department, State agencies would assess the nutrient analyses for the last completed school week. The purpose would be to determine if the school food authority is applying the correct methodology and is properly conducting the NSMP or ANSMP based on the actual menu cycle including any substitutions. The State agency would also review the menus and production records to determine if they correspond to the information used to conduct NSMP or ANSMP.
