FR941117-0-00078 FR941117-0-00011 (1) It is not allocated for assignment in the Public Mobile Services (see Part 2 of this chapter); (2) It was previously assigned to another licensee on an exclusive basis or cannot be assigned to the applicant without causing interference; or (3) Reasonable efforts have been made to coordinate the proposed facility with foreign administrations under applicable international agreements, and an unfavorable response (harmful interference anticipated) has been received. (f) Dismissal as untimely. The FCC may dismiss without prejudice applications that are prematurely or late filed, including applications filed prior to the opening date or after the closing date of a filing window, or after the cut-off date for a mutually exclusive application filing group. ยง22.129 Agreements to dismiss applications, amendments or pleadings. Parties that have filed an application in the Public Mobile Services that is mutually exclusive with one or more other applications, and then enter into an agreement to resolve the mutual exclusivity by withdrawing or requesting dismissal of the application or an amendment thereto, must obtain the approval of the FCC. Parties that have filed or threatened to file a petition to deny, informal objection or other pleading against a pending application in the Public Mobile Services and then seek to withdraw or request dismissal of, or refrain from filing, the petition, either unilaterally or in exchange for a financial consideration, must obtain the approval of the FCC. (a) The party withdrawing or requesting dismissal of its application, petition to deny, informal objection or other pleading or refraining from filing a pleading must submit to the FCC a request for approval of the withdrawal or dismissal, a copy of any written agreement related to the withdrawal or dismissal, and an affidavit setting forth: (1) A certification that neither the party nor its principals has received or will receive any money or other consideration in excess of the legitimate and prudent expenses incurred in preparing and prosecuting the application, petition to deny, informal objection or other pleading in exchange for the withdrawal or dismissal of the application, petition to deny, informal objection or other pleading, or threat to file a pleading, except that this provision does not apply to dismissal or withdrawal of applications pursuant to bona fide merger agreements; (2) The exact nature and amount of any consideration received or promised; (3) An itemized accounting of the expenses for which it seeks reimbursement; and (4) The terms of any oral agreement related to the withdrawal or dismissal of the application, petition to deny, informal objection or other pleading or threat to file a pleading. (b) In addition, within 5 days of the filing date of the applicant's or petitioner's request for approval, each remaining party to any written or oral agreement must submit an affidavit setting forth: (1) A certification that neither the applicant nor its principals has paid or will pay money or other consideration in excess of the legitimate and prudent expenses of the petitioner in exchange for withdrawing or dismissing the application, petition to deny, informal objection or other pleading; and (2) The terms of any oral agreement relating to the withdrawal or dismissal of the application, petition to deny, informal objection or other pleading. (c) No person shall make or receive any payments in exchange for withdrawing a threat to file or refraining from filing a petition to deny, informal objection, or any other pleading against an application. For the purposes of this section, reimbursement by an applicant of the legitimate and prudent expenses of a potential petitioner or objector, incurred reasonably and directly in preparing to file a petition to deny, will not be considered to be payment for refraining from filing a petition to deny or an informal objection. Payments made directly to a potential petitioner or objector, or a person related to a potential petitioner or objector, to implement non-financial promises are prohibited unless specifically approved by the FCC. (d) For the purposes of this section: (1) Affidavits filed pursuant to this section must be executed by the filing party, if an individual, a partner having personal knowledge of the facts, if a partnership, or an officer having personal knowledge of the facts, if a corporation or association. (2) Applications, petitions to deny, informal objections and other pleadings are deemed to be pending before the FCC from the time the application or petition to deny is filed with the FCC until such time as an order of the FCC granting, denying or dismissing the application, petition to deny, informal objection or other pleading is no longer subject to reconsideration by the FCC or to review by any court. (3) ``Legitimate and prudent expenses'' are those expenses reasonably incurred by a party in preparing to file, filing, prosecuting and/or settling its application, petition to deny, informal objection or other pleading for which reimbursement is sought. (4) ``Other consideration'' consists of financial concessions, including, but not limited to, the transfer of assets or the provision of tangible pecuniary benefit, as well as non-financial concessions that confer any type of benefit on the recipient. ยง22.130 Petitions to deny, responsive pleadings. Petitions to deny any major filing may be filed by parties able to demonstrate standing to file such petitions. Responsive pleadings to such petitions may be filed in accordance with the provisions of this section. (a) Content and requirements. Petitions to deny and responsive pleadings must:
