FR940317-2-00119 FR940317-2-00075 2. complies with the requirements of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 92&hyph;9; and. 3. includes review by the recipient's independent auditor of a recipient-prepared supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation, if such a rate is being proposed. The audit costs shall be identified separately for: 1. preparation of basic financial statements and other accounting services; and. 2. preparation of the supplemental reports and schedules required by OMB Circular A&hyph;133, AICPA SOP 92&hyph;9, and the review of the supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation. Application Requirements Proposals must be submitted by the deadline and must conform to the eligibility requirements identified in this announcement and in the application packet. 1. A proposal cover sheet (in addition to the Bureau cover sheet) with names of institutions, project directors, their addresses, telephone and fax numbers. A sample cover sheet format is included in the application packet. 2. A comprehensive line item budget outlining specific expenditures and anticipated funding sources. Detailed information concerning eligible and ineligible items and required budget format is available in the application packet. The proposed budget must conform with the allowable costs described in this document and the guidelines found in the application packet. Budget items requiring additional explanation should be contained in a brief budget narrative. 3. Documentation of institutional support for the proposed program, including signed letters of endorsement from the president, chancellor, or director of the U.S. institution(s) and the IFLNN, making specific reference to the IFLNN program. The letter from the IFLNN must include a commitment by the IFLNN to maintain their faculty/staff exchange participants on salary and benefits during the exchange. A general letter of support or an agreement between the participating institutions without reference to the IFLNN program will not fulfill this requirement. This document must be received at USIA by 5 p.m. Washington, DC, time on May 20, 1994. A sample letter of endorsement and commitment is included in the application packet. Review Process The IFLNN program review process will be comprised of technical and Agency reviews. Proposals will be deemed technically eligible only if they adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet. Technically eligible proposals will be reviewed by the Office of Academic Programs, appropriate geographic area offices, and budget and contract offices. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria: 1. Soundness of proposal indicating academic and professional quality, as reflected by a clear statement of program goals and means to accomplish the goals, and detailed description of project with statement on how the proposed project will be implemented and evaluated. 2. Probable impact of the proposed partnership in achieving the goal of reforming educational administration and curricula at the foreign partner institution.
