FR940428-2-00145 FR940428-2-00067 The term ``fish or wildlife'' means any wild animal, whether alive or dead, including without limitation any wild mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, fish, mollusk, crustacean, arthropod, coelenterate, or other invertebrate, whether or not bred, hatched, or born in captivity, and includes any part, product, egg, or offspring thereof. The wildlife and wildlife parts and products covered by this definition are those whose importation, exportation and transportation is governed by regulations administered by the Fish and Wildlife Service at 50 CFR part 14. These items are those for which a Fish and Wildlife Declaration is required (Form 3&hyph;177, ``Declaration for Importation or Exportation of Fish or Wildlife''). For purposes of this action, ``plants, alive or dead, and their products'' will not be covered, nor will ``shellfish and fishery products imported for human or animal consumption,'' as they are exempted from the wildlife importation and declaration requirements by 50 CFR 14.21. An analysis of wildlife and its parts and products of Taiwan falling within the above definition, using import records compiled by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service from completed Forms 3&hyph;177 indicate the total declared value of wildlife imports from Taiwan was approximately $22 million in 1992, the most recent year for which these data are available. The major categories of wildlife and wildlife parts and products imported from Taiwan include: (1) Reptile leather shoes, handbags, etc. (2) Jewelry made from coral, mussel shells and bone: (3) Edible frogs' legs; (4) Live goldfish and tropical fish for the aquarium trade; and (5) Bird feathers, down, and specimens. Although an exhaustive listing of the tariff headings of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS) corresponding to the Lacey Act definition is not available, the Department of Interior (Fish and Wildlife Service) is able to provide indicative information to interested parties. Since the HTS and Lacey Act definitions do not correspond, even indicative listings of HTS item numbers must be examined carefully in light of the Lacey Act definition to obtain an accurate assessment of product coverage. Frederick L. Montgomery, Chairman, Trade Policy Staff Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10166 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3190&hyph;01&hyph;M
