FR940912-0-00060 FR940912-0-00010 The revisions and additions to read as follows: §24.16 Overtime services; overtime compensation and premium pay for Customs Officers; rate of compensation. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (5) ``Commute compensation'' means the compensation which a Customs Officer is entitled to receive, in excess of the officer's base pay, for returning to work, under certain conditions, to perform an overtime work assignment. Commute compensation, within the limits prescribed by the Act, shall be treated as overtime compensation, and is includable for Federal retirement benefit purposes. * * * * * (13) ``Overtime pay'' means the compensation which a Customs Officer is entitled to receive, in excess of the officer's base pay, for performing officially-assigned work in excess of the 40 hours of the officer's regularly-scheduled administrative workweek or in excess of 8 hours in a day, which may include commute compensation as defined at paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Overtime pay, within the limits prescribed by the Act, is includable for Federal retirement benefit purposes. (14) ``Premium pay differential'' means the compensation which a Customs Officer is entitled to receive, in excess of the officer's base pay, for performing officially-assigned work on holidays, Sundays and at night. Premium pay is not includable for Federal retirement benefit purposes. * * * * * (c) Application and bond. (1) Except as provided for in paragraphs (c)(2) and (4) of this section, an application for inspectional services of Customs Officers at night or on a Sunday or holiday, Customs Form 3171, supported by the required cash deposit or bond, shall be filed in the office of the district director of Customs before the assignment of such officers for reimbursable overtime services. The cash deposit to secure reimbursement shall be fixed by the district director or authorized representative in an amount sufficient to pay the maximum probable compensation and expenses of the Customs Officers, or the maximum amount which may be charged by law, whichever is less, in connection with the particular services requested. *␣*␣* (2) Prior to the expected arrival of a pleasure vessel or private aircraft the district director of Customs may designate a Customs Officer to proceed to the place of expected arrival to receive an application for night, Sunday, or holiday services in connection with the arrival of such vessel or aircraft, together with the required cash deposit or bond. *␣*␣* (3) An application on Customs Form 3171 for overtime services of Customs Officers, when supported by the required cash deposit or a continuous bond, may be granted for a period not longer than for 1 year. In such a case, the application must show the exact times when the overtime services will be needed, unless arrangements are made so that the proper Customs Officer will be notified timely during official hours in advance of the services requested as to the exact times that the services will be needed. * * * * * (d) *␣*␣* (3) Annuity integrity. For Customs Officers within 3 years of their statutory retirement eligibility, the amount of overtime that can be worked is limited to the average yearly number of overtime hours the Customs Officer worked during his/her career with the Customs Service. If the dollar value of the average yearly number of overtime hours worked by such Customs Officer exceeds 50 percent of the applicable statutory pay cap, then no overtime earning limitation based on this annuity integrity provision would apply. Waivers concerning this annuity integrity limitation may be granted by the Commissioner of Customs or the Commissioner's designee in individual cases in order to prevent excessive costs or to meet emergency requirements of Customs. (e) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (ii) Absence during overtime. Except as expressly authorized by statute, regulation, or court order (i.e., military leave, court leave, continuation of pay under the workers compensation law, and back pay awards), a Customs Officer shall be paid for overtime work only when the officer reports as assigned. (f) *␣*␣* (4) Maximum Compensation for Multiple Assignments. If a Customs Officer is assigned to perform more than one overtime assignment, in which the officer is required to return to a place of work more than once in order to complete the assignment, and otherwise satisfies the callback requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, then the officer shall be entitled to commute compensation each time the officer returns to the place of work provided that each assignment commences less than 16 hours after the officer's last regularly-scheduled work assignment. However, in no case shall the compensation be greater than if some or all of the assignments were treated as one continuous callback assignment.
