FR940325-1-00040 FR940325-1-00007 (b) Roving patrols shall be equipped with radios, cellular telephones, or other portable means of communication. (c) Communications shall be established with each passenger vessel subject to Part 120 of this chapter that docks at the terminal, immediately after mooring. (d) A distress signal peculiar to security, indicating a security alert, must be established that is_ (1) Part of the SSOP for communications; (2) Known by each employee of the terminal assigned security duties; and (3) Changed from time to time but not less often than once every three months. (e) The SSOP for communications must specify the kind of communications to use for a breach of security, an unlawful act, or other emergency. Subpart D_Equipment §128.410 Lighting. (a) Each operator of a passenger terminal shall provide security lighting between sunset and sunrise that_ (1) Illuminates each exterior door, gate, or other point of access to the boarding area for passenger vessels subject to Part 120 of this chapter; and (2) Illuminates each fence, pier, wharf, or other area that could be used to gain access to the boarding area. (b) The lighting must provide a minimum average illumination on a horizontal plane 1 meter (3 ft) above the walking surface that is at least: (1) Eleven lux (1 foot-candle) for each exterior door, gate, or other exterior point of access to the boarding area. (2) Five and one-half lux (0.5 foot candle) for each fence, pier, wharf, or other place that could be used to gain access to the boarding area. (c) All external lighting must be located or shielded so that it will not be confused with an aid to navigation and will not interfere with safe navigation on the adjacent waterways. §128.420 Alarms. (a) Each intrusion detection system required by §128.210(e) must activate an alarm when it detects an intrusion. The alarm must sound where the detector is and at an attended central site. (b) Alarms may also be used for other security purposes, such as by alerting security personnel or other employees of the terminal to breaches of security or unlawful acts. §128.430 Screening. The screening systems for persons, personal articles, baggage, cargo, and stores must be capable of detecting prohibited weapons, incendiaries, and explosives in accordance with the terminal security plan. X-ray systems must be designed and used in accordance with ASTM F&hyph;792&hyph;82. §128.435 Barriers. (a) The boundary between restricted areas and unrestricted areas must be clearly defined by walls, fences, or other security barriers. (b) Security barriers must be designed, located, and constructed to_ (1) Delineate the area protected; (2) Create a physical and psychological deterrent to persons attempting unauthorized entry; (3) Enable security personnel to detect intruders; and (4) Have a minimum number of openings that provide readily identifiable places for the controlled entry of persons and vehicles into the restricted area. (c) Openings in security barriers must be secured when not watched by security personnel. (d) Security fences and walls must be at least 2.5 meters (8 ft) high, including top guards. Each security fence or wall must have a top guard with barbed wire, razor ribbon, or similar material angled away from the protected site and upward at about a 45-degree angle. (e) Security barriers in or near roadways must be reinforced to deter penetration by motor vehicles. (f) Security barriers must be kept clear of trees, bushes, and other obstructions for at least 6 meters (20 ft) on each side. (g) Buildings and natural barriers such as water, ravines, or escarpments may constitute part of the control boundary, but they must be augmented by safeguards such as fences, walls, patrols, surveillance, or intrusion detection systems, if necessary. §128.440 Maintenance. (a) Security equipment must be checked and maintained to keep it in good working condition. (b) Communications equipment must be checked on each watch. (c) Doors, gates, locks, alarms, and intrusion detection systems must be checked each day. (d) Interior and exterior security lighting must be checked for proper operation when activated each night. (e) All security equipment not used each day must be checked each week. (f) Any defective or missing security equipment must be reported immediately to the terminal security officer of the passenger terminal. §128.450 Records. Each operator of a passenger terminal shall keep a record of each check required under §128.440 and shall retain each record for at least 30 days after the date of the check. Dated: March 9, 1994. J.W. Kime, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Commandant. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6812 Filed 3&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
