FR940304-1-00062 FR940304-1-00013 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 671 [Docket No. 940253&hyph;4053; I.D. 021494C] RIN 0648&hyph;AG20 King and Tanner Crab Fisheries of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Proposed rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS proposes regulations to implement Amendment 2 to the Fishery Management Plan (FMP) for the Commercial King and Tanner Crab Fisheries of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands (BSAI). This FMP amendment would establish the Norton Sound Section of the Northern District of the king crab fishery as a superexclusive registration area. If this amendment is approved, existing regulations, which supersede State of Alaska (State) regulations that establish Norton Sound as a superexclusive registration area in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of the BSAI, will be removed and reserved. This action is necessary for the effective management of the fishery having the smallest biomass and guideline harvest level (GHL) in the BSAI crab fisheries. This action is intended to promote management and conservation of crab and other fishery resources and to further the goals and objectives contained in the FMP for the Commercial King and Tanner Crab Fisheries of the BSAI. DATES: Comments must be received on or before April 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Ronald J. Berg, Chief, Fisheries Management Division, Alaska Region, NMFS, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, Alaska 99802 (Attn. Lori Gravel). Individual copies of Amendment 2 and the environmental assessment/regulatory impact review/initial regulatory flexibility analysis (EA/RIR/IRFA) of this amendment may be obtained from the North Pacific Fishery Management Council, P.O. Box 103136, Anchorage, AK 99510 (907&hyph;271&hyph;2809). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kim J. Spitler, Fisheries Management Division, Alaska Region, NMFS, 907&hyph;586&hyph;7228. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 304(a)(1)(D)(ii) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act) requires the Secretary to publish regulations proposed by a Council within 15 days of receipt of the amendment and regulations. At this time, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) has not determined that the amendment these rules would implement is consistent with the national standards, other provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable laws. The Secretary, in making that determination, will take into account the information, views, and comments received during the comment period. Background The commercial king and Tanner crab fisheries in the EEZ of the BSAI are managed under the FMP. This FMP was prepared by the North Pacific Fishery Management Council (Council) under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act). It is a framework FMP that, with oversight by the Council and Secretary, defers management of the crab resources in the BSAI to the State. The FMP was approved by the Secretary and implemented on June 2, 1989. At times, regulations implementing the FMP must be amended to resolve problems pertaining to management of the BSAI crab fisheries.
