FR941013-1-00069 FR941013-1-00010 1. Tanks The tank emission point type for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category represents the organic HAP emissions from wastes or recoverable materials containing organic HAP stored or treated in tanks. These tanks include wastewater treatment tanks. 2. Containers The container emission point type for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category represents the organic HAP emissions from wastes or recoverable materials containing organic HAP stored, treated, or otherwise handled in drums, dumpsters, roll-off boxes, trucks, and railcars. 3. Land Disposal Units The land disposal unit emission point type for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category represents the organic HAP emissions from resulting from the disposal of wastes containing organic HAP in surface impoundments, landfills, land treatment units, and waste piles. 4. Process Vents The process vent emission point type for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category represents the organic HAP emissions from process vents on enclosed treatment processes other than processes which burn the waste or recoverable material (e.g., incinerators, boilers, furnaces). Examples of enclosed treatment processes included in this emission point type are distillation units, thin-film evaporators, solvent extraction units, air stripping units, and steam stripping units. 5. Equipment Leaks The equipment leak emission point type for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category represents the organic HAP emissions from gaseous and liquid leaks in ancillary equipment used to operate units managing, conveying, or handling wastes or recoverable materials. This ancillary equipment includes pumps, compressors, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, flanges and other connectors, and product accumulator vessels. D. Definition of Source To develop a NESHAP, the EPA first defines the source category and determines the types of HAP emitted from this source category that are to be controlled by establishing emission standards. Within a source category, the EPA must next decide which of the sources of HAP emissions (i.e., emission points or groupings of emission points) are most appropriate for establishing separate emission standards in the context of the CAA statutory requirements and the industry operating practices for the particular source category. The EPA considered three options for defining ``source'' for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP.
