FR940104-2-00056 FR940104-2-00037 National Park Service Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore Advisory Commission Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act that a meeting of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore Advisory Commission will be held at 1 p.m. (PST) on Saturday, January 22, 1994, at West Marin School in Point Reyes Station, California to hear presentations on issues related to management of the Point Reyes National Seashore and adjoining Golden Gate National Recreation lands. The Advisory Commission was established by Public Law 92&hyph;589 to provide for the free exchange of ideas between the National Park Service and the public and to facilitate the solicitation of advice or other counsel from members of the public on problems pertinent to the National Park Service systems in Marin, San Francisco and San Mateo Counties. Members of the Commission are as follows: Mr. Richard Bartke, Chairman Ms. Amy Meyer, Vice Chair Mr. Ernest Ayala Dr. Howard Cogswell Brig. Gen. John Crowley, USA (ret) Mr. Margot Patterson Doss Mr. Neil D. Eisenberg Mr. Jerry Friedman Mr. Steve Jeong Ms. Daphne Greene Ms. Gimmy Park Li Mr. Gary Pinkston Mr. Merritt Robinson Mr. R. H. Sciaroni Mr. John J. Spring Dr. Edgar Wayburn Mr. Joseph Williams Mr. Mel Lane Included on the agenda for this public meeting will be: 1. Presentation of Giocomini Ranch Wetlands Feasibility Study. 2. Status report on tule elk assessment. 3. Report on range conditions at Point Reyes National Seashore. 4. Report on the proposed Education Center Annex at Point Reyes National Seashore. Interested individuals, representatives of organizations, and public officials are invited to express their views in person at the January 22 public meeting. No action is anticipated on these issues by the Advisory Commission. This meeting will be recorded for documentation and transcribed for dissemination. Minutes of the meeting will be available to the public after approval of the full Advisory Commission. A transcript for this meeting will be available after February 11, 1994. For copies of the minutes contact the Office of the Staff Assistant, Golden Gate National Recreation Area, Building 201, Fort Mason, San Francisco, California 94123. Dated: December 22, 1993. Patricia L. Neubacher, Acting Regional Director, Western Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;P
