FR940413-2-00119 FR940413-2-00060 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR [SGA No. DAA 94&hyph;005] Employment and Training Administration Job Training Partnership Act: Model Apprenticeship Instruction Program AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and solicitation for grant application (SGA). SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), Employment and Training Administration (ETA), under Title IV, part D, of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) is soliciting proposals for the development of model training materials to assist high school students who may not attend college to learn about the carpentry trade and how to perform in it and, in so doing, to facilitate their entry into the work force. Funding for this solicitation will come from Title IV, part D of JTPA. DOL has set aside up to $300,000 for this competitive procurement. As a result of this solicitation, one (1) award will be made for a period of fifteen (15) months with the possibility of two (2) option years. DATES: Application for grant awards will be accepted commencing April 13, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications shall be May 16, 1994, at 2 p.m. (Eastern Time). ADDRESSES: Applications shall be mailed to the Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Attention: Willie E. Harris, Reference: SGA/DAA 94&hyph;005, Employment and Training Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, room S&hyph;4203, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Willie E. Harris, Division of Acquisition and Assistance. Telephone (202) 219&hyph;8702 (this is not a toll free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This announcement consists of five parts: Part I_Background, Part II_Application Process, Part III_Statement of Work, Part IV_Evaluation Criteria, and Part V_Reporting Requirements. Part I_Background Seventy-five percent of America's young people do not achieve a college degree. Many of these young people are not equipped with the basic academic and occupational skills needed in an increasingly complex labor market. It is well established that the low-skill, high-paying manufacturing jobs that once provided decent employment for relatively unskilled Americans no longer exist. Therefore, many high school graduates do not find stable, career-track jobs for five to ten years after graduation. In today's highly competitive global economy, business performance is determined in large part by the knowledge and skills of workers. The technological pressures make employers reluctant to take a chance on inexperienced high school graduates whose diplomas signal nothing about their skills, knowledge, and ability to perform increasingly difficult work. The lack of effective tools to aid high school students gain the necessary skills to enable them in making the transition from school to work successfully has also had a significant economic impact on those students. In the 1980s, the gap in earnings between high school graduates and college graduates doubled; for those without high school diplomas, the gap grew even wider. Congress took cognizance of this lack of a comprehensive and effective school-to-work transition system in report language accompanying the Department of Labor's Fiscal Year 1993 appropriation legislation in referring to programs that would benefit high school students who may not attend college. Such programs would ideally offer junior and senior year high school students the opportunity to begin learning a trade while still in school and, upon their graduation, they would have the opportunity to be placed in a full-time registered apprenticeship program. In addition, school-to-work programs assist students in making the transition from school to a good first job on a high skill, high wage career track. Combining learning at the worksite with learning in school, school-to-work programs establish a partnership between schools and employers and prepare students for either a high quality job requiring technical skills or further education and training. Part II_Application Process A. Eligible Applicants The award under this competition will be made to a non-profit organization. B. Submission of Proposal An original and three (3) copies of the proposal shall be submitted. The proposal shall consist of two (2) separate and distinct parts:
