FR940505-1-00211 FR940505-1-00012 a. Recall standards. The key premise of the enhanced in-use compliance recall program is that vehicles meet their certified emission levels throughout their entire useful life. The standards which will apply under the enhanced in-use compliance recall program for LDVs, LDTs and MDVs will be those in the tables presented above in Section A.(2). Calculation of composite NMHC emissions will be according to the equation also presented in Appendix I.A.2.a. above. b. Consideration of maintenance, tampering, and abuse. For 49 state vehicles, CAA section 207(c) limits manufacturers' responsibility to those vehicles that have been ``properly maintained and used.'' Manufacturers are able to exclude vehicles that do not receive such care or cannot be proven to have received such care from the recall testing pool or, if they believe that such vehicles have been included, challenge the validity of any findings made. Due to this limitation, EPA generally only tests vehicles that have been maintained and used in strict accordance to the owner's maintenance manual. It is particularly difficult to find older vehicles with sufficient documentation or to prove ``proper care.'' The current program, therefore, provides little incentive to the manufacturer to design and build vehicles with durable emissions performance under normal or typical maintenance and use. As mentioned in the introduction in Section 2.d of the preamble, the primary goal of the enhanced in-use compliance program is to ensure that vehicles remain in compliance with emissions standards in use over their full life under normal operating conditions. If motor vehicles are to cease to be a major source of ozone-related emissions and noncompliance with the NAAQS for ozone, manufacturers must make greater efforts to ensure continued in-use emissions performance. Therefore, EPA proposes not to exclude vehicles from recall testing unless they have been subject to obvious abuse or tampering. Obvious abuse or tampering includes: (1) Less than one half the recommended level of oil in the engine, (2) the deliberate removal of the catalyst or evaporative canister, (3) the turbocharging of a naturally aspirated engine, and (4) damage to the engine or emission controls resulting from a vehicular accident. EPA is proposing to exclude such vehicles from recall testing because such actions can severely affect vehicle emissions and the manufacturer has no reasonable way of controlling or limiting the impact of these items on emissions. EPA requests comments on other specific items that would meet these criteria. In addition, EPA will not perform a vehicle ``tune-up'' or perform other emission related repairs or maintenance before testing. EPA believes that pre-recall maintenance would defeat the purpose of the enhanced in-use compliance recall program, which is to further encourage durable designs. Even hoses whose proper connection is critical to acceptable emission performance can be designed to be unlikely to disconnect during normal maintenance and use. As with current recall testing, EPA will inspect vehicles prior to testing to determine if obvious abuse or tampering has occurred. As is current EPA practice, the vehicle manufacturer can be present at time of vehicle procurement and testing to help ensure that vehicles are appropriately screened for obvious abuse and tampering problems. It is also important to point out, as will be discussed in more detail in the next section, that only vehicles which are subject to the new enhanced I/M program are candidates for enhanced in-use recall testing. Participation in this I/M program should encourage owners to perform reasonable maintenance and deter emission related tampering. Again, EPA requests comments on the types of abuse or tampering which would allow for the exclusion of vehicles from the recall sample. Commenters should provide supporting rationale and data to the extent practicable so that EPA may ascertain the severity, likelihood, and possible mitigating actions. c. Test vehicle selection. EPA proposes to select vehicles for enhanced in-use compliance recall testing from the portion of the vehicle family population that is subject to the enhanced I/M testing program described above. This would essentially limit testing to only vehicles that are registered in one of the three FIP areas, unless the State of California opts to adopt enhanced I/M procedures in other areas of the state. EPA is proposing to limit the sampling in this way because recall testing resources are limited and the vehicles registered in the three FIP areas are the most relevant with regard to air quality in these areas. Furthermore, problems that cause noncompliance within this subpopulation of vehicles are very likely to exist in the population as a whole. The reverse may not be true because I/M will be insuring reasonable maintenance and catching and correcting emissions problems. EPA believes it would be inappropriate to require a recall campaign due to a problem found outside of a FIP area that enhanced I/M would have possibly already corrected. EPA requests comments on the above sampling methods. EPA also requests comments on other alternatives, including limiting the sampling to vehicles subject to basic I/M as well as enhanced I/M or sampling from the entire state's vehicle population. d. Testing throughout the vehicle's useful life. EPA proposes to conduct recall testing throughout the useful life of the vehicles specified in the applicable regulations. EPA would also require any necessary remedial actions to be performed on all vehicles in the vehicle family still within their useful life. EPA believes that conducting recall in this manner is consistent with the intent of the enhanced in-use compliance program, which is to hold the manufacturers responsible for in-use emissions compliance over the full useful life period.
