FR940328-2-00070 FR940328-2-00046 Liquid effluent sample data for 1982 through September 1993 was reviewed and indicates that the results are a small fraction of the values set forth in 10 CFR part 20, Appendix B, Table II, Column 2. CE conducts an environmental sampling program to determine if site operations are impacting the environment. Air, soil, vegetation, surface water, and ground water samples are collected from various locations on or near the plant site. Review of the data for 1982 through September 1993 indicates there is no significant impact to the environment from manufacturing operations. A dose assessment was performed to evaluate the impact from site operations to the maximally exposed individual who would be the nearest resident. The maximally exposed individual is located 950 feet (290 m), west-northwest of the plant site. The effective whole body dose for the maximally exposed individual is 3.31E&hyph;02 mrem/year. The critical organ for this exposure would be the lungs, with a dose of 1.90E&hyph;01 mrem/year. The annual dose received by the nearest resident is below the federal dose limits set forth in 10 CFR part 20 and 40 CFR part 190, 500 mrem/year and 25 mrem/year, respectively. Conclusion Liquid and airborne effluents released to the environment are well below all regulatory limits. Results of the environmental monitoring program have shown that environmental radiation levels are not increasing as a result of site operations. The total whole body dose received by the maximally exposed individual from site operations is well below federal limits. Therefore, the staff concludes that the impact to the environment and to human health and safety from manufacturing nuclear fuel at this site has been minimal. Alternatives to the Proposed Action The alternative to the proposed action would be to deny the license renewal. Not renewing the operating license would cause CE to cease operations and begin decontamination and decommissioning activities at the site. While terminating licensed activities at CE may create a minimal positive effect on the immediate environment, the socioeconomic impact of denying the license would adversely affect the area because CE is one of the largest employers in the area. This alternative would be considered if there were public health and safety issues that could not be resolved to the satisfaction of the NRC. Agencies and Persons Consulted Staff utilized the application dated November 22, 1989, and additional information dated October 11, and December 16, 1991, and December 10, 1993. Staff toured the CE facility on August 18 and 19, 1990. The region III inspector and CE staff were consulted in preparing this document. The staff also contacted personnel from the State of Missouri, Department of Natural Resources, Air Pollution Control Program. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has prepared an Environmental Assessment related to the renewal of Special Nuclear Material License SNM&hyph;33. On the basis of the assessment, the Commission has concluded that environmental impacts that would be created by the proposed licensing action would not be significant and do not warrant the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement. Accordingly, it has been determined that a Finding of No Significant Impact is appropriate. The Environmental Assessment and the above documents related to this proposed action are available for public inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Document Room at the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC, and the Local Public Document Room located at the Jefferson College Library, 1000 Viking Drive, Hillsboro, MO. Opportunity for a Hearing Any person whose interest may be affected by the issuance of this renewal may file a request for a hearing. Any request for hearing must be filed with the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, within 30 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register ; be served on the NRC staff (Executive Director for Operations, One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852), and on the licensee (Combustion Engineering, Inc., P.O. Box 107, Hematite, Missouri, 63047); and must comply with the requirements for requesting a hearing set forth in the Commission's regulation, 10 CFR part 2, Subpart L, ``Informal Hearing Procedures for Adjudications in Materials Licensing Proceedings.'' These requirements, which the requestor must address in detail, are: 1. The interest of the requestor in the proceeding; 2. How that interest may be affected by the results of the proceeding, including the reasons why the requestor should be permitted a hearing; 3. The requestor's areas of concern about the licensing activity that is the subject matter of the proceeding; and 4. The circumstances establishing that the request for hearing is timely, that is, filed within 30 days of the date of this notice. In addressing how the requestor's interest may be affected by the proceeding, the request should describe the nature of the requestor's right under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, to be made a party to the proceeding; the nature and extent of the requestor's property, financial, or other (i.e., health, safety) interest in the proceeding; and the possible effect of any order that may be entered in the proceeding upon the requestor's interest. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 17th day of March 1994. Robert C. Pierson, Chief, Licensing Branch, Division of Fuel Cycle Safety and Safeguards, NMSS. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7209 Filed 3&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
