FR940711-1-00027 FR940711-1-00003 (i) it incurred stranded costs on behalf of its wholesale requirements customer based on an expectation that was reasonable when the costs were incurred that the customer's contract would be extended; (ii) the stranded costs are not more than the customer would have contributed to the utility had the customer remained a wholesale requirements customer of the utility; and (iii) it has and will take reasonable measures to mitigate stranded costs. (3) Rebuttable Presumption. If a public utility or transmitting utility seeks recovery of wholesale stranded costs associated with an existing contract, as permitted in paragraph(c)(1) of this section, and the existing contract contains a notice provision, there will be a rebuttable presumption that the utility had no reasonable expectation of continuing to serve the customer beyond the term of the notice provision. Alternative A: (d) Recovery of Retail Stranded Costs. (1) General requirement. A public utility or transmitting utility may seek to recover retail stranded costs through rates for wholesale or retail transmission services only if: (i) an appropriate State or local regulatory body has not explicitly considered and addressed retail stranded costs; or (ii) an appropriate State or local regulatory body has explicitly addressed stranded costs, but there is a conflict within or among State regulatory bodies regarding the State or local authority's disposition of the issue. (2) Evidentiary Demonstration Necessary for Retail Stranded Cost Recovery. A public utility or transmitting utility seeking to recover retail stranded costs must demonstrate that: (i) the stranded costs are not more than the customer would have contributed to the utility had the customer remained a retail customer of the utility; and (ii) it has and will take reasonable measures to mitigate stranded costs. Alternative B: (d) Recovery of Retail Stranded Costs. (1) General requirement. No public utility or transmitting utility may seek recovery of retail stranded costs from the Commission.
