FR940725-1-00027 FR940725-1-00008 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Finding on a Petition To List the Fluvial Population of the Arctic Grayling as Endangered AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of 12-month petition finding. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 12-month finding for a petition to add the fluvial population of the Arctic grayling ( Thymallus arcticus ) to the List of Threatened and Endangered Wildlife and Plants. The Service finds that listing the fluvial population of the Arctic grayling is warranted but precluded by other higher priority listing actions. DATES: The finding announced in this notice was made on July 18, 1994. Comments and information may be submitted until further notice. ADDRESSES: Information, comments, or questions concerning this finding may be submitted to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Montana Field Office, 100 N. Park Avenue, Suite 320, Helena, Montana 59601. The petition, 90-day finding, 12-month finding, and supporting data are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dale Harms, Assistant Field Supervisor, at the above address, telephone (406) 449&hyph;5225. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(B) of the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), requires that for any petition to revise the Lists of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants, a finding be made within 12 months of the date of receipt of the petition on whether the petitioned action is (i) not warranted, (ii) warranted, or (iii) warranted but precluded by the efforts to revise the lists and expeditious progress is being made in listing and delisting species. Notice of the finding is to be published promptly it the Federal Register . This notice meets the latter requirement for the 12-month finding made earlier for the petition discussed below. Information contained in this notice is a summary of the information in the 12-month finding, which is the Fish and Wildlife Service's (Service) decision document. A petition dated October 2, 1991, was received by the Service from the Biodiversity Legal Foundation and George Wuerthner on October 9, 1991. The petition request that the ``fluvial Arctic grayling'' be listed as an endangered species throughout its historic range in the conterminous United States. Additionally, the petitioners requested that critical habitat be designated. The petitioners stated that the decline of the Fluvial Arctic grayling is a result of many factors. The primary causes cited by the petitioners were habitat degradation as a result of the effects of domestic livestock grazing and stream diversions for irrigation, competition with nonnative trout species, and past overharvesting by anglers. Additionally, the petition stated that much of the annual recruitment is lost in irrigation ditches. Notice of a 90-day finding published in the January 19, 1993, Federal Register (58 FR 4975) found that the petitioners provided substantial information indicating that listing the fluvial population of the Arctic grayling of the upper Missouri River, in Montana and northwestern Wyoming, may be warranted. The notice also indicated that the Fluvial Arctic grayling population in Michigan is extinct, thus there was not substantial information to indicate that listing that population may be warranted. Concurrent with publishing notice of the 90-day finding in the Federal Register , the Service initiated a status review.
