FR940602-2-00027 FR940602-2-00025 Office of Environmental Management Innovative Technologies to Accelerate Characterization, Treatment, Remediation, and Storage/Disposal of Mixed Radioactive/Hazardous Waste at Federal Facilities AGENCY: Office of Environmental Management, U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of request for information (RFI). SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) Office of Environmental Management (EM) is soliciting information from private companies regarding their capabilities to demonstrate new and innovative technologies that may accelerate or enhance site activities in characterization, treatment, remediation, and storage/disposal of mixed radioactive/hazardous wastes at federal facilities in the Western United States. This is not a solicitation for government proposals or bids for procurement or financial assistance, but rather a request for information on new and innovative technologies which may address characterization, treatment, and storage/disposal of mixed or hazardous waste. Based on information received from this RFI, a formal RFP(s) may be issued focusing on specific needs and site characteristics. DATES: Information should be submitted by August 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Information should be submitted to Dr. George Coyle, Office of Technology Development, EM&hyph;50, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., room 5B&hyph;014, Washington, DC 20585. FAX 202&hyph;586&hyph;6773. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. George Coyle, at the above address, or by phone at 202&hyph;586&hyph;6382. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The responses to the RFI will be reviewed by the Mixed Radioactive/Hazardous Waste Working Group of the Federal Advisory Committee to Develop On-Site Innovative Technologies (DOIT Committee). The DOIT Committee consists of the Secretaries of the U.S. Departments of Energy, Defense, and the Interior, the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and members of the Western Governor's Association (or their designees). The Federal Advisory Committee will recommend a program to review information concerning technologies regarding environmental restoration/ waste management at DOE sites in western states; recommending demonstration projects for implementation; and identifying regulatory, institutional, or other barriers to technology development. Pursuant to the Advisory Committee's Charter, the initial lead agency is the Department of Energy, for which the Office of Technology Development serves as the coordinating office. The Department of Energy has requested funding in its budget proposal for a project to conduct field demonstrations of innovative technology involving mixed waste (characterization, treatment, and storage/disposal) beginning in calendar year 1995. This program will implement the recommendations of the DOIT Committee. The goal will be to expedite cleanup of federal sites by demonstrating environmental technologies which will address regulatory barriers and public concerns throughout the technology demonstration project process. Factors that should be addressed in descriptions of cleanup technology are: _Ability to alleviate risks to public health and safety and to the environment; _Capacity for public acceptance, permit and regulatory issues; _Extent of private sector and multi-agency involvement; _Potential for technology transfer or commercialization; _Likelihood of successful demonstration (technical risks, technology component and system); _Capacity for volume reduction of hazardous and radioactive components; _Viability of final waste forms and treated secondary waste forms which can gain public acceptance, be relatively stable, and meet regulatory criteria; _Magnitude of recycling and material recovery potential; and _Ease of implementation to full scale initiative. Additionally, the following factors are considered to be important by the Mixed Radioactive/Hazardous Waste Working Group of the Committee in its review of cleanup technologies: _The extent to which the technologies will ultimately remediate mixed waste at sites in one or more of the following states and territories: Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Colorado, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Northern Marianna Islands, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming; _The magnitude of the problem to which this technology can be applied (total volume, multiple sites, etc.); and _The extent to which the stakeholders will want to support DOE's development of the technology. Interested parties should submit a short paper not to exceed five (5) pages that will describe the technology and explain why it will ultimately achieve the above mentioned objectives. If possible, papers should not include corporate and proprietary information. Respondents are advised to clearly identify any and all proprietary data submitted in response to this RFI, so that the Department is made aware of information which may need such protection. The duty to identify proprietary information is not the responsibility of the Department of Energy. In addition, the Department is under no obligation to pay for the expenses of submitting responses to the RFI. The dates on which the Working Group will discuss specific concept papers will be published in advance in the Federal Register . Those meetings will be open to the public. Issued in Washington, DC, on May 25, 1994. Clyde Frank, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Office of Technology Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13420 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
