FR940429-0-00247 FR940429-0-00015 (2)(i) If the Secretary revokes the provisional certification of an institution under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the Secretary sends the institution a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested. The Secretary also may transmit the notice by other, more expeditious means, if practical. (ii) The revocation takes effect on the date that the Secretary mails the notice to the institution. (iii) The notice states the basis for the revocation, the consequences of the revocation to the institution, and that the institution may request the Secretary to reconsider the revocation. The consequences of a revocation are described in ยง668.26. (3)(i) An institution may request reconsideration of a revocation under this section by submitting to the Secretary, within 20 days of the institution's receipt of the Secretary's notice, written evidence that the revocation is unwarranted. The institution must file the request with the Secretary by hand-delivery, mail, or facsimile transmission. (ii) The filing date of the request is the date on which the request is_ (A) Hand-delivered; (B) Mailed; or (C) Sent by facsimile transmission. (iii) Documents filed by facsimile transmission must be transmitted to the Secretary in accordance with instructions provided by the Secretary in the notice of revocation. An institution filing by facsimile transmission is responsible for confirming that a complete and legible copy of the document was received by the Secretary. (iv) The Secretary discourages the use of facsimile transmission for documents longer than five pages. (4)(i) The designated department official making the decision concerning an institution's request for reconsideration of a revocation is different from, and not subject to supervision by, the official who initiated the revocation of the institution's provisional certification. The deciding official promptly considers an institution's request for reconsideration of a revocation and notifies the institution, by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the final decision. The Secretary also may transmit the notice by other, more expeditious means, if practical. (ii) If the Secretary determines that the revocation is warranted, the Secretary's notice informs the institution that the institution may apply for reinstatement of participation only after the later of the expiration of_ (A) Eighteen months after the effective date of the revocation; or (B) A debarment or suspension of the institution under Executive Order (E.O.) 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 comp., p. 189) or the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4. (iii) If the Secretary determines that the revocation of the institution's provisional certification is unwarranted, the Secretary's notice informs the institution that the institution's provisional certification is reinstated, effective on the date that the Secretary's original revocation notice was mailed, for a specified period of time. (5)(i) The mailing date of a notice of revocation or a request for reconsideration of a revocation is the date evidenced on the original receipt of mailing from the U.S. Postal Service. (ii) The date on which a request for reconsideration of a revocation is submitted is_ (A) If the request was sent by a delivery service other than the U.S. Postal Service, the date evidenced on the original receipt by that service; and (B) If the request was sent by facsimile transmission, the date that the document is recorded as received by facsimile equipment that receives the transmission. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099c and E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 189) and E.O. 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235)) 11. Newly redesignated ยง668.14 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.14 Program participation agreement. (a)(1) An institution may participate in any Title IV, HEA program, other than the SSIG and NEISP programs, only if the institution enters into a written program participation agreement with the Secretary, on a form approved by the Secretary. A program participation agreement conditions the initial and continued participation of an eligible institution in any Title IV, HEA program upon compliance with the provisions of this part, the individual program regulations, and any additional conditions specified in the program participation agreement that the Secretary requires the institution to meet. (2) An institution's program participation agreement applies to each branch campus and other location of the institution that meets the applicable requirements of this part unless otherwise specified by the Secretary. (b) By entering into a program participation agreement, an institution agrees that_ (1) It will comply with all statutory provisions of or applicable to Title IV of the HEA, all applicable regulatory provisions prescribed under that statutory authority, and all applicable special arrangements, agreements, and limitations entered into under the authority of statutes applicable to Title IV of the HEA, including the requirement that the institution will use funds it receives under any Title IV, HEA program and any interest or other earnings thereon, solely for the purposes specified in and in accordance with that program; (2) As a fiduciary responsible for administering Federal funds, if the institution is permitted to request funds under a Title IV, HEA program advance payment method, the institution will time its requests for funds under the program to meet the institution's immediate Title IV, HEA program needs;
