FR940613-0-00139 FR940613-0-00017 (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577&hyph;0181) §968.410 Assessments. (a) Requirement. Each PHA participating in the program under this subpart shall cooperate with an onsite assessment of the vacancy situation of the PHA by an assessment team, whose members will be selected by the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. The Secretary will schedule assessments in a priority order, based on: (1) The nature and extent of each PHA's vacancy problem, and HUD's goal of achieving maximum reoccupancy using the funds available; and (2) The availability of assessment teams and the expected level of complexity of the assessments to be scheduled. (b) Composition of assessment team. The assessment team shall include representatives of HUD, an equal number of independent experts knowledgeable with respect to vacancy problems and management issues relating to public housing, and officials of the PHA. (c) Scope of assessment. The assessment team shall assess the vacancy situation of the PHA to determine the causes of the vacancies, including any management deficiencies or modernization activities. At least one member of the assessment team shall consult with residents of the PHA's units regarding the vacancy situation of the PHA. The assessment team shall also examine indicators of the management performance of the PHA relating to vacancy, which shall include consideration of the performance of the PHA as measured by the indicators under paragraphs (A) and (E) of section 6(j)(1) of the Act (implemented by 24 CFR 901.10(b)(1) and 901.10(b)(5)). (d) Report of assessment team. The assessment team shall submit to the PHA and the Secretary written recommendations for management improvements to eliminate or alleviate management deficiencies and for strategies to deal with vacant units. If requested by the PHA, HUD will assist the PHA in preparing the vacancy reduction plan under §968.407, including determining appropriate actions to eliminate vacancies. §968.413 Funding. (a) Eligible activities. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, assistance may be provided under this subpart to PHAs submitting vacancy reduction plans for reasonable costs of the following activities: (1) Implementing management improvements; (2) Rehabilitating vacant dwelling units identified in the plan in accordance with §968.407; and (3) Carrying out vacancy reduction activities described in the plan in accordance with §968.407. (b) Assistance to troubled PHAs. Assistance may be provided to a troubled PHA only if the PHA meets either of the conditions described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section: (1) The PHA has demonstrated substantial progress on the following vacancy related Public Housing Management Assessment Plan (PHMAP) indicators: 2 (Modernization), 5 (Unit Turnaround), 6 (Outstanding Work Orders), or 7 (Annual Inspection and Condition of Units and Systems), as demonstrated by a PHMAP score of ``C'' or better. If the PHA does not have a score of ``C'' or better on these indicators, substantial progress may be demonstrated as follows: (i) The PHA, based on current data would qualify for a score of ``C'' or better on the indicators. (ii) A statement of alternative arrangements that have been made to assure effective administration of the function covered by the indicator, i.e. rehabilitation and modernization activities (in regard to the units for which funding is requested) and the PHA-wide administration of unit turnaround, work orders, and preventive maintenance. (2) The PHA has provided reasonable assurances that substantial progress will be made to remedy any management deficiencies identified by the assessment team or any vacancy-related deficiencies identified in HUD reviews and audits, through activities that have already begun or will be initiated.
