FR940304-1-00125 FR940304-1-00014 With regard to the fluorescent ballast test procedure, Advance Transformer and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association stated that there is presently no test procedure for electronic ballasts. (Advance Transformer, No. 25 at 2; National Electrical Manufacturers Association, No. 41 at 2). The Department used the present test procedure for magnetic ballasts to measure the ballast efficacy factor of electronic ballasts. The Department notes that the 60 hertz input power measurement and the light output measurement are the same, regardless of the type of ballast (low or high frequency). The Department believes that the existing test procedure is adequate to measure the ballast efficacy factor of electronic ballasts. Three manufacturers provided energy savings estimates for various design options. Energy Advantage stated that 20 percent savings from electronic ballasts, compared to energy-efficient magnetic ballasts, are possible. In addition, this energy savings can be accomplished with up to a 50 percent increase in lifetime. (Energy Advantage, No. 27 at 1). Magnetek said that losses for a two lamp F40 electronic ballast can be reduced from 5&hyph;6 watts to about 3.5&hyph;4.5 watts, for a savings of 1.25&hyph;1.5 watts out of 56&hyph;58 watts, by substitution of an integrated circuit for discrete components. (Magnetek, No. 35 at 1). One other company, Valmont, provided energy savings tables for five ballast product classes, their maximum technologically feasible efficiencies, and the costs of achieving those efficiencies. (Valmont, No. 16 at 4&hyph;7). The Department used some of the above data in combination with data from directories and other published data 36 to determine energy savings for various classes of fluorescent ballasts. (See Technical Support Document, Volume B). The Department found that 10&hyph;15 percent energy savings from electronic ballasts, relative to energy-efficient magnetic ballasts, are possible. The Department developed data that indicated larger energy savings are possible with electronic ballasts than were estimated by Valmont. This resulted in higher maximum technologically feasible efficiencies for all ballast product classes than provided by Valmont. The Department used incremental manufacturer costs that were specific to the energy efficiency gains estimated for each ballast product class studied, and, therefore, did not use the cost data provided by Valmont. A more detailed discussion of assumptions and analysis used for this product class are provided in the Technical Support Document. As for lifetimes of ballasts, the Department assumed the lifetime for an electronic ballast to be equal to that of a magnetic ballast, since no experimental data were received or found to differentiate their lifetimes. 36 R. Verderber, O. Morse, and F. Rubinstein, ``Performance of Electronic Ballast and Controls with 34 and 40 Watt F40 Fluorescent Lamps,'' IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications , Vol. 25 No. 6, November 1989 and A. Loruss and K. Bowes, Harmonic and Power Characteristics of Electronic Ballasts for Fluorescent Applications , Northeast Utilities Service Company, Lab Test, June 1990; Directory of Certified Fluorescent Lamp Ballasts and Certified Luminaire Manufacturers, CEC, March 4, 1991. Three manufacturers suggested that some combination of education and controls would be superior to standards in saving lighting energy use. Advance Transformer contended that fluorescent ballasts do not belong in the proposed rulemaking, and that improved education about lighting will accomplish more than standards. (Advance Transformer, No. 25 at 1). Magnetek and Certified Ballast Manufacturers both stated that controls, i.e., occupancy sensors, light feedback, daylighting, and automatic timers, can save more energy than can more stringent ballast standards. (Magnetek, No. 35 at 1; Certified Ballast Manufacturers, No. 47 at 2).
