FR940926-0-00029 FR940926-0-00009 (d) Daily newspaper cross-ownership rule . No license for an AM, FM or TV broadcast station shall be granted to any party (including all parties under common control) if such party directly or indirectly owns, operates or controls a daily newspaper and the grant of such license will result in: (1) The predicted or measured 2 mV/m contour of an AM station, computed in accordance with ยง73.183 or ยง73.186, encompassing the entire community in which such newspaper is published; or (2) The predicted 1 mV/m contour for an FM station, computed in accordance with ยง73.313, encompassing the entire community in which such newspaper is published; or (3) The Grade A contour of a TV station, computed in accordance with ยง73.684, encompassing the entire community in which such newspaper is published. (e)(1) National multiple ownership rule . No license for a commercial AM, FM or TV broadcast station shall be granted, transferred or assigned to any party (including all parties under common control) if the grant, transfer or assignment of such license would result in such party or any of its stockholders, partners, members, officers or directors, directly or indirectly, owning, operating or controlling, or having a cognizable interest in: (i) More than 18 AM or more than 18 FM stations, or more than 20 AM or more than 20 FM stations two years after the effective date of this rule, provided, however, that an entity may have an attributable but noncontrolling interest in an additional 3 AM and 3 FM stations that are small business controlled or minority-controlled; (ii) More than 14 television stations; or (iii) More than 12 television stations that are not minority-controlled. (2) No license for a commercial TV broadcast station shall be granted, transferred or assigned to any party (including all parties under common control) if the grant, transfer or assignment of such license would result in such party or any of its stockholders, partners, members, officers or directors, directly or indirectly, owning, operating or controlling, or having a cognizable interest in, either: (i) TV stations which have an aggregate national audience reach exceeding thirty (30) percent, or (ii) TV stations which have an aggregate national audience reach exceeding twenty-five (25) percent and which are not minority-controlled. (3) For purposes of this paragraph: (i) National audience reach means the total number of television households in the Arbitron Area of Dominant Influence (ADI) markets in which the relevant stations are located divided by the total national television households as measured by ADI data at the time of a grant, transfer or assignment of a license. For purposes of making this calculation, UHF television stations shall be attributed with 50 percent of the television households in their ADI market. Where the relevant application forms require a showing with respect to audience reach and the application relates to an area where Arbitron ADI market data are unavailable, then the applicant shall make a showing as to the number of television households in its market. Upon such a showing, the Commission shall make a determination as to the appropriate audience reach to be attributed to the applicant. (ii) TV broadcast station or TV station excludes stations which are primarily satellite operations. (iii) Minority-controlled means more than 50 percent owned by one or more members of a minority group. (iv) Minority means Black, Hispanic, American Indian, Alaska Native, Asian and Pacific Islander. (v) Small business means an individual or business entity which, at the time of application to the Commission, had, including all affiliated entities under common control, annual revenues of less than $500,000 and assets of less than $1,000,000. (f) This section is not applicable to noncommercial educational FM and noncommercial educational TV stations. Note 1: The word ``control'' as used herein is not limited to majority stock ownership, but includes actual working control in whatever manner exercised. Note 2: In applying the provisions of this section, ownership and other interests in broadcast licensees, cable television systems and daily newspapers will be attributed to their holders and deemed cognizable pursuant to the following criteria:
