FR940426-2-00125 FR940426-2-00078 Tuesday April 26, 1994 Part XI Department of Transportation Federal Transit Administration Private Enterprise Participation; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 80␣/␣Tuesday, April 26, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Transit Administration [Docket No. 93&hyph;B] Private Enterprise Participation AGENCY: Federal Transit Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of Recision of Private Enterprise Participation Guidance. SUMMARY: On November 26, 1993, the Federal Transit Administration published a Notice in the Federal Register proposing to rescind its current guidance on private enterprise participation, which was believed to be unnecessary, as well as overly restrictive of the ability of local planning agencies and transit operators to make rational transportation choices in light of local needs. The agency provided a 60-day comment period in connection with the Notice. This final notice announces the agency's decision to rescind the private enterprise guidance as proposed and presents its statement of policy on this issue. DATES: The recisions and statement of policy will be effective 30 days after the date of publication in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John W. Spencer, Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Budget and Policy, Federal Transit Administration, 202/366&hyph;4050; Gregory B. McBride, Deputy Chief Counsel, Federal Transit Administration, 202/366&hyph;4063. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction On November 26, 1993, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) published a Notice of Proposed Recision of Private Enterprise Participation Guidance (58 FR 62407) (the Notice) in which it sought public comment on a proposal to rescind its current guidance on the participation of private enterprise in the provision of mass transit service. The agency stated its belief that the current guidance is unnecessary and restricts the ability of local planning agencies and transit operators to make rational transportation choices in light of local needs. As discussed in detail below, FTA received a total of 415 comments from the public on its proposal. Although many comments were not supportive, we found all helpful in the decisionmaking process. In the end, FTA remains convinced that its proposed course of action represents responsible public policy that adheres to the statutory construct and recognizes the appropriate roles to be played by the entities involved; accordingly, FTA hereby provides final notice to the public of its decision to rescind its policy statement, ``Private Enterprise Participation in the (Federal Transit) Program'' (49 FR 41310, October 22, 1984); Circular 7005.1; Chapter X of Circular 9040.1C; and Chapter IV of Circular 9070.1C. In this final notice, we present FTA's view of the private enterprise provisions at issue, summarize the comments received in this docket, respond to the five primary issues raised, and discuss the policies that will guide FTA action in this arena in the future. II. Background In light of the comments received, the background discussion of the private enterprise provisions in our November Notice bears reiteration and expansion. As noted there, the principal purpose of the Federal Transit Act, as amended (FT Act), 49 U.S.C. app. 1601 et seq., is to assist the development and improvement of mass transportation systems in metropolitan and rural areas. In sections 3, 9, 16(b)(2), and 18, Congress has authorized FTA to make funds available to State and local public bodies for capital acquisition and construction, operating assistance, and planning activities in connection with mass transportation projects. Congress has expressed its concern that such Federal assistance not be used without regard for the interests of private enterprise. The agency's original authorizing statute, the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964, now the FT Act, contained two provisions, section 3(e) and the first two sentences of section 4(a), which expressed this intent. Section 4(a) provided that [N]o federal financial assistance shall be provided pursuant to subsection (a)&hyph; of section 3 unless the Secretary determines that the facilities and equipment for which the assistance is sought are needed for carrying out a program *␣*␣* necessary for the sound economic and desirable development of such area. Such program shall encourage to the maximum extent feasible the participation of private enterprise. (Emphasis added.) The Federal Public Transportation Act of 1978 deleted this provision, but added a new section 8 that included subsection (e), now subsection (o), which provides that ``[t]he plans and programs required by this section shall encourage to the maximum extent feasible the participation of private enterprise.'' In section 3(e), as revised by the 1978 Act, Congress has directed that where an existing mass transportation company is providing service, FTA may not provide financial assistance to a public body for the operation of competing or supplemental service, unless it finds that the relevant transportation improvement program required by section 8 provides for the participation of private enterprise to the ``maximum extent feasible.''
