FR940810-1-00027 FR940810-1-00006 7. A new section 350.21 is added to read as follows: §350.21 What is required of each applicant relative to individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds? Each applicant for funding under these programs must demonstrate how it will address, in whole or in part, the needs of individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds. The approaches an applicant may take to meet this requirement, in whole or in part, may include one or more of the following: (a) Proposing project objectives concerning minorities with disabilities. (b) Demonstrating that its application addresses a problem that is of particular significance to individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds. (c) Demonstrating that minority individuals will be included in study samples in sufficient numbers to generate information pertinent to minority individuals with disabilities. (d) Drawing study samples and program participant rosters from populations and areas that include minority populations. (e) Providing rehabilitation services, clinical care, or training to minority individuals with disabilities. (f) Disseminating materials to or otherwise increasing the access to disability information among minority populations. (g) An additional method or methods proposed by the applicant and determined by the Secretary to meet this requirement. (Authority: Secs. 12(c) and 21(b)(6); 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 718b(b)(6)) 8. Section 350.34 is amended by adding new paragraphs (a)(8), (b)(5), and (c)(14); removing the word ``and'' at the end of paragraphs (a)(6), (b)(3), and (c)(12); and removing the period and adding, in its place, ``; and'' at the end of paragraphs (a)(7), (b)(4), and (c)(13) to read as follows: §350.34 What selection criteria does the Secretary use in reviewing applications under parts 351, 354, or 355? (a) *␣*␣* (8) The project addresses the needs of individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds in a meaningful way. (b) *␣*␣* (5) There is likely to be widespread dissemination of the results, in a usable and effective manner, to all appropriate target populations, including individuals with disabilities and their family members. (c) *␣*␣* (14) The materials to be used in the project and the materials to be disseminated are likely to be in formats that are accessible to the appropriate populations. * * * * * 9. Section 350.40 is amended by revising paragraph (b)(1)(iii) to read as follows: §350.40 What are the matching requirements? * * * * * (b)(1) *␣*␣* (iii) Research projects concerned with end-stage renal disease, telecommunications, rehabilitation of children with disabilities and older individuals with disabilities, (including American Indians), attracting and retaining rehabilitation professionals in rural areas, producing and distributing captioned video cassettes to individuals who are deaf, and innovative methods for providing services for children with disabilities and their parents. * * * * * 10. A new section 350.41 is added to read as follows: §350.41 What are the requirements of a grantee relative to the Client Assistance Program? All projects that provide services to individuals with disabilities with funds awarded under these programs must advise those individuals who are applicants for or recipients of services under the Act, or the parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals, of the availability and purposes of the Client Assistance Program (CAP) funded under the Act, and must provide information on the means of seeking assistance under the CAP. (Authority: Sec. 20; 29 U.S.C. 718a)
