FR941102-0-00041 FR941102-0-00007 FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 16 CFR Part 410 Deceptive Advertising as to Sizes of Viewable Pictures Shown by Television Receiving Sets AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Notice of final, non-substantive amendments. SUMMARY: The Federal Trade Commission (``Commission'') is issuing final, non-substantive amendments to its Rule on Deceptive Advertising as to Sizes of Viewable Pictures Shown by Television Receiving Sets, known as the Picture Tube Rule. The Commission solicited comments on the Rule as part of the agency's periodic review of rules and guides. Having considered all of the issues raised during the comment period, the Commission is amending the Rule. These amendments add the metric equivalents for measurements stated in inches in the examples used in the Rule, and clarify some of the illustrations. EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of these non-substantive amendments will be December 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Requests for copies of the regulations and the notice of final, non-substantive amendments should be sent to Public Reference Branch, room 130, Federal Trade Commission, 6th & Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Phillip Priesman, Attorney, Division of Advertising Practices, Federal Trade Commission, 6th & Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326&hyph;2484. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction The Commission has determined, as part of its oversight responsibilities, to review rules and guides periodically. These reviews seek information about the costs and benefits of the Commission's rules and guides and their regulatory and economic impact. The information obtained assists the Commission in identifying rules and guides that warrant modification or recision. On April 19, 1993, the Commission published in the Federal Register a request for public comments on its Trade Regulation Rule on Deceptive Advertising as to Sizes of Viewable Pictures Shown by Television Receiving Sets, 16 CFR part 410 (``The Picture Tube Rule'' or ``The Rule''). This Rule, like the other trade regulation rules issued by the Commission, ``define[s] with specificity acts or practices which are unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce. Such rules may include requirements prescribed for the purpose of preventing such acts or practices. A violation of a rule shall constitute an unfair or deceptive act or practice in violation of section 5(a)(1) of (the Federal Trade Commission Act), unless the Commission otherwise expressly provides in its rule.'' 16 CFR 1.8. The Commission may initiate a trade regulation rule proceeding ``upon its own initiative or pursuant to written petition filed with the Secretary by any interested person stating reasonable grounds therefor,'' 16 CFR 1.9. II. The Regulation The Picture Tube Rule sets forth the appropriate means for disclosing the method by which the dimensions of television screens are measured, when the measurement is included in any advertisement or promotional material for the television set. Under the Rule, the method used to measure the size of a television screen must be clearly and conspicuously disclosed in close proximity to the size designation. However, the Rule provides a safe harbor for measurements based on the horizontal dimensions, which may be given without disclosing that the dimensions were measured horizontally. The Rule notes that the measurement must not take into account any curvature of the tube. Further, disclosing the method of measurement in a footnote rather than in the body of the ad does not constitute a disclosure in close proximity to the size designation. The Rule includes examples of both proper and improper representations of size descriptions. Previously, these examples were expressed in terms of inches. Under Executive Order 12770 of July 25, 1991 (56 FR 35801), and the Metric Conversion Act, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act, (15 U.S.C. 205) all federal agencies are required to use the SI metric system of measurement in all procurements, grants and other business-related activities (which include rulemakings), except to the extent that such use is impractical or is likely to cause significant inefficiencies or loss of markets to United States firms. To comply with these provisions, the examples in the Rule have been altered to include the metric equivalent in parentheses beside the English measurements. Thus, the measurements in the examples have been revised to read: 15 inches (38.10 cm); 19 inches (48.26 cm); 20 inches (50.80 cm); 21 inches (53.34 cm); and 262 square inches (1,690.32 sq. cm). This is a technical amendment to an illustrative example in the Rule rather than a substantive amendment to the Rule. It is not intended to create any new requirement under the Rule to use metric measurements or to use them in any particular fashion (for example, in hundredths of centimeters). A new note has been added to the Rule providing that the metric measurements are included for information purposes only, and are not required to be included in any of the disclosures.
