FR940630-2-00165 FR940630-2-00128 (D) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance numbers for the four technical assistance programs under this NOFA are: (1) Supportive Housing Technical Assistance: 14.231 (2) HOME Technical Assistance: 14.239 (3) Community Housing Development Organization (CHDO) Technical Assistance: 14.239 (4) Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Technical Assistance: 14.227. (E) Amount Allocated This NOFA announces the availability of $51 million in TA funds from four separate technical assistance programs: Supportive Housing (SH) TA, HOME TA, Community Housing Development Organization (CHDO) TA and Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) TA. The funds provided are as follows: CDBG TA funds: $7,500,000 CHDO TA funds: 25,000,000 HOME TA funds: 13,000,000 SH TA funds: 5,500,000 Each HUD/CPD Field Office has been allocated a ``fair-share'' of TA funds for purposes of this competition. (See Appendix A to this NOFA.) The amounts are based on allocations of HOME and CDBG funds among the States and other factors designed to represent the approximate TA workload in each jurisdiction. These amounts are only for guidance purposes to applicants in developing their program budgets by Field Office jurisdiction and are not the exact amounts to be awarded in each area or to each provider. The total amount to be awarded to any provider will be determined by HUD based upon the size and needs of the provider's service area within each Field Office jurisdiction in which the provider is selected to operate, the funds available for that area, the number of other awardees selected in that area, and the scope of the technical assistance to be provided. Additionally, HUD may reduce the amount of funds allocated for Field Office jurisdictions to fund national TA providers and other TA providers for activities which cannot be budgeted or estimated by Field Office jurisdiction. HUD may require selected applicants, as a condition of funding, to provide coverage on a geographically broader basis than applied for in order to supplement or strengthen the intermediary network in terms of the location (service area), types and scope of technical assistance proposed. To the extent permitted by funding constraints, HUD intends to provide coverage of as full a range as possible of eligible TA activities of each TA program in each Field Office jurisdiction. To achieve this objective, HUD will fund the highest ranking providers that bring the required expertise in one or more specialized activity areas, and fund portions of providers' proposed programs in which they have the greatest skill and capability for given geographic areas or on a national basis. It also may require national, multi-jurisdictional, or other providers to provide coverage to Field Office jurisdictions which cannot otherwise receive cost-effective support from a TA provider. In selecting applicants for funding, in addition to the ranking factors, HUD will apply program policy criteria identified in Section IV(B) of this NOFA to select a range of providers and projects that would best serve program objectives for each program serviced by the TA funded under this NOFA. Cooperative Agreements will be for a period of up to 36 months. However, HUD reserves the right to terminate awards in accordance with provisions contained in OMB Circulars A&hyph;102, A&hyph;110 and 24 CFR part 85 anytime after 12 months. HUD also reserves the right to withdraw funds from a specific provider, if HUD determines that the urgency of need for the assistance is greater in other Field Office jurisdictions or the demand for assistance is not commensurate with the award for assistance. In addition, HUD reserves the right, using either funds that have been withdrawn from providers, future appropriations or other available appropriations, to provide additional resources to funded applicants that perform well and can demonstrate a need for the additional funds, and to extend the performance period of individual awardees up to a total of 12 additional months. In cases where an applicant selected for funding under this NOFA currently is providing TA under an existing CPD TA grant/cooperative agreement, HUD reserves the right to adjust the start date of funding under this NOFA to coincide with the conclusion of the previous award, or to incorporate the remaining activities from the previous award into the new agreement, adjusting the funding levels as necessary. (F) General Program Requirements (1) Statutory Requirements . All applicants must meet and comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the TA program for which they are chosen in order to be awarded a cooperative agreement. (Appendices C, D, E and F to this NOFA contain copies of applicable regulations.) (2) Profit/Fee . No increment above cost, no fee nor profit, may be paid to any recipient or subrecipient of an award under this NOFA. (3) Statement of Work . After selection for funding but prior to award, each applicant must ensure that any deletions, additions or enhancements to the Statement of Work submitted in the application are incorporated into the approved grant, including details of how the approved Statement of Work will be accomplished. Following a task-by-task format, the approved Statement of Work must: (a) Delineate the tasks and sub-tasks involved in each program for which the grantee is responsible within each Field Office jurisdiction.
