FR940727-0-00142 FR940727-0-00027 Section 36.33(d)␣New cabins. The sentence, ``The activity must be traditional and customary for the applicant and the area, and the need for a cabin must be clearly proven.'' was deleted from the language of paragraph 1 in response to two public comments. Section 36.33(e)␣Commercial cabins. Clients were added to the list of persons that can occupy commercial cabins in response to one comment. Conformance With Statutory and Regulatory Authorities The impact of these regulations on subsistence uses has been evaluated as required by Section 810 of ANILCA. Subsistence use and access are expected to differ little from existing use. The regulations are consistent with the purposes and intent of Section 810 and will result in no significant restrictions on subsistence activities. Properly regulated and managed cabin use is consistent with the purposes for which the various refuges in Alaska were established. National Environmental Policy Act Compliance The promulgation of these cabin management regulations would generally maintain the status quo existing under the current rules. Additionally, changes in environmental effects would be negligible. Therefore the implementation of regulations relative to cabin management on refuges in Alaska is determined to be a categorical exclusion as detailed in the Department of Interior Manual (516 DM 6, Appendix 1). An Environmental Action Memorandum documenting this decision was signed on June 7, 1990. Paperwork Reduction Act The collections of information contained in Section 36.33 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget for approval as required by 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. and assigned clearance number 1018&hyph;0077. Economic Effects This rulemaking was not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under Executive Order 12866. A review under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) has been done to determine whether the rulemaking would have a significant effect on a substantial number of small entities, which include businesses, organizations or governmental jurisdictions. This rulemaking would have no significant effect on such entities as, in most cases, this merely continues pre-existing uses of public lands. Technical Amendment Section 36.3 Information Collection refers to §36.21(f) with respect to receiving a benefit. This section has previously been removed; therefore, this rulemaking will revise Section 36.3 to remove all reference to that section. Primary Author Daryle Lons, Refuges and Wildlife, Alaska Regional Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Anchorage, Alaska, is the primary author of this rulemaking document.
