FR940722-0-00122 FR940722-0-00019 137. Under the plan we adopt here, all licensees that satisfy the gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth criteria to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks will be allowed to pay in installments for licenses granted in those blocks in the 50 largest BTAs. In the smaller BTAs, however, only businesses owned by women and minorities and those licensees with less than $75 million in gross revenues will be able to use installment payments. 115 This distinction is based on the expected lower costs to acquire licenses and construct systems in the smaller BTAs. Thus, with the exception of companies owned by women or minorities, which face additional problems accessing capital, we do not think that a firm with gross revenues exceeding $75 million will require government financing to be competitive in the small BTAs. 116 115 We will apply the same $500 million total assets and $100 million personal net worth standards for purposes of determining eligibility for installment payments in all BTAs. The attribution rules set forth with regard to eligibility to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks also will apply in all BTAs. See infra ¶¶ 158&hyph;168. 116 We note that a consortium of small businesses is eligible for installment payments in any market so long as each member of the consortium satisfies the definition of a small business, as set forth in Section VII.J.2, infra . 138. The installment payment option will enable qualified businesses to pay their winning bid over time. These businesses must make the applicable upfront payment in full before the auction, but are required to make a post-auction down payment equaling only ten percent of their winning bids, half of which will be due five business days after the auction closes. Payment of the other half of the down payment will be deferred until five business days after the license is granted. In general, the remaining 90 percent of the auction price will be paid in installments with interest charges to be fixed at the time of licensing at a rate equal to the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations plus 2.5 percent. Under this general rule, only payments of interest will be due for the first year with principal and interest payments amortized over the remaining nine years of the license. Timely payment of all installments will be a condition of the license grant and failure to make sure timely payment will be grounds for revocation of the license. 117 117 As described in the Second Report and Order, the Commission may, on a case-by-case basis, permit a three to six month grace period within which a licensee may seek a restructuring of the payment plan. 139. Enhanced Installment Payments . As explained previously, small businesses and businesses owned by minorities and women face capital access difficulties not encountered by other firms and, thus, require special measures to ensure their opportunity to participate in broadband PCS. Accordingly, we will provide an ``enhanced'' installment payment plan for these entities. Pursuant to this enhanced installment payment plan, small businesses (as defined below) who win licenses in the entrepreneurs' blocks will be required to pay interest only for the first two years of the license term at the same interest rate as set forth in the general rule. Businesses owned by women and/or minorities will be able to make interest-only payments for three years. Interest will accrue at the Treasury note rate without the additional 2.5 percent. 118 And, finally, businesses that are both small and owned by women and/or minorities will be required to pay only interest for five years. Interest will accrue at the Treasury note rate. 118 To be eligible for these ``enhanced'' installment payments, a firm must satisfy either of the two alternative definitions of a woman or minority-owned business, as set forth in ¶¶ 181&hyph;192, infra , as well as the applicable financial caps. 140. These enhanced installment payments are narrowly tailored to the needs of the various designated entities, as reflected in the record in this proceeding. We believe that varying the moratorium on principal in the early years of the loan and varying the interest rate based on these needs will allow small businesses and companies owned by women and/or minorities to bid higher in auctions, thereby increasing their changes for obtaining licenses. In addition, it will allow them to concentrate their resources on infrastructure build-out and, therefore, it will increase the likelihood that they become viable PCS competitors. 141. Unjust Enrichment Applicable to Installment Payments . To ensure that large businesses do not become the unintended beneficiaries of measures meant for smaller firms, we will use the unjust enrichment provisions adopted in the Second Report and Order applicable to installment payments. Specifically, if a licensee that was awarded installment payments seeks to assign or transfer control of its license to an entity not meeting the applicable eligibility standards set out above during the term of the license, we will require payment of the remaining principal and any interest accrued through the date of assignment as a condition of the license assignment or transfer. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 263; 47 CFR 1.2111(c). Moreover, if an entity seeks to assign or transfer control of a license to an entity that does not qualify for as favorable an installment payment plan, the installment payment plan, if any, for which the acquiring entity qualifies will become effective immediately upon transfer. Thus, a higher interest rate and earlier payment of principal may begin to be applied. For example, a transfer of a license in the fourth year after license grant from a small minority-owned firm to a small non-minority owned firm would require that the firm begin principal payments and the balance would begin accruing interest at a rate 2.5 percent above the rate that had been in effect. 119 Finally, if an investor subsequently purchases an ``attributable'' interest in the businesses and, as a result, the gross revenues or total assets of the business exceed the applicable financial caps, this unjust enrichment provision will also apply. 120 119 We recognize that because of the five-year holding and limited transfer requirements in the entrepreneurs' blocks, these unjust enrichment provisions have limited applicability during the first five years of the license term. Nevertheless, there are some situations in which licensees are permitted to assign or transfer their licenses during this period and the provisions would then apply if the buyer would not have been qualified for installment payments or as favorable an installment payment plan. Furthermore, the unjust enrichment provisions are applicable for the full ten-year license term. 120 See infra ¶¶ 158&hyph;168, for a discussion of which investor interests are ``attributable'' for purposes of calculating the gross revenues and total assets thresholds.
