FR940505-1-00202 FR940505-1-00012 Consequently, each air pollution control agency in the FIP areas must, by virtue of Title V, incorporate and enforce all applicable FIP requirements in operating permits for every source with a potential to emit at or above the level prescribed in section 182 for the area's classification. Title V and EPA's operating permit regulations do not, however, mandate adoption of an operating permit program for nonmajor source categories (for example, in ``Severe'' areas, sources with a potential to emit less than 25 tons per year of VOC and NO X ). Nevertheless, some nonmajor sources are subject to operating permit requirements because they are major sources of air toxics, 107 and for these sources all applicable FIP requirements must be included in the permit and enforced by the air pollution control agency. 107 Certain nonmajor sources subject to section 111 or 112 standards may also be subject in the future to air toxics and operating permit requirements. New section 112 standards may apply to area sources (nonmajor) as well as major sources; EPA will determine whether operating permits are required for these sources when the standards are promulgated. 2. Full transfer of authority through delegation. EPA hopes that the State and local air pollution control agencies will quickly adopt SIP rules that are identical or comparable to the FIP rules, and which could be approved before the FIP regulation is scheduled for initial implementation. If a State or local agency adopts an essentially indistinguishable rule, EPA intends to delegate full implementation responsibilities to the agency immediately following State or local adoption, without opportunity for public comment, unless the delegation is under the authority of section 112, and not covered by a good cause exception. See EPA's enabling guidance for section 112(1). EPA will publish a notice of this delegation in the Federal Register and will otherwise try to ensure that affected sources are aware of that a State or local agency has assumed program implementation responsibilities. Subsequently, EPA will take normal SIP approval action on the State or local substitute rule, simultaneously rescinding the FIP rule in the jurisdiction's control area. As noted in the discussion above regarding the California consumer product rules, EPA is issuing federal rules for these categories because the State has so far chosen not to submit the rules for SIP action. Since EPA's FIP rules are essentially identical, EPA intends to delegate to CARB the authority to implement the program if CARB has not yet submitted its own rules for SIP approval, and if California adopts adequate authority to implement the FIP. In the event that CARB fails to implement its own rules or amends the State's rules so that they become less stringent than the otherwise applicable federal rule, EPA will continue to directly enforce the provisions of the FIP consumer product rules. In the future, EPA intends to promulgate in 40 CFR part 71 provisions for delegation of certain federal operating permit program responsibilities to State and local agencies with adequate authority to administer the program but lacking EPA approval of the State or local program. EPA could use this procedure to grant State and local agencies the authority to issue operating permits prior to full EPA approval of the agencies' permit program. 3. Full transfer of authority through SIP approval. A State or local agency may adopt a rule that is comparable to the FIP rule in emissions capture, but is significantly different in approach. In that event, immediate transfer of implementation and enforcement authority through delegation is inappropriate without opportunity for public review and comment. Instead, EPA will try to ``parallel process'' SIP approval and FIP rescission as the means to expedite State or local assumption of authority. 108 This will minimize the time during which affected sources are subject to overlapping and conflicting obligations, and during which EPA and the State or local agencies must undertake redundant permitting, compliance plan review, and enforcement. 108 In parallel process SIP approval, EPA, with the consent of the State, proposes approval of draft rules which may not yet have been fully adopted and submitted by the State. Final SIP approval could not occur until after all procedural SIP requirements (including State adoption and SIP submittal) have been completed. 4. Partial transfer of authority through delegation. To the extent that State law allows agencies to perform certain implementation responsibilities for FIP rules even without State and local rule adoption, EPA will encourage these agencies to agree to undertake, on EPA's behalf, administrative and substantive roles of FIP implementation consistent with the agencies' authorities and capabilities. These roles could include: procedural and engineering review of permit applications and compliance plans, preparation of draft permit and plan approval or disapproval actions, administration and oversight of compliance reporting and recordkeeping requirements, conduct of source inspections, and preparation of draft notices of violation. Under these circumstances, EPA would retain the responsibility for actual federal permit issuance, where the FIP requires permits, and for enforcement actions against sources violating FIP provisions. EPA would also maintain direct authority to terminate, modify, or revoke permits, as well as responsibility for disapproving compliance plans. Partial transfer of FIP implementation authorities would be effected through delegation by MOU between the EPA Region IX and the air pollution control officer or executive officer of the responsible agency. EPA will announce the terms of the partial delegation in a Federal Register notice, and will inform affected sources, with or without additional notice and opportunity for comment. IV. Administrative Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory actions are ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory actions'' as ones that are likely to result in rules that may:
