FR940919-2-00166 FR940919-2-00069 Like the other MITTS products that are listed on the NYSE, REIT Portfolio MITTS may not be redeemed prior to maturity and are not callable by the issuer. Holders of REIT Portfolio MITTS will be able to cash-out of their investment by selling the security on the NYSE. The Exchange anticipates that the trading value of the security in this secondary trading market will depend in large part on the value of the securities comprising the REIT Portfolio and also on such other factors as the level of interest rates, the volatility of the value of the REIT Portfolio, the time remaining to maturity, dividend rates, and the creditworthiness of the issuer, Merrill Lynch. 17 17 Merrill Lynch will deposit registered global securities representing REIT Portfolio MITTS with its depository, The Depository Trust Company (``DTC''), so as to permit book-entry settlement of transactions by participants in DTC. Because REIT Portfolio MITTS are linked to a portfolio of equity securities, the NYSE's existing equity floor trading rules will apply to the trading of REIT Portfolio MITTS. First, pursuant to NYSE Rule 405, the Exchange will impose a duty of due diligence on its members and member firms to learn the essential facts relating to every customer prior to trading REIT Portfolio MITTS. 18 Second, consistent with NYSE Rule 405, the Exchange will further require that a member or member firm specifically approve a customer's account for trading REIT Portfolio MITTS prior to, or promptly after, the completion of the transaction. Third, REIT Portfolio MITTS will be subject to the equity margin rules of the Exchange. Fourth, in accordance with the NYSE's Hybrid Approval Orders, the Exchange will, prior to trading REIT Portfolio MITTS, distribute a circular to the membership providing guidance with regard to member firm compliance responsibilities (including suitability recommendations) when handling transactions in REIT Portfolio MITTS and highlighting the special risks and characteristics of the REIT Portfolio MITTS. 19 18 NYSE Rule 405 requires that every member, member firm or member corporation use due diligence to learn the essential facts relative to every customer and to every order or account accepted. 19 See Hybrid Approval Orders, supra note 6. III. Commission Findings and Conclusions The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). Specifically, the Commission believes that providing for exchange-trading of REIT Portfolio MITTS will offer a new and innovative means of participating in the market for REITs. In particular, the Commission believes that REIT Portfolio MITTS will permit investors to gain equity exposure to REITs, while at the same time, limiting the downside risk of the original investment. For the reasons discussed in the MITTS Approval Orders, the Commission finds that the listing and trading of REIT Portfolio MITTS is in the public interest. 20 20 See MITTS Approval Orders, supra note 7. As with the other MITTS products approved by the Commission, REIT Portfolio MITTS are not leveraged instruments; however, their price will still be derived and based upon the underlying linked securities. Accordingly, the level of risk involved in the purchase or sale of REIT Portfolio MITTS is similar to the risk involved in the purchase or sale of traditional common stock. Nonetheless, as with the other MITTS products, the Commission has several specific concerns regarding the trading of this type of product. The Commission notes that the Exchange's rules and procedures that address the special concerns attendant to the trading of hybrid securities will be applicable to REIT Portfolio MITTS. In particular, by imposing the hybrid listing standards, suitability, disclosure, and compliance requirements noted above, the Commission believes the Exchange has addressed adequately the potential problems that could arise from the hybrid nature of REIT Portfolio MITTS. Moreover, the Exchange will distribute a circular to its membership calling attention to the specific risks associated with REIT Portfolio MITTS. The Commission realized that REIT Portfolio MITTS are dependent upon the individual credit of the issuer, Merrill Lynch. To some extent this credit risk is minimized by the Exchange's continued listing standards which require issuers to maintain an aggregate market value of $5 million for its publicly-held shares. 21 In addition, the Exchange's hybrid listing standards further require that REIT Portfolio MITTS have at least $4 million in market value. In any event, financial information regarding Merrill Lynch, in addition to the information regarding Merrill Lynch, in addition to the information on the issuers of the underlying securities comprising the REIT Portfolio, will be publicly available. 22 21 See supra note 9. 22 All of the securities contained in the REIT Portfolio have been issued by companies that are subject to reporting requirements under the Act. The Commission also has a systemic concern, however, that a broker-dealer, such as Merrill Lynch, or a subsidiary providing a hedge for the issuer will incur position exposure. As discussed in the MITTS Approval Orders, the Commission believes this concern is minimal given the size of REIT Portfolio MITTS issuance in relation to the net worth of Merrill Lynch. 23 23 See MITTS Approval Orders, supra note 6.
