FR941027-2-00085 FR941027-2-00044 •To help SSA respond to PEBES inquiries; and •To conduct statistical studies. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Disclosure may be made from routine uses as indicated below: 1. Information may be disclosed to contractors and other Federal agencies, as necessary, to assist SSA in the efficient administration of its programs. We contemplate disclosing information under this routine use only in situations in which SSA may enter a contractual or similar agreement with a third party to assist in accomplishing an agency function relating to this system of records. 2. Information may be disclosed to a congressional office in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of the subject of the record. 3. Information may be disclosed to the Department of Justice (DOJ), a court, or other tribunal, or another party before such tribunal, when: (1) SSA, or any component thereof; or (2) Any SSA employee in his/her official capacity; or (3) Any SSA employee in his/her individual capacity when DOJ (or SSA, when it is authorized to do so) has agreed to represent the employee; or (4) The United States or any agency thereof when SSA determines that the litigation is likely to affect the operation of SSA or any of its components. is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and SSA determines that the use of such records by DOJ, the court or other tribunal, or the other party before the tribunal is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that in each case SSA determines that such disclosure is compatible with the purposes for which the records were collected. 4. Information may be disclosed to the Office of the President for responding to an individual pursuant to an inquiry received from that individual or from a third party on his or her behalf. 5. Nontax return information, the disclosure of which is not expressly restricted by Federal law, may be disclosed to the General Services Administration and the National Archives and Records Administration under 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906, as amended by the National Archives and Records Administration Act of 1984, for the use of those agencies in conducting records management studies. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records will be stored in magnetic media (e.g., magnetic tape and disc). Retrievability: Data will be retrieved from the system by SSN, name, and date of issuance of the PEBES. Safeguards: Safeguards for automated records have been established in accordance with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Information Resources Management Manual, Part 6, Automated Information Systems Security Program Handbook. This includes maintaining the magnetic tapes and discs within an enclosure attended by security guards, Anyone entering or leaving this enclosure must have a special badge issued only to authorized personnel. For computerized records electronically transmitted between Central Office and Field Office locations (including organizations administering SSA programs under contractual agreements), safeguards include a lock/unlock password system, exclusive use of leased telephone lines, a terminal-oriented transaction matrix, and an audit trail. All microfilm and paper files are accessible only by authorized personnel who have a need for the information in performing their official duties. SSA's terminals are equipped with physical key locks. The terminals are also fitted with adapters to permit the future installation of data encryption devices and devices to permit the identification of terminal users. Retention and disposal: All tapes, discs, and microfilm files are updated periodically. Out-of-date magnetic tapes and discs are erased. Out-of-date microfilm is shredded. SSA retains correspondence one year when it concerns documents returned to an individual, denials of confidential information, release of confidential information to an authorized third party, and undeliverable material; for four years when it concerns information and evidence pertaining to coverage, wage, and self-employment determinations or when it affects future claims development, especially coverage, wage, and self-employment determinations. Correspondence is destroyed, when appropriate, by shredding. Magnetic media records are maintained indefinitely. System managers(s) and address: Director, Office of Pre-Claims Requirements, Office of Systems Requirements, Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235. Notification procedure: An individual can determine if this system contains a record pertaining to him/her by providing his/her name, signature, and SSN, or, if the SSN is not known, name, signature, date and place of birth, mother's birth name, and father's name to the address shown above under ``System manager'' and by referring to this system. (Furnishing the SSN is voluntary, but it will enable an easier and faster search for an individuals' record.) An individual requesting notification of records in person need not furnish any special documents of identity. Documents which one would normally carry on one's person are sufficient (e.g., credit cards, driver's license, or voter registration card). An individual requesting notification via mail or telephone must furnish a minimum of his/her name, date of birth, and address in order to establish identity, plus any additional information which may be requested. These procedures conform with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR Part 5b. Record access procedures: Same as notification procedures. Also, requesters should reasonably identify the record contents they are seeking. These procedures conform with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR Part 5b. Contesting record procedures: Same as notification procedures. Also, requesters should reasonably identify the record, specify the information they are contesting and state the corrective action sought and the reasons for the correction with supporting justification. These procedures conform with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR part 5b. Record source categories: Information in this system is obtained from the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Territories of Guam and the United States Virgin Islands. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26627 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;M
