FR940505-1-00374 FR940505-1-00012 Fiberglass means fine filaments of glass. Flexible vinyl means nonrigid polyvinyl chloride plastic with at least 5%, by weight, of plasticizer content. A plasticizer is a material, such as a high boiling-point organic solvent, that is incorporated into an adhesive to increase its flexibility, workability, or distensibility, and may be determined using ASTM Method E260&hyph;73 or from product formulation data. Floor covering installation means the installation of wood flooring, indoor carpet, outdoor carpet, resilient tile, cove base, or artificial grass, using an adhesive formulated for that purpose. Ceramic tile is excluded from this category. Foam means a rigid or spongy cellular mass with gas bubbles dispersed throughout. Grams of VOC per liter of material means the weight of VOC per volume of material and can be calculated by the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.100 Where: W s =weight of volatile compounds, in grams; W w =weight of water, in grams; W e =weight of exempt compounds, in grams; and V m =volume of material, in liters. Household adhesive means any adhesive subject to the consumer products regulations in Title 17, Division 3, Subchapter 8.5, §§94507&hyph;94517, of the California Code of Regulations. Multipurpose architectural adhesive means any adhesive that is intended by the manufacturer to be applied for the installation, manufacture, or repair of various construction materials to bond architectural structures or appurtenances, including but not limited to drywall, subfloor, panel deck and lumber, seams, fiberglass reinforced plastic, ceiling tile and acoustical tile. Adhesives used to bond uninstalled cabinets, counters and other architectural appurtenances are subject to this adhesive category. Nonmembrane roof installation/maintenance means any product that is intended for the installation or repair of roofs and that is not intended for the installation of prefabricated single-ply flexible roofing membrane. This category includes plastic or asphalt roof cement, asphalt roof coatings, or cold application cement. Organic compound means a chemical compound of carbon excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate. Panel installation means the installation of plywood, pre-decorated hardboard (or tileboard), fiberglass, reinforced plastic, and similar pre-decorated or non-decorated panels to studs or solid surfaces using an adhesive formulated for that purpose. Percent VOC by weight means the ratio of the weight of the VOC to the weight of the material, expressed as a percentage of VOC by weight. The percent VOC by weight can be calculated as follows: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.101 Where: W v =weight of VOCs in grams; and W=weight of material in grams. Plastic cement welding means the use of adhesives made of resins and solvents which are formulated to dissolve the surfaces of plastic to form a bond between mating surfaces. Plastic foam means a foam constructed of plastics. Plastics means various synthetic materials chemically formed by the polymerization of organic (carbon-based) substances. Porous material means a substance which has tiny openings, often microscopic, in which fluids may be absorbed or discharged. Such materials include but are not limited to paper and corrugated paperboard. Propellant means a fluid under pressure which expels the contents of a container when a valve is opened. PVC/CPVC welding adhesive means any adhesive intended by the manufacturer to weld polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or chlorinated polyvinyl chloride (CPVC) plastic pipe. Rubber flooring installation means the installation of flooring material in which both the back and top surfaces are made of synthetic rubber, and may not be in sheet or tile form. Sealant products mean any material with adhesive properties that is formulated to be used primarily to fill, seal, waterproof, or weatherproof gaps or joints between two surfaces. Sealant products include sealant, primers, and caulks. Single-ply roof membrane installation/repair means the installing or fixing, mending and/or repairing of a single-ply membrane. Installation includes, as a minimum, attaching the edge of the membrane to the edge of the roof and flashings to vents, pipes, and ducts that protrude through the roof. Repair includes gluing the edges of the tears together, attaching a patch over a hole, and applying flashings to vents, pipes or ducts installed through the membrane. Structural glazing means the use of an adhesive/sealant to adhere glass, ceramic, metal, stone, or composite panels to exterior building frames. Subfloor installation means the installation of subflooring material, typically plywood, over floor joists. Subflooring is covered by a finished surface material. Thin metal laminating means a process of bonding multiple layers of metal to metal or metal to plastic in the production of electronic or magnetic components in which the thickness of the bond line(s) is less than .025 mils. Tire repair means the expanding of a hole, tear, fissure, or blemish in a tire casing by grinding or grouping, applying adhesive, and filling the hole or crevice with rubber. VCT means vinyl composition tile.
