FR940526-2-00083 FR940526-2-00057 DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS Summary of Precedent Opinions of the General Counsel AGENCY: Department of Veterans Affairs. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is publishing a summary of legal interpretations issued by the Department's General Counsel involving veterans' benefits under laws administered by VA. These interpretations are considered precedential by VA and will be followed by VA officials and employees in future claims matters. It is being published to provide the public, and, in particular, veterans' benefit claimants and their representatives, with notice of VA's interpretation regarding the legal matter at issue. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jane L. Lehman, Chief, Law Library, Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20420, (202) 273&hyph;6558. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: VA regulations at 38 CFR 2.6(e)(9) and 14.507 authorize the Department's General Counsel to issue written legal opinions having precedential effect in adjudications and appeals involving veterans' benefits under laws administered by VA. The General Counsel's interpretations on legal matters, contained in such opinions, are conclusive as to all VA officials and employees not only in the matter at issue but also in future adjudications and appeals, in the absence of a change in controlling statute or regulation or a superseding written legal opinion of the General Counsel. VA publishes summaries of such opinions in order to provide the public with notice of those interpretations of the General Counsel which must be followed in future benefit matters and to assist veterans' benefit claimants and their representatives in the prosecution of benefit claims. The full text of such opinions, with personal identifiers deleted, may be obtained by contacting the VA official named above. O.G.C. Precedent 1&hyph;94 Question Presented Whether, in computing annual income for improved pension purposes, the $2,000 exclusion provided by 25 U.S.C. 1407 for certain Native American tribal per-capita payments applies to the sum of all payments received during an annual reporting period or applies to each individual payment received during the reporting period. Held For purposes of computing annual income under the improved-pension statutes, 25 U.S.C. 1407 authorizes the exclusion from a claimant's income of no more than $2,000 of the aggregate amount received during the relevant twelve-month period as per capita distributions from a Native-American tribal trust fund. Effective date: January 19, 1994. O.G.C. Precedent 2&hyph;94 Question Presented Does a temporary total relating based on convalescence, under 38 CFR 4.30, satisfy the requirement in 38 U.S.C. 1114(s) of a disability rated as total for entitlement to special monthly compensation? Held The plain and unambiguous language of 38 U.S.C. 1114(s) does not restrict the nature of total ratings that may serve as a basis of entitlement to the special rate of disability compensation which section 1114(s) authorizes. A temporary total rating based on convalescence, under 38 CFR 4.30, satisfies the requirement in section 1114(s) of a disability rated as total. Effective date: February 2, 1994. O.G.C. Precedent 3&hyph;94 Question Presented May the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) consolidate monthly benefits of National Service Life Insurance (NSLI) beneficiaries into one annual payment in order to protect against misuse of benefit checks? Held No statutory authority exists which would allow VA to accumulate monthly NSLI benefits, other than monthly payments of less than $5 on policies which matured prior to August 1, 1946, into a single annual payment. Effective date: February 8, 1994. O.G.C. Precedent 4&hyph;94 Question Presented Under what circumstances may withheld pension benefits be paid to the children of a veteran's surviving spouse (now deceased) where the surviving spouse's benefits were withheld due to the surviving spouse's residence in the People's Republic of China? Held a. Following the death of a veteran's surviving spouse, payment of pension benefits withheld from the surviving spouse under 31 U.S.C. 3329 (which bars sending Government checks to certain foreign countries) and deposited in the special deposit account in the Department of the Treasury is governed by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3330 (c) and (d). Under section 3330(d)(1)(A), payment of such benefits is precluded where a claim is not filed within one year following the surviving spouse's death. Further, under 31 U.S.C. 3330(d)(2), payment may only be made on the basis of a rating or decision existing at the time of the surviving spouse's death.
