FR940208-2-00159 FR940208-2-00092 (b) a statement of any point of law or legal authority relied on, together with a concise argument in support of disclosure. (2) Within 10 days after a Notice of Motion referred to in subrule (1) is filed, the investigating authority shall, if it intends to respond, file the following in response: (a) an affidavit of an official of the investigating authority stating that, since the filing of the Notice of Motion, the official has examined the document and has determined that disclosure of the document would constitute disclosure of privileged information; and (b) a statement of any point of law or legal authority relied on, together with a concise argument in support of non-disclosure. (3) After having reviewed the Notice of Motion referred to in subrule (1) and any response filed under subrule (2), the panel may order (a) that the document shall not be disclosed; or (b) that the investigating authority file two copies of the document under seal with the responsible Secretariat. (4) In a panel review of a final determination made in the United States, before examining a document in accordance with subrule (6) or (8), a panelist shall file with the responsible Secretariat four copies of a Protective Order with respect to the document, signed by the panelist. (5) Where the panel has issued an order pursuant to subrule (3)(b), the panel shall select two panelists, one of whom shall be a lawyer who is a citizen of Canada and the other of whom shall be a lawyer who is a citizen of the United States. (6) The two panelists selected under subrule (5) shall (a) examine the document in camera ; and (b) communicate their decision, if any, to the panel. (7) The decision referred to in subrule (6)(b) shall be issued as an order of the panel. (8) Where the two panelists selected under subrule (5) fail to come to a decision, the panel shall (a) examine the document in camera ; and (b) issue an order with respect to the disclosure of the document. (9) Where an order referred to in subrule (7) or (8) is to the effect that the document shall not be disclosed, the responsible Secretary shall return all copies of the document to the investigating authority by service under seal. 56. In a panel review of a final determination made in the United States, where, pursuant to rule 55, disclosure of a document is granted, (a) the panel shall limit disclosure to (i) persons who must have access in order to permit effective representation in the panel review, (ii) persons, such as the Secretariat staff, court reporters and translators, who must have access for administrative purposes in order to permit effective functioning of the panel, and (iii) members of an Extraordinary Challenge Committee and their assistants who may need access pursuant to the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules; (b) the panel shall issue an order identifying by name and by title or position the persons who are entitled to access and shall allow for future access by new counsel of record and by members of an Extraordinary Challenge Committee and, as necessary, their assistants; and (c) the investigating authority shall issue a Protective Order with respect to that document in accordance with the order of the panel. Violations of Disclosure Undertakings and Protective Orders 57. Where any person alleges that the terms of a Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order have been violated, the panel shall refer the allegations to the investigating authority for investigation and, where applicable, the imposition of sanctions in accordance with section 77.26 of the Special Import Measures Act , as amended, or section 777(d) of the Tariff Act of 1930 , as amended.
