FR940406-0-00026 FR940406-0-00002 (d) Unless the aggrieved person agrees to a longer counseling period under paragraph (e) of this section, the EEO Counselor shall conduct the final interview with the aggrieved person within 30 days of the date the aggrieved person brought the matter to the EEO Counselor's attention. If the matter has not been resolved, the aggrieved person shall be informed in writing by the EEO Counselor, not later than the 30th day after contacting the EEO Counselor, of the right to file a discrimination complaint with the Board. This notice shall inform the complainant of the right to file a discrimination complaint within 15 calendar days of receipt of the notice, of the appropriate official with whom to file a complaint and of the complainant's duty to assure that the EEO Programs Director is informed immediately if the complainant retains counsel or a representative. (e) Prior to the end of the 30-day period, the aggrieved person may agree in writing with the Board to postpone the final interview and extend the counseling period for an additional period of no more than 60 days. If the matter has not been resolved before the conclusion of the agreed extension, the notice described in paragraph (d) of this section shall be issued. (f) In the event the aggrieved person believes that he/she has been discriminated against and agrees to participate in an established Board alternative dispute resolution procedure, the pre-complaint processing period of this section will be 90 days. If the matter has not been resolved before the 90th day, the notice described in paragraph (d) of this section shall then be issued. (g) The EEO Counselor shall not attempt in any way to restrain the aggrieved person from filing a complaint. The EEO Counselor shall not reveal the identity of an aggrieved person who consulted the EEO Counselor, except when authorized to do so by the aggrieved person, or until the Board has received a discrimination complaint under this part from that person involving the same matter. §268.205 Individual complaints. (a) A complaint alleging that the Board discriminated against the complainant must be filed with the Board. (b) A complaint must be filed within 15 calendar days of receipt of the notice required by §§268.204 (d), (e) or (f) of this part. (c) A complaint must contain a signed statement from the person claiming to be aggrieved or that person's attorney. This statement must be sufficiently precise to identify the aggrieved person and to describe generally the action(s) or practice(s) that form the basis of the complaint. The complaint must also contain a telephone number and address where the complainant or the complainant's representative can be contacted.
