FR940128-2-00218 FR940128-2-00139 Settlement of disciplinary actions. The Exchange's Enforcement Department is charged with the responsibility of issuing disciplinary charges if, following an investigation, it is determined that persons or entities within the Exchange's jurisdiction committed serious infractions of the exchange's rules or the Federal securities laws. The issuance of formal charges begins a rather lengthy process involving the filing of an answer to the charges, the exchange of documents, and the scheduling of a disciplinary hearing. Very often, however, persons who are the subject of Exchange investigations wish to settle the matter before formal charges are issued by stipulating to certain facts and consenting to a penalty. At present, Article V, section 1(b)(4) of the Constitution and Rule 345(c) require the issuance of formal charges before a disciplinary matter can be settled. In contrast, the comparable rules at the NYSE, NASD, and CBOE permit potential respondents to settle disciplinary proceedings without the service of formal charges. It is proposed that the Exchange conform its procedures for settling disciplinary actions to those now in effect at all the other major self-regulatory organizations. There would be several advantages to amending the procedures in the manner proposed. First, it would save the substantial time and expense that is now devoted to the formal charging process in settled cases. Second, it would give the Exchange more flexibility in negotiating the resolution of enforcement actions. Third, conforming the Exchange's settlement procedures to those in place at the other principal self-regulatory organizations would serve the interests of regulatory uniformity and simplicity. Finally, potential respondents would still retain the option of following the current disciplinary procedures if they are so inclined. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of section 6(b)(6) in particular in that it is intended to assure that members, member firms, and member firm employees are disciplined for rule violations. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The proposed rule change will impose no burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Station, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;42 and should be submitted by February 18, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1812 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
