FR940513-1-00100 FR940513-1-00021 (2) Not more than 40 hours in any one week when school is not in session; (3) Not more than 18 hours in any one week when school is in session; (4) Not more than 8 hours in any day when school is not in session; (5) Not more than 3 hours in any day when school is in session; and (6) Between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m.; except during the summer (June 1 through Labor Day) when the evening hour is extended to 9 p.m. Summer school sessions are considered to be ``outside school hours,'' i.e., nonschool weeks. Also, 14- and 15-year-olds enrolled in a State-approved, school-supervised Work Experience and Career Exploration Program (WECEP) may be employed for up to 23 hours in school weeks, 3 hours on school days, and during school hours. Child Labor Reg. 3 permits work by 14- and 15-year-olds in certain occupations in retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments, and prohibits their employment in certain other work, including work prohibited by hazardous occupational orders. The Department is proposing an exception from the above permissible hours and time standards for 14- and 15-year-olds employed as attendants in professional sports. The Department suspended enforcement of the child labor regulations as applied to batboys/girls employed in professional baseball during the 1993 baseball season, and subsequently extended the policy to attendants in other professional sports while reviewing such employment under the child labor regulations. During 1986 and 1987, the Department conducted a study at the request of the Congress 1 to determine whether a change in the permissible hours of employment for batboys and batgirls would be detrimental to their well-being and whether any changes to existing standards should be proposed. The Department concluded that changes in permissible hours and time standards for batboy/girl work would not be detrimental to their health and well-being. The Department surveyed 157 professional league baseball teams and conducted selected on-site interviews with parents, teachers, team owners, and batboys/girls and found that youths genuinely enjoyed the experience. The Department could find no evidence that school grades were adversely affected by such work. The Department also advised the Congress that regulatory modifications, rather than legislative change, would be the best vehicle to address the matter of permissible hours for batboys/girls. 1 See section 801, Public Law 99&hyph;425 (September 30, 1986). The Department's Child Labor Advisory Committee (CLAC), established in 1987 to provide advice and guidance in the development of possible proposals to change existing standards, recommended that existing hours and time of work standards be retained for 14- and 15-year-olds employed as sports attendants, including batboys/girls; and that the work performed in such activity be limited to traditional duties, i.e., putting out and taking in field equipment, running errands for players, and supplying the umpire with balls. While the Committee's advisory view was taken into consideration, the Department also continued to consider other pertinent information, including inquiries received from interested parties concerning the employment of youth in sports-related activities, such as scorekeepers, concession stand helpers, ball monitors and sideline officials. One inquiry concerned conforming the Federal child labor regulations to a State of Wisconsin provision which permits youths under age 14 to be employed by high schools as ball monitors and sideline officials at football games. Another was received from the Grant County (Kansas) Recreation Commission concerning 14- and 15-year-olds employed as scorekeepers and concession stand helpers in summer softball, baseball, and other sports programs. Also, the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues, Inc. (NAPBL) petitioned 2 the Department in June 1993 to revise the regulation to permit the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds as batboys for professional baseball clubs. According to the NAPBL, existing hours and time-of-day standards effectively preclude baseball teams from lawfully employing youth under the age of 16. The NAPBL contended further that such employment is not adverse to the health and well-being of youth and that the denial of the batboy/girl experience is inconsistent with the intent of the FLSA's child labor provisions. 2 Section 570.38 of the regulations provides that persons desiring revisions of subpart C of part 570 may submit in writing to the Secretary of Labor a petition setting forth the changes desired and the reasons for proposing them. In response, the Secretary may either schedule hearings or make other provision for affording interested parties an opportunity to be heard.
