FR940826-0-00066 FR940826-0-00016 15. In the Second Report and Order, we retained the discretion to declare by announcement at any point during a multiple round auction that the auction will end after a specified number of additional rounds. 28 We want to clarify however, that if this procedure is used, we will accept bids in the final rounds only for licenses on which the highest bid increased in at least one of the preceding three rounds. No new bids will be accepted for other licenses. 29 There are two reasons not to take bids on licenses on which there has been no recent bidding. First, the fact that bidding on an individual license may close will provide an additional incentive to bid actively and thus speed the conclusion of the auction. If bids are accepted on all licenses in the final rounds there is less cost to a bidder in holding back. Second, closing bidding on licenses for which activity has ceased ensures high bidders for those licenses that they will not lose a license without having an opportunity to make a counter-offer. 30 This reduces the uncertainty associated with aggregating licenses that are worth more to a particular bidder as a package than individually. If final bids are accepted on all licenses, a high bidder on an aggregation of licenses may unexpectedly lose a critical part of the aggregation and have no chance to regain it except in the post-auction market, where bargaining or other transaction costs may be high. 28 Second Report and Order at ¶132. 29 See reply comments of PacBell, appendix to attachment by Milgrom and Wilson at 5. See also Second Report and Order at ¶130, n.106. 30 Either the auction will close only when bidding ceases on all licenses, so the high bidder will have an opportunity to respond to any new bids, or the Commission will call for final bids but not accept new bids on licenses on which there have been no new bids in the previous three rounds, so no other bidder will have the opportunity to outbid the high bidder in a final round. D. Release of Bidder Information 16. We note that in the reconsideration of the Second Report and Order we reserved additional flexibility with respect to the requirement to release information concerning the identity of bidders, which may affect auctions for narrowband PCS licenses. In the Second Memorandum Opinion and Order 31 we reserved the option to release bidder identities on an auction-by-auction basis, and stated that we would announce by Order and Public Notice prior to each auction whether the identities of bidders would be made public in that auction. 32 In this regard, we retain the flexibility in the context of narrowband PCS auctions to determine on an auction-by-auction basis whether or not to release bidder identities during the course of the auction. 31 Second Memorandum Opinion and Order at ¶46, in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, FCC No. 94&hyph;215, released Aug 15, 1994, ( Second Memorandum Opinion and Order ). 32 Second Memorandum Opinion and Order at ¶46, in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, FCC No. 94&hyph;215, released Aug 15, 1994, ( Second Memorandum Opinion and Order ). E. Filing Procedures 17. Petition. Phase One asserts that the Communications Act permits the FCC to employ competitive bidding procedures only where mutual exclusivity exists, and that consequently the FCC is prohibited from establishing specific auction dates until it has determined that a particular application is mutually exclusive with another. 33 Phase One states that the FCC must first notify each qualified applicant of its application processing status in advance of scheduling auctions to allow applicants sufficient time to analyze auction strategies and evaluate the competition. 34 Phase One also states that the FCC is obligated to suspend its auctions until each petition in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253 has been addressed. 35 Phase One states that our contractor, Tradewinds International, Inc. (Tradewinds) must be prevented from promoting FCC auctions. Because there can be no auctions without mutual exclusivity, according to Phase One the advertising by Tradewinds amounts to false and misleading advertising and raises conflict of interest questions because Tradewinds may benefit if auctions are actually held. 36 33 Phase One Petition at 2. 34 Id. at 3. 35 Id. at 5. 36 Id. at 5&hyph;6. 18. AirTouch Paging (AirTouch) asserts in opposition that the Communications Act only prohibits auctioning of a license for which no mutually exclusive applications have been accepted for filing, and not the establishment of auction dates. In fact, AirTouch notes that mutually exclusive applications were received for each of the nationwide narrowband PCS licenses. 37 PacBell states that there is no legal basis for Phase One's argument that the Commission must delay announcing auction dates until mutual exclusivity has been established. 38 37 Opposition of Airtouch at 4. 38 Opposition of PacBell at 8. 19. Discussion. The Budget Act provides that if applications are not mutually exclusive no auction will be held. 39 We have found, however, that it is important to begin planning for auctions as early as possible to assure that they will run smoothly. To maintain an expeditious auctioning and licensing schedule it is necessary, for instance, to reserve sites for auctions before all applications have been received. Further, we believe that it is important that we schedule auctions far enough in advance to provide applicants with ample time to attract financing and plan their bidding strategies. In any event, we have previously indicated that we will cancel a scheduled auction if we do not receive mutually exclusive applications. 40 Consequently we believe that our auction schedule and procedures are fully consistent with the provisions of the Budget Act. 39 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(1). 40 See Second Report and Order at ¶165. In fact, 29 applicants are eligible to bid for nationwide narrowband PCS licenses; at least 24 applicants are eligible to bid on each of the ten licenses. Thus, mutual exclusivity exists for all nationwide narrowband licenses, and Phase One's petition is moot on this point.
