FR940303-1-00042 FR940303-1-00010 FSIS has developed two different calcium content levels for this purpose. Both of these levels account for the fact that poultry tissues, other than bone, contain some calcium. The higher level_0.235 percent_reflects the greater proportion of calcium in the bones of mature chickens and turkeys as compared with young chickens (i.e., the lower ratio of bone solids to calcium). The lower level_0.175 percent_has been used by FSIS in enforcing the one percent restriction on product made from young chickens. Both of these calcium levels are equivalent to one percent bone solids using the conversion formulas for calculating bone solids from calcium on a weight basis. 4 4 The formula for calculating bone solids from calcium for poultry products is in the ``Chemistry Laboratory Guidebook,'' U.S. Department of Agriculture (6.010F, page 6&hyph;33), and is available for public inspection at the FSIS Hearing Clerk's office. Since FSIS is considering proposing a definition and standard that includes potential types of mechanically deboned product, FSIS's tentative position is to allow 0.175 percent calcium as the maximum for all MDP that is made from poultry other than turkeys or mature chickens. FSIS is interested in receiving comments regarding the calcium levels applicable to MDP made from other kinds of poultry, e.g., ducks, geese, and guineas, especially calcium levels applicable to mature poultry. In addition, the ``Chemistry Laboratory Guidebook'' (section 6.010F, page 6&hyph;33) has been revised to include a procedure that could be applied to mechanically deboned product made only in part from mature chickens. That procedure involves a determination of the relative mature and young chicken proportions when product is made from a combination of young and mature chickens. FSIS is considering, as discussed below, that production of MDP under an approved quality control program is necessary to assure consistent compliance with regulatory requirements, including the calcium content requirement utilized in restricting bone solids content. Therefore, as the discussion of the proposed quality control provision indicates, FSIS's tentative position is that, if mechanically deboned chicken is made from a combination of young and mature chickens, the application of any intermediate value between 0.175 and 0.235 percent in verifying compliance would be contingent upon an establishment's program for quality control including methods that support such value's appropriateness as a measure of a bone solids content to not more than one percent; and without such methods, the 0.175 percent limit should apply. FSIS wishes to receive comments on the determination of the calcium levels associated with MDP made from a combination of young and mature poultry. The inclusion of these calcium content levels in the definition and standard FSIS is considering should not be misinterpreted as indicating a concern about the amount of the essential nutrient calcium that is provided by poultry and meat food products. FSIS agrees with the findings in the 1979 health and safety report that, even assuming all further processed poultry were made with mechanically deboned poultry (i.e., a far greater level of production and use than actually occurs), the projected calcium contribution such products would represent only a negligible increase in per capita daily intakes and cannot be considered hazardous, particularly since the dietary intake of a large sector of the population may be below the recommended level of calcium consumption. (3) Tentative position: Bone particle size. FSIS is considering restricting the size of the bone particles in MDP to a maximum of less than 1.5 millimeter (mm) in the greatest dimension, but permitting up to 5 bone particles per 50 grams of MDP to be from 1.5 mm to less to 2.0 mm in the greatest dimension. The need to limit the size of bone particles in MDP has been acknowledged since the poultry industry began to use mechanical methods for manufacturing this product. In the 1979 health and safety report, it was recommended that bone particle size be controlled to ensure that equipment type of processing does not result in unacceptably large fragments and concluded that, provided this is done, the bone particles in the product will not present any health hazard because of size or hardness. FSIS is considering that it is appropriate to permit up to 5 particles per 50 grams of product to be from 1.5 mm to less than 2.0 mm as an acceptable defect in complying product. FSIS is requesting comments and information on the extent to which manufacturers should be required to control the production of mechanically separated poultry product to limit the size of bone particles. FSIS will consider any information submitted during the comment period on the size and distribution of bone particles that may occur with various mechanical deboning procedures conducted in accordance with good manufacturing practices (e.g., the extent to which deviations or nonconforming particles occur, and data substantiating the absence of potential health or finished product quality problems with such particles).
