FR940712-1-00037 FR940712-1-00011 Summary of Comments and Recommendations Resulting From Advance Notice The responses received to the ANPR generally reflected the Service's announcement that delisting, as well as reclassification, was under consideration for the entire lower 48-State area. Not all responses specifically addressed delisting or reclassification. Nevertheless, the responses were useful in the formulation of the present reclassification proposal. Many responses reflected the writers' strong personal feelings and concerns for bald eagles. Many respondents related the importance and value of their personal bald eagle experiences. Further, they expressed their desire that bald eagles be properly cared for and that the opportunity to view wild eagles not be lost. The bald eagle's position as our national bird was frequently mentioned. In response to the ANPR, the Service received 4 responses from other Federal government offices, 22 responses from State conservation agencies, 23 responses from citizen groups, and 140 responses from individuals. Based on reclassification goals contained in the five regional Bald Eagle Recovery Plans, one Federal agency favored reclassification to threatened only in Florida and the development of State-by-State recovery plans/criteria, with subsequent State-by-State reclassification and delisting decisions. Another Federal agency recommended reclassification to threatened in selected areas based on circumstances in the individual recovery regions, rather than for the nation as a whole, and recommended against delisting. A third Federal agency recommended reclassification of the bald eagle to threatened in Arizona based on achievement of the Southwestern Recovery Plan reclassification goals and on protection and management measures presently in place. The last Federal agency favored reclassification to threatened in those recovery regions where the recovery plans' reclassification goals have been met. The Service received responses to the 1990 ANPR from 22 State natural resource agencies. Seven State agencies concurred with reclassification to or retention as threatened, including Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, the three Northern Region States where the bald eagle is presently designated as threatened. The remaining 15 responding States recommended against delisting and/or reclassification in their States.
