FR940512-1-00076 FR940512-1-00010 (e) The date of filing a formal written request for a hearing to the Secretary under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section is determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of 34 CFR 81.12. (f) The Secretary issues a written decision to terminate funds to the center if, after providing reasonable notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Secretary finds that_ (1) The center receiving funds under this part is not in compliance with the standards and assurances in section 725 (b) and (c) of the Act and subparts F and G of this part; or (2) The center's corrective action plan submitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section cannot be approved. (g) The Secretary's decision to terminate funds to a center pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section takes effect upon issuance. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796f&hyph;1(g)) §366.40 How does the Director initiate enforcement procedures? (a) If the Director determines that any center receiving funds under this part is not in compliance with the standards and assurances in section 725 (b) and (c) of the Act and subparts F and G of this part, the Director shall immediately provide the center, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means that provide proof of receipt, with an initial written notice that the center is out of compliance with the standards and assurances and that the Director will terminate the center's funds or take other proposed significant adverse action against the center 90 days after the center's receipt of this initial written notice. The Director shall provide technical assistance to the center to develop a corrective action plan to comply with the standards and assurances. (b) Unless the center submits, within 90 days after receiving the notification required by paragraph (a) of this section, a corrective action plan to achieve compliance that is approved by the Director or, if appealed, by the Secretary, the Director shall terminate all funds under section 723 of the Act to a center 90 days after the later of_ (1) The date that the center receives the initial written notice required by paragraph (a) of this section; or (2) The date that the center receives the Secretary's final decision issued pursuant to §366.46(c) if_ (i) The center files a formal written appeal of the Director's final written decision pursuant to §366.44(a); or (ii) The center files a formal written appeal of the decision described in the Director's initial written notice pursuant to §366.44(b). (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796f&hyph;2(g) and (i)) §366.41 What must be included in an initial written notice from the Director? The initial written notice required by §366.40(a) must_ (a) Include, at a minimum, the following: (1) The name of the center. (2) The reason or reasons for proposing the termination of funds or other significant adverse action against the center, including any evidence that the center has failed to comply with any of the evaluation standards or assurances in section 725 (b) and (c) of the Act and subparts F and G of this part. (3) The effective date of the proposed termination of funds or other significant adverse action against the center; (b) Be given 90 days in advance of the date the Director intends to terminate a center's funds or take any other significant adverse action against the center; (c) Inform the center that it has 90 days from the date the center receives the notice to submit a corrective action plan; (d) Inform the center that it may seek mediation and conciliation in accordance with §366.40(a) to resolve any dispute with the Director within the 90 days before the proposed termination of funds or other significant adverse action against the center; and (e) Inform the center that, if mediation and conciliation are not successful and the Director does not issue a final written decision pursuant to §366.42, the center may appeal to the Secretary the decision described in the Director's initial written notice on or after the 90th day, but not later than the 120th day, after the center receives the Director's initial decision. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796f&hyph;2 (g) and (i))
