FR940328-0-00007 FR940328-0-00002 (i) The software or technology relates to the commodities listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 779 of this subchapter; or (ii) The exporter or reexporter knows or has reason to know that the technology or software, or their direct product, are for delivery to or for use by or for military or police entities of the Republic of South Africa or for use in servicing equipment owned, controlled or used by or for these entities, with the following exceptions: (A) Sales technical data, operation technical data, and software updates as described in ยง779.4(b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this subchapter; or (B) Generally available software as described in the General Software Note, Supplement No. 2 to ยง799.1 of this subchapter, unless the exporter knows or has reason to know it would contribute to the manufacture or maintenance of items to which a strict policy of denial applies under paragraph (a)(5) of this section, or to which a general policy of denial applies under paragraph (a)(6) of this section. (4) Parts, components, materials, and other commodities exported from the United States under either a general or validated export license may not be incorporated abroad into foreign-made end-products where it is known or there is reason to know that the end product will be sold to or used by or for military or police entities in the Republic of South Africa. (See ยง776.12(b)(4) of this subchapter for general exceptions and paragraph (a)(6) of this section for case-by-case exceptions.) (5) Applications for validated licenses for arms, munitions, military equipment and materials, and materials and machinery for use in the manufacture and maintenance of such equipment, as described in Supplement No. 2 to part 779 of this subchapter, and related software or technology, will be subject to a strict policy of denial, in conformity with the embargo policy set out in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (6) Licensing policy for items not subject to ยง785.4(a)(5) that are destined to or for use by or for the South African military or police is as follows: (i) Applications will generally be denied for items described by any ECCN ending in ``18A''; items that are or will be used to manufacture or maintain arms, munitions, military equipment, or paramilitary police equipment; and items that have military capacity and are intended for military purposes. (ii) Applications will generally be considered favorably on a case-by-case basis for: (A) Food and other agricultural commodities; (B) Medicine, medical supplies, medical equipment, and parts and components therefor; (C) Items to be used in efforts to prevent acts of unlawful interference with international civil aviation; (D) Items to counter international narcotics trafficking; and (E) Items to be used to meet emergency humanitarian needs. (iii) All other applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. * * * * * 6. Supplement No. 2 to part 785 is revised to read as follows:
