FR940223-2-00228 FR940223-2-00104 2.2.5␣DOT Agency Involvement and Expertise Available DOT agencies involved in this Program include the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal Transit Administration, and the Federal Railroad Administration. For the selected proposals, DOT representatives will work with sponsoring organizations to contact State DOTs, MPOs, transit authorities, etc., with authority over the relevant transportation facilities to assist with project arrangements and agreements. 2.2.6␣DOT Contacts Karen Kabel, Federal Highway Administration (HMS&hyph;31) (202) 366&hyph;9074, FAX (202) 366&hyph;3235 Gordon Smith, Federal Railroad Administration (RAD&hyph;10.1) (202) 366&hyph;0589, FAX (202) 366&hyph;7439 Roger Tate, Federal Transit Administration (TTS&hyph;31) (202) 366&hyph;0235, FAX (202) 366&hyph;3765 Address: 400 7th St., SW., Washington, DC 20950. 2.3␣Transit Ambassadors 2.3.1␣Description of Program The DOT Federal Transit Administration's program for ``Transit Ambassadors'' proposes to use participants in community service programs to help elderly and disabled persons learn to use public transportation systems in their communities. Program participants, called ``transit ambassadors'', would assist these targeted individuals in locating bus stops, understanding how the fare system works, and identifying potential destinations, such as grocery stores, medical facilities, etc. Transit ambassadors would teach individuals how to use public transportation, and how to read maps and time schedules. In addition, transit ambassadors will accompany persons who need such assistance to navigate their way on conventional, fixed route public transportation service. Assistance may be of a one-time nature to acquaint an individual with public transportation routes and services. Transit Ambassadors may also provide regular or scheduled guide services. The most minimal sort of service the transit ambassador could provide would simply be visiting an individual and providing schedule and fare information, and answering questions about a pending trip or series of trips. The service would include training individuals about their neighborhood and the shops within it, increasing the confidence level for those who then could move around independently and provide overall better security in the affected neighborhoods. As part of this program, transit ambassadors will assess the local transportation facilities to identify obstacles that prevent disabled and elderly persons from safely and easily traveling on public transportation, and will work with local transportation authorities to remove these obstacles. The transit ambassadors will also work with the local transit authorities to develop and distribute information that will facilitate and encourage the use of public transportation by the elderly and disabled (such as more easily readable bus schedules, community maps showing routes to locations of particular interest, or information on special fares or rates available for the elderly or disabled). This program also has the potential for developing partnerships with other Federal agencies (such as the Department of Health and Human Services or the Department of Education) to accompany youths to and from Head Start Programs and, in addition, provide assistance to Head Start teachers during class. In such a partnership, transit ambassadors could also be trained as aides on transportation vehicles to and from Head Start facilities/programs. Transit ambassadors could instruct Head Start children and their parents on the routes to bus stops, and teach the children about proper behavior and safety procedures while riding on a bus. Transit ambassadors could also act as aides to Head Start teachers during the remainder of the day. 2.3.2␣Goals and Priorities Transit Ambassadors will address the following national priorities: a. Public Safety. By providing escorts and training for elderly and disabled persons, this program will help decrease potential violence to elderly and disabled citizens; transportation assistance for the Head Start program will also increase safety to and from bus stops and on those buses. b. Health and Human Needs. Transportation assistance for elderly and disabled persons will enable them to get to medical and other facilities more readily and more independently. c. Mitigate the impact of unfunded mandates. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires all public transit systems to provide supplementary door-to-door paratransit service for those individuals who are unable to use even fully accessible public transit. The Transit Ambassador Program will help instill confidence in elderly and disabled persons in the use of conventional public transportation and limit the call for more expensive door-to-door paratransit to individuals with mobility difficulties.
