FR940720-1-00030 FR940720-1-00009 The proposal allows all items listed in C200.1.4 as permissible second-class enclosures to be treated as neither advertising nor nonadvertising, but instead to be accounted for in the weight of the host publication when determining postage. This is a change in the interpretation of current rules that distinguish between the subscription order or requester form and any additional material that promotes the publisher's publications. Allowing these permissible enclosures to be accounted for only in the weight of the host publication will simplify the acceptance review process without any significant effect on postal revenues. The proposed supplements section in C200.1.5 would change the standard concerning loose supplements to bound publications to eliminate the current requirement that such a supplement contain at least 25 percent nonadvertising content. If adopted, this change would allow publishers to include loose supplements with bound publications that could consist of up to 100 percent advertising. This change is being proposed in response to widespread requests from publishers for an elimination of this provision. These publishers argue that this provision is an unnecessary restriction on their ability to choose whether to place advertising matter in the host publication or in an accompanying loose supplement. They argue that competitors of the Postal Service impose no such restrictions on the nonpostal delivery of publications. They also argue that the responses by some publishers to the 25 percent nonadvertising requirement (e.g., the use of such devices as public service announcements that say such things as ``Just Say No To Drugs'') demonstrate the uselessness of the provision as a means to increase the ``editorial'' content of second-class publications. These publishers argue that the overall requirement that second-class publications contain a substantial amount of nonadvertising content and the need to provide substantial editorial content to satisfy their subscribers are sufficient safeguards of the integrity and value of second-class mail. These publishers also correctly state that all advertising in supplements will be accounted and paid for at the advertising rates because the determination of a publication's advertising/nonadvertising content is based on the host piece and any supplements. The Postal Service finds that these arguments have merit and has determined to propose the elimination of the 25 percent nonadvertising content requirement for comment by all interested parties. The proposed supplements section also includes clarifying provisions, based on current standards and on Postal Service rulings, restricting the inclusion of loose sheets of advertising as a supplement. These provisions describe the permissible preparation of supplements for the four different methods of second-class mailpiece preparation_a bound publication not enclosed in a wrapper, a bound publication enclosed in a wrapper, and an unbound publication not enclosed in a wrapper, an unbound publication enclosed in a wrapper. Bound and unbound publications are defined in C200.3.1. The standards proscribing the use of mailing wrappers are set forth in C200.3.3 and 3.4. A bound publication that is not enclosed in a wrapper may not have any supplements included loose with it. Only enclosures under C200.1.4 may be included loose in a bound publication. A bound publication with one or more supplements must be enclosed in a wrapper. If a supplement to a bound publication is made up of more than one printed sheet, all sheets making up the supplement must be bound together to form one piece. If not, each loose sheet must separately qualify as a supplement. A supplement to an unbound publication that is not enclosed in a wrapper must be combined with, and inserted within, the publication. A loose supplement may be included with an unbound publication only if the entire mailpiece is enclosed in a wrapper. The proposed supplements section will retain the requirement that loose supplements to bound publications contain the identification ``Supplement to'' followed by the name of the publication or the publisher. This requirement to identify a supplement will also apply to any loose supplement mailed with an unbound publication enclosed in a wrapper. The presence of the ``Supplement to'' statement is an objective demonstration that the publisher designed the material to be included as a supplement to the host publication. The Postal Service believes that the retention of this identification requirement, the retention of the general requirement in C200.4.3 that all advertisements in bound publications must be permanently attached, and the clarification in C200.1.5 that any multisheet supplement to a bound publication must also be bound together will effectively limit the inclusion of miscellaneous loose advertising pieces with second-class publications enclosed in wrappers. The section on attachments (proposed C200.1.8) consolidates the wording contained in current 4.3 pertaining to the addition of stickers on covers of second-class publications or on mailing wrappers. Additionally, proposed 1.8 includes information currently contained in 10.1 and 10.4, regarding the required markings for nonincidental First- and/or third-class enclosures. Except for its movement from A200.2.0 to C200.1.10, the provision allowing label carriers remains unaltered. Placement in C200 is more appropriate for these standards because they will be with the sections governing what may be combined loose in a polybag or plastic wrapper and mailed at the second-class rates (a mailing practice that commonly uses a label carrier).
