FR940318-2-00252 FR940318-2-00121 [Release No. IC&hyph;20130; 812&hyph;8850] TCW Investment Funds, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application March 11, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). Applicants: TCW Investment Funds, Inc. (``MMP Company''), TCW Funds, Inc. (``Galileo Company''), and TCW Funds Management, Inc. (``Adviser''). Relevant Act Sections: Order requested under section 17(b) of the Act for an exemption from section 17(a) of the Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order that would permit MMP Company to transfer substantially all its assets and liabilities to Galileo Company in exchange for shares of Galileo Company's common stock. FILING DATE: The application was filed on February 24, 1994. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on April 5, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issue contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 865 S. Figueroa Street, suite 1800, Los Angeles, California 90071. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joseph G. Mari, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 272&hyph;3030, or Barry D. Miller, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 272&hyph;3018 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. MMP Company, a Maryland corporation, is a registered no-load, open-end investment company. Although it was formed as a series mutual fund, it has offered shares in only one fund, the TCW Money Market Portfolio (``MMP Fund''). Various affiliates of Adviser have discretionary investment and voting powers regarding several client accounts, group trusts, and limited partnerships that owned, on February 17, 1994, 38.3% of the outstanding shares of MMP Fund. 2. Galileo Company, a Maryland corporation, is a registered no-load, open-end investment company. It was formed as a series mutual fund with different investment portfolios, and currently offers six portfolios. Galileo Company will offer a new portfolio, the TCW Galileo Money Market Fund (``Galileo MM Fund''), that will have the same investment objectives and policies as the MMP Fund. 3. A board of directors consisting of five directors currently manages MMP Company. One of the three independent directors of MMP Company also is an independent director of Galileo Company, and Galileo Company recently elected to its board as an independent director another independent director of MMP Company. 4. Adviser is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the TCW Group, Inc., and is the investment adviser to MMP Fund and the Galileo Company existing funds under separate advisory agreements (the ``MMP Advisory Agreement'' and ``Galileo Advisory Agreement,'' respectively.) 5. Applicants propose that, pursuant to an agreement and plan of reorganization, all the assets and liabilities of MMP Fund will be transferred to Galileo Company in exchange for Galileo MM shares (the ``Reorganization''). Those shares will have an aggregate net asset value equivalent to the net asset value of the assets transferred by MMP Company to Galileo Company. Upon consummation of the Reorganization, the Galileo MM shares received by MMP Company will be distributed by MMP Company to its shareholders, with each shareholder receiving a number of Galileo MM shares equal to the number of MMP Fund shares, and having an aggregate net asset value equivalent to the net asset value of the MMP Fund shares held by such shareholders. MMP Company then will be dissolved.
