FR940223-2-00217 FR940223-2-00102 (3) Plan of operation. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan of operation for the project, including_ (i) The quality of the design of the project; (ii) The extent to which the plan of management is effective and ensures proper and efficient administration of the project; (iii) How well the objectives of the project relate to the purpose of the program; (iv) The quality of the applicant's plan to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective; (v) How the applicant will ensure that project participants who are otherwise eligible to participate are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or handicapping condition. (4) Quality of key personnel. (10 points) (i) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project, including_ (A) The qualifications of the project director (if one is to be used); (B) The qualifications of each of the other key personnel to be used in the project; (C) The time that each person referred to in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) (A) and (B) will commit to the project; and (D) How the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, will ensure that its personnel are selected for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or handicapping condition. (ii) To determine personnel qualifications under paragraphs (b)(4)(i) (A) and (B), the Secretary considers_(A) Experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the project; and (B) Any other qualifications that pertain to the quality of the project. (5) Budget and cost effectiveness. (5 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which_ (i) The budget is adequate to support the project; and (ii) Costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives of the project. (6) Evaluation plan. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the evaluation plan for the project, including the extent to which the applicant's methods of evaluation_(i) Are appropriate to the project; and (ii) To the extent possible, are objective and produce data that are quantifiable. (Cross-reference: See 34 CFR 75.590 Evaluation by the grantee.) (7) Adequacy of resources. (5 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the adequacy of the resources that the applicant plans to devote to the project, including facilities, equipment, and supplies. Intergovernmental review of federal programs: This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs) and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. The objective of the Executive Order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and to strengthen federalism by relying on State and local processes for State and local government coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. Applicants must contact the appropriate State Single Point of Contact to find out about, and to comply with, the State's process under Executive Order 12372. Applicants proposing to perform activities in more than one State should immediately contact the Single Point of Contact for each of those States and follow the procedure established in each State under the Executive order. If you want to know the name and address of any State Single Point of Contact, see the list published in the Federal Register on Friday, September 24, 1993. In States that have not established a process or chosen a program for review, State, areawide, regional, and local entities may submit comments directly to the Department. Any State Process Recommendation and other comments submitted by a State Single Point of Contact and any comments from State, areawide, regional, and local entities must be mailed or hand-delivered by the date indicated in this notice to the following address: The Secretary, E.O. 12372_CFDA # 84.203 A, B or C , U.S. Department of Education, room 4161, 400 Maryland Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20202&hyph;0125. Proof of mailing will be determined on the same basis as it is for applications (see 34 CFR 75.102). Recommendations or comments may be hand-delivered until 4:30 p.m. (Washington, DC time) on the date indicated in this notice. Please note that the above address is not the same address as the one to which the applicant submits its completed application. Do not send applications to the above address. Instructions for transmittal of applications: (a) If an applicant wants to apply for a grant, the applicant shall_ (1) Mail the original and two copies of the application on or before the deadline date to: U.S. Department of Education, Application Control Center, Attention: (CFDA # [Applicant must insert number and letter]), Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4725; or (2) Hand deliver the original and two copies of the application by 4:30 p.m. (Washington, DC time) on the deadline date to: U.S. Department of Education, Application Control Center, Attention: (CFDA # (Applicant must insert number and letter)), Room # 3633, Regional Office Building # 3 7th and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4725. Note: Although applicants are not obligated to do so, it would be quite helpful if an additional two copies of the application were submitted (an original and four copies). The additional copies would be used during the review process. (b) An applicant must show one of the following as proof of mailing: (1) A legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark. (2) A legible mail receipt with the date of mailing stamped by the U.S. Postal Service. (3) A dated shipping label, invoice, or receipt from a commercial carrier. (4) Any other proof of mailing acceptable to the Secretary. (c) If an application is mailed through the U.S. Postal Service, the Secretary does not accept either of the following as proof of mailing: (1) A private metered postmark. (2) A mail receipt that is not dated by the U.S. Postal Service. Notes: (1) The U.S. Postal Service does not uniformly provide a dated postmark. Before relying on this method, an applicant should check with its local post office. (2) The Application Control Center will mail a Grant Application Receipt Acknowledgment to each applicant. If an applicant fails to receive the notification of application receipt within 15 days from the date of mailing the application, the applicant should call the U.S. Department of Education Application Control Center at (202) 708&hyph;9494.
