FR940406-2-00044 FR940406-2-00022 Prospective respondents and other interested parties should comment on the actions discussed in item II. The following general guidelines are provided to assist in the preparation of responses. Please indicate to which form(s) your comments apply. As a potential respondent: A. Are the instructions and definitions clear and sufficient? If not, which instructions require clarification? B. Can the data be submitted using the definitions included in the instructions? C. Can data be submitted in accordance with the response time specified in the instructions? Would it be possible for you to submit the data as much as two months earlier? D. Public reporting burden for this data collection is estimated to range from 62 to 333 hours per response for the field level (i.e., large operator) version of Form EIA&hyph;23, ``Annual Survey of Domestic Oil and Gas Reserves'' and reporting burden is estimated to average 8 hours per response for the State level (i.e., small operator) version of Form EIA&hyph;23. Public reporting burden is estimated to average 5.9 hours per response for the Form EIA&hyph;64A, ``Annual Report of the Origin of Natural Gas Liquids Production.'' Public reporting burden is estimated to average 0.25 hours per response for the Form EIA&hyph;23P, ``Oil and Gas Well Operator List Update Report.'' How much time, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information, do you estimate will be required for you to complete and submit the required form? E. What is the estimated dollar cost of completing this form, including the direct and indirect costs associated with the collection? F. How can the form be improved? G. Do you know of any other Federal, State, or local agency that collects similar data? If you do, specify the agency, the data element(s), and the means of the collection. As a potential user: A. Can you use data at the levels of detail indicated on the form? In particular, can you use the proposed data on reserves and production associated with enhanced oil recovery methods and nonconventional gas? B. For what purpose would you use the data? Please be specific. C. Would you be adversely affected by discontinuation of indicated additional reserves data from the EIA&hyph;23 field form? D. How could the form be improved to better meet your specific needs? E. Are there alternative sources of oil and gas reserves data and do you use them? What are their strengths or deficiencies? EIA is also interested in receiving comments on any other aspect of the data collection forms or the need for the information contained in the Oil and Gas Reserves Surveys. Comments submitted in response to this notice will be summarized and/or included in the request for OMB approval of the form; they also will become a matter of public record. Statutory Authorities Sections 3506(a) and (c)(1), Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, as amended, Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. 3506(a) and (c)(1). Issued in Washington, DC, March 31, 1994. Yvonne M. Bishop, Director, Statistical Standards, Energy Information Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8245 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
