FR941021-0-00161 FR941021-0-00022 c. Competitive bidding. 69. Legality. Having decided that it would best serve the public interest to use competitive bidding in the event that the sharing plan does not resolve mutual exclusivity, we next respond to arguments concerning our legal authority to do so. Section 309(j) (1) and (2) of the Communications Act, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §309(j) (1), (2), permits auctions where mutually exclusive applications for initial licenses or construction permits are accepted for filing by the Commission and where the principal use of the spectrum will involve or is reasonably likely to involve the receipt by the licensee of compensation from subscribers in return for enabling those subscribers to receive or transmit communications signals. 80 TRW, however, asserts that ``the entire thrust and substance'' of the legislation authorizing the Commission to assign licenses by auction is ``geared toward'' licensing for the personal communication service (PCS) service and that the underlying legislative purposes ``simply do not apply to *␣*␣* an inherently global *␣*␣* satellite service [for which] there are currently no more than six applications.'' However, nothing in Section 309(j) precludes the use of auctions for satellite services, and the scope of our Section 309(j) authority to use auctions clearly is not limited to PCS licensing. 81 Indeed, we have decided to use auctions for many services besides PCS. 82 Nor does Section 309(j) withhold authority to use auctions for licensing international satellite systems or specify a minimum number of competing applications for a class of licenses that must be on file in order for licenses to be assigned by competitive bidding. 80 No commenter disputes the holding in para. 42 of the Notice that Big LEO service will involve a ``use of the electromagnetic spectrum'' as defined in 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(2), notwithstanding that most of the applicants propose to provide service to resellers rather than end-users. As we noted previously, the legislative record indicates that it is irrelevant to the applicability of the 309(j)(2) definition whether a licensee's subscribers are end-users or resellers, and we believe that understanding is consistent with the plain meaning of the pertinent statutory text. 81 The legislative record confirms that proponents of the legislation were well aware that it did not merely pertain to PCS licensing. See H.R. Report No. 103&hyph;111, 103d Cong., 1st Sess., at 256 (1993) (``[S]ection 309(j) is a generic statute that will govern the issuance of licenses in many different services''). See also Implementation of Section 309(j), note 79, supra. 82 For example, auctions will be used to award licenses in the 900 MHz Specialized Mobile Radio Services and the Multipoint Distribution Services. See 47 CFR 1.2102(a). 70. Constellation, Motorola and LQP contend that the statute forbids us from conducting an auction until we have used every means to attempt to eliminate mutual exclusivity. Motorola and LQP cite commentary in the House Report and in a letter from Congressman Dingell to then-Chairman Quello as evidence that Congress ``clearly had the Big LEO proceeding in mind when it added this language to the bill'' and that it believed that mutual exclusivity could be avoided in this proceeding. Further, TRW and COMSAT cite this commentary as proof that Congress enacted Subsection 309(j)(6)(E) to prevent the Commission from using an auction to assign Big LEO licenses. 71. Nothing on the face of Subsection 309(j)(6)(E), or in its legislative history, indicates that we are prohibited from granting Big LEO licenses by auction. The text of the Section merely provides that the Commission should continue to use techniques that avoid mutual exclusivity among applicants. Similarly, the commentary in the House Report states that it generally serves the public interest for the Commission to use engineering solutions and other mechanisms to avoid or eliminate mutual exclusivity and that the Commission should continue to do so in the Big LEO licensing proceeding. The Report does not assert, however, that if the Commission is unsuccessful in resolving mutual exclusivity, the legislation bars the Commission from auctioning Big LEO licenses. Rather, we construe the provision to mean that the Commission is obliged to attempt to eliminate mutual exclusivity. Indeed, if the Commission could avoid mutual exclusivity in every instance in which it arises, no need would exist for the Commission's auction authority. In the course of this proceeding, we have proposed several spectrum sharing plans to that end. 83 We do not think that it would serve the public interest to continue this effort in the event that the six applications before us, as amended in response to this Report and Order, are mutually exclusive. 83 See, e.g., Committee Report, Addendum 1 (proposal developed by FCC Representative to the Committee that would have permitted all proposed systems to be licensed with some design modifications); Notice, note 2, supra, at para. 38.
