FR940112-2-00073 FR940112-2-00054 Contract for the Disadvantaged Health Professions Faculty Loan Repayment Program With U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Health Resources and Services Administration, and Bureau of Health Professions Section 738 of the Public Health Service Act (``Act'') [42 United States Code 293 et seq.], as added by Pub. L. 102&hyph;408, authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services (``Secretary'') to repay the educational loans of applicants from disadvantaged backgrounds selected to be participants in the Loan Repayment Program Regarding Service on Faculties of Certain Health Professions Schools (``Faculty Loan Repayment Program''). In return for these loan repayments, applicants must agree to provide teaching faculty services at an approved accredited health professions school determined by the Secretary for a designated period of obligated service pursuant to section 738 of the Act. Sections 738(a) (5) and (7) of the Act require applicants to submit with their applications a signed contract with an accredited health professions school and a signed contract which states the terms and conditions of participation in the Faculty Loan Repayment Program. The Secretary shall sign only those contracts submitted by applicants who are selected for participation. The terms and conditions of participating in the Faculty Loan Repayment Program are set forth below: Section A_Obligations of the Secretary Subject to the availability of funds appropriated by the Congress of the United States for the Faculty Loan Repayment Program, the Secretary agrees to: 1. Pay, in the amount provided in paragraph 2 of this section, the undersigned applicant's qualifying educational loans. Qualifying educational loans consist of the principal and interest on educational loans received by the applicant for the following expenses of enrollment: a. tuition expenses: b. all other reasonable educational expenses such as fees, books, supplies, educational equipment and materials required by the school, and incurred by the applicant; or c. reasonable living expenses as determined by the Secretary. 2. If the applicant agrees to serve 2 or more years: a. Except as provided in subparagraph b. of this paragraph, pay up to $20,000 of the outstanding principal and interest of a participant's nondelinquent educational loans, but not more than half of the 20 percent of the qualified outstanding educational loans for such year for each year of eligible faculty service; or b. The Secretary's liability will not exceed a cap of $20,000 of principal and interest annually. This would include the 10 percent waived under Sec. 738(a) of the Act for the school's proportionate share of the loan repayment amounts. The applicant must pay that portion not covered. 3. Make loan repayments for a year of obligated service no later than the end of the fiscal year in which the applicant completes such year of service. 4. The effective date of the Contract will be the date it is signed by the Director, Division of Disadvantaged Assistance or the date employment begins as a faculty member at the contracting school whichever is later. Section B_Obligations of the Participant 1. The applicant agrees to: a. Continue loan repayments to lenders for the first quarter after which the Secretary will make delayed quarterly payments to applicant for the years stated in paragraph c. of this section. Applicant must pay lender(s) these payments. b. Serve his or her period of obligated faculty service as contracted with the school and as determined by the Secretary to be acceptable. c. Serve in accordance with paragraph b. of this section for XXX years at XXXXXX . The applicant must serve a minimum of two years.
