FR940719-2-00058 FR940719-2-00034 [Docket No. CP94&hyph;388&hyph;000, et al.] Texas Gas Transmission Corporation, et al.; Natural Gas Certificate Filings May 12, 1994. Take notice that the following filings have been made with the Commission: 1. Texas Gas Transmission Corporation [Docket No. CP94&hyph;388&hyph;000] Take notice that on April 28, 1994, Texas Gas Transmission Corporation (Texas Gas), P.O. Box 1160, Owensboro, Kentucky 42302, filed an application in Docket No. CP94&hyph;388&hyph;000 pursuant to Section 7(b) of the Natural Gas Act for permission and approval to abandon by sale certain pipeline facilities, all as more fully set forth in the application which is on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. Texas Gas proposes to abandon by sale to Enron Louisiana Energy Company (ELEC) about 4,610 feet of 30-inch pipeline and appurtenances (Plant Line) located between ANR Pipeline Company's (ANR) Eunice Compressor Station and the inlet of ELEC's gas processing plant located near Eunice, Louisiana (Eunice Plant). Texas Gas states that the Plant Line was placed into service in 1977 to receive gas transported by ANR for Texas Gas from the terminus of the High Island Offshore System to ANR's Eunice Compressor Station. Texas Gas further explains that it received such natural gas from ANR at the interconnection of the Plant Line and ANR's Eunice Compressor Station for transportation through the Plant Line to the Eunice Plant for processing and return to Texas Gas at the interconnection of Texas Gas' mainline facilities with the outlet of the Eunice Plant. Texas Gas also states that it transports natural gas through the Plant Line for ANR under section 284 of the Commission's regulations. Texas Gas asserts that the proposed sale of the Plant Line is contingent upon ELEC receiving a declaratory order from the Commission, establishing that, upon transfer from Texas Gas to ELEC, the Plant Line would constitute non-jurisdictional processing facilities. Texas Gas states that all gas delivered for the account of Texas Gas, on behalf of either Texas Gas or its customers, and received by ELEC through the Plant Line, would be transported by ELEC through the Plant Line at no charge and redelivered to Texas Gas at the outlet of the Eunice Plant. Comment date : June 2, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice. 2. Enron Louisiana Energy Company [Docket No. CP94&hyph;390&hyph;000] Take notice that on April 28, 1994, Enron Louisiana Energy Company (ELEC), P.O. Box 1188, Houston, Texas 77251, filed in Docket No. CP94&hyph;390&hyph;000 a petition for declaratory order requesting that the Commission disclaim jurisdiction over certain facilities to be acquired from Texas Gas Transmission Corporation (Texas Gas), all as more fully set forth in the petition which is on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. ELEC requests that the Commission issue an order declaring that a 4,610 foot, 30-inch pipeline and appurtenances (Plant Line) to be acquired by ELEC from Texas Gas are incidental to the operation of ELEC's Eunice Processing Plant (Eunice Plant) and that ELEC's ownership and operation of the Plant Line in conjunction with its Eunice Plant will not be subject to the Commission's jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act. ELEC states that the Plant Line is located between ANR Pipeline Company's (ANR) Eunice Compressor Station and the inlet of ELEC's Eunice Plant. ELEC also states that gas transported by ANR for Texas Gas and third parties moves from ANR's Eunice Compressor Station to ELEC's Eunice Plant through the Plant Line. ELEC asserts that parties transporting gas through ANR's system, whose gas volumes are processed at the Eunice Plant must enter into a transportation agreement with Texas Gas for the transportation of natural gas through the Plant Line for delivery and processing at the Eunice Plant. ELEC states that the Plant Line is wholly incidental to the extraction of hydrocarbons in the Eunice Plant and is not a facility for the transportation or sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce. ELEC further states that if it is permitted to own the Plant Line as a non-jurisdictional extraction plant facility, ELEC would not assess a transportation charge for natural gas from ANR or Texas Gas to reach the Eunice Plant. Comment date: June 2, 1994, in accordance with the first paragraph of Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice.
