FR940524-1-00064 FR940524-1-00010 Subpart I_Gas Masks §84.110 Gas masks; description. (a) Gas masks including all completely assembled air purifying masks designed for use as respiratory protection during entry into atmospheres not immediately dangerous to life or health or escape only from hazardous atmospheres containing adequate oxygen to support life are described as follows: (1) Front-mounted or back-mounted gas mask. A gas mask which consists of a full facepiece, a breathing tube, a canister at the front or back, a canister harness, and associated connections. (2) Chin-style gas mask. A gas mask which consists of a full facepiece, a canister which is usually attached to the facepiece, and associated connections. (3) Escape gas mask. A gas mask designed for use during escape only from hazardous atmospheres which consists of a facepiece or mouthpiece, a canister, and associated connections. (b) Gas masks shall be further described according to the types of gases or vapors against which they are designed to provide respiratory protection, as follows: ␣ 1␣ Type of front-mounted or back-mounted gas mask: Acid gas 1 2 3 Ammonia Carbon monoxide Organic vapor 1 2 3 Other gas(es) and vapor(s) 1 2 3 Combination of two or more of the above gases and vapors. 123 Combination of acid gas, ammonia, carbon monoxide, and organic vapors. 123 Type of chin-style gas mask: Acid gas 1 2 3 Ammonia Carbon monoxide Organic vapor 1 2 3 Other gas(es) and vapor(s) 1 2 3 Combination of two or more of the above gases and vapors. 123 Type of escape gas mask: Acid gas 1 2 3 4 Ammonia 4 Carbon monoxide Organic vapor 1 2 3 4 Other gas(es) and vapor(s) 1 2 3 4 Combination of two or more of the above gases and vapors. 1234 1 Approval may be for acid gases or organic vapors as a class or for specific acid gases or organic vapors. 2 Not for use against gases or vapors with poor warning properties (except where MSHA or Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards permit such use for a specific gas or vapor), or those which generate high heats or reaction with sorbent materials in the canister. 3 Use of the gas mask may be limited by factors such as lower explosive limit, toxicological effects, and facepiece fit. Limitations on gas mask service life and sorbent capacity limitations shall be specified by the applicant in instructions for selection, use and maintenance of the gas mask. 4 Eye protection may be required in certain concentrations of gases and vapors.
