FR940920-1-00088 FR940920-1-00008 c. Nitrogen Oxides Control Technologies . During the combustion process, NO X are formed through two mechanisms: (1) Oxidation of fuel-bound nitrogen (N 2 ) contained in MSW to NO X ; and (2) fixation and oxidation of atmospheric N 2 . In MWC's, the conversion of fuel-bound N 2 accounts for most (75 to 80 percent) of the NO X production. Controlling NO X emissions from MWC's can be accomplished through: (1) Combustion modifications to reduce NO X formation; (2) postcombustion control, which reduces NO X in the flue gas to elemental N 2 ; or (3) use of ``low-NO X '' combustors to reduce NO X formation. Combustion modifications include staged combustion, low excess air, and flue gas recirculation. Combustion modification retrofit at existing MWC's has had limited application and its retrofit potential must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Postcombustion NO X control using selective noncatalytic reduction (SNCR) is more flexible and has been more commonly used for MWC NO X control. The SNCR control technology reduces NO X to N 2 without the use of catalysts. Techniques include Thermal DeNO X TM , which injects ammonia into the combustor as a reducing agent; the NO X OUT TM process, which injects urea with chemical additives; and a two-stage urea/methanol injection process. A discussion of SNCR NO X control was presented in the December 20, 1989 proposal preamble (54 FR 52251) for the 1991 NSPS for new MWC's. The use of SNCR at existing MWC's results in NO X emission reductions of about 45 percent. However, for existing mass burn/refractory MWC's, SNCR retrofit problems exist. Mass burn/refractory MWC's are generally older and operate with greater fluctuations in combustor flue gas temperature profiles than is typical for other types of MWC's. The fluctuating temperature profiles create SNCR applicability and performance problems. The SNCR control has not been used nor is expected to be used at mass burn/refractory MWC's or other specialized combustors. The SNCR technology has also never been applied to a modular combustor, and the performance of such a system on a modular combustor is questionable. Performance questions arise because of the potential for temperature fluctuations resulting from batch-feed operations along with the inability of the refractory-lined furnace to dampen temperature spikes. The EPA requests comment on the applicability of SNCR and other NO X control techniques to MWC's at small plants. The EPA requests that comments address the cost, technical performance, and reliability of application of SNCR or other NO X control techniques specifically to modular starved-air MWC's and modular excess-air MWC's. Based on the comments and information received, the EPA will reconsider requiring NO X control on MWC's at small plants. Three types of MWC's, mass burn/rotary combustors, fluidized-bed combustors, and modular/excess-air combustors, are considered ``low NO X '' combustors. Available data show that these types of MWC's consistently show NO X levels below 150 ppmv without the use of SNCR. 2. MACT Floor and MACT Requirements of the Act Section 129 of the Act, as amended in 1990, directs the EPA to review and revise the February 11, 1991 guidelines to reflect MACT. Section 129 also establishes a minimum ``floor'' for the guidelines, in terms of their stringency; specifically: ␣*␣*␣*␣emission standards for existing units *␣*␣* shall not be less stringent than the average emission limitation achieved by the best performing 12 percent of units in the category␣*␣*␣*. The intent of this MACT floor is to ensure that the guidelines reflect the performance of the best emission control technologies currently operating at existing MWC units. A large portion of the existing MWC population is represented by relatively new and relatively well-controlled MWC units (the average age of an MWC unit is less than 10 years). This results in a large percentage of existing MWC units being operated with the best emission control technologies. This subset constitutes about 45 percent of existing MWC units at large MWC plants, and, based on EPA's current information, these units are all well maintained and operated. Based on the examination and analysis of the emission data available from these units, the EPA has not found a basis for separating the top 12 percent of these units from the remaining units in the subset of those units that are well-equipped, maintained, and operated. Consequently, to determine the MACT floor, the EPA utilized emission limitations included in Federal/State permits. Emission limitations for existing MWC units at large plants were determined by examining the air quality permits for those units obtained from the EPA Regional Offices and by examining responses to section 114 information requests, which included a section regarding permitted emission limits. Emission limitations for MWC units at small plants were determined only by examining the responses to section 114 information requests. The emission limitations for each pollutant were then converted to common units so that they could be compared. The emission limitations for each pollutant were ranked separately for the small and large categories of MWC plants. From those rankings, the average of the top 12 percent of emission limitations (i.e., the average of the most stringent limitations) for each pollutant in the small and large plant categories were calculated to determine the MACT floors. The MACT floor defines the minimum level of emission control that may be considered in defining MACT, regardless of cost or other considerations. In considering control alternatives beyond the MACT floor, the EPA must consider the cost of achieving such emission reductions and any nonair quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements. Therefore, the level of control that represents MACT may be more stringent than the MACT floor.
