FR940118-2-00114 FR940118-2-00067 Microloan Demonstration Program AGENCY: Small Business Administration (SBA). ACTION: Notice of request for proposals, availability and filing deadlines. SUMMARY: Section 7(m) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 636(m), authorizes the SBA to conduct a Microloan Demonstration Program (Program). SBA issued regulations which may be found in Title 13, Code of Federal Regulations, Sections 122.61_122.61&hyph;12. This notice announces the availability of a Request for Proposals for entities seeking to participate in the Program as intermediary lenders and located in the jurisdictions of Delaware, Hawaii, Nevada, Tennessee, Virginia, Wyoming. The deadline for such receipt of such proposals is March 14, 1994. DATES: Request for Proposal Packages will be available beginning January 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Request for Proposal Packages may be obtained by written request submitted to U.S. Small Business Administration, Office of Financing, Microloan Demonstration Program, 409 Third Street, SW., 8th Floor, Washington, DC 20416, Attn: Microloan Proposals, Mail Code 6120 or by telephone at (202) 205&hyph;6490. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 7(m) of the Small Business Act authorizes SBA to conduct a Microloan Demonstration Program. The purpose of the Program is to provide assistance to women, low-income, and minority entrepreneurs, and business owners, and other such individuals possessing the capability to operate successful business concerns and to assist small business concerns in those areas suffering from a lack of credit due to economic downturn. Under the Program, SBA is authorized to make direct loans to qualified intermediary lenders who will use the proceeds to make short-term, fixed rate microloans, of not more than $25,000, but particularly in amounts averaging $7,500, to start-up, newly established and growing small business concerns. In conjunction with the loans made to intermediary lenders, SBA may make grants to such intermediary lenders to be used to provide intensive marketing, management and technical assistance to microloan borrowers under this Program. SBA will accept responses from entities located in the above jurisdictions which seek to be accepted into the Program as an intermediary. To be eligible, an organization, inter alia, must be: (a) A private, non-profit entity; or (b) a private, non-profit, community development corporation; or (c) a consortium of private, non-profit organizations or private, non-profit community development corporations; or (d) a quasi-governmental economic development entity, other than a State, county, municipal government or any agency thereof, only if: (1) No application is received from an otherwise eligible and qualified organization; or (2) the SBA, in its sole discretion, determines that the needs of a region or geographical area are not adequately served by an otherwise eligible and qualified organization which: (a) has submitted an application; or (b) has previously been admitted to participate as an intermediary. Further, an entity meeting one of the above descriptions must have, by itself, at least one year of experience making and servicing microloans to start-up, newly established, or growing small business concerns, and itself providing, as an integral part of its microloan program, intensive marketing, management, and technical assistance to its microloan borrowers. In addition, each intermediary lender is eligible to receive grant funding to support the costs of providing such technical assistance in an amount of not more than twenty-five percent of the total outstanding balance of the loan made under this Program. Those organizations located in the indicated jurisdictions and which believe themselves eligible and which wish to participate in the Program may obtain a Microloan Demonstration Program Request for Proposals Package by contacting SBA at the above set forth address. Completed proposals must be received by SBA no later than 4:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, March 14, 1994. Dated: January 7, 1994. Erskine B. Bowles, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1054 Filed 1&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8025&hyph;01&hyph;M
