FR940317-0-00059 FR940317-0-00022 As discussed above, the Joint Statement recommends that the Commission adopt a rule prohibiting a municipal securities dealer from underwriting securities absent a commitment to provide ongoing information. In the Companion Release, the Commission is proposing such a rule for comment. In order to fully inform investors, an issuer needs to include in the official statement a description of the scope of its continuing disclosure commitment, the type of information that would be provided, the repositories to which the information would be sent, when annual and other periodic information would be available, and the consequences of the issuer's failure to abide by the requirements of the covenant. 5. Clarity and Conciseness Like other disclosure documents, official statements need to be clear and concise to avoid misleading investors through confusion and obfuscation. The expanded level of disclosure in official statements and increased sophistication of municipal securities instruments have, in many cases, resulted in longer and more complex disclosure documents, with the corresponding danger of overly detailed, legalistic, and possibly obtuse disclosure. 63 63 See GFOA Testimony at 6. See also Allstate Letter. The location, emphasis, and context of the disclosure can affect the ability of a reasonable investor to understand the relationship between, and cumulative effect of, the disclosure. 64 As the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has stated: 64 Isquith v. Middle South Utilities, 847 F.2d 186, 201 (5th Cir.), cert. denied, 488 U.S. 926 (1988); Kas v. Financial General Bankshares, Inc., et al., 796 F.2d 508, 516 (D.C. Cir. 1986); Kennedy v. Tallant, 710 F.2d 711, 720 (11th Cir. 1983). [D]isclosures in a prospectus must steer a middle course, neither submerging a material fact in a flood of collateral data, nor slighting its importance through seemingly cavalier treatment. The import of the information conveyed must be neither oversubtle nor overplayed, its meaning accurate, yet accessible. 65 65 Isquith, 847 F.2d at 202. Appropriate disclosure ``is measured not by literal truth, but by the ability of the material to accurately inform rather than mislead'' investors. 66 As the Commission has indicated in other contexts, legalistic, overly complex presentations and inattention to understandability can render the disclosure incomprehensible and consequently misleading. 67 66 McMahan & Company, et. al. v. Wherehouse Entertainment, Inc., 900 F.2d 576, 579 (2d Cir. 1990). 67 See, e.g., Limited Partnership Reorganizations and Public Offerings of Limited Partnership Interests, Securities Act Release No. 6900 (June 25, 1991) 56 FR 28979, 28980 (``Limited Partnership Release''). 6. Delivery of Official Statements One of the concerns leading to the adoption of Rule 15c2&hyph;12 was that underwriters were not receiving official statements within time periods that would allow them to examine the accuracy of the disclosure. 68 The Commission noted in proposing the rule that a thorough, professional review by underwriters of municipal offering documents could encourage appropriate disclosure of foreseeable risks and accurate descriptions of complex put and call features, as well as novel financing structures now employed in many municipal offerings. In addition, with the increase in novel or complex financings, there may be greater value in having investors receive disclosure documents describing fundamental aspects of their investment. Yet, underwriters are unable to perform this function effectively when offering statements are not provided to them on a timely basis. 69 68 Proposing Release, 53 FR at 37781. 69 Proposing Release, 53 FR at 37782. To address this concern, the rule requires any underwriter, including lead underwriters, syndicate members, and selling group members that receive in excess of the usual seller's commission, to obtain and review an official statement that is deemed final as of its date by the issuer, except for the omission of certain information, before bidding for, purchasing, offering, or selling municipal securities in a primary offering. Since the adoption of Rule 15c2&hyph;12, however, there have been continued problems with the timeliness of receipt by underwriters of the ``near final'' official statement required by the Rule. 70 In addition to compromising the ability of an underwriter to make a reasonable investigation of the issuer, this problem also may limit the ability of potential customers to make informed investment decisions. In a recent NFMA survey, 59% of those responding rated the delivery of preliminary official statements in competitive sales as either not very good or poor, and 50% rated the delivery of preliminary official statements in negotiated sales as either not very good or poor. 71 70 As a practical matter, near final official statements distributed to underwriters to satisfy Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(1) are often the same document as the preliminary official statement distributed to potential customers pursuant to Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(2). See Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferndon (April 4, 1990) (``Mudge Rose'') (rejecting the argument that in a negotiated offering, the identification of a credit enhancer and related information about the credit enhancer may be omitted on the assumption that the information depends on pricing). See also Fippinger & Pittman, Disclosure Obligations of Underwriters of Municipal Securities, 47 Business Lawyer 127, 140 (Nov. 1991). In addition, underwriters are required to deliver to potential customers, upon request, copies of the final official statement for a specified time period. Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(4). 71 NFMA Survey. See also Letter from Jeffrey M. Baker, Chairperson, NFMA Industry Practices and Procedures Committee and Richard A. Ciccarone, Past Chairperson, NFMA Industry Practices and Procedures Committee to Arthur Levitt, Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission, Christopher A. Taylor, Executive Director, MSRB and Joseph R. Hardiman, President and Chief Executive Officer, National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (Oct. 19, 1993) (regarding the timeliness of receipt of near final and preliminary official statements). One cause of delay has been confusion as to the point at which the underwriter must have obtained and reviewed the near final official statement in a negotiated offering. The term ``offer'' traditionally has been defined broadly under the federal securities laws and, for purposes of Rule 15c2&hyph;12, encompasses the distribution of a preliminary official statement by the underwriter, as well as oral solicitations of indications of interest. Thus, prior to the time that the underwriter distributes the preliminary official statement to potential investors, or otherwise begins orally soliciting investors, the rule requires it to have obtained and reviewed a near final official statement. If no offers are made, the underwriter is required to obtain and review a near final official statement by the earlier of the time the underwriter agrees (whether in principle or by signing the bond purchase agreement) to purchase the bonds, or the first sale of bonds to investors. 72 72 See Mudge Rose. The Commission has acknowledged that the rule would require greater planning and discipline by some issuers. 73 The Commission anticipated that, in order to allow underwriters to meet their obligation to have a reasonable basis for recommending any municipal securities, issuers would have to begin drafting disclosure documents earlier, and perhaps with greater care than in the past. 74 This result enables underwriters to receive, and if necessary influence the content of, the final official statement before committing themselves to an offering. 75 Moreover, placing an obligation on the issuer to prepare the official statement at an earlier stage is appropriate, because it is the issuer's obligation to ensure that there is timely dissemination of disclosure documents in connection with the offer and sale of the issuer's securities. 76 73 Adopting Release, 54 FR at 28804. The Commission also noted that the requirements of Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(1) could be met through the use of multiple documents. For example, a frequent issuer might be able to supply a recent official statement, together with supplementary information containing the terms of the current offering, as well as any material changes from the previous offering materials. 74 Proposing Release, 53 FR at 37790. 75 Id . 76 See Adopting Release, 54 FR at 28811 N. 84 (official statement is issuer's document). D. Conduit Financings When financing involves a third party as the source of repayment, investors need information on that underlying borrower. The GFOA Guidelines call for description of conduit obligors, which are defined by the GFOA Guidelines to include both private profit-making and nonprofit entities. 77 The suggested information includes the nature and development of the business or other activity to be undertaken by the conduit obligor (including its form of organization and management), location of principal facilities and service area, ratemaking or pricing policies and historical operations and plan of operations. 77 GFOA Guidelines at 26. In a recent policy statement, the GFOA referred to ``conduit bonds'' as ``municipal securities issued by a state or local government for the benefit of a private corporation or other entity that is ultimately obligated to pay such bonds * * *.'' GFOA, Committee on Governmental Debt and Fiscal Policy, Improvements in Municipal Securities' Market Disclosure (Feb. 1, 1994) (``GFOA Disclosure Policy Statement'').
