FR940104-2-00092 FR940104-2-00056 Projects eligible for consideration under this category include the replacement of obsolete or worn-out equipment and the upgrading of existing origination or delivery capacity to current industry performance standards. There are two subcategories: A. Under Priority 4A, NTIA will consider applications to replace urgently needed equipment from public broadcasting stations that do not meet the Priority 2 criteria because they do not provide either the only public telecommunications signal or the only locally originated public telecommunications signal to a geographic area. NTIA will also consider applications that improve as well as replace urgently needed production-related equipment at public radio and television stations that do not qualify for Priority 2 consideration but that produce, on a continuing basis, significant amounts of programming distributed nationally to public radio or television stations. This subcategory will also enable the acquisition of satellite downlinks for public radio stations in areas already served by one or more full-service public radio stations. The applicant must demonstrate that it will broadcast a program schedule that does not merely duplicate what is already available in its service area. The final projects included in this subcategory would enable the acquisition of the necessary items of equipment to bring the inventory of an already-operating station to the basic level of equipment requirements established by PTFP. B. This subcategory includes the improvement and non-urgent replacement of equipment at any public broadcasting station. Priority 5_Augmentation of Existing Broadcast Stations Projects in this category would equip an existing station beyond a basic capacity to broadcast programming from distant sources and to originate local programming. A. Projects to equip auxiliary studios at remote locations, or to provide mobile origination facilities. An applicant must demonstrate that significant expansion in public participation in programming will result. B. Projects to augment production capacity beyond basic level in order to provide programming or related materials for other than local distribution. This subcategory would provide equipment for the production of programming for regional or national use. III. Application Forms and Regulations To apply for a PTFP grant, an applicant must file a timely and complete application on a current form approved by the Agency. No previous versions of the PTFP Application Form may be used. (In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act, the current application form has been cleared under OMB control no. 0660&hyph;0003.) All persons and organizations on the PTFP's mailing list will be sent a copy of the current application form and the Final Rules. Those not on the mailing list may obtain copies by contacting the PTFP at the address above. Prospective applicants should read the Final Rules carefully before submitting applications. Applicants whose applications were deferred will be mailed pertinent PTFP materials and instructions for requesting reactivation. Applicants should note that they must comply with the provisions of Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' The Executive Order requires applicants for financial assistance under this program to file a copy of their application with the Single Points of Contact (SPOC) of all states relevant to the project. Applicants are required to serve a copy of their completed application on the appropriate SPOC on or before March 17, 1994. Applicants are encouraged to contact the appropriate SPOC well before the NTIA closing date.
