FR941007-2-00136 FR941007-2-00083 •Utilizing existing materials to the maximum extent possible, develop guidance for AE staff and students with disabilities in AE programs on the rights and duties of covered entities to provide appropriate accommodations to individuals with disabilities; •Utilizing existing material to the maximum extent possible, develop information for AE staff and students with disabilities on innovative and common accommodations provided to students with disabilities, as well as information on resources that will assist AE programs provide accommodations; •Field-test materials to ensure that they address the needs of individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds who are in AE programs and that they are available in appropriate accessible formats; and •Coordinate efforts with NIDRR's Disability and Business Technical Assistance Centers (ADA technical assistance centers) as well as with the Division of Adult Education and Literacy within the U.S. Department of Education Office of Vocational and Adult Education. Proposed Priority 2: Reproductive Issues for Women With Physical Disabilities Background Despite the attention given to disability in general and certain impairments in particular, one of the groups within the disabled population that has received little recognition or study is women. (Doggone, Mary J, Brooks, Nancy A., 1985). Over 3,000,000 women of childbearing age in the United States have some type of disability. Many women with physical disabilities have been discouraged by their families, friends, and health providers from considering the option of parenthood. Until very recently, women with many types of physical disabilities have not been encouraged or facilitated in exercising that option by health care providers and others. Medical professionals have often discouraged pregnancy for women with physical disabilities because of the limited understanding of the effect of bodily changes during pregnancy, labor, and delivery on existing impairments. This priority addresses reproductive issues confronted specifically by women with physical disabilities. Some aspects of women's health maintenance that are an ordinary part of life for most women pose significant problems for women with physical disabilities. Dependent upon the type of disability, fertility may be unaffected but pregnancy may be an increased risk and require high-risk management; genetic counseling may be suggested; symptoms of chronic disease or impairment may or may not be exacerbated; delivery may be difficult; and urinary infections, decubitus ulcers, and autonomic hyperreflexia during labor and delivery may be present. (Asrael, W., Huberman, B., NAACOG Update Series , Vol. 5, Lesson 11, 1986). Women with physical disabilities often require specialized obstetrical attention for a number of possible concerns. The interaction of drugs may have a more severe impact on their systems, such as the canceling effect of antiseizure medications and oral contraceptives, or the multiplying effect of antispasmodics on other drugs with depressive side effects. There has been little research on the long-term effects of oral contraceptives and other hormonal treatments for women who lead sedentary existences and who often have compromised circulatory systems. (Nosek, M., Journal of Women's Health , Vol. 1, No. 4, 1992). Concerns revolve around the ability to conceive, the special problems and risks if any, during pregnancy, the impact on the disability itself, and the methods of delivery. Elaine Carty and Tali Conine, ( Rehabilitation Nursing , Vol. 13, No. 2, 1988), looked at six important areas of stress that pregnant women with physical disabilities experience. Three are role related: accepting the new role of childbearing and the impending responsibilities of parenthood, accepting extra nurturing and assuming a more dependent role, and dealing with fatigue and limitations on activity in the perinatal period. Psychosocial issues cannot be separated from the woman's general well-being.
