FR940119-2-00070 FR940119-2-00050 The licensee stated that the major contributors to the 1991 Unit 2 test failure were from (1) penetration X220, Torus Purge to Standby Gas, and (2) penetration X8, Main Steam Line Drain. The major contributors to the 1992 Unit 2 failure were from (1) penetration X14, RWCU Suction, and (2) penetration X12, Residual Heat Removal Shutdown Cooling Suction. The licensee conducted repairs to several valves to correct the leakage through each of these penetrations. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's request and basis and finds that there is adequate assurance that there will not be any significant undetected degradation in the primary containment leakage during the next Type A test interval in that the primary contributors to potentially excessive leakage paths will be measured during the required Type B and Type C tests. These latter tests will be conducted at least once during each 18-month refueling outage, but in no case at intervals greater than 2 years (Sections III.D.2 and III.D.3 of Appendix J to 10 CFR Part 50). The staff agrees that the subject exemption request does not pose any undue risk to the public health and safety in that (1) the last as-left Type A test leakage rates were below 0.75 L a and (2) the licensee will continue to demonstrate that the test results from the Type B and C local leak rate tests will be no greater than their specified values in the Brunswick Technical Specifications prior to restart after a refueling outage. Any potentially excessive leakage paths will continue to be repaired and/or adjusted prior to restart and at intervals of 18 months, thereby continuing to ensure the integrity of the containment. Based on these considerations, the staff concludes that the licensee's request for a one-time exemption to Section III.A.6(b) of Appendix J to 10 CFR part 50 will ensure compliance with the maximum permissible containment leakage rate specified in the Brunswick Technical Specifications and, thus, should be granted. III Accordingly, the Commission has determined that, pursuant to 10 CFR 50.12, this exemption is authorized by law, will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety, and is consistent with the common defense and security. The Commission further determines that special circumstances, as provided in 10 CFR 50.12(a)(2)(ii), are present justifying the exemption; namely, that the application of this regulation is not necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of the rule. The underlying purpose of the rule is to provide a margin for possible deterioration of the containment leak-tightness during the interval between Type A tests. The Licensee has provided adequate assurance, as set forth above, that the underlying purpose of the rule will be achieved in that the primary contributors to potentially excessive leakage paths will be measured during Type B and C testing. Further, the staff also finds that the protection provided by the licensee against potentially excessive containment leakage will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety. The application of the regulation is not necessary to assure the integrity of the containment in the event of a postulated design basis loss-of-coolant accident. The Commission hereby grants the one-time exemption with respect to the requirements of 10 CFR part 50, Appendix J, Section III.A.5.(b)(2), to return both BSEP units to a normal Type A test frequency. Should two consecutive periodic Type A tests fail to meet the criteria in section III.A.5.(b)(2) in the future, notwithstanding the periodic retest schedule of section III.D, the licensee will be required to take the appropriate actions as specified in Section III.A.6(b) of Appendix J to 10 CFR 50. Pursuant to 10 CFR 51.32, the Commission has determined that the granting of the subject exemption will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment (59 FR 1569). The Exemption is effective upon issuance. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 11th day of January 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Steven A. Varga, Director, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1219 Filed 1&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
