FR940429-0-00281 FR940429-0-00015 ( 1 ) The claim is submitted after the 30-day period specified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section has passed; and ( 2 ) The guaranty agency has not paid, or made satisfactory arrangements to pay, the liability. (d) (1) The Secretary follows the procedures described in 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, applicable to fine proceedings against schools, in imposing a fine against a lender, guaranty agency, or third-party servicer. References to ``the institution'' in those regulations shall be understood to mean the lender, guaranty agency, or third-party servicer, as applicable, for this purpose. (2) The Secretary also follows the provisions of section 432(g) of the Act in imposing a fine against a guaranty agency or lender. * * * * * 49. Section 682.414 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(1)(i) to read as follows: ยง682.414 Records, reports, and inspection requirements for guaranty agency programs. (a) Records. (1)(i) The guaranty agency shall maintain current, complete, and accurate records of each loan that it holds, including, but not limited to, the records described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. The records must be maintained in a system that allows ready identification of each loan's current status, updated at least once every 10 business days. Any reference to a guaranty agency under this section includes a third-party servicer that administers any aspect of the FFEL programs under a contract with the guaranty agency, if applicable. * * * * * 50. A new ยง682.416 is added to subpart D to read as follows: ยง682.416 Requirements for third-party servicers and lenders contracting with third-party servicers. (a) Standards for administrative capability. A third-party servicer is considered administratively responsible if it_ (1) Provides the services and administrative resources necessary to fulfill its contract with a lender or guaranty agency, and conducts all of its contractual obligations that apply to the FFEL programs in accordance with FFEL programs regulations; (2) Has business systems including combined automated and manual systems, that are capable of meeting the requirements of part B of Title IV of the Act and with the FFEL programs regulations; and (3) Has adequate personnel who are knowledgeable about the FFEL programs. (b) Standards of financial responsibility. The Secretary applies the provisions of 34 CFR 668.15(b) (1)&hyph;(4) and (6)&hyph;(9) to determine that a third-party servicer is financially responsible under this part. References to ``the institution'' in those provisions shall be understood to mean the third-party servicer, for this purpose. (c) Special review of third-party servicer. (1) The Secretary may review a third-party servicer to determine that it meets the administrative capability and financial responsibility standards in this section. (2) In response to a request from the Secretary, the servicer shall provide evidence to demonstrate that it meets the administrative capability and financial responsibility standards in this section. (3) The servicer may also provide evidence of why administrative action is unwarranted if it is unable to demonstrate that it meets the standards of this section. (4) Based on the review of the materials provided by the servicer, the Secretary determines if the servicer meets the standards in this part. If the servicer does not, the Secretary may initiate an administrative proceeding under subpart G. (d) Past performance of third-party servicer or persons affiliated with servicer. Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a third-party servicer is not financially responsible if_ (1) (i) The servicer; its owner, majority shareholder, or chief executive officer; any person employed by the servicer in a capacity that involves the administration of a Title IV, HEA program or the receipt of Title IV, HEA program funds; any person, entity, or officer or employee of an entity with which the servicer contracts where that person, entity, or officer or employee of the entity acts in a capacity that involves the administration of a Title IV, HEA program or the receipt of Title IV, HEA program funds has been convicted of, or has pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of Federal, State, or local government funds, or has been administratively or judicially determined to have committed fraud or any other material violation of law involving such funds, unless_ (A) The funds that were fraudulently obtained, or criminally acquired, used, or expended have been repaid to the United States, and any related financial penalty has been paid; (B) The persons who were convicted of, or pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of the funds are no longer incarcerated for that crime; and (C) At least five years have elapsed from the date of the conviction, nolo contendere plea, guilty plea, or administrative or judicial determination; or (ii) The servicer, or any principal or affiliate of the servicer (as those terms are defined in 34 CFR part 85), is_ (A) Debarred or suspended under Executive Order (E.O.) 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189) or the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; or (B) Engaging in any activity that is a cause under 34 CFR 85.305 or 85.405 for debarment or suspension under E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189) or the FAR, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; and (2) Upon learning of a conviction, plea, or administrative or judicial determination described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the servicer does not promptly remove the person, agency, or organization from any involvement in the administration of the servicer's participation in Title IV, HEA programs, including, as applicable, the removal or elimination of any substantial control, as determined under 34 CFR 668.15, over the servicer. (e) Independent audits. (1) A third-party servicer shall arrange for an independent audit of its administration of the FFELP loan portfolio unless_ (i) The servicer contracts with only one lender or guaranty agency; and (ii) The audit of that lender's or guaranty agency's FFEL programs involves every aspect of the servicer's administration of those FFEL programs. (2) The audit must_ (i) Examine the servicer's compliance with the Act and applicable regulations; (ii) Examine the servicer's financial management of its FFEL program activities; (iii) Be conducted in accordance with the standards for audits issued by the United States General Accounting Office's (GAO's) Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions. (This publication is available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.) Procedures for audits are contained in an audit guide developed by and available from the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Education; and (iv) Except for the initial audit, be conducted at least annually and be submitted to the Secretary within six months of the end of the audit period. The initial audit must be an annual audit of the servicer's first full fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 1994, and include any period from the beginning of the first full fiscal year. The audit report must be submitted to the Secretary within six months of the end of the audit period. Each subsequent audit must cover the servicer's activities for the one-year period beginning no later than the end of the period covered by the preceding audit. (3) With regard to a third-party servicer that is a governmental entity, the audit required by this paragraph must be conducted in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 7502 and 34 CFR part 80, Appendix G. (4) With regard to a third-party servicer that is a nonprofit organization, the audit required by this paragraph must be conducted in accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;133, ``Audit of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions,'' as incorporated in 34 CFR 74.61(h)(3).
