FR941219-0-00040 FR941219-0-00014 Estuarine Standard Issues Comment 1: One commenter thought the Service should not adopt EPA's Bay/Delta water quality standards as part of the designation of critical habitat for the delta smelt. The commenter asserted that because the Service had not described the biological relevance of the standards, adopting the standards would be ``throwing water at the problem''. Another commenter thought EPA's criteria were developed to serve non-habitat purposes, reasoning that their purpose was to remove organisms from risk of mortality at the pumps. Another commenter thought flow, rather than salinity or the location of the entrapment zone, was a more appropriate parameter to protect the western Delta and Suisun Marsh. A commenter at the public hearings believed the Service should not have selected such a strict standard of salinity (2 ppt) for the delta smelt's critical habitat. Service Response: The Service does not adopt EPA's water quality standards in the designation of critical habitat for the delta smelt. The Service identifies water quality (salinity) as a primary constituent element to protect and recover the delta smelt. This point is described in detail in comment 27, below, and is clarified in the section entitled ``Primary Constituent Elements'' in this final rule. The Service has considered and discussed the biological relevance of EPA's water quality standards. The biological relevance of providing ample estuarine habitat for the delta smelt was first discussed in the original proposed designation of critical habitat for the delta smelt in 1991. The biological significance of salinity in the Estuary was again discussed in the sections entitled ``Revisions to the October 3, 1991, Critical Habitat Proposal'', ``Habitat Requirements'', and ``Primary Constituent Elements'' in the January 6, 1994, revised proposed designation of critical habitat. These sections discuss the habitat requirements of the delta smelt, the need for temporal and spatial variability of low-salinity waters in the Estuary, and the identification of primary constituent elements essential for the recovery of the smelt. As the above cited discussions illustrate, EPA's water quality standards were developed to mimic historical habitat conditions and were not developed to simply serve non-habitat purposes. The standards may incidentally serve ``non-habitat'' purposes by removing organisms from risk of mortality at the pumps. This topic is discussed in this final rule in the ``Primary Constituent Element'' section for larval and juvenile transport. Requiring flows to maintain salinity at critical locations in the Delta will not be ``throwing water at the problem.'' The Service has used the best scientific data available to prescribe conditions that will facilitate the recovery of the delta smelt, relying on scientific evidence and testimony presented during the State Board's 1992 hearing process, as well as information from the Service and the panel of scientists who participated in the San Francisco Estuary Project (SFEP). In accordance with the Act and its regulations, the Service may refer to either flow or salinity as water quality criteria when critical habitat is designated for the delta smelt. Because the Act is flexible, the Service may accomplish recovery in a variety of ways, so long as listed species are recovered. With critical habitat defined, the Service must identify the physical and biological features essential to the conservation of the species, and which may require special management considerations or protection. A primary constituent element may include either water quality or water quantity. Special management considerations include ``any methods or procedures useful in protecting physical and biological features of the environment for the conservation of a listed species.'' (50 CFR 424.12(b); 424.02(j)). Based on the best available information, the Service concludes that the criteria are necessary to protect and recover the delta smelt. Delta smelt are associated with the freshwater edge of the mixing zone, where the salinity is approximately 2 ppt (Ganssle 1966, Moyle et al. 1992, Sweetnam and Stevens 1993). In most years, the majority of the delta smelt population lives at salinities of less than 2 ppt for most of the year (Moyle 1976, Ganssle 1966). Comment 2: Although several water purveyors agreed with EPA that there is a relationship between the average position of the 2 ppt isohaline and the health of the Estuary, they believed that the Roe Island criterion was too protective and should be abolished. However, another commenter thought the water quality standards as proposed by EPA were not protective enough of the delta smelt (addressed in comment 7). Several commenters thought that requiring compliance at Roe Island may (1) reduce the within-year variability in hydrology in Suisun Bay, thus having an adverse impact on the biology of the Estuary; (2) place the entrapment zone too far downstream of Suisun Bay, thereby pushing phytoplankton and delta smelt out past Carquinez Strait into San Pablo Bay; and (3) either greatly benefit or adversely affect native and introduced estuarine species by enhancing or adversely affecting habitat quantity and quality. Service Response: To the extent feasible, maintenance of near-historical water quality conditions at Roe Island is essential to recovery of the delta smelt. Not only is it important to maintain low-salinity conditions at critical locations in the Estuary depending on the life-stage of the delta smelt, but also to simulate year-to-year natural spring storm cycles so that natural processes and historical conditions can be mimicked in the Estuary. The water quality standards developed by EPA, including criteria at Roe Island, Chipps Island, and the Sacramento-San Joaquin River confluence, were developed to provide both within-year and between-year variability in salinity levels, characteristic of the Estuary in the late 1960's and early 1970's. This variability does not currently occur frequently enough in the Estuary to maintain estuarine processes, because the construction of water conveyance facilities in the Central Valley and Delta, as well as the operation of diversions and upstream dams, have reduced and dampened annual fluctuations in Delta outflow. A low-salinity reference point at Roe Island will provide within-year and year-to-year variability essential to maintenance of a healthy Estuary. Requiring salinity be maintained intermittently at Roe Island also will provide flows to carry juvenile fish from the Delta downstream to Suisun Bay, and will maximize nutrient inputs from Suisun Marsh and the shallows of Suisun Bay into the mixing zone. Providing periodic low-salinity water at Roe Island will significantly increase the total area of medium to low-salinity nursery habitat available for delta smelt. Spring storm events are also beneficial to aquatic resources of the Estuary, providing areas of flooded vegetation for the spawning of some estuarine species. Moreover, the 2 ppt isohaline is needed sporadically at Roe Island to mimic seasonal variability of Delta flow to deter the invasion of introduced species. The lack of seasonal and yearly variability of Delta outflows has contributed to the invasions of introduced species. Because variable salinity is one of the dominant features of an estuary, ensuring natural variability in the Estuary can only benefit native estuarine species.
