FR940516-1-00101 FR940516-1-00006 EPA is also considering ``hours of engine use'' as an alternative measure for the warranty period. Under this option, an engine manufacturer would need to install some form of metering device to track the hours of use for an engine. EPA solicits comments on this metering option, the feasibility of outfitting small engines with such devices, and the feasibility of employing the useful life hours generated in the Nonroad Study as a measure for an hours-based warranty period. EPA believes that a warranty program is necessary to ensure the quality of emission control components and systems that are used on or in nonroad engines and also to protect consumers from costly repairs that result from manufacturing defects. Furthermore, a warranty program gives the engine owner/operator the incentive to get emission-related system failures repaired, since failures to the emission control system do not always affect the ability of an engine to work. The warranty requirements proposed today are consistent with emission defect warranty policies developed for on-highway vehicles, located in section 207(a) of the Act. Manufacturers of new nonroad engines would warrant to the ultimate purchaser and each subsequent purchaser that such engine was (1) designed, built, and equipped so as to conform at the time of sale with applicable regulations under section 213 of the Act, and (2) free from defects in materials and workmanship which cause such engine to fail to conform with applicable regulations for its warranty period. The related parts and components covered by section 207(a) are detailed in an advisory parts list issued by EPA on July 15, 1991, and encompass parts and systems which are or may be used on small SI engines. A copy of the parts list is in the public docket for this rulemaking. EPA invites comments on this parts list and its applicability to small SI engines. EPA is currently developing more detailed regulations that will further clarify manufacturers' responsibilities under section 207(a) for both on-highway and nonroad engines. EPA will rely on the existing 207(a) practices until those regulations are finalized. 23. Tampering Enforcement Today's action would make it illegal for any person to tamper with any emission-related component or system installed on or in a small SI engine. EPA believes that an engine would more likely continue to meet the applicable emissions standards in-use if the engine maintained its certified configuration. Therefore, EPA believes it is necessary to impose antitampering provisions for such engines and is proposing that the existing policies developed for on-highway tampering also apply to engines included in this rule. See Office of Enforcement and General Counsel; Mobile Source Enforcement Memorandum No. 1A, June 25, 1974. A copy of this memorandum is in the public docket for this rulemaking. V. Discussion of Issues This section contains further discussion of a number of issues raised during the development of this proposal. A. Use of Metric Units Metric units are used throughout the proposed rule without English equivalents. This is done in compliance with the Metric Conversion Act of 1975, as amended, and Executive Order 12770, July 25, 1981, which directs all federal agencies to use metric as the primary unit in regulations by September 30, 1992 and to only provide English equivalents when the affected party(s) uses English as the primary unit. EPA acknowledges slight differences between the two systems and the use of mixed units by CARB. Comments are solicited on the impact of using only metric units or the need for including the English equivalent. B. Use of Power Rating as Cutoff for Applicability EPA is proposing to limit the applicability of this action to engines at or below 19 kW (25 horsepower) rated power as compared to CARB's 25 horsepower limit. EPA considered limiting the regulation's applicability based instead on a total displacement, but has chosen to propose a power-based cutoff for consistency with CARB. EPA is aware that the measurement of rated power is subject to engine configuration and test conditions, and that a cutoff based on power might create an incentive for manufacturers with engines just below the cutoff to change engine and/or test procedure parameters to result in a higher measured power.
