FR941021-0-00198 FR941021-0-00022 §25.279 Inter-satellite service. (a) Any non-geostationary satellite communicating with other space stations may use frequencies in the inter-satellite service as indicated in §2.106. This does not preclude the use of other frequencies for such purposes as provided for in several service definitions, e.g., FSS. The technical details of the proposed inter-satellite link shall be provided in accordance with §25.114(c). (b) Operating conditions. In order to ensure compatible operations with authorized users in the frequency bands to be utilized for operations in the inter-satellite service, these inter-satellite service systems must operate in accordance with the conditions specified in this section. (1) Coordination requirements with federal government users. (i) In frequency bands allocated for use by the inter-satellite service that are also authorized for use by agencies of the federal government, the federal use of frequencies in the inter-satellite service frequency bands is under the regulatory jurisdiction of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA). (ii) The Commission will use its existing procedures to reach agreement with NTIA to achieve compatible operations between federal government users under the jurisdiction of NTIA and inter-satellite service systems through frequency assignment and coordination practice established by NTIA and the Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC). In order to facilitate such frequency assignment and coordination, applicants shall provide the Commission with sufficient information to evaluate electromagnetic compatibility with the federal government users of the spectrum, and any additional information requested by the Commission. As part of the coordination process, applicants shall show that they will not cause interference to authorized federal government users, based upon existing system information provided by the government. The frequency assignment and coordination of the satellite system shall be completed prior to grant of construction authorization. (2) Coordination among inter-satellite service systems. Applicants for authority to establish inter-satellite service are encouraged to coordinate their proposed frequency usage with existing permittees and licensees in the inter-satellite service whose facilities could be affected by the new proposal in terms of frequency interference or restricted system capacity. All affected applicants, permittees, and licensees, shall at the direction of the Commission, cooperate fully and make every reasonable effort to resolve technical problems and conflicts that may inhibit effective and efficient use of the radio spectrum; however, the permittee or licensee being coordinated with is not obligated to suggest changes or re-engineer an applicant's proposal in cases involving conflicts. PART 94_[AMENDED] 18. The authority citation for Part 94 continues to read as follows: Authority: Secs. 4, 303, 48 Stat., as amended, 1066, 1082; 47 U.S.C. 154, 303, unless otherwise noted. 19. The table in paragraph (b) of §94.61 is amended by revising footnote 4 to read as follows: §94.61 Applicability. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* Frequencies in this band are shared with mobile and radiolocation stations in other services, and must accept harmful interference that may be experienced from operations of industrial, scientific, or medical (ISM) equipment operating at 2450 MHz. In the 2483.5&hyph;2500 MHz band, no applications for new stations or modifications to existing stations to increase the number of transmitters will be accepted. Existing licensees as of July 25, 1985, are grandfathered and their operation is co-primary with the Radiodetermination Satellite Service and Mobile-Satellite Service. However, all grandfathered temporary fixed licensees are required to notify directly each Radiodetermination Satellite Service and Mobile-Satellite Service licenses concerning present and proposed locations of operations. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26090 Filed 10&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
