FR940830-2-00083 FR940830-2-00047 •Potential significance of the proposed project for increasing the knowledge of effective employment interventions, including original approaches and documenting the effectiveness of established approaches. •Appropriateness of the applicant's proposed project to the goals of this announcement. •Consistency of the proposed project relative to the knowledge base of evaluating employment interventions. Adequacy and Appropriateness of Project Plans (20) •In terms of the applicant's stated goals and objectives. •In terms of the project management plan, implementation plan, and proposed staffing and resources. •In terms of cultural competency for all aspects of project plans, addressing factors such as gender, age, ethnicity, and other relevant characteristics. Adequacy and Appropriateness of Evaluation Plans (35) •In terms of the adequacy to determine the effectiveness of the intervention, including overall effectiveness, relative effectiveness of components, and cost effectiveness. •In terms of the applicant's stated goals and objectives. •In terms of the proposed staffing and resources, project management plan, and implementation plan. •In terms of cultural competency for all aspects of evaluation plans, addressing factors such as gender, age, ethnicity, and other relevant characteristics. •Appropriateness of Staffing, Project Organization, and Resources (15) •Qualifications and experience of the project director and other key personnel, including representation of appropriate cultural groups in staff. •Adequacy of available resources (e.g., facilities, equipment). •Capability and experience of the applicant organization with multisite projects. •Adequacy of support for the project from other relevant organizations. •Appropriateness of the proposed budget for each of the requested years (the IRG may recommend either increases or decreases in the budget based on their review of the application or on the adequacy of the budget justification). Review Criteria for Coordinating Center Applications: Significance of the Project (20) •Understanding the issues and advantages in using a multisite approach in the development of the common protocol, including the logistics of convening program meetings. •Adequacy of plans for enhancing cooperation, and preventing or ameliorating problems in cooperation among grantees. Adequacy and Appropriateness of Evaluation Plans (40) •In terms of development of the common protocol, training, an appropriate data base structure, security measures and procedures for safeguarding of data. •In terms of data analysis based on the common protocol. •In terms of potential evaluation concerns unique to this population and this type of program.
