FR940222-1-00051 FR940222-1-00008 (iii) After consideration of any additional material submitted by the HMO or CMP under paragraph (b)(8) of this section. (11) Adjustment for final overclaim. (i) If the HMO or CMP has a contract with HCFA under subpart L of this part, the rules of §417.576(c) apply. (ii) If the HMO or CMP no longer has any contract under subpart L of this part, it must, unless other arrangements are mutually agreed upon, reimburse within 30 days after receipt of the notice, any amounts due HCFA under the final overclaim determination. (12) Exemptions based on size. HCFA may exempt an HMO or CMP from the presumptive limit requirements for up to 2 consecutive years if the HMO or CMP has 500 or fewer Medicare enrollees at the beginning of its contract period. HCFA may establish additional criteria that these HMOs or CMPs must meet in order to qualify for this exception. (13) Termination of contact. As provided in §417.494(b)(1)(v), HCFA may terminate its Medicare contact with an HMO or CMP that has a final overclaim for 2 consecutive years, on the grounds that the HMO or CMP is inefficient and that it is not prudent for HCFA to contract with inefficient entities. (c) Method and amount of payment to the HMO or CMP. (1) HCFA makes interim per capita payments each month for each Medicare enrollee, equivalent to the interim per capita cost rate determined in accordance with §417.570. (2) HCFA adjusts the interim per capita rate as necessary during the contract period and makes final adjustments at the end of the contract period. (3) In determining the amount due the HMO or CMP, HCFA deducts from the reasonable cost that the HMO or CMP actually incurs for covered services furnished to its Medicare enrollees, an amount equal to the actuarial value of the applicable Medicare part A and part B deductible and coinsurance amounts that would have applied to the covered services for which payment is being made if these enrollees had not enrolled in this or another HMO or CMP. (d) Payment for hospital and SNF services_ (1) Election by the HMO or CMP. An HMO or CMP must elect, for each provider that furnishes hospital or SNF services to the HMO's or CMP's Medicare enrollees, either direct payment or payment by HCFA. (2) Timing, notice, and effect of election. (i) The HMO or CMP must make the election and notify HCFA in writing before the beginning of its contract period. (ii) The election is binding for the full contract period. (e) Reimbursement by organization. If the HMO or CMP elects to pay providers directly, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, it must_ * * * * * 6. In §417.576, paragraph (b)(2)(i) is revised to read as follows: §417.576 Final settlement. * * * * * (b) * * * (2) * * * (i) The per capita costs incurred in furnishing covered services to its Medicare enrollees, determined in accordance with §417.532 through 417.568, and including_ (A) The costs incurred by entities related to the HMO or CMP by common ownership or control; and (B) The costs of hospital and skilled nursing facility services paid by HCFA's intermediaries under the option provided in §417.532(d). * * * * *
