FR940719-1-00010 FR940719-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service 19 CFR PART 12 RIN 1515&hyph;AB44 Enforcement of ITC Exclusion Orders AGENCY: Customs Service, Treasury. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This document proposes an amendment of the Customs Regulations regarding unfair competition to reflect Customs authority to enforce seizure and forfeiture orders issued by the United States International Trade Commission (ITC). These orders would be issued for articles which had previously been denied entry pursuant to an ITC exclusion order. Such seizure and forfeiture orders may be issued only when the owner, importer or consignee of such articles has previously attempted to import articles subject to an exclusion order into the U.S.; the articles have previously been denied entry; and the owner, importer or consignee has been notified in writing of the previous denial of entry. The proposed amendment sets forth the procedures Customs will follow when seizures are made for violations of the ITC exclusion orders. It also describes the appeal rights and procedures available to parties who have an interest in the seized property. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments (preferably in triplicate) may be submitted to U.S. Customs Service, Attn: Regulations Branch, Franklin Court, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20229, and may be inspected at the Regulations Branch, 1099 14th Street NW., suite 4000, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Vicki Allums, Intellectual Property Rights Branch (202) 482&hyph;6960. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Under ยง337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1337), the International Trade Commission applies U.S. statutory law and the common law of unfair competition to the importation of products into the United States and their subsequent sale in the United States. Section 337 declares unlawful unfair methods of competition and unfair acts in the importation and sale of products in the United States, the threat or effect of which is to destroy or substantially injure a domestic industry, prevent establishment of such an industry, or restrain or monopolize trade and commerce in the United States. Section 337 also declares as unlawful per se infringement of a valid and enforceable U.S. patent, copyright, registered trademark, or mask work; no resulting injury need be found. To obtain relief under section 337, the affected U.S. industry must file a complaint with the United States International Trade Commission (ITC). A formal hearing before an administrative law judge will then be conducted in order to determine whether a violation under section 337 exists. The administrative law judge then issues an initial determination. The initial determination is subject to discretionary review by the ITC, which may affirm, reverse, modify, set aside, or remand the initial determination to the administrative law judge for further proceedings. If it is determined that a violation exists, the ITC may order that any articles found to be in violation of the Act be excluded from entry into the U.S. Section 1342(a)(5)(B) of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 amended section 337 of the Tariff Act by inserting a new subsection (i). That subsection authorizes the ITC to issue an order providing that any article determined to be imported in violation of the provisions of the law relating to unfair methods of competition and unfair acts in the importation of articles into the United States should be seized and forfeited when certain conditions stated in the law have been met. Any such order issued is to be enforced by the Secretary of the Treasury. For such an order to be valid, the law provides that the following conditions must be met: (a) The owner, importer, or consignee of the article must have previously attempted to import the article into the United States; (b) The article must have been denied entry into the United States by reason of an order issued under 19 U.S.C. 1337 (d); and (c) Upon such previous denial of entry, the Secretary of the Treasury must have provided the owner, importer, or consignee of the article with written notice of_ (i) Such order, and
