FR940203-0-00059 FR940203-0-00017 NMFS has specified ``the manner and locations in which animals may be taken'' in these regulations (see regulatory text below). Depleted Species Comment: Several commenters noted the number of species requested for taking that are either depleted under the MMPA or threatened or endangered under the ESA (and should not be taken). Response: In 1986, both the MMPA and the ESA were amended to allow incidental takings of depleted, endangered, or threatened marine mammals. Before the 1986 amendments, section 101(a)(5) applied only to non-depleted marine mammals, which meant that an incidental take of endangered or depleted marine mammals could not be authorized even if the anticipated take would result in only negligible impacts. However, both the MMPA and ESA now specifically provide for authorization of such takes, so long as the requisite findings can be made. As required by the ESA, NMFS has consulted with the Navy under section 7 (refer to response under ``Endangered Species Act Concerns'' below for additional information on section 7 consultation). A copy of the Biological Opinion resulting from that consultation is available upon request (see ADDRESSES ). Incidental Take Comment: One commenter opposed the project because, among other things, estimated takes presented by the Navy are calculated from models that may be based on invalid assumptions. The commenter continues that even though NMFS believes the takes will have a proportionally minor impact on the large local populations of marine mammals, hundreds, if not thousands, of animals will be harassed by the detonations, while a sizable number will potentially be injured and killed. Response: The two assumptions that may not be valid were discussed fully in the application and the EA. These are (1) that species are distributed uniformly in space and time, and (2) that pinniped species are in the water all year. The first assumption is discussed in the following response and under ``Population Assessment Methodology,'' below. The latter assumption is misleading because many of these animals will be on the beach for 1&hyph;3 months during breeding and/or molting cycles; use of this assumption ( i.e., that all pinnipeds are in the water all the time) leads to a higher incidental take estimate, not a lower one. The negligible impact determination under section 101(a)(5) of the MMPA was discussed above. Comment: Two commenters were concerned that the distribution of marine mammals was difficult to predict because marine mammals exhibit associative, or clumped distributions. This, one of the commenters believes, could cause the incidental take number to be lower or higher than requested. Response: NMFS agrees. Those marine mammal species that tend towards group association could be subjected to a higher incidental take on a single detonation, provided their behavior also includes all individuals in the school diving at the same time, thereby making the entire pod or school invisible to observers. It is also just as likely that, because of grouping or clumping behavior, during the 4-week period for a ship shock trial, random distribution of the school(s) would mean that this species would not be within the safety zone at the time of testing, and therefore not subject to take. However, should the annual taking authorization for any species be reached, then any future takings would be considered to be in violation of the LOA, the implementing regulations and the MMPA. Comment: On a related issue, one commenter questioned whether it was a ``conservative approach'' to estimate mysticete (baleen whales) abundance (from which incidental take estimates are calculated), by using ``California-wide estimates and `scaling' them to the focal area.'' This commenter also questioned the incidental take calculations for California sea lions, since the females and young apparently remain in the area year-round. Response: NMFS believes the calculations for mysticete abundance is a conservative approach. As noted in the EA, during aerial surveys in the winter/spring period, blue whales were the only mysticete species observed within Area 2 ( i.e., the OSTR). Based upon this observation, an incidental take authorization for mysticetes should include only blue whales. However, because of the migratory nature of mysticetes, a conservative approach was taken, which was to request additional mysticete species based upon the method mentioned by the commenter. While California sea lions are the most abundant pinniped species in the SCB, because they are more likely to remain closer to islands and the coastline, fewer are expected to be in the area of the test. Therefore, fewer animals are anticipated to be incidentally taken. Comment: One commenter questioned the calculations for incidental take of northern fur seals because the EA stated that the species shared similar attributes with northern elephant seals. Response: The similar attributes northern fur seals share with northern elephant seals for the purposes of calculating the effectiveness of mitigation only, were the extended diving capability and the likelihood for northern fur seals to remain in the area most of the year.
