FR940722-1-00038 FR940722-1-00012 Friday July 22, 1994 Part V Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Parts 23 and 91 Airworthiness Standards; Systems and Equipment Proposals Based on European Joint Aviation Requirements Proposals; Proposed Rule Federal Register / Vol. 59, No. 140 / Friday, July 22, 1994 / Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Parts 23 and 91 [Docket No. 27806; Notice No. 94&hyph;21] RIN: 2120&hyph;AE59 Airworthiness Standards; Systems and Equipment Proposals Based on European Joint Aviation Requirements Proposals AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes changes to the systems and equipment airworthiness standards for normal, utility, acrobatic, and commuter category airplanes. These proposals arise from the joint effort of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the European Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA) to harmonize the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) and the Joint Aviation Requirements (JAR) for airplanes that will be certificated in these categories. The proposed changes would provide nearly uniform systems and equipment airworthiness standards for airplanes certificated in the United States under 14 CFR part 23 (part 23) and in the JAA countries under Joint Aviation Requirements 23 (JAR 23), thereby simplifying airworthiness approval for import and export purposes. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before November 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this document should be mailed in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;200), Docket No. 27806, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments delivered must be marked Docket No. 27806. Comments may be inspected in Room 915G weekdays between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., except on Federal holidays. In addition, the FAA is maintaining an information docket of comments in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, ACE&hyph;7, Federal Aviation Administration, Central Region, 601 East 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106. Comments in the duplicate information docket may be inspected in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel weekdays, except Federal holidays, between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 4 p.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Earsa Tankesley, ACE&hyph;112, Small Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 601 East 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106; telephone (816) 426&hyph;5688. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments relating to the environmental, energy, or economic impact that might result from adopting the proposals in this notice are also invited. Substantive comments should be accompanied by cost estimates. Comments should identify the regulatory docket or notice number and should be submitted in triplicate to the Rules Docket address specified above. All comments received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered by the Administrator before taking action on this proposed rulemaking. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments received will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must include a preaddressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 27806.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRM Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center, APA&hyph;200, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3484. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on the mailing list for future NPRM's should request, from the above office, a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Distribution System, which describes the application procedure. Background At the June 1990 meeting of the JAA Council (consisting of JAA members from European countries) and the FAA, the FAA Administrator committed the FAA to support the harmonization of the FAR with the JAR being developed for use by the European authorities who are members of the JAA. In response to this commitment, the FAA Small Airplane Directorate established an FAA Harmonization Task Force to work with the JAR 23 Study Group to harmonize part 23 and the proposed JAR 23. The General Aviation Manufacturers Association (GAMA) also established a JAR 23/part 23 Committee to provide technical assistance in this effort. Following a review of the first draft of proposed JAR 23, members of the FAA Harmonization Task Force and the GAMA Committee met in Brussels, Belgium for the October 1990 meeting of the JAR 23 Study Group. Representatives from the Association Europeene des Constructeures de Material Aerospatial (AECMA), an organization of European airframe manufacturers, also attended. The main agenda item for this meeting was the establishment of procedures to accomplish harmonization of the airworthiness standards for normal, utility, and acrobatic category airplanes. The JAA had decided that its initial rulemaking effort should be limited to these three categories and that commuter category airworthiness standards should be addressed separately. After that meeting, technical representatives from each of the four organizations (GAMA, AECMA, FAA and JAA) met to resolve differences between the proposed JAR and part 23. This portion of the harmonization effort involved a number of separate meetings of specialists in the flight, airframe, powerplant, and systems disciplines. These meetings showed that harmonization would require revisions to both part 23 and the proposed JAR 23.
