FR940412-2-00033 FR940412-2-00019 G. Facsimiles will be permitted to meet the deadline for submitting the DD Form 1840. (Reference TQAP, page 24, paragraph C.4.c.(8)) Comments: Carriers were pleased the requirement for a hard copy to follow facsimiles was cancelled as announced at the September 1993, Military Symposium. H. On long delivery out of SIT shipments, the carrier will return the completed DD Form 619 to the PPSO that authorized the services. (Reference TQAP, page 33, paragraph C.10.d.) Comments: No significant comments. This change will ensure services authorized are confirmed by the proper authority. I. When a carrier is suspended for a volume move, it is suspended for the same type service (e.g., All domestic HHGs), for all shipments out of that activity. The CONUS Automated Rate System (CARTS) pamphlet will be changed. (Reference CARTS Instruction Pamphlet, Page 28, paragraph 6008.c.) Comments: No significant comments. This is to bring the CARTS pamphlet in line with the TQAP. J. Shipments turned back by the carrier, or pulled back by the PPSO due to the carrier's inability to perform, will be uniformly scored at 40 points. This includes shipments that have been packed and/or picked up by the local agent. The carrier will continue to be charged administrative weight on the TDR if the shipment is turned back or pulled back seven days or less before the established pickup date or any time after the shipment has been packed and/or picked up. (Reference TQAP page 32, paragraph C.9.) Comments: No significant comments. In the interest of uniformity and to alleviate confusion in scoring pull back/turn back shipments, it is believed all such shipments should be scored the same. Shipments pulled back/turned back within 7 days of pickup, must be retendered and often reinventoried, causing more delay in the movement at origin. Therefore, all these kinds of shipments will be scored the same. K. Previous proposal to no longer require a 20-day grace period prior to a regular suspension is being withdrawn at this time for further review within the DOD. L. Previous proposal allowing destination PPSOs to take action against a carrier, that has a Letter of Intent on file at the destination installation for outbound service, for inbound/destination performance failures, has been withdrawn by the DOD. MTMC considered all comments carefully and has decided to implement changes to the quality assurance program as described above. The DOD considers the changes necessary to ensure quality assurance standards are applied through better communication and streamlined procedures. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8756 Filed 4&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
