FR940913-0-00082 FR940913-0-00027 (1) The HUD funding amount is definitely less than the total actual cost of the project. (2) The HUD funding amount does not exceed $100,000 or the small purchase threshold fixed at 41 U.S.C. 403 (11), whichever is greater. (3) The project scope is very specific and adequate cost, historical, or unit pricing data is available to establish a fixed amount award with assurance that the recipient will realize no increment above actual cost. (b) [Reserved] ยง84.81 Definition. (a) A lump sum award is an award for a predetermined amount, as set forth in the grant agreement, which amount does not vary with the amount of the recipient's actual incurred costs. Under this type of award, HUD does not pay the recipient for its incurred costs but rather for completing certain defined events in the work or achievement of some other well-defined milestone. Some of the ways in which the grant amount may be paid are, but are not limited to: (1) In several partial payments, the amount of each agreed upon in advance, and the ``milestone'' or event triggering the payment also agreed upon in advance, and set forth in the grant; (2) On a unit price basis, for a defined unit or units (such as a housing counseling unit), at a defined price or prices, agreed to in advance of performance of the grant and set forth in the grant; or, (3) In one payment at grant completion. (b) The key distinction between a lump sum and a cost reimbursement grant is the lack of a direct relationship between the costs incurred by the recipient and the amount paid by HUD in the lump sum arrangement. ยง84.82 Provisions applicable only to lump sum grants. In addition to the provisions of this subpart E, subparts A and B of this part apply to lump sum grants. (a) Financial and program management. Paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section prescribe standards for financial management systems, methods for making payments, budget revision approvals, and making audits. (b) Standards for financial management systems. (1) Records that identify adequately the source and application of funds for federally-sponsored activities are required. These records shall contain information pertaining to Federal awards, authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, outlays, income and interest. (2) Effective control over and accountability for all funds, property and other assets are required. Recipients shall adequately safeguard all such assets and assure they are used solely for authorized purposes. (3) Comparison of outlays with budget amounts for each award is required. Whenever appropriate, financial information should be related to performance and unit cost data. (4) Where HUD guarantees or insures the repayment of money borrowed by the recipient, HUD, at its discretion, may require adequate bonding and insurance if the bonding and insurance requirements of the recipient are not deemed adequate to protect the interest of the Federal Government. (5) HUD may require adequate fidelity bond coverage where the recipient lacks sufficient coverage to protect the Federal Government's interest. (6) Where bonds are required in the situations described above, the bonds shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties, as prescribed in 31 CFR part 223, ``Surety Companies Doing Business with the United States.'' (c) Payment. (1) The standard governing the use of banks and other institutions as depositories of funds advanced under awards is, HUD shall not require separate depository accounts for funds provided to a recipient or establish any eligibility requirements for depositories for funds provided to a recipient. However, recipients must be able to account for the receipt, obligation and expenditure of funds. (2) Consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for women-owned and minority-owned business enterprises, recipients shall be encouraged to use women-owned and minority-owned banks (a bank which is owned at least 50 percent by women or minority group members). (3) Except as noted elsewhere in this part, only the following forms shall be authorized for the recipients in requesting payments. HUD shall not require more than an original and two copies of these forms. (i) SF-270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement. HUD has adopted the SF-270 as a standard form for all nonconstruction programs when electronic funds transfer or predetermined advance methods are not used. The SF-270 shall also be used for lump sum payment requests. HUD, however, has the option of using this form for construction programs in lieu of the SF-271, ``Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.'' (ii) SF-271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. HUD has adopted the SF-271 as the standard form to be used for requesting reimbursement for construction programs. However, HUD may substitute the SF-270 when HUD determines that it provides adequate information to meet HUD's needs. (d) Revision of budget and program plans. (1) The budget plan is the financial expression of the project or program as approved during the award process. It may include either the Federal and non-Federal share, or only the Federal share, depending upon HUD requirements. It shall be related to performance for program evaluation purposes whenever appropriate. (2) Recipients are required to report deviations from program plans, and request prior approvals for budget and program plan revisions, in accordance with this section. (3) For nonconstruction awards, recipients shall request prior approvals from HUD for one or more of the following program or budget related reasons. (i) Change in the scope or the objective of the project or program (even if there is no associated budget revision requiring prior written approval). (ii) The need for additional Federal funding.
