FR940725-0-00183 FR940725-0-00019 §1915.16 Warning signs and labels. (a) Employee comprehension of signs and labels. The Employer shall ensure that each sign or label posted to comply with the requirements of this subpart is presented in a manner that can be perceived and understood by all employees. (b) Posting of large work areas. A warning sign or label required by paragraph (a) of this section need not be posted at an individual tank, compartment or work space within a work area if the entire work area has been tested and certified: not safe for workers, not safe for hot work, and if the sign or label to this effect is posted conspicuously at each means of access to the work area. Appendix A to Subpart B_Compliance Assistance Guidelines for Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres This Appendix is a non-mandatory set of guidelines provided to assist employers in complying with the requirements of this subpart. This Appendix neither creates additional obligations nor detracts from obligations otherwise contained in the standard. It is intended to provide explanatory information and educational material to employers and employees to foster understanding of, and compliance with, the standard. Sections 1915.11 through 1915.16. These standards are minimum safety standards for entering and working safely in vessel tanks and compartments. Section 1915.11(b)␣Definition of ``Hot work.'' There are several instances in which circumstances do not necessitate that grinding, drilling, abrasive blasting be regarded as hot work. Some examples are: 1. Abrasive blasting of the hull for paint preparation does not necessitate pumping and cleaning the tanks of a vessel. 2. Prior to hot work on any hollow structure, the void space should be tested and appropriate precautions taken. Section 1915.11(b)␣Definition of ``Lower explosive limit.'' The terms lower flammable limit (LFL) and lower explosive limit (LEL) are used interchangeably in fire science literature. Section 1915.11(b)␣Definition of ``Upper explosive limit.'' The terms upper flammable limit (UFL) and upper explosive limit (UEL) are used interchangeably in fire science literature. Section 1915.12(a)(4). After a tank has been properly washed and ventilated, the tank should contain 20.8 percent oxygen by volume. This is the same amount found in our normal atmosphere at sea level. However, it is possible that the oxygen content will be lower. When this is the case, the reasons for this deficiency should be determined and corrective action taken. An oxygen content of 19.5 percent can support life and is adequate for entry. However, any oxygen level less than 20.8 percent and greater than 19.5 percent level should also alert the competent person to look for the causes of the oxygen deficiency and to correct them prior to entry. Section 1915.12(b)(4)␣Flammable atmospheres. Atmospheres with a concentration of flammable vapors at or above 10 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) are considered hazardous when located in confined spaces. However, atmospheres with flammable vapors below 10 percent of the LEL are not necessarily safe. Such atmospheres are too lean to burn. Nevertheless, when a space contains or produces measurable flammable vapors below the 10 percent LEL, it might indicate that flammable vapors are being released or introduced into the space and could present a hazard in time. Therefore, the cause of the vapors should be investigated and, if possible, eliminated prior to entry. Some situations that have produced measurable concentrations of flammable vapors that could exceed 10 percent of the LEL in time are: 1. Pipelines that should have been blanked or disconnected have opened, allowing product into the space. 2. The vessel may have shifted, allowing product not previously cleaned and removed during washing to move into other areas of the vessel. 3. Residues may be producing the atmosphere by releasing flammable vapor. Section 1915.12(b)(6)␣Flammable atmospheres that are toxic. An atmosphere with a measurable concentration of a flammable substance below 10 percent of the LEL may be above the OSHA permissible exposure limit for that substance. In that case, refer to §1915.12(c) (2), (3), and (4). Section 1915.13(b)(4), §1915.15(c), and §1915.15(e). The frequency with which a tank is monitored to determine if atmospheric conditions are being maintained is a function of several factors that are discussed below:
