FR940328-1-00053 FR940328-1-00023 Raso lark ( Alauda razae )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a songbird of the family Alauidae, closely related to the common Old World skylark; known only from Raso, one of the islands in the nation of Cape Verde off the west coast of Africa. This species was once common and widespread on Raso, but declined drastically because of a severe drought in the 1960s (E). The population may have fallen to only about 20 individuals in 1981. Numbers subsequently increased to at least 150, but the species is potentially threatened by climatic fluctuations (E), human settlement (A), and predation by introduced rats (C). Ibadan malimbe ( Malimbus ibadanensis )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; another small weaver of the family Ploceidae, about the size of a house sparrow and with red markings; known only from southwestern Nigeria. The restricted range of this species is subject to intensive forest clearing (A). Although considered common when it was first discovered in 1951, it subsequently became very rare and prospects for survival are not favorable. The Ibadan malimbe does seem to have a limited tolerance to habitat modification, and the Service would be interested in obtaining more information about its potential to sustain itself. Algerian nuthatch ( Sitta ledanti )._1980 petition, ICBP rare, proposed U.S. endangered; a member of the family Sittidae, about the size of a house sparrow but with a compact build, a long beak, and grayish coloration; known only from Mount Babor in northern Algeria. Discovered in 1975, this small arboreal species is dependent on forest habitat, including standing dead wood for nesting. Such habitat is being reduced by lumbering, fire, grazing of domestic livestock, and removal of dead wood for forestry management (A). About 80 pairs were estimated to survive in 1982. Canarian black oystercatcher ( Haematopus meadewaldoi )._1980 petition, ICBP extinct, proposed U.S. endangered; a shore bird of the family Haematopodidae, somewhat like a rail but with much stouter bill and legs, generally black plumage; known with certainty only from the eastern Canary Islands, a Spanish possession off northwestern Africa. This species seems always to have been uncommon and there have been no definite records since about 1913. It may have disappeared because of human disruption of its limited habitat and harvesting of the mollusks on which it fed (A), and because of predation by introduced cats and rats (C). Four apparently genuine reports of black oystercatchers_two on Tenerife in the Canaries and two on the coast of Senegal in West Africa_were made from 1968 to 1981, and give hope that the species still exists. The species is being included in this proposal based on the recent reports and on the reasonable prospect of rediscovery. Rare and elusive species are routinely found alive after years, decades, or even centuries of presumed extinction. Indeed, rediscovery of two of the other birds covered by this proposal_the Madagascar serpent eagle and the Madagascar pochard_was announced while the proposal was being drafted. The October 1993 issue of the journal Oryx contains announcements that three species_a bird, a mammal, and a reptile_none of which had been seen for at least 30 years, had all been found alive. The U.S. List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife already includes many such rediscovered species. Examples are the parma wallaby ( Macropus parma ), which was thought extinct for 33 years; the dibbler ( Antechinus apicalis ), which was thought extinct for 83 years; and the mountain pygmy possum ( Burramys parvus ), which was thought to have disappeared many thousands of years ago in the Ice Age. The Service makes a special request for new information that might help assess the status of the Canarian black oystercatcher and for informed opinions from authorities as to its appropriate treatment. Such comments, or the lack thereof, will be considered in the development of any final rule and could lead to a decision not to proceed with the listing of this species. Seychelles lesser vasa parrot ( Coracopsis nigra barklyi )._1980 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a member of the family Psittacidae, generally dark brown in color and about 10 inches (25 centimeters) long; known only from Praslin, one of the islands in Seychelles, a nation off the east coast of Africa. Originally common on the island, this species declined rapidly in the mid-20th century as its palm forest habitat was destroyed by human cutting and burning (A). The one remaining population was estimated to number about 30 to 50 individuals in 1965, though it subsequently may have increased to about 100 after efforts were made to protect it and its remaining habitat (King 1981, Silva 1989).
