FR940323-0-00054 FR940323-0-00020 (3) A qualified organization as defined in §2515.20 of this chapter. (b) The types of grants for which each entity is eligible are described in §2517.200. §2517.110 Who may apply for a subgrant from a Corporation grantee? Entities that may apply for a subgrant from a State Commission or grantmaking entity are qualified organizations that have entered into a local partnership with one or more_ (a) Local educational agencies (LEAs); (b) Other qualified organizations; or (c) Both. Subpart B_Use of Grant Funds §2517.200 How may grant funds be used? Funds under a community-based Learn and Serve grant may be used for the purposes described in this section. (a) A State Commission or grantmaking entity may use funds_ (1) To make subgrants to qualified organizations described in §2517.110 to implement, operate, expand, or replicate a community-based service program that provides direct and demonstrable educational, public safety, human, or environmental service by participants, who must be school-age youth; and (2) To provide training and technical assistance to qualified organizations. (b) (1) A qualified organization may use funds under a direct grant or a subgrant to implement, operate, expand, or replicate a community-based service program. (2) If a qualified organization receives a direct grant, its program must be carried out at multiple sites or be particularly innovative. Subpart C_Eligibility to Participate §2517.300 Who may participate in a community-based service-learning program? School-age youth as defined in §2510.20 of this chapter may participate in a community-based program. Subpart D_Application Contents §2517.400 What must a State Commission or grantmaking entity include in an application for a grant? (a) In order to apply for a grant from the Corporation under this part, a State Commission or a grantmaking entity must submit the following: (1) A three-year plan for promoting service-learning through programs under this part. The plan must describe the types of community-based program models proposed to be carried out during the first year. (2) A proposal containing the specific program, budget, and other information specified by the Corporation in the grant application package. (3) A description of how the applicant will coordinate its activities with the State Plan under part 2513 of this chapter and with other federally-assisted activities, including a description of plans to meet and consult with the State Commission, if possible, and to provide a copy of the program application to the State Commission. (4) Assurances that the applicant will_ (i) Keep such records and provide such information to the Corporation with respect to the programs as may be required for fiscal audits and program evaluation; (ii) Comply with the nonduplication, nondisplacement, and grievance procedure requirements of part 2540 of this chapter; and (iii) Ensure that, prior to placing a participant in a program, the entity carrying out the program will consult with the appropriate local labor organization, if any, representing employees in the area in which the program will be carried out that are engaged in the same or similar work as the work proposed to be carried out by the program, to prevent the displacement of those employees. (b) In addition, a grantmaking entity must submit information demonstrating that the entity will make grants for a program_ (1) To carry out activities in two or more States, under circumstances in which those activities can be carried out more efficiently through one program than through two or more programs; and (2) To carry out the same activities, such as training activities or activities related to exchanging information on service experiences, through each of the projects assisted through the program. §2517.410 What must a qualified organization include in an application for a grant or a subgrant? (a) In order to apply to the Corporation for a direct grant, a qualified organization must submit the following: (1) A plan describing the goals and activities of the proposed program; (2) A proposal containing the specific program, budget, and other information specified by the Corporation in the grant application package; and (3) Assurances that the applicant will_ (i) Keep such records and provide such information to the Corporation with respect to the program as may be required for fiscal audits and program evaluation; (ii) Comply with the nonduplication, nondisplacement, and grievance procedure requirements of part 2540 of this chapter; and (iii) Prior to placing a participant in the program, consult with the appropriate local labor organization, if any, representing employees in the area in which the program will be carried out who are engaged in the same or similar work as the work proposed to be carried out by the program, to prevent the displacement of those employees. (b) In order to apply to a State Commission or a grantmaking entity for a subgrant, a qualified organization must submit the following: (1) A plan describing the goals and activities of the proposed program; and (2) Such specific program, budget, and other information as the Commission or entity reasonably requires.
