FR940802-0-00045 FR940802-0-00008 IV. Enforcement A. Overview of Enforcement Scheme 1. General Requirements The enforcement scheme for the renewable oxygenate requirements is similar to that used for the other reformulated gasoline requirements. The renewable oxygenate average standard applies to importers, and to refiners separately for each refinery, 19 and has a calendar year averaging period. 20 No per-gallon standard is included. Renewable oxygen credits may be created by any refiner who uses more renewable oxygenate than is required, and renewable oxygen credits could be used by any refiner to achieve compliance with this standard. The conditions and requirements for credit creation, transfer and use that would apply to renewable oxygen credits are the same as the conditions and requirements that apply under reformulated gasoline for benzene and oxygen credits. 19 The remainder of this preamble section refers to refiners and importers collectively as refiners, but all references to refiners apply equally to importers unless otherwise noted. Note that downstream oxygenate blenders would not be not subject to the renewable oxygenate requirements. 20 Reformulated gasoline produced during 1994 for use in 1995 will be averaged with gasoline produced in 1995 under the reformulated gasoline regulations. This approach to averaging of gasoline produced during 1994 would be followed for renewable oxygenate averaging, creating an averaging period that is longer than one year for 1994&hyph;1995 only. The renewable oxygenate standard will be subject to a phase-in schedule. Under §80.83(b)(1), reformulated gasoline and reformulated gasoline blendstock for oxygenate blending (RBOB), on average, must have an oxygen content from renewable oxygenate that is equal to or greater than 0.30 weight percent from December 1, 1994 through December 31, 1995. The 0.60 weight percent standard shall apply beginning on January 1, 1996. The renewable oxygenate regulation adds two types of RBOB that were not included previously in the reformulated gasoline regulation. These two generic RBOB types are ``any renewable oxygenate,'' and ``renewable ether only'' RBOB. A third type of RBOB, ``non VOC controlled renewable ether only'' RBOB has also been added and is appropriately used in those areas which have been granted extended non-commingling seasons (see ``D. Shoulder Season,'' below). The proposed renewable oxygenate rule allowed refiners to take credit for downstream blending of renewable oxygenate only if a contractual relationship between blender and refiner exists and if the refiner conducted a quality oversight and sampling program. EPA received several comments from parties who felt that the renewable oxygenate regulation could contain more flexibility. EPA agrees with these comments and adopted the approach described in the following paragraphs. Refiners are responsible for meeting the renewable oxygen standard for reformulated gasoline and RBOB and have two options for including renewable oxygenate in the compliance calculations required by §80.83(d). Under the first option, a refiner may claim credit for downstream renewable oxygenate blending only if there is a contractual relationship between the refiner and blender and the refiner carries out a suitable oversight program over the blender. The requirements for a downstream oxygenate blending oversight program are the same as those contained in §§80.69 (a) (5) through (7) of the reformulated gasoline regulations. Among other requirements, the refiner must have a contractual relationship with the oxygenate blender and must comply with sampling and testing requirements. Under the second option, a refiner may assume that 2.0 weight percent oxygen from ethanol is blended with ``any renewable oxygenate'' RBOB. For ``renewable ether only'' RBOB, the refiner may assume that ETBE resulting in 2.0 oxygen by weight is to be blended. EPA has chosen the 2.0 weight percent assumption because it is consistent with the final reformulated gasoline RBOB provisions at §80.69(D). Additionally, a refiner may chose to produce ``any renewable oxygenate'' RBOB in lieu of ``any oxygenate'' RBOB for blending with ethanol, effectively reducing the number of RBOBs it produces to three types.
