FR941222-0-00028 FR941222-0-00003 H. A number of commenters wanted site-specific analyses done for each use of the Standardized NUHOMS despite the fact that each licensee must determine that the site parameters are enveloped by the cask design specified in the SAR, SER, and Certificate of Compliance. The intent of Subpart K of 10 CFR Part 72 was to grant a general license to licensees of power reactors to use NRC-approved dry storage casks listed in 10 CFR 72.214 without additional licensing review by NRC. H.1. Comment. A number of commenters wanted site-specific Environmental Impact Statements (EIS). Several commenters stated that an EIS should be required on any waste facility that may be permanent along the Great Lakes fresh water system. To say that this will have no adverse effect on public health and safety is a prediction most of the public does not accept. The commenter believes that the generic ruling to use a dry cask storage design at any reactor site is impossible and should be discarded. By relying on environmental evaluations done in the 1970s before Davis-Besse construction, the NRC was remiss in its responsibility to protect the people of Ohio from harm by its licensee. Another commenter wants the NRC to prepare, at a minimum, an Environmental Assessment (EA) for each site, including information on sensitive ecosystems, wildlife, demography, meteorology, and geology. The EA should discuss the cask's capability to withstand weather conditions and potential catastrophic events. Response. The potential environmental impacts of utilities using the Standardized NUHOMS (or any of the other spent fuel casks approved by NRC (10 CFR 72.214)) have been fully considered and are documented in a published Environmental Assessment (EA) covering this rulemaking. Further, as described below, the EA indicates that use of the casks would not have significant environmental impacts. Specifically, the EA notes the 30-plus years of experience with dry storage of spent fuel have shown that the previous extensive NRC analyses and findings that the environmental impacts of dry storage are small and succinctly describes the impacts, including the non-radiological impacts of cask fabrication (the impacts associated with the relatively small amounts of steel, concrete, and plastic used in the casks are expected to be insignificant), the radiological impacts of cask operations (the incremental offsite doses are expected to be a small fraction of and well within the 25 mrem/yr limits in NRC regulations), the potential impacts of a possible dry cask accident (the impacts are expected to be no greater than the impacts of an accident involving the spent fuel storage basin), and the potential impacts from possible sabotage (the offsite dose is calculated to be about one rem). All of the NRC analyses collectively yield the singular conclusion that the environmental impacts and risks are expected to be extremely small. NRC EA's for previously approved dry casks also concluded there was an absence of significant environmental impacts from dry cask storage at a reactor site when they were analyzed in earlier rulemakings addressing 10 CFR Part 72 as well as in the Commission's Waste Confidence decisions in 1984 (August 31, 1984; 49 FR 34658) and 1989 (September 29, 1989; 54 FR 39765). In the 1984 Waste Confidence decision, the Commission concluded there was reasonable assurance spent fuel can be safely stored at reactor sites, without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond expiration of NRC reactor operating licenses. The 1989 Waste Confidence decision review reaffirmed earlier Commission conclusions on the absence of significant environmental impacts. Given the Commission's specific consideration of environmental impacts of dry storage and the absence of any new information casting doubt on the conclusion that these impacts are expected to be extremely small and not environmentally significant, the NRC is not convinced that meaningful new environmental insights would be gained from either a new site-specific EIS or EA for each site using dry storage methods. The EA covering the proposed rule, as well as the finding of no significant impact (FONSI) prepared and published for this rulemaking, fully comply with the NRC environmental regulations in 10 CFR Part 51. The Commission's environmental regulations in Part 51 implement the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and give proper consideration to the guidelines of the Council of Environmental Quality (CEQ). The EA and FONSI prepared as required by 10 CFR Part 51 conform to NEPA procedural requirements. Further analyses are not legally required.
