FR940711-2-00104 FR940711-2-00045 (c) A person who has timely filed a written objection in response to the notice required by 37 CFR ยง404.7(a)(1)(i) or ยง404.7(b)(1)(i) and who can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the OTT Director or the Director, as appropriate, that such person may be damaged by the determination of the OTT. Request for Reconsideration (a) Prior to appealing a determination by the OTT granting, denying, interpreting, terminating, or modifying a license, the Appellant must request reconsideration by filing with the OTT Director a written request for reconsideration within thirty (30) days after the notice of denial, termination or modification or a response to a Written Objection is sent by the OTT to the Appellant. The request for reconsideration, in concise and brief terms, shall state the grounds for reconsideration and include copies of all pertinent documents. The OTT Director may require submission of additional information or documentation. Upon written request by the Appellant and at the sole discretion of the OTT Director this thirty (30) day period may be extended for good cause. (b) The OTT Director will make a written determination within sixty (60) days of receiving all required documentation in support of the request for reconsideration. The decision of the OTT Director will be based on all information in the administrative record, including all information submitted with the request for reconsideration. Appeal (a) An Appellant, who has received an adverse determination from the OTT Director following a request for reconsideration, may appeal such determination to the Director. The Director may designate another individual from within the NIH to review the notice of appeal and render a decision thereon. The Appellant shall file a written notice of appeal to the Director with two copies to the OTT Director no later than thirty (30) days from the receipt of an adverse decision by the OTT Director following a request for reconsideration unless the Director grants for good cause an extension of time. The notice of appeal, in concise and brief terms, shall state the grounds for appeal and include copies of all pertinent documents. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by concise arguments as to why the OTT Director's decision should be rejected or modified. Upon review of the notice of appeal, the Director may require submission of additional information or documentation. (b) The Director will make a written determination within sixty (60) days of receiving all required documentation. The decision of the Director will be based on all the information in the administrative record, including the information submitted by the Appellant and shall constitute a final decision by the agency. Dated: July 1, 1994. Donald P. Christoferson, Acting Director, Office of Technology Transfer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16697 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;P
