FR940318-0-00136 FR940318-0-00023 (1) Petitions to add a substitute not previously reviewed under the SNAP program to the acceptable list; (2) Petitions to add a substitute not previously reviewed under the SNAP program to the unacceptable list; (3) Petitions to delete a substitute from the acceptable list and add it to the unacceptable list or to delete a substitute from the unacceptable list and add it to the acceptable list; (4) Petitions to add or delete use restrictions on an acceptability listing, and (5) Petitions to grandfather general use of an unacceptable or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits in specified applications substitute. Petitioners should note that the first type of petition is comparable to completing a SNAP submission, except that the latter is submitted by substitute producers prior to the introduction into interstate commerce of the substitute for a significant new use as a class I or II substitute. The first type of petition, by contrast, would generally be initiated by entities other than the company responsible for producing the substitute. Companies that manufacture, formulate, or use a substitute themselves and want to have their substitutes added to the acceptable list should submit information on the substitute under the 90-day advance notification review program. 3. Basis for Petition A petitioner may submit a petition for several reasons, including: •Availability of new information on substitutes or applications not covered in the existing SNAP determinations; •Requests to extend effective date for existing prohibitions on uses of an unacceptable substitute; •New technologies or practices that reduce exposures to a substitute previously unacceptable under SNAP due to toxicity concerns; or •Requests for acceptability subject to narrowed use limits listing for specialized applications within a sector end-use for an unacceptable substitute where no other technologically viable substitute can be found. All of the above are examples of valid justifications for submitting a petition. Other bases for petitioning the Agency may exist as well, and all petitions with adequate supporting data will receive consideration under the SNAP program. 4. Nature of Response The Agency will only review and grant or deny petitions based on the sector and end-use application identified in the petition. For example, simply because the Agency ultimately deletes a substitute from the list of acceptable substitutes for a particular end-use in the solvents cleaning sector does not mean the substitute is unacceptable for any specific end-use as a refrigerant. A similar caveat applies for petitions on applications within a sector. If a substitute, for instance, is found acceptable for a specific end-use within an application, it will not automatically be deemed acceptable for any other end-use in that sector. B. Content of the Petition The Agency requires the following information: A brief statement describing the type of petition, substitute, sector and end-uses to which it applies; and a brief summary of the basis for the petition and the data that support the petition. As with SNAP submissions, the Agency will issue a determination letter on the completeness of the petition to the petitioner within 15 calendar days of its receipt. Petition types (1) and (2) must contain the information described in section V.B. of this notice, which lists the items to be submitted in a 90-day notification. Information requirements for such petitions and 90-day notifications are the same, since the Agency will be applying the same level of analysis to petitions submitted by outside parties as to notifications received from the producing companies themselves. For petition types (3) and (4), which request a reexamination of a substitute previously reviewed under the SNAP program, the submitter may reference the prior submission rather than submit duplicate information. In this case, the petitioner should provide and submit as appropriate any new or additional data. Petitions to grandfather use of an unacceptable substitute must describe the applicability of the four-part test to judge the appropriateness of Agency grandfathering as described in section VI.B. of this final rule. C. Sufficiency of Data Petitioners should be aware that insufficient data may prevent the Agency from reaching a timely decision on whether to grant or deny a petition. EPA will conclude a completeness review of each petition received within fifteen days of receipt of the petition. Within the 15-day period, EPA will inform the petitioner of any additional information needed. If EPA makes no such request, then after the 15-day period is completed, the 90-day review period will automatically commence. If EPA does request any additional data, the 90-day period shall not commence until the additional data are received and themselves reviewed for completeness.
