FR940831-2-00037 FR940831-2-00029 Office of Environmental Management Draft Site Treatment Plan; Notice of Availability AGENCY: U.S. Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of availability SUMMARY: Today's notice announces the availability of and requests public comment on Draft Site Treatment Plans for treating the Department of Energy's (DOE) mixed radioactive and hazardous waste. As an interim step toward meeting the requirements of the Federal Facility Compliance Act of 1992 (FFCAct or the Act), DOE has prepared a Draft Site Treatment Plan (Draft Plan) for each of 48 sites located in 22 states where DOE is currently storing, generating, or is expected to generate mixed hazardous and radioactive waste within the next five years. These Draft Plans contain the sites' preferred treatment options for this waste, where available. The Draft Plans are being provided at each site for public review and comment as well as for review and discussion among the state and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulators. Comments on the Draft Plans will be considered in developing Proposed Site Treatment Plans to be submitted to the regulators for approval in February 1995. DATES: Comments should be provided to the appropriate site representative by October 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: The address for submitting comments on a specific Draft Site Treatment Plan can be obtained by calling the Center for Environmental Management Information at 1&hyph;800&hyph;7EM-DATA (1&hyph;800&hyph;736&hyph;3282). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The DOE is required by section 3021(b) of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), as amended by the FFCAct, to prepare Site Treatment Plans (Plans) describing the development of treatment capacities and technologies for treating mixed waste for each site at which DOE stores or generates mixed waste. Mixed waste is defined by the Act as waste containing both a hazardous waste subject to RCRA, and source, special nuclear or by-product material subject to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. The Site Treatment Plans will be submitted to the regulating State or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for approval, approval with modification, or disapproval. The Draft Plans are the intermediate version of the Site Treatment Plans and are being provided to the States and EPA, and made available to the public, for review and comment. DOE is preparing Site Treatment Plans for the following sites:
