FR940811-2-00015 FR940811-2-00010 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary Theater Missile Defense (TMD) Programmatic Life-Cycle Final Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: Ballistic Missile Defense Organization (BMDO). ACTION: Record of Decision text is as follows: Introduction This document records BMDO's decision to conduct research and development (R&D) that will eventually enable the U.S. to produce and deploy a TMD system. This decision is the Proposed Action of the Theater Missile Defense Programmatic Life-Cycle Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS), dated September 1993. As the lead agency, the United States Army Space and Strategic Defense Command (USASSDC) prepared the FEIS. BMDO and the other military services_the Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps_served as cooperating agencies. The FEIS was filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and a Notice of Availability was published in the Federal Register on February 8, 1994 (59 FR page 5758). This Record of Decision (ROD) is submitted pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) regulations implementing NEPA (40 CFR 1500&hyph;1508), Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 6050.1, Environmental Effects in the United States of Department of Defense Actions (34 CFR Part 188), and service regulations that implement these environmental laws and regulations. Ideally, an operational TMD system would combine three components: Active Defense to destroy enemy missiles in flight; Counterforce to destroy an enemy's ability to launch missiles; and Passive Defense to evade detection and otherwise survive a missile attack. A Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence (C3I) network would manage and integrate the various elements of the system. An operational TMD system could be deployed by the mid- to late-1990s. The Programmatic FEIS is a first-tier document. It addresses program-wide issues and the potential impacts of technologies associated with the Proposed Action and its Alternatives. It considers the potential impacts of research, development, testing, production, basing (not site-specific deployment), and eventual decommissioning of TMD. It also identifies measures to mitigate those impacts. As the TMD program matures, decisions will be made regarding testing, and eventual production and deployment. In the event these decisions have the potential for significant environmental impact, they will be evaluated in accordance with NEPA and CEQ regulations. Supplemental or additional documentation tiered from this EIS will be prepared, if appropriate. Proposed Action and Alternatives The Proposed Action is to conduct research and development that will enable the U.S. to produce and deploy an integrated, comprehensive TMD system. The system would include three components: Active Defense, Counterforce, and Passive Defense. The mixture of components would be based on mission needs, feasibility, lethality, mobility, technical maturity and cost, as well as environmental considerations and other factors. In addition to the Proposed Action, the FEIS also considered four Alternatives to the proposed Action: 1. Improve Active Defense Only 2. Improve Counterforce Only 3. Improve Passive Defense Only 4. No Action. Although the first three alternatives are considered in the FEIS as separate Alternatives to the Proposed Action, their evaluation also provides the information necessary to estimate the environmental impacts of a TMD system that blends two or three components. Pursuing only one of the first three Alternatives would yield only a limited TMD capability with only one technology area enhanced.
