FR940505-1-00070 FR940505-1-00012 Clean Technology Use projects involve cooperative testing and development programs for less polluting technologies applicable to many other types of small businesses: Dry cleaning _EPA's Office of Pollution Prevention Technology projects to test and develop emerging technologies for cleaner solvents and alternative cleaning methods; Printing _cooperative projects with industry to reduce emissions from the flexography, lithography, and screen printing sectors of the printing industry; Printed wiring boards _projects with the Department of Energy (DOE) and industry to develop and disseminate information on environmentally improved manufacturing options; Metal degreasing _projects with DOE and industry to expand use of cleaner, safer degreasing operations; Solvents _updates to EPA's Office of Research and Development Solvents Alternative Guide l(SAGE) software system to identifying viable alternative solvent substitution options for industrial users; projects to demonstrate innovative manufacturing projects for reducing VOC emissions; and Coatings _two projects, in conjunction with Southern California Edison's Customer Technology Application Center, to accelerate development and market penetration of very low or zero VOC wood furniture coatings; project to promote technology transfer of Department of Defense powder coating technology; Applied Innovative Coatings Research Center projects to complete field trials of reformulated low- or zero-VOC coatings. The third plan element_Gaps, Barriers, and Incentives_ will concentrate on identifying gaps in environmental technology development in order to stimulate technology innovation and create a national climate supportive of such innovation. Typical projects will work on institutional, legislative, and tax changes that can stimulate support for development and use of improved environmental technologies. The U.S. Department of Commerce is a key participant in several of these efforts, along with industry and other regulatory agencies. The fourth plan component_Improving Competitiveness of U.S. Environmental Technologies may also contribute to the development and commercialization of technologies relevant to further progress in the South Coast, but the primary focus of this activity is to promote use of U.S. technologies and expertise to solve international environmental problems. Initial funding for this plan area is $12 million. ( 3 ) Clean Car Initiative. On September 29, 1993, President Clinton and Vice President Gore announced the ``Clean Car Initiative,'' an historic cooperative effort between the U.S. automakers, the Department of Energy, the Department of Defense, and EPA. The primary goal of this initiative is to develop an ultra fuel efficient, safe, and clean vehicle by the year 2000. To implement this goal, industry and government engineering teams will undertake research projects in three categories: Technologies that can lead to near-term improvements in automobile efficiency, safety, and emissions _research in this area will include efforts to develop lightweight, recyclable materials and catalysts for reducing exhaust pollution. Research that could lead to production prototypes of vehicles capable of up to three times greater fuel efficiency _projects will include fuel cells and advanced energy storage systems such as ultracapacitors, to produce more fuel-efficient cars that are affordable, meet or exceed current safety standards, and retain the performance and comfort available today. Advanced manufacturing techniques to make it easier to get new product ideas into the marketplace quickly _this effort will involve computer-based design and testing systems and automation and control systems. In support of the Clean Car Initiative, both the U.S. automakers and the major utility companies throughout the country are striving to develop inexpensive high energy battery technology_a technology that will be applicable to virtually all types of mobile sources. Various projects are underway to develop and perfect engines that operate on alternative cleaner burning fuels or utilize fuel cells. The application of regenerative breaking technology to motor vehicles is being studied for light duty vehicles and is even being implemented in a limited number of heavy duty vehicles. Hybrid electric vehicles utilizing both electric and clean burning combustion technology are being developed and tested to demonstrate their potential in-use capabilities. EPA is also engaged in several other motor vehicle-related technological advancement initiatives. For example, EPA is undertaking a regulatory process to introduce improved vapor recovery technologies to automobiles for use during the refueling process. Finally, expected improvements in remote sensing technology may enable inspection programs to more clearly identify in-use high-emitters. (c) SCAQMD Technology Advancement Office. In addition to these federally managed programs and projects, EPA has provided assistance to the SCAQMD's critically important Technology Advancement Office (TAO). Since its inception in 1987, the TAO has supported research, development, demonstration, and commercialization of advanced emissions control technologies and clean fuels. 32 EPA intends to contribute continued support for the TAO and anticipates that many of the new stationary and mobile source control technologies needed for eventual attainment will derive from the TAO's research efforts. EPA expects to incorporate the results of the SCAQMD's projects in the design of new technology measures issued in the future under the section 182(e)(5) provision. 32 Information on current and planned TAO projects may be obtained from the SCAQMD. Some of the TAO projects are also jointly sponsored by the Clean Fuels Working Group, of which CARB and the California Energy Commission are also members. (4) Demonstration That Progress Requirements for 1990&hyph;2000 Are Met Without the Need for Section 182(e)(5) Measure Reductions As discussed above, section 182(e)(5) provides that an attainment demonstration can rely on new technology commitments if the measures are shown not to be needed to achieve the incremental emission reductions required during the first 10 years after the date of enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Section 182(e)(5) contains no requirement that this demonstration be based exclusively on adopted and submitted measures. Section 182(e)(5) explicitly states that the showing need be only ``to the satisfaction of the Administrator.'' EPA must be able to conclude, however, that the State has the ability to meet the progress requirements without relying on the new technology measures. Elsewhere in this NPRM (see section II.C.2.), EPA describes the recently submitted South Coast Rate-of-Progress Plan, which demonstrates achievement of the progress requirements for the first 6 years primarily through fully adopted State and local measures. To the extent that the demonstration rests on measures not yet fully adopted, EPA cannot now propose to accept the plan for purposes of satisfying the 15 percent reduction requirement of section 182(b)(1), in conformance with the referenced EPA policy memorandum, ``Guidance on Issues Related to 15 Percent Rate-of-Progress Plans'' (August 23, 1993).
