FR940720-2-00171 FR940720-2-00096 Research and Special Programs Administration Office of Hazardous Materials Safety; Applications For Modification of Exemptions or Applications to Become a Party to an Exemption AGENCY: Research and Special Programs Administration, DOT. ACTION: List of Applications for Modification of Exemptions or Applications to Become a Party to an Exemption. SUMMARY: In accordance with the procedures governing the application for, and the processing of, exemptions from the Department of Transportation's Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR Part 107, Subpart B), notice is hereby given that the Office of Hazardous Materials Safety has received the applications described herein. This notice is abbreviated to expedite docketing and public notice. Because the sections affected, modes of transportation, and the nature of application have been shown in earlier Federal Register publications, they are not repeated here. Requests for modifications of exemptions (e.g., to provide for additional hazardous materials, packaging design changes, additional mode of transportation, etc.) are described in footnotes to the application number. Application numbers with the suffix ``X'' denote a modification request. Application numbers with the suffix ``P'' denote a party to request. These applications have been separated from the new applications for exemptions to facilitate processing. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 4, 1994. ADDRESS COMMENTS TO: Dockets Unit, Research and Special Programs Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590. Comments should refer to the application number and be submitted in triplicate. If confirmation of receipt of comments is desired, include a self-addressed stamped postcard showing the exemption number. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Copies of the applications are available for inspection in the Dockets Unit, room 8426, Nassif Building, 400 7th Street SW., Washington, DC. ␣ 1Application No. 1Applicant 1Renewal of exemption 9781&hyph;X Chlorine Institute, Inc., Washington, DC (See Footnote 1) 9781 10645&hyph;X Essex Cryogenics of Missouri, Inc., St. Louis, MO (See Footnote 2) 10645 10977&hyph;X Federal Industries Corporation, Newport, MN (See Footnote 3) 10977 1To modify exemption to provide for cargo vessel as an additional mode of transportation for transporting chlorine cylinders. 2To modify exemption to provide for a 1.2 capacity insulated non-DOT Specification cylinder for shipment of oxygen, refrigerated liquid, Division 2.2. 3To modify exemption to provide for passenger-aircraft as an additional mode of transportation for transporting various classes of hazardous material in specially designed packaging.
