FR940627-0-00251 FR940627-0-00019 (3) Analysis. Slides shall be coded for study before microscopic analysis. At least 1,000 first-division erythrocytes per animal shall be scored for the incidence of micronuclei. Sexes will be analyzed separately. (e) Data and report_ (1) Treatment of results. In addition to the reporting requirements specified under §§79.60 and 79.61, the final test report must include the criteria for scoring micronuclei. Individual data shall be presented in a tabular form including both positive and negative controls and experimental groups. The number of polychromatic erythrocytes scored, the number of micronucleated erythrocytes, the percentage of micronucleated cells, and, where applicable, the percentage of micronucleated erythrocytes shall be listed separately for each experimental and control animal. Absolute numbers shall be included if percentages are reported. (2) Interpretation of data. (i) There are several criteria for determining a positive response, one of which is a statistically significant dose-related increase in the number of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes. Another criterion may be based upon detection of a reproducible and statistically significant positive response for at least one of the test substance concentrations. (ii) A test substance which does not produce either a statistically significant dose-related increase in the number of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes or a statistically significant and reproducible positive response at any one of the test points is considered nonmutagenic in this system. (3) Test evaluation. (i) Positive results in the micronucleus test provide information on the ability of a chemical to induce micronuclei in erythrocytes of the test species under the conditions of the test. This damage may have been the result of chromosomal damage or damage to the mitotic apparatus. (ii) Negative results indicate that under the test conditions the test substance does not produce micronuclei in the bone marrow of the test species. (f) Test report. In addition to the reporting recommendations as specified under §79.60, the following specific information shall be reported: (1) Test atmosphere concentration(s) used and rationale for concentration selection. (2) Rationale for and description of treatment and sampling schedules, toxicity data, negative and positive controls. (3) Historical control data (negative and positive), if available. (4) Details of the protocol used for slide preparation. (5) Criteria for identifying micronucleated erythrocytes. (6) Micronucleus analysis by animal and by group for each concentration (sexes analyzed separately). (i) Ratio of polychromatic to normochromatic erythrocytes. (ii) Number of polychromatic erythrocytes with micronuclei. (iii) Number of polychromatic erythrocytes scored. (7) Statistical methodology chosen for test analysis. (g) References. For additional background information on this test guideline, the following references should be consulted. (1) 40 CFR 798.5395, In Vivo, Mammalian Bone Marrow Cytogenetics Tests: Micronucleus Assay. (2) Cihak, R. ``Evaluation of Benzidine by the Micronucleus Test.'' Mutation Research, 67: 383&hyph;384 (1979).
