FR941028-0-00070 FR941028-0-00009 Given that the incorporation of accurate and complete information into AVS in a timely manner is critical to the development and implementation of AVS, OSM believes that the needs of these constituent groups are addressed more effectively by the provisions of the OHA rule. OSM remains committed to developing complete and accurate information for entry into AVS, and as part of this process will of course consider information submitted by any party which would establish or refute facts relevant to an ownership or control link. To the extent that a person is injured by an erroneous ownership or control link, the OHA temporary relief procedure quickly and effectively neutralizes such injury in a timely manner. The availability of such a process enables OSM to go forward in an expeditious manner to utilize its resources to develop information, rather than engage in prolonged paper exchanges; to avoid delay in incorporating information into AVS, thus responding to the concerns of environmental advocates; and to address effectively the concerns of the industry which can invoke an administrative process outside of OSM for quick relief if the claims of injury are meritorious. Additionally, by enabling challengers to go to OHA more quickly, the focus of the challenge procedures shifts to OHA, a forum created to address such challenges of agency decisions. Finally, OSM can meet the terms of its continuing mandate from Congress to develop and implement the AVS. See Report of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senate Report No. 103&hyph;114, at page 47 (July 28, 1993). In appropriate cases, OSM may engage in a dialogue and exchange of documents with persons subject to a proposed ownership or control link prior to incorporating an ownership or control link into AVS. OSM will do this, however, only when OSM believes it needs additional information concerning the proposed ownership or control link. In that case, such a dialogue would enhance OSM's investigative process and assist in the development of relevant information. In accordance with the above, OSM has withdrawn this portion of the September, 1991, proposal and is renumbering the remaining provisions of the final rules presented today to reflect the deletion of former proposed §773.25. Section 773.25_Standards for Challenging Ownership or Control Links and the Status of Violations. Proposed section 773.26 would have established standards for challenges to ownership or control links and for challenges to the status of violations. The proposed section would have allocated responsibilities between OSM and State regulatory authorities for resolving issues related to ownership and control and would have provided the substantive criteria for resolving such issues. In recognition of OSM's withdrawal of former proposed §773.25, proposed §773.26 has been renumbered as final rule §773.25. For the reasons discussed below, the final rule also has been modified to delete the substantive criteria to resolve ownership or control issues previously contained in the proposed rule. Paragraph (a) of proposed §773.26 provided that its provisions would have been applicable to any challenge concerning an ownership or control link or the status of a violation when such challenge was made under the provisions of 30 CFR 773.20 and 30 CFR 773.21 (improvidently issued permits); proposed §773.23 (the regulatory authority's review of ownership or control and violation information), proposed §773.24 (procedures for challenging ownership or control links shown in AVS), and proposed §773.25 (procedures for challenging ownership or control links prior to entry in AVS); or 30 CFR part 775 (administrative and judicial review of permitting decisions). Paragraph (b) of proposed §773.26 would have provided the basic allocation of authority among regulatory authorities to make decisions with respect to ownership or control and with respect to the status of violations. Paragraph (b)(1)(i) of proposed §773.26 would have provided that the regulatory authority before which an application was pending would have had authority for making decisions with respect to the ownership or control of the applicant. Such regulatory authority would have had responsibility for reviewing information submitted by the applicant and other available information to ensure the complete identification of the applicant's ownership or control links. Paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of proposed §773.26 would have provided that the regulatory authority that issued a permit would have had authority for making decisions with respect to the ownership or control of the permittee. Such decisions would be necessary in determining whether the permit was improvidently issued, pursuant to 30 CFR 773.20. The regulatory authority which issued a permit would have done so based upon a complete review of ownership or control information.
