FR941117-1-00039 FR941117-1-00004 ยง483.224 Condition of participation: Space and equipment. (a) Standard: Dining and program areas. The facility must provide sufficient space and equipment in dining and program areas to enable staff to provide residents with needed services as identified in each resident's plan of care. The facility must provide one or more rooms designated for resident dining and activities. These rooms must_ (1) Be well lighted; (2) Be well ventilated, with nonsmoking areas identified if smoking is allowed in the facility; (3) Be adequately furnished; and (4) Have adequate space to accommodate all activities. (b) Standard: Resident rooms. Resident rooms must be designed and equipped for the comfort, dignity and privacy of residents. (1) Bedrooms must_ (i) Accommodate no more than four residents; (ii) Measure at least 80 square feet per resident in multiple resident bedrooms and at least 100 square feet in single resident rooms; (iii) Have direct access to an exit corridor; and (iv) Have at least one window to the outside. If the bedroom is below grade level, the window must be usable as a second means of escape by the resident occupying the room. (2) The survey agency may grant a variance to the bedroom sizes specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section in individual cases when a physician involved in direct patient care documents that the variations are required by special needs of residents and will not adversely affect the health and safety of residents. (3) The facility must provide each resident with_ (i) A separate bed of proper size and height in the resident's room; (ii) A clean and comfortable mattress and clean bedding appropriate to the weather and climate; and (iii) Functional furniture appropriate to the resident's needs, suitable storage space and individual closet space in the resident's bedroom with clothes racks and shelves accessible to the resident. (c) Standard: Toilet facilities. Each resident's room must be equipped with or located near toilet and bathing facilities. The facility must_ (1) Provide toilet and bathing facilities appropriate in number, size and design to meet the needs of the residents; and (2) Provide for individual privacy in toilets, bathtubs and showers. (d) Standard: Other environmental conditions. The facility must_ (1) Ensure a safe, clean, functional, comfortable and homelike environment for residents and staff, including clean bath and bed linens; (2) Establish procedures to ensure that water is available to essential areas when there is a loss of normal water supply; (3) Maintain comfortable temperature levels; (4) Maintain comfortable sound levels; and (5) Have adequate outside ventilation by means of windows or mechanical ventilation or a combination of the two. Subpart G_[Reserved] 4. Subpart G is reserved. Subpart H_[Reserved] 5. Subpart H is reserved. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program No. 93.778, Medical Assistance Program) Dated: July 5, 1994. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration. Dated: October 24, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28318 Filed 11&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
