FR940525-2-00085 FR940525-2-00061 Batterymarch Financial Management (BFM) Located in Boston, Massachusetts; Proposed Exemption [Application No. D&hyph;9230] The Department is considering granting an exemption under the authority of section 408(a) of the Act and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR Part 2570, Subpart B (55 FR 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990). If the exemption is granted, the restrictions of section 406(b)(2) of the Act shall not apply to the proposed cross-trading of equity securities between various accounts managed by BFM (the Accounts) where at least one Account involved in any cross-trade is an employee benefit plan account (Plan Account) for which BFM acts as a fiduciary. Conditions and Definitions This proposed exemption is subject to the following conditions: 1. (a) Each Plan Account's participation in the cross-trade program is subject to BFM's receipt of a written authorization executed in advance by a qualified Plan fiduciary, which is independent of BFM and its Affiliates (the Independent Fiduciary). (b) The authorization referred to in paragraph (a) is terminable at will, without penalty to the Plan Account, upon receipt by BFM of written notice of termination. (c) Before an authorization is made for any Account, an independent account representative, which must be an Independent Fiduciary in the case of a Plan Account (collectively, an Independent Account Representative) must be furnished with any reasonable available information necessary for the Independent Account Representative to determine whether the authorization should be made, including (but not limited to) a copy of the proposed and final exemption, an explanation of how the authorization may be terminated, a description of BFM's cross-trade practices, and any other information requested by the Independent Account Representative. 2. Each cross-trade transaction must satisfy the following: (a) The cross-trade opportunity must be triggered as a result of an Account participating in the program experiencing a need to sell equity securities arising from one of the following three circumstances: (i) the Independent Account Representative specifically directs that all of the assets in the Account be liquidated; (ii) the Independent Account Representative specifically directs that a portion of the Account be liquidated and the selection of the particular equity securities to be sold is made either by the Independent Account Representative or by an optimization program used by BFM (the Optimization Program) which operates, pursuant to certain prescribed objective criteria, to automatically generate an optimal portfolio for such Accounts; or (iii) the application of the Optimization Program to the specific investment objectives and restrictions established by the Independent Account Representative requires the sale of a security which is otherwise ranked by BFM as a buy or a hold for all relevant Accounts under the Stock Evaluation Process. (b) With respect to each cross-trade opportunity triggered under paragraph 2(a), the Optimization Program used by BFM must determine, in the ordinary course of its considering all available equity securities in the applicable universe, that another Account or Accounts participating in the program should purchase some or all of the available equity securities. (c) The cross-trade transaction must take place within three business days of the ``triggering event'' giving rise to the cross-trade opportunity described in paragraph 2(a) above. (d) The cross-trade transaction must be effected through a broker which is unaffiliated with BFM and its Affiliates. (e) The Independent Account Representative of each Account engaging in a cross-trade transaction must be provided with a written confirmation of the cross-trade transaction within 10 days after the completion of the transaction. The confirmation must set forth: (i) The particular equity securities involved; (ii) The number of shares involved;
