FR940505-1-00397 FR940505-1-00012 CARB certified vapor recovery system is any Phase I or Phase II vapor recovery system which has been certified by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) pursuant to section 41954 of the California Health and Safety Code as capable of recovering or processing displaced gasoline vapors to an efficiency of ninety-five (95) percent or greater. For the purpose of this section, the term certified shall refer to CARB certification. CARB executive orders(s) is the procedure, pursuant to Sections 39600, 39601, and 41954 of the California Health and Safety Code and Title 17 Section 94001 of the California Code of Regulations, used by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to approve the certification, modification of a certification, or recertification of vapor recovery systems and/or related equipment. Copies of CARB Executive Orders can be obtained from CARB, Compliance Division, P.O. Box 2815, Sacramento, CA, 95812. Gasoline is any petroleum distillate and/or mixture of petroleum distillates and oxygenates used as a fuel in spark ignition engines and having a Reid vapor pressure of four pounds per square inch or greater. Gasoline storage and dispensing facility means an aggregate of one or more stationary storage tanks, any of which is subject to the provisions of paragraphs (j)(3) through (j)(7) of this section, together with dispensers and control equipment required by the section. Hold-open latch is a certified device which is an integral part of the dispensing nozzle and is manufactured specifically for the purpose of dispensing gasoline without requiring the consumer's constant physical contact with the nozzle during fueling operations. Insertion interlock is any certified mechanism which is an integral part of a bellows-equipped dispensing nozzle which prohibits the dispensing of fuel unless the bellows is compressed. Liquid removal device is a device designed specifically to remove liquid from the vapor return portion of a coaxial hose. Liquid tight means a liquid leak rate not exceeding three drops per minute. Motor vehicle is any self-propelled vehicle registered or which requires registration for use on the highway. Owner/operator is any person who owns, leases, operates, controls or supervises the operation of a gasoline dispensing facility. Phase I or Stage I is gasoline vapor recovery during the transfer of gasoline into or out of stationary tanks at a gasoline dispensing facility. Phase II or Stage II is gasoline vapor recovery during motor vehicle or utility equipment fueling operations from stationary tanks at gasoline dispensing facilities. Rebuilt equipment is any component of a vapor recovery system that has undergone repair or replacement of any or all of its internal parts. Reid vapor pressure means the absolute vapor pressure of volatile crude oil and volatile non-viscus petroleum liquids, except liquified petroleum gases, as determined by ASTM D323&hyph;89. Submerged fill tube is any fill tube, the discharge opening of which is entirely submerged, when the liquid level above the bottom of the tank is: 15.2 cm (6 inches), for tanks filled from the top, except for flat bottom tanks where the liquid level above the bottom is 7.6 cm (3 in.); or 45.7 cm (18 inches) for tanks filled from the side. Top off is the attempt to dispense gasoline to a motor vehicle or utility equipment fuel tank after the dispensing nozzle primary shutoff mechanism has engaged. The filling of those class of vehicle tanks which, because of the configuration of the fill pipe, cause premature activation of the primary shutoff, shall not be considered topping off. Vacuum assist system is any Phase II vapor recovery system that utilizes a pump, blower, or other vacuum-producing device. Vacuum assist systems may also incorporate an incinerator to process any excess vapors generated by the collection system. Vapor tight means the detection of less than 10,000 ppm hydrocarbon concentration, as determined by 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 21, using an appropriate analyzer calibrated with methane.
