FR940419-2-00002 FR940419-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Food and Nutrition Service National Academy of Sciences, Institute of Medicine, Food and Nutrition Board, Committee on Scientific Evaluation of WIC Nutrition Risk Criteria; Opportunity To Provide Written Comments, Public Meeting AGENCY: Food and Nutrition Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the National Academy of Sciences' (NAS) Institute of Medicine (IOM), through its Food and Nutrition Board (FNB), will conduct the first of two public meetings to obtain additional perspectives about the scientific base for the nutrition risk crtieria used in the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). Eligibility for WIC is based in part on nutrition risk. Through a grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), the NAS is reviewing the scientific base for nutrition risk criteria used in WIC. At the end of the 30-month study, NAS will publish a report and provide copies to FNS containing its conclusions. DATES: The public meeting will be held on Thursday, May 19, 1994, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Anyone wishing to reserve a place on the agenda at the public meeting to make a 5-minute oral presentation must submit a written request to speak and a copy of their remarks no later than Friday, May 13, 1994. Additional oral presentations may be made on the day of the meeting only as time permits. Such requests should be made at the beginning of the public meeting, no later than 9 a.m. Written comments without oral presentations must also be submitted by May 13. Presentations made at this meeting will be part of the public record, and the press may be present. ADDRESSES: The public meeting will be held at the National Academy of Sciences, 2101 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC. Requests to make a 5-minute oral presentation about the scientific basis of WIC nutrition risk criteria at the public meeting or to submit written comments without an oral presentation should be sent to Robert Earl, Study Director, Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine (FO 3041), National Academy of Sciences, 2101 Constitution Avenue., NW., Washington, DC 20418. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Earl at (2020 334&hyph;1917 (phone); (202) 334&hyph;2316 (fascimile). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The NAS, through IOM's FNB, formed the Committee on Scientific Evaluation of WIC Nutrition Risk Criteria (committee) in October 1993 to examine the scientific base for determining nutrition risk criteria used in the WIC program. The WIC program operates through a preventive approach to health care by providing supplemental foods and nutrition assessment and education to improve nutritional status and thus to improve pregnancy outcome and growth and development of infants and children (through 5 years of age). The program links food assistance and health programs by its goal of improving nutritional status through food delivery and by serving as a gateway to the public health system principally through Medicaid-delivered health services for pregnant and lactating women, for infants, and for children. Eligibility for the WIC program is based on income (185 percent of poverty level); status as a pregnant or lactating woman, an infant, or a child; and nutritional risk. Nutrition risk criteria include biochemical and anthropometric measurements, nutritionally related medical conditions, dietary deficiencies that impair or endanger health, and conditions that predispose persons to inadequate nutrition patterns or nutritionally related medical conditions. The appropriateness of nutrition risk criteria is an issue of major interest to the WIC community and of great significance to the future direction of the program. The committee deliberations will address these issues, thereby providing a basis for establishing approriate guidance for nutrition risk criteria used to establish program eligibility. The committee will review all WIC nutrition risk factors currently covered by the program. The committee's deliberations will begin with those risk criteria for which there is substantial scientific literature and move to those for which there is little or no scientific literature, that are most difficult to quantify, or that are not likely to be affected by the supplemental food package delivered through the program. NAS plans to identify gaps in scientific knowledge, to examine specific segments of the WIC population identified to be at risk for each criterion, and if applicable, to report its findings regarding how to determine who is at risk for each criterion, including numerical values. Public meetings will solicit information from WIC program administrators, staff, and participants as well as from researchers in the fields related to the nutrition risk criteria under study. Two public meetings will be conducted during the course of the committee's work, both in 1994. This first public meeting will be held in Washington, DC. A second public meeting will be schedule at an upcoming meeting of the committee in 1994 at the NAS west-coast meeting facility, the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Center, Irvine, California. A report of the committee's findings and recommendations will be published by the end of the study in April 1996. Dated: April 15, 1994. William E. Ludwig, Administrator, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9569 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;30&hyph;M
