FR941107-2-00108 FR941107-2-00056 Fish and Wildlife Service The Silvio Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge Advisory Committee: Establishment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Director of the Northeast Region of the Fish and Wildlife Service is announcing the establishment of the Silvio Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge Advisory Committee. The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Secretary on community outreach and education programs that further the purposes of the Refuge. DATES: The Charter was filed on March 1, 1993, under The Federal Advisory Committee Act. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Further information regarding the Committee may be obtained from Mr. Lawrence Bandolin, Fish and Wildlife Service, 38 Avenue A, Turners Falls, MA 01376, telephone 413/863&hyph;0209. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice is published in accordance with section 9(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Following consultation with the General Services Administration, notice is hereby given that the Secretary of the Interior is establishing the Silvio Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge Advisory Committee. The Committee will consist of no more than 15 voting members appointed by the Secretary of the Interior to assure a balanced, cross-sectional representation of public and private sector organizations. The Committee shall consist of representatives from the following organizations: (1) four members, including one from each of the affected States, to be recommended by the Governor of each State as representing the cities or towns bordering the Connecticut River and its tributaries; (2) four members, including one from each of the affected States, to be recommended by the Governor of each State as representing State agencies with responsibility for conservation or water quality programs; (3) four members, including one from each of the affected States, to be appointed from recommendations made by the Governor of that affected State, who shall represent nonprofit conservation organizations or citizen groups with direct interest in the purposes of the refuge; (4) one member of the Long Island Sound Management Conference; and (5) two members to be designated by the Secretary, including one who represents the energy and commerce interests associated with the Connecticut River. The Committee will function solely as an advisory body, and in compliance with provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. CERTIFICATION: I hereby certify that the establishment of the Silvio Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge Advisory Committee is necessary and in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on the Department of the Interior by those statutory authorities as defined in Federal laws including, but not restricted to the Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge Act, The Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act, the Migratory Bird Conservation Act, the Emergency Wetlands Resource Act, the North American Wetlands Conservation Act, the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act, the Refuge Recreation Act, the Federal Advisory Committee Act and in furtherance of the Secretary of the Interior's statutory responsibilities for administration of the Fish and Wildlife Service mission to conserve, protect, and enhance fish, wildlife, and habitats for the continuing benefit of the American people (Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956). The Committee will assist the Secretary and the Department of the Interior by providing advice on community outreach and education projects that further the purposes of the refuge. Dated: October 31, 1994. Cathy Short, Acting Regional Director, Region 5, Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27477 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
