FR940906-0-00054 FR940906-0-00019 Comment 19. The Council is considering alternative incentive programs to address bycatch waste that would require additional observer coverage for participating vessels. The final rule implementing the Research Plan should not preclude voluntary increases in observer coverage by vessel owners as a prerequisite for participation in these incentive programs. Response. Observer coverage regulated under the Research Plan is set out under ยง677.10 of the final rule. The Research Plan does not preclude observer coverage beyond levels required under the Research Plan by anyone participating in a voluntary incentive program. However, persons who voluntarily obtain observer coverage beyond that required under the Research Plan would incur the costs of the additional coverage. Furthermore, voluntary or mandatory requirements for observer coverage beyond those authorized under the Research Plan would require rulemaking. Comment 20. Concern exists about the possibility of new fees being imposed on the fishing industry during the current reauthorization of the Magnuson Act. Because of this concern, a sunset date should be added to the Research Plan that would take effect if and when amendments to the Magnuson Act duplicate fees being charged under the Research Plan. Any new fee imposed under the Magnuson Act should not be in addition to the fees required under the Research Plan. Response. Changes to regulations normally must be accomplished through rulemaking, rather than being automatically triggered by events, such as passage of legislation. Under the Administrative Procedure Act notice and comment procedures, the public must be given notice of the proposed change and have an opportunity to comment on the proposed change. Should the Council decide that, in the future, the Research Plan should be withdrawn or modified to take into account amendments to the Magnuson Act, or for any other reason, it can recommend that the Secretary do so under normal rulemaking procedures. Comment 21. Industry members should be allowed to participate in the NMFS/ADF&G work group to oversee agency efforts to streamline the groundfish and crab observer programs and to maximize efficiency of administration and implementation of these programs. Response. NMFS disagrees. Industry members have many opportunities to comment on or participate in agency efforts to streamline the groundfish and crab observer programs. These opportunities include the Advisory Panel (AP), the OOC, and public testimony or written comment on the annual Research Plan specification process or other pertinent actions before the Council. The NMFS/ADF&G work group meetings will provide a setting for staff members to address administrative, implementation, and efficiency issues of the observer programs and to respond to issues and concerns raised by the public through the AP, OOC, or testimony before the Council. Comment 22. Given limited resources and a need to expand overall observer coverage, it is essential that the Research Plan be implemented in such a way as to maximize efficiency and minimize administrative overhead and costs. The first major step in that direction would be to consolidate the crab and groundfish observer programs. In addition to reduced costs, a consolidated program would provide an opportunity to standardize training and qualification requirements for observers, develop more rational deployment schemes, coordinate research and data collection objectives, and move toward the development of a professional, well trained, well qualified observer corps. With this goal in mind, NMFS and ADF&G should prepare budgets and report to the OOC and Council on the feasibility of combining the groundfish and crab observer programs. Response. NMFS and ADF&G are actively pursuing ways in which the NMFS groundfish and ADF&G crab observer programs can combine tasks and more efficiently utilize resources. Some areas being explored for possible future collaboration are training, briefing, debriefing, and field support. Also, under the Research Plan, an interagency (NMFS and ADF&G) working group will be established to address issues of consolidation and cost efficiency. Comment 23. Fiscal year (FY) 96 budgets prepared for the crab and groundfish observer programs do not include the costs for shellfish observer training. NMFS has factored the costs of shellfish training into a daily observer cost estimate reported by observer contractors, rather than use training costs incurred by the University of Alaska, which has been bearing these costs. True costs of the crab observer training should be included in the Research Plan budget so that everyone has an accurate picture of the entire program. Crab fishermen and shellfish observer contractors may claim they are being discriminated against if they will have to pay an additional cost of shellfish training beyond that paid by user fees. Shellfish observer training should not be treated differently from groundfish observer training under the Research Plan. Response. Specific comments on agency budgets and policy necessary to administer the groundfish and crab observer programs are outside the scope of the final rule to implement the Research Plan. Comments of this sort would best be addressed under the annual specification process set out at ยง677.11 of the final rule. Nonetheless, NMFS agrees the FY96 budgets for the crab and groundfish observer programs do not include the costs for shellfish observer training because neither NMFS nor ADF&G currently train crab observers. NMFS believes it is appropriate to require potential observer contractors to incorporate subcontracted costs for training crab observers in their response to the request for solicitation. NMFS believes that this approach will incorporate all the costs of training crab observers within the Research Plan contracts, thereby avoiding the possibility of crab vessels or observer contractors incurring additional costs. Under the Research Plan, the NMFS/ADF&G working group will examine differences and similarities between the groundfish and crab observer programs and will consider the potential benefits of training crab observers within the ADF&G observer program or within the NMFS observer program. Comment 24. Agency budgets should include costs for crab observer training and explicitly identify groundfish and crab observer program costs. NMFS and ADF&G must work towards streamlining programs and reducing costs (e.g., cross-training of observers, sharing field facilities, coordinating briefing and debriefing functions.) Response. See the responses to Comments 22 and 23. Comment 25. NMFS staff have expressed the intent to solicit bids for crab observer training, but not the groundfish observer training. Both crab and groundfish training programs should be subject to the bidding process. Not only will this produce the most cost-effective approach to training, but it will assure that the groundfish and crab industry receive similar treatment under the Research Plan. Response. As mentioned in the responses to Comments 22 and 23, the NMFS/ADF&G working group will be considering various options for both groundfish and crab training and these options will be discussed before the OOC and the Council as part of the annual specification process. Comment 26. In-season price adjustments, in-season payment adjustments, or price forecasts should be used, when practicable, to decrease differences between the standard exvessel prices and the actual exvessel price that can result from seasonal or inter-annual price fluctuations.
