FR940803-2-00017 FR940803-2-00013 Office of the Secretary of Defense Privacy Act of 1974; Notice to Add a Record System AGENCY: Office of the Secretary of Defense, DOD. ACTION: Notice to add a record system. SUMMARY: The Office of the Secretary of Defense proposes to add a system of records notice to its inventory of record systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: This action will be effective on September 2, 1994, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESS(ES): Send comments to Chief, Records Management and Privacy Act Branch, Washington Headquarter Services, Correspondence and Directives, Records Management Division, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Dan Cragg, OSD Privacy Act Officer at (703) 695&hyph;0970 or DSN 225&hyph;0970. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Office of the Secretary of Defense notices for systems of records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, (5 U.S.C. 552a) have been published in the Federal Register and are available from the address above. A new system report, as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(r) of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, was submitted on July 25, 1994, to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) pursuant to paragraph 4c of Appendix I to OMB Circular No. A&hyph;130, `Federal Agency Responsibilities for Maintaining Records About Individuals,' dated June 25, 1993 (58 FR 36075, July 2, 1993). Dated: July 29, 1994. Patricia Toppings Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. DUSDA 05 System name: Human Radiation Research Review. System location: Department of Defense Radiation Experiments Command Center, 6801 Telegraph Road, Alexandria, VA 22310&hyph;3398; and the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, Assistant to the Secretary of Defense (Atomic Energy), 3010 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;3010. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals who were or may have been the subject of tests involving ionizing radiation or other human-subject experimentation; individuals who have inquired or provided information to the Department of Energy Helpline or the Department of Defense Human Radiation Experimentation Command Center concerning such testing. Military and DoD civilian personnel who participated in atmospheric nuclear testing between 1945 and 1962 or the occupation of Hiroshima and Nagasaki are already included in the Defense Nuclear Agency's Nuclear Test Personnel Review (NTPR) program and are not part of this effort. The Defense Nuclear Agency's system of records notice that covers the NTPR is HDNA 010, entitled Nuclear Test Participants. However, inquiries referred from the Helpline that later are determined to fall within this category will be included in the system. Categories of records in the system: Information in the system includes an individual's name, Social Security Number or service number, last known or current address, occupational information, dates and extent of involvement in an experiment, exposure data, medical data, medical history of subject and relatives, and other documentation of exposure to ionizing radiation or other agents. The system contains information abstracted from historical records, and information furnished to the Department of Defense, Department of Energy or other Federal Agencies by affected individuals or other interested parties. Records include human radiation experimentation conducted from 1944 to the present. However, experiments conducted after May 20, 1974 (the date of issuance of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare Regulations for the Protection of Human Subjects, 45 CFR part 46), may be covered by other systems of records. Common and routine medical practices, such as established diagnostic and treatment methods involving incidental exposures to ionizing radiation are not included within this system. Examples of such methods are panorex radiographs for dental evaluations and thyroid scans for the evaluation and treatment of hypo/hyperthyroidism. Authority for maintenance of the system: 10 U.S.C. 133, E.O. 12891 (January 15, 1994), E.O. 9397 (November 22, 1943). Purpose(s): For use by agency officials and employees, or authorized contractors, and other DoD components in the preparation of the histories of human radiation experimentation; to conduct scientific studies or medical follow-up programs; to respond to Congressional and Executive branch inquiries; and to provide data or documentation relevant to the exposure of individuals. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: Information from this system of records may be disclosed to officials and contract personnel of the Human Radiation Experimentation Interagency Working Group as well as other designated government agencies, for the purposes described above. These agencies are the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Department of Justice; Department of Energy; Department of Health and Human Services; Department of Veterans Affair; the White House Advisory Committee; Central Intelligence Agency; and Office of Management and Budget. The `Blanket Routine Uses' published at the beginning of the Office of the Secretary of Defense's compilation of systems notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper records in file folders, microfilm/fiche, computer magnetic tape disks, and printouts in secure computer facilities. Retrievability: Records are retrieved by case number, name, study control number, Social Security Number, or service number. Safeguards: Access to or disclosure of information is limited to authorized personnel. Paper records filed in folders, microfilm/fiche and computer printouts are stored in areas accessible only by authorized personnel. Buildings are protected by security guards and intrusion alarm systems. Magnetic tapes are stored in a controlled area within limited access facilities. Access to computer programs is controlled through software applications that require validation prior to use. Retention and disposal: Files will be retained permanently. They will be maintained in the custody of the command center until all claims have been settled and then transferred to the National Archives and Records Administration. System manager(s) and address: Under Secretary of Defense of Acquisition and Technology, Assistant to the Secretary of Defense (Atomic Energy), 3010 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;3010. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system of records should address written inquiries to the Director, Department of Defense Radiation Experiments Command Center, 6801 Telegraph Road, Alexandria, VA 22310&hyph;3398, or Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense (Atomic Energy), 3010 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310&hyph;3010. Individual should provide full name, Social Security Number, or service number, and if known, case or study control number. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system of records should address written inquiries to the Director, Department of Defense Radiation Experiments Command Center, 6801 Telegraph Road, Alexandria, VA 22310&hyph;3398, or Under Secretary of Defense, Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense (Atomic Energy), 3010 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;3010. Individuals should provide full name, Social Security Number, or service number, and if known, case or study control number. Contesting record procedures: The OSD's rules for accessing records, for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in OSD Administrative Instruction 81; 32 CFR part 311; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Information will be collected directly from individuals, as well as extracted from historical records to include personnel files and lists, training files, medical records, legal case files, radiation and other hazard exposure records, occupational and industrial accident records, employee insurance claims, organizational and institutional administrative files, and related sources. The specific types of records used are determined by the nature of an individual's exposure to radiation. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18909 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
