FR940118-2-00062 FR940118-2-00047 IX Affidavits Upon filing of this Final Judgment and every thirty (30) days thereafter until the divestitures have been completed or authority to effect divestiture passes to the trustee pursuant to section VI or section VII of this Final Judgment, defendants shall deliver to plaintiff an affidavit as to the fact and manner of compliance with sections IV and V of this Final Judgment. Each such affidavit shall include the name, address, and telephone number of each person who, at any time after the period covered by the last such report, made an offer to acquire, expressed an interest in acquiring, entered into negotiations to acquire, or was contacted or made an inquiry about acquiring, any ownership interest in Baroid's diamond bit business or the drilling fluid business, and shall describe in detail each contact with any such person during that period. Defendants shall maintain full records of all efforts made to divest these operations. X Financing With prior consent of the plaintiff, defendants may finance all or any part of any purchase made pursuant to sections IV, V, VI, or VII of this Final Judgment. XI Preservation of Assets Until the divestitures required by the Final Judgment have been accomplished: A. The defendants shall take all steps necessary to assure that DBS and Baroid Drilling will be maintained as separate and independent, economically viable, ongoing businesses with their assets (including proprietary technology, management, operations, and books and records) separate, distinct and apart from those of Dresser. The defendants shall use all reasonable efforts on behalf of DBS to maintain and increase sales of diamond drill bits, continue its current plans for research, development, and testing of diamond drill bits, and otherwise maintain the business as a viable and active competitor in the United States. The defendants shall use all reasonable efforts on behalf of Baroid Drilling and M&hyph;I Drilling Fluids Co. to maintain and increase sales of drilling fluids, continue current plans for research, development, and testing of drilling fluids, and otherwise maintain the businesses as viable and active competitors in the United States. B. The defendants shall not sell, lease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or pledge as collateral for loans (except such loans as are currently outstanding or replacements of substitutes therefore), assets required to be divested pursuant to sections IV, V, VI, or VII except that any component of such assets as is replaced in the ordinary course of business with a newly purchased component may be sold or otherwise disposed of, provided the newly purchased component is so identified as a replacement component for one to be divested. C. The defendants shall provide capital and provide and maintain sufficient working capital to maintain DBS, including Baroid's diamond bit business; Baroid Drilling; and M&hyph;I Drilling Fluids Co. as viable, ongoing businesses consistent with the requirements of section XI(A). D. The defendants shall preserve the assets required to be divested pursuant to section IV, V, VI, and VII, except those replaced with newly acquired assets in the ordinary course of business, in a state or repair equal to their state of repair as of the date of this Final Judgment, ordinary wear and tear excepted. Defendants shall preserve the documents, books and records of DBS and Baroid's diamond bit business until the date of divestiture of Baroid's diamond bit business, and shall preserve the documents, books and records of Baroid Drilling and M&hyph;I Drilling Fluids Co. until the date of divestiture of the drilling fluids business. E. Except in the ordinary course of business, or as is otherwise consistent with the requirements of section XII, the defendants shall refrain from terminating or altering one or more current employment, salary, or benefit agreements for one or more executive, managerial, sales, marketing, engineering, or other technical personnel of DBS, Baroid Drilling or M&hyph;I Drilling Fluids Co., and shall refrain from transferring any employee so employed without the prior approval of plaintiff. F. Defendants shall refrain from taking any action that would jeopardize the sale of Baroid's diamond bit business or the drilling fluid business. XII Employment Offers A. Defendants are hereby enjoined and restrained until one year following the date of divestiture from employment of, or making offers of employment to, any person, who currently is an executive, managerial, sales, marketing, engineering, research and development, or other technical employee of Baroid in the United States, the preponderance of whose duties relate to Baroid's diamond bit business (``Baroid diamond bit employees''.) This provision, however, does not apply to any employee who is terminated or not hired by the purchaser of Baroid's diamond bit business. Defendants shall encourage and facilitate employment of such employees by the purchaser, and shall remove any impediments that exist which may deter such employees from accepting employment with the purchaser of Baroid's diamond bit business, including, but not limited to, the payment of all bonuses to which such employees would otherwise have been entitled had they remained in the employment of Baroid until the end of fiscal year 1994. B. The purchaser of Baroid's diamond bit business shall also have the right to hire any person who is currently a sales, marketing or research and development employee of Baroid, the preponderance of whose duties do not relate to Baroid's diamond bit business. Such offers of employment and acceptances thereof, contingent upon the consummation of the purchase of Baroid's diamond bit business, may be made prior to the consummation of the divestiture. Defendants shall provide any prospective purchaser with cooperation and assistance in its efforts to determine which, if any, such Baroid employees it seeks to hire. Such cooperation and assistance shall include making available for consultation purposes to any prospective purchasers of Baroid's diamond bit business all Baroid diamond bit employees, and providing information sufficient to enable a prospective purchaser to assess the relative performance of all Baroid sales, marketing and research and development employees. The defendants may, prior to the time the appointment of the trustee becomes effective pursuant to section VII, take any lawful steps they deem appropriate to retain the services of any Baroid employees the preponderance of whose duties do not relate to Baroid's diamond bit business. XIII Compliance Inspection For the purposes of determining or securing compliance with the Final Judgment and subject to any legally recognized privilege, from time to time:
