FR940407-1-00064 FR940407-1-00012 (iv) Historical growth rate estimate of g. The historical growth rate estimate of g shall be an average of the carrier's most recent five- and ten-year historical growth rate averages of dividends per share, earnings per share, and book value per share. (v) Professional investment services' projections estimate of g. The professional investment services' projections estimate of g shall be an average of Value Line's five-year forecasted growth rate of dividends per share, earnings per share, book value per share, and the Institutional Brokers Estimation Service's five-year forecasted growth rate in earnings per share for the carrier. (vi) Sustainable growth rate estimate of g. The sustainable growth rate estimate of g shall be obtained by multiplying the proportion of earnings expected to be retained by the carrier by the expected return on book equity. Value Line's forecasted values for expected retained earnings and expected return on book equity shall be used in arriving at the sustainable growth rate estimate of g. (11) CAPM. (i) The CAPM that shall be used in calculating a carrier's cost of common-stock equity is represented algebraically as follows: K e = R f + B(R m ^ R f ) where: K e is the carrier's cost of common-stock equity capital; R f is the expected risk-free rate of return; B is the relevant market risk beta of the carrier's common stock; and R m is the expected overall stock market return. (ii) Expected risk-free rate of return. A six-month average of five-year Treasury Note yields computed over a period not more than nine months prior to the date on which the proposed rates are filed shall be used as the estimate of the expected risk-free rate of return in the CAPM. (iii) Expected beta. Value Line's most current market risk beta of the carrier's common-stock shall be used as the estimate of the expected beta in the CAPM. (iv) Expected overall market return. The expected overall return on the stock market shall be estimated by adding the six-month average of five-year Treasury Note yields used as the estimate of the expected risk-free rate to the arithmetic average difference between the actual annual returns realized historically by the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index and the five-year Treasury Note. The arithmetic average differential shall be based on the complete historical series published annually by Ibbotson Associates in the most recent Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation Yearbook, for the period 1926 through the most recent date for which the specified data are available. (12) RP method. (i) The RP model that shall be used in calculating a carrier's cost of common-stock equity is defined mathematically as follows: K e = K d + RP where: K e is the regulated carrier's cost of common-stock equity capital; K d is the incremental cost of debt; and RP is the risk premium. (ii) Risk premium. The risk premium used in the RP model shall be the historical arithmetic average return differential between rates of return actually earned on investments in the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index and the five-year Treasury Note. This risk premium shall be based on the complete historical data series published annually in the Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation Yearbook, for the period 1926 through the most recent date for which the specified data are available. (iii) Incremental cost of debt. A six-month average of five-year Treasury Note yields computed over a period not more than nine months prior to the date on which the proposed rates are filed shall be the estimate of the incremental cost of debt in the RP model. (iv) Risk adjustment. The RP model shall be used in its generic form and the risk premium specified herein shall not be adjusted for any possible differences in the risk of the firms represented in the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index and that of the carrier under consideration. The generic RP model shall be used as a benchmark for the range of companies contained in the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index on which it is based, and, therefore, shall be used to measure the broad dimensions of investor perceptions of the trade-off between risk and return. (13) Corporate income tax rate (Schedules F&hyph;VI and F&hyph;VI(A)). The corporate income tax rate used in computing the BTWACC shall be the carrier's composite statutory corporate income tax rate for the 12-month period used to compute projected midyear rate base. Such rate shall be a composite of the carrier's Federal and State income tax rates, and of any other income tax rate to be applied to the carrier's income by any other entity to which the carrier is to pay income taxes. The carrier shall calculate and show its composite statutory corporate income tax rate as well as its Federal, State, and any other applicable statutory income tax rates separately for the 12-month period used to compute projected midyear rate base. The carrier shall also state the name of any entity other than the Federal and State governments to which it is to pay taxes. Where a carrier is a subsidiary of a parent company, the carrier shall show its own statutory corporate income tax rates unless the carrier applies for and receives permission from the Commission to use a consolidated capital structure in computing the BTWACC. Where such permission is granted, the carrier shall show instead the consolidated system's statutory corporate income tax rates.
