FR940513-0-00104 FR940513-0-00029 8. In the Second Report and Order we stated our intention to tailor the auction design to fit the characteristics of the licenses to be awarded. We noted that simultaneous multiple round auctions may not be appropriate for all licenses. 18 The less the interdependence among licenses, the less the benefit to auctioning them simultaneously. To the extent that simultaneous auctions are more costly and complex to run, we indicated that we may choose a sequential auction design, including sequential oral auctions, when there is little interdependence among individual licenses. 18 Id. at ¶112. 9. We further explained that when the values of particular licenses to be auctioned are low relative to the costs of conducting a simultaneous multiple round auction, we may consider auction designs that are relatively simple, with low administrative costs and minimal costs to the auction participants. We noted that as the value of licenses decreases, and thus the benefits of simultaneous multiple round bidding diminish relative to the cost and complexity of such auctions, a less complex auction method may be more suitable. For example, with large numbers of low value licenses we noted that we may decide that it is preferable to implement a low cost auction method such as single round sealed bidding to minimize cost and expedite the licensing process. 10. Last, in the Second Report and Order we noted that Congress directed us to ``design and test multiple alternative methodologies under appropriate circumstances.'' 19 Thus, where appropriate, we intend to choose bidding methods other than simultaneous multiple round auctions and periodically reevaluate the effectiveness of all methods utilized. 19 Id. at ¶115, quoting 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(3); see also ICC comment at 9 (supporting IVDS as a candidate for testing alternative methodologies). B. IVDS Competitive Bidding Design 11. We find that the generally preferred method of simultaneous multiple round auctions is not the most appropriate for IVDS, and that IVDS also presents a good opportunity to test less complex alternative procedures. As discussed below, of the auction methods described in the Second Report and Order, oral bidding (open outcry) and single round sealed bidding appear best suited to the IVDS. Both are relatively inexpensive for the Commission to administer, and the costs of participation by bidders are fairly low. Moreover, both have the advantage of being relatively simple for bidders to understand and also generally can be completed quickly. Thus, these methods are likely to promote the statutory goal of rapid implementation of service to the public. 20 We therefore adopt these two methods to auction IVDS licenses. 21 20 See 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(3)(A). 21 If, as we gain experience, we find that another auction design for the IVDS would better achieve the goals of the Budget Act, we may revisit this issue. 12. The IVDS offers two 500 kilohertz channels (frequency segments A and B) in each of 734 service areas, and the aggregation of both channels in a market is not permitted. While there may be some degree of interdependency among the IVDS licenses for geographically contiguous areas, 22 we do not believe that it is great enough to justify the greater costs and administrative complexities associated with holding a simultaneous multiple round auction. 23 Last, with large numbers of IVDS licenses covering only rural areas, 24 we anticipate that the demand for, and value of, most markets will not be great enough to justify the use of more complex methods such as simultaneous multiple round auctions. 25 22 Two commenters, EON and ICC, very briefly address the issue of potential interdependence among IVDS licenses. EON argues that the sequence of IVDS auctions should track ``ADIs,'' a proposal we discuss and adopt infra. EON does not state, however, that bidders might perceive the aggregation of licenses to result in additional efficiencies of IVDS operation. EON ex parte filing of Jan. 26, 1994, at 4. ICC states that auction procedures favoring license aggregation run counter to policies favoring licensee diversity. ICC Comment at 7. 23 The interdependencies for IVDS are likely to be less than for services where roaming is important. See generally Second Report and Order at ¶91. The IVDS rules do not permit ``roaming'' across service areas. 24 See note 5, supra . 25 See Second Report and Order at ¶¶112&hyph;113. 13. For IVDS open outcry auctions, each service area (with two licenses each) will be auctioned individually, and the two highest bidders in each service area will be awarded a license. The highest bidder will get first choice of frequency segment A or segment B at the highest bid price. The second highest bidder will be awarded the remaining segment at the amount it bid. 14. With single round sealed bidding, we will auction the two frequency segments separately. Licenses for frequency segment B will be auctioned first. As soon as practicable thereafter, we will announce the high bidders for licenses on frequency segment B and announce a deadline date for short-form applications for segment A licenses. In the event of a tie in single round sealed bidding, we will hold one additional round between the parties that tied. 15. Having both oral and sealed bidding methods available permits us the flexibility to fit the right auction method to the particular IVDS licenses being auctioned. Further, it is consistent with Congress' directive that we design and test multiple alternative methodologies under different circumstances. ICC comments that, of the two methods, sealed (or electronic) bidding is preferable to oral bidding because some potential bidders perhaps cannot afford to attend an auction in person. 26 As noted in the Second Report and Order, however, such sealed bidding generates no information about license values until after the auction closes, tending to decrease bid levels and reduce the efficiency of the license assignment. 27 We therefore believe that oral bidding should be used in the potentially higher valued markets, where having license value information during the auction is especially important, and that sealed bidding should be used for the remaining markets. 28 26 ICC comment at 6&hyph;7, reply comment at 7&hyph;8. Chase would prefer that we randomly alternate between oral and sealed methodologies. Chase comment at 1&hyph;2. 27 Second Report and Order at ¶89 n. 81. 28 For example, when choosing between the two methods, we do not want to hold the more expensive oral bidding auction in instances where we believe that the operational costs of holding the auction might outweigh the benefits (efficient allocation and revenues generated). 16. We believe that, in general, the greater the population in the service area, the greater will be the perceived value of, and demand for, the license. The 734 service areas for the IVDS are identical to those of cellular radio service areas: 306 ``Metropolitan Statistical Areas'' (MSAs) and 428 ``Rural Service Areas'' (RSAs). 29 We have concluded that we should conduct oral auctions for the IVDS service areas corresponding to MSAs, and sealed bid auctions for the remaining service areas, or RSAs. We reserve the discretion to reconsider this bidding design if, in light of experience gained with auctions, a change appears warranted. 30 29 See note 5, supra . 30 For instance, sealed bidding might be appropriate if we re-auction a small number of MSAs, or postpone initially the auctioning of MSAs located near international borders while agreements are negotiated.
