FR940413-2-00117 FR940413-2-00059 B. Evidence of State Commitment, As Shown Through Existing or Proposed Related Programs and Support (25 Points) This section must include a detailed discussion of the coordination and linkages between programs and community organizations, as well as a discussion of the organizational capacity which the State intends to devote to this project. The emphasis under this criterion will be on programmatic resources which might enhance the training aspects of a project. As noted earlier, it is recognized that most applicants have some form of economic development capacity already in place. C. Evidence of Linkage(s) to Private, Community-Based Credit and Technical Assistance Providers (10 Points) Discussion of what financial resources are available to provide new microenterprises with start-up capital, such as a consortium of banks which have pledged to assist in this process. D. Size of Non-Federal Matching Fund Contributions (10 Points) In order to receive a grant award, an applicant, at a minimum, must include matching non-Federal contributions in an amount equal to 100 percent of Federal funds to be provided. Applicants who propose to provide the minimum amount for matching non-Federal contributions will receive five (5) points under this criteria. If the non-Federal contributions are greater than 100 percent of the Federal funds to be provided, applicants may receive up to an additional five (5) points under this criteria. The cost proposal must contain a detailed discussion of the size, nature, and quality of the non-Federal match. Proposals not presenting a detailed discussion of the non-Federal match or not meeting the statutory requirement of a 100-percent match will be considered nonresponsive. E. Cost (10 points) The cost effectiveness of the project as indicated by cost per participant and cost per activity in relation to services provided and outcomes anticipated. Offerors are advised that discussions may be necessary in order to clarify any inconsistencies in their applications. The panel's evaluations are only advisory to the Grant Officer. The final decisions for grant award will be made by the ETA Grant Officer, after considering the panelists' scoring decisions. The Grant Officer's decisions will be based on what he or she determines is most advantageous to the Federal Government. Part V_Reporting Requirements The Grantee is required to provide reports and documents listed below: A. Quarterly Financial Reports The grantee shall submit to the Grant Officer's Technical Representative (GOTR), within 30 days following the end of each quarter, three (3) copies of a quarterly Financial Status Report (SF 269), until such time as all funds have been expended or the period of availability has expired. B. Quarterly Progress Reports The grantee shall submit to the GOTR within 30 days following the end of each quarter, three (3) copies of a quarterly progress report which provides a detailed account of services provided during each quarter of grant performance. Reports shall include the following in brief narrative form: (1) A description of overall progress of work activities accomplished during the reported period. (2) An indication of current problems, if any, which may delay performance and any proposed corrective action.
