FR940228-1-00098 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary proposes to include as a specific administrative standard the requirement that an institution have no outstanding liabilities owed to the Secretary unless the institution has made satisfactory arrangements to repay those liabilities and is honoring those arrangements. The Secretary believes that unless a participating institution demonstrates it has met all its programmatic, contractual, and fiscal obligations in the past, and has taken positive steps to rectify problems and liabilities in the past, there is no reason to presume that the institution has the capability and willingness to administer the Title IV, HEA programs responsibly in the future. The Secretary proposes to take into account whether significant problems have been identified in final reports and determinations issued by the Secretary, the OIG, accrediting agencies, SPREs, guaranty agencies, and State authorizing agencies and findings in criminal, civil, or administrative proceedings, in addition to financial and compliance audit reports and program review reports, in assessing an institution's administrative capability. The Secretary believes that pertinent information from any of the agencies or proceedings identified is relevant to determining whether an institution is administratively capable. An institution should be considered administratively capable only if there is no evidence of significant problems in those reviews or proceedings. The Secretary proposes to add to the administrative capability standards, the prohibition against debarments, suspensions, and causes of debarment or suspension under E.O. 12549 and the FAR, 48 CFR subpart 9.4. The Secretary proposes to amend this section to provide that an institution would not be considered administratively capable if (1) cause exists for debarring the institution under 34 CFR 85.305, or for suspending the institution under 34 CFR 85.405, (2) any principal (as that term is used in 34 CFR part 85) of the institution is debarred or suspended, or (3) the institution is an affiliate (as that term is used in 34 CFR part 85) of any person so debarred or suspended. Under these changes, the Secretary would not certify the administrative capability of an institution that fits into any of these categories. The Secretary would not permit such an institution to begin participation in a Title IV, HEA program, and the Secretary would require a participating institution to rectify the problem that adversely affects the institution's administrative capability. A participating institution's inability or unwillingness to rectify the problem would warrant initiation of an emergency action, limitation, suspension, or termination proceeding against the institution under subpart G. The Secretary expects that such a proceeding would be combined with a debarment or suspension proceeding under 34 CFR part 85. These changes are needed to establish appropriate safeguards to protect the Title IV, HEA programs when serious questions are raised about the honesty and lawfulness of the conduct of an institution's owners, officers, directors, management, employees, or affiliates whose duties involve the administration of or influence over those programs. The Secretary proposes to require that an institution comply with any standards regarding completion and placement rates and pass rates on State licensing examinations established by the State in which an institution is located as a standard of administrative capability. The Secretary supports the development of appropriate standards by each State, as individual States will be able to address local concerns and conditions in the development of standards. In the absence of such a State standard, the Secretary believes an institution must comply with appropriate standards regarding completion rates, placement rates and pass rates on required State examinations, as established by the Secretary, in consultation with institutions located in the State. The Secretary proposes to require as a standard for full participation in the Title IV, HEA programs that institutions have default rates that do not exceed 20 percent for the Federal Stafford Loan and Federal SLS programs, and default rates that do not exceed 15 percent for the Federal Perkins Loan program. For the Federal Stafford Loan and Federal SLS programs, a 20 percent trigger is currently used as an indicator of impaired administrative capability. For the Federal Perkins Loan program, the Secretary has used a 20 percent trigger as an indicator of impaired administrative capability. The Secretary is proposing to change this figure to 15 percent for consistency with the statutory requirement of section 461(g) of the HEA that requires an institution with a cohort default rate of 15 percent in the Federal Perkins Loan program to establish a default management plan pursuant to regulations. Under this proposal, institutions applying for participation under a change of ownership or for a renewal of their participation with default rates exceeding these proposed amounts would be provisionally certified for a lack of administrative capability if no other serious administrative capability problems were identified that warranted denying the application. The Secretary notes that, under this proposal, an institution applying for a renewal of participation that has a default rate under the Federal Stafford Loan programs that exceeds 20 percent could submit information demonstrating mitigating circumstances as provided in ยง668.15 of current regulations to demonstrate that the institution's default rate is not a basis for denial of full participation. If no other serious administrative capability problems were identified that warrant denying the application for full participation, an institution with default rates over these triggers could receive full participation if it successfully showed that those mitigating circumstances existed.
