FR940527-1-00229 FR940527-1-00014 We believe that the adjustment for capital efficiency and cost-effectiveness should take into account the efficiency and effectiveness of the capital resources present in the base year for the capital prospective payment system. We do not believe that Medicare capital payment rates should provide for maintenance of capital in excess of the level that would be produced in an efficiency-oriented competitive market. The capital efficiency adjustment should be designed to give hospitals an incentive to reduce inefficiency and ineffectiveness in capital resources. The analysis in Table 4 suggests that, in order to restore the Federal rate to the level at which it would have been if capital costs had not been excessive in the years before the implementation of capital prospective payment, a cumulative reduction in the rate of 28.2 percent (1.565/2.088=.7495, or -25.0 percent) is justified. We note that the Administration's Health Security Act contains a proposal for an annual adjustment to the capital update for FY 1996 through FY 2003. This proposal is based in part on our previous analysis of capital spending in the years prior to the implementation of the capital prospective payment system. Section 4103(a)(2)(C) of the proposed Health Security Act provides that the annual update factor applied to the capital prospective payment system rates be reduced by 4.9 percent each year during that period (except that the change factor can never be negative in any year). Appendix F PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT ASSESSMENT COMMISSION REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE CONGRESS March 1, 1994. Prospective Payment Assessment Commission Stuart H. Altman, Ph.D., Chairman Richard A. Berman James D. Bernstein Clay D. Edmands William S. Hoffman, Ph.D. Clerk E. Kerr James R. Kimmey, M.D. David A. Kindig, M.D. Judith R. Lave, Ph.D. Larry L. Mathis Robert J. Myers Donald R. Oder Elliott C. Roberts, Sr. J. Michael Sadaj, M.D. J.B. Silvers, Ph.D. Roxane B. Spitzer-Lehmann, Ph.D. Jae L. Wittlich Staff and Consultants Donald A. Young, M.D. Executive Director Laura A. Dummit, Deputy Executive Director Stuart Guterman, Deputy Executive Director Sharon B. Arnold, Ph.D. John L. Ashby Amy B. Bernstein, Sc.D. Thomas B. Bradley Wylene Carlyle Delores J. Curtis Karen S. Fisher, J.D. Gina M. Fortuna Barbara J. Gage, Ph.D. Timothy F. Greene Joy M. Grossman, Ph.D. Jeff E. Harris Claudia C. Johnson Lynn L. Lewis Craig K. Lisk Mary Anne Miles Julian H. Pettengill Molly Ryan Claire E. Sharda Deana L. Stoneman Colleen M. Tynan Deborah K. Williams Jeannette A. Younes March 1, 1994. The Honorable Al Gore, President of the Senate, United States Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510. Dear Mr. President: I am hereby transmitting to the Congress the annual report of the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission as required by Section 1886(e)(3) of the Social Security Act as amended by Public Law 101&hyph;508. This report presents a discussion of major factors that have shaped the evolution of the hospital and discusses possible changes facing the hospital of the future. The report also contains 23 recommendations covering a range of topics, from broad issues concerning Medicare and health care reform to updating Medicare payment rates and refining certain aspects of Medicare payments to hospitals and other facilities. This report reflects the Commission's collective judgment about issues of substantial importance to beneficiaries, hospitals, other providers, and the Medicare program. ␣␣␣Sincerely, Stuart H. Altman, Ph.D., Chairman. Enclosure March 1, 1994. The Honorable Thomas Foley, Speaker, United States House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515. Dear Mr. Speaker: I am hereby transmitting to the Congress the annual report of the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission as required by Section 1886(e)(3) of the Social Security Act as amended by Public Law 101&hyph;508. This report presents a discussion of major factors that have shaped the evolution of the hospital and discusses possible changes facing the hospital of the future. The report also contains 23 recommendations covering a range of topics, from broad issues concerning Medicare and health care reform to updating Medicare payment rates and refining certain aspects of Medicare payments to hospitals and other facilities. This report reflects the Commission's collective judgment about issues of substantial importance to beneficiaries, hospitals, other providers, and the Medicare program. ␣␣␣Sincerely, Stuart H. Altman, Ph.D., Chairman. Enclosure
