FR940426-2-00054 FR940426-2-00037 It is essential that all activities undertaken in this cooperative agreement be carried out with maximum opportunity for input and participation from representatives of the affected stakeholders. The TA Center must have a steering committee that will provide advice and consultation in the development of technical assistance strategies, the establishment of priorities, and the charting of new directions. The committee will be comprised of 12 to 14 members and meet at least once a year to review TA Center activities and make recommendations regarding strategic directions. The steering committee will include representatives of the child mental health services grant project directors, CMHS staff, the project directors from the three CASSP-sponsored TA Centers, recognized experts in the delivery of mental health services to children and adolescents, representatives of the national family advocacy groups and other key stakeholders in the public, private, and academic sectors. It will reflect the diverse racial and ethnic minority groups served by this program, and will contain an appropriate gender balance. The steering committee will be chaired by the project director of the TA Center who will select members subject to the approval of CMHS program staff. •Establish an internal governance structure to translate steering committee input into strategic plans for the central organization and the Hubs. The TA Center must have a plan for the organization and management of the TA Center itself and for the organization and management of the Hubs. An executive committee (or similar entity) must be established by the TA Center to guide the operations of the Hubs, establish priorities, chart new directions, assure the completion of required tasks, guide policy development, and process feedback from the field (evaluation) on Hub operations. The CMHS staff collaborator will be included as a member of this body. •Conduct an ongoing formative evaluation of the TA Center's activities with a primary focus on the efficiency and effectiveness of the regional Hubs. The TA Center must conduct an ongoing formative evaluation of its activities. In this context, formative evaluation means ongoing activities designed to provide information on the program for the primary purpose of improving program operations and effectiveness. Included should be information on who will conduct evaluation activities, what those activities will be, and how the results of the evaluation activities will be used to improve services provided. The activities should include a management information system capable of providing reasonably comprehensive information on the technical assistance activities of each of the Hubs. •Develop a plan for prioritizing activities if resources are not sufficient to meet all requests for technical assistance. At times, the TA Center may be unable to comply with competing requests for technical assistance. Therefore, it must have a plan for making rational choices between or among competing requests. Eligibility: Applications may be submitted by public organizations, such as units of State or local governments, and by private nonprofit organizations such as community-based organizations, universities, colleges, and hospitals. Availability of Funds: It is estimated that up to $1.4 million will be available to support 1 award under this announcement in fiscal year (FY) 1994. The actual funding level will depend upon the availability of appropriated funds. Period of Support: Support may be requested for an initial period of up to 4 years. Annual awards will be made subject to continued availability of funds and progress achieved. Application Receipt and Review Schedule: The schedule for receipt and review of applications is as follows: ␣ 1Receipt of applications 1Initial review 1Council review 1Earliest start date June 24, 1994 Aug. 1994 Sept. 1994 Sept. 30, 1994.
