FR940902-2-00158 FR940902-2-00069 Federal Highway Administration [FHWA Docket No. 93&hyph;10] Transfer of Interstate Maintenance Program Funds AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Proposed final policy statement; requests for comments. SUMMARY: This proposed final policy statement sets forth the FHWA's policy for addressing the interstate maintenance program funds transfer provisions of 23 U.S.C. 119(f)(1). The criteria for determining what constitutes adequate maintenance, which are included in this policy, are associated with only the transfer of Interstate Maintenance (IM) funds and are not related to the State's responsibility to properly maintain projects constructed with Federal-aid funds outlined in 23 U.S.C. 116, Maintenance. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit written, signed comments concerning this policy statement to FHWA Docket No. 93&hyph;10, Federal Highway Administration, Room 4232, HCC&hyph;10, Office of the Chief Counsel, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. All comments received will be available for examination at the above address between 8:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., e.t., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. John Hallin, Chief, Pavement Design and Rehabilitation Branch, (202) 366&hyph;1323, or Ms. Vivian Philbin, Attorney-Advisor, Office of Chief Counsel, General Law Branch, (202) 366&hyph;0780, Federal Highway Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On March 3, 1993, the FHWA published an interim policy statement on the transfer of Interstate maintenance program funds at 58 FR 12299, and provided a 60-day public comment period which closed on May 3, 1993. During the intervening period, FHWA has evaluated the comments and reconsidered its initial position. As a result, the FHWA is proposing to modify the pavement roughness and faulting criteria and to add additional criteria that were not proposed in the interim policy. A total of 18 State highway agencies (SHAs) and the Highway User Federation for Safety and Mobility (HUFSAM), a public interest group, provided written comments to the docket established for the interim policy statement. The SHA comments ranged from administrative type questions, such as requests for clarification of measurement procedures and use of existing pavement management system data, to fundamental positions on the individual indicators and the specific established criteria. Some SHAs endorsed various portions of the criteria established, while others took exception to part or all of the criteria. The HUFSAM strongly endorsed the interim policy. It stressed the need to assure that the Interstate System be maintained at a very high level and noted that, from its studies, nationwide, the Interstate maintenance funding levels are inadequate. After evaluating the comments received, the FHWA continues to believe that transfers of apportioned IM funds specifically earmarked for Interstate maintenance to other designated programs should be permitted only when the Interstate System routes are in a physical, operational, and safe condition and perform at or near the level for which they were designed, and constructed. Because pavement and bridge activities constitute the major cost items of IM eligible activities, the interim policy focused on pavement and bridge condition indicators as the determining factors for eligibility to transfer IM funds. Other essential elements, necessary to maintain the physical and operational integrity of the Interstate, must also be considered in transportation decisions. Responses to the interim policy, however, indicate a concern that other essential elements need not be considered in transfer decisions. This was not the intent of the interim policy statement. Section 101(a) of Title 23 U.S.C. defines ``maintenance'' to mean the preservation of the entire highway, including surface, shoulders, roadside, structures, and such traffic control devices as are necessary for its safe and efficient utilization. As the IM program now provides the major resources for rehabilitation, resurfacing, and restoration (3R) work on the Interstate System, extending the service life of all major components and enhancing highway safety on the system should receive first priority for IM fund use. For example, over 25 percent of the projects and approximately 10 percent of funds from the IM program are currently being expended on traffic and safety improvement projects. The FHWA supports a continued strong emphasis on safety. In a sampling of SHA pavement management systems conducted during the past year, the FHWA found that the pavement condition indicators established in the interim policy are generally collected and used by the States in evaluating the condition of the Interstate for their own management purposes. While the data collection and reporting procedures differ somewhat, the fundamental indicators are consistently used by the SHA's to manage their Interstate pavements. The proposed final policy includes the original pavement and bridge condition indicators established in the interim policy and adds pavement surface friction as a fourth pavement condition indicator. However, the roughness criteria has been modified and the separate faulting criteria for jointed plain and joint reinforced concrete pavement (JPCP and JRCP) has been replaced with a single criterion of 525 mm/km (33 inches/mile) for both jointed pavement types. In addition to these interim factors, this proposed final policy statement adds criteria for the additional traffic and safety related indicators of (1) safety appurtenances, (2) traffic control devices, and (3) geometric elements. These indicators are equally critical to the Interstate System which relies heavily on the availability of IM funds for continued adequacy. Maintenance of the Interstate System's operational as well as physical characteristics in a satisfactory manner remains the first priority for the use of these funds. Comments Received This section addresses specific SHA comments organized around the criteria established for each of the individual condition indicators.
