FR941007-1-00037 FR941007-1-00008 Since issuing the 1991 Consumer Advisory, NHTSA has intensified its efforts to work closely and cooperatively with interested parties on this issue. For example, NHTSA has worked to bring about a better understanding of rear-facing infant restraint/air bag interaction through the auspices of the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) and its technical committees on child safety issues. As a result of mutual concerns on the part of government and industry, the SAE was able to publish consensus guidelines dealing broadly with the interaction of child restraint systems (including rear-facing infant restraints) and air bags. The agency worked with State and local governments to disseminate the information about the latest, mutually arrived at, recommendations concerning rear-facing infant restraint/air bag interaction. NHTSA has also worked with the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), a group of doctors who specialize in the care of children. As a result, the AAP has disseminated the warnings about air bags and rear-facing infant restraints to its 40,000 members through its newsletter and Family Shopping Guide for Car Seats. In addition, the agency has reemphasized its commitment to educating the public on this issue. In April 1992, the agency reissued its Consumer Information Bulletin, ``Transporting Your Children Safely.'' This bulletin provides several pages of guidelines on the use of child restraints in vehicles, including a chart depicting the optimum restraint type for various sizes and weights for children. For example, the bulletin recommends that from birth to 9&hyph;12 months or 20 pounds, a rear-facing infant restraint be used. The bulletin also states: ``Rear-facing child safety seats should always go in the rear seat in cars equipped with passenger-side air bags.'' In October 1992, based on the final results of the testing mentioned above, NHTSA published a final report describing child restraint/passenger air bag interactions (Child Restraint/Passenger Air Bag Interaction Strategies, DOT HS 808&hyph;004, October 1992). The report concluded that rear-facing infant restraints should not be placed in the front seat of a vehicle with a passenger air bag. In response to the October 1992 final report, NHTSA amended several safety standards to require warnings concerning the interaction of air bags and rear-facing infant restraints. In the September 1993 final rule, as described above, the agency required that specified information, including information about the proper placement of rear-facing infant restraints, be placed on labels in vehicles equipped with air bags. This warning label must be on the sun visor of any vehicle equipped with an air bag manufactured after September 1, 1994. It also required that additional, more detailed information about air bags be provided in the owner's manual. Consumers were again cautioned by the Department not to use rear-facing infant restraints in seating positions protected by air bags in an October 28, 1993 news release. On February 16, 1994, the agency took a further step to try to alert parents to the issue of air bag/rear-facing infant restraint interaction. It published in the Federal Register a final rule amending Standard No. 213, Child Restraint Systems (59 FR 7643). The amended Standard No. 213 requires that the warning label for a rear-facing infant restraint include a warning against using the restraint in any vehicle seating position equipped with an air bag. It also requires that the printed instructions for a rear-facing infant restraint include safety information about air bags. Believing that steps in addition to providing consumers with information were needed, members of the American Automobile Manufacturers Association (AAMA) met with NHTSA on January 24, 1994. AAMA asked for the meeting to explore the possibility of installing an air bag cutoff device to allow rear-facing infant restraints to be placed in air bag-equipped passenger seating positions. AAMA representatives discussed the general concept of an air bag cutoff device, which could be either automatic or manual. However, the representatives emphasized that the industry is not quite ready to install automatic devices because automatic cutoff technology is not yet ready for production. At the meeting, AAMA asked whether Standard No. 208 would permit such devices and, if not permitted, whether the agency would consider initiating rulemaking to permit such devices.
