FR940505-1-00063 FR940505-1-00012 Some 1999 truck travel in the Sacramento area would be by fleets not subject to any fleet standard. The emissions reductions available depend on the contribution to vehicle miles traveled made by fleets which are subject to the rule. For the purpose of this proposal, it is assumed that 80 percent of the onroad heavy duty miles come from California fleets, yielding an estimated reduction of approximately 6 tons of NO X per day. (2) Nonroad growth cap. The remaining NO X shortfall is approximately 17 tons per day, 13 percent of total mobile source inventory or 33 percent of the light duty motor vehicle NO X inventory in 1999. Before turning to activity reductions in the light duty motor vehicle category, it is reasonable to consider whether any reductions are available in this time frame from nonroad heavy-duty equipment. The difficulties of implementing a retrofit rule are discussed in I.D. However, there are emission reduction strategies which could be implemented by equipment fleet operators in the Sacramento area. For example, nonroad engines meeting higher national standards should be available from manufacturers as early as 1996. There are also applications which have on-road configurations as well as nonroad configurations, and fleet operators can purchase replacements meeting the tighter standards. One of the reasons that the overall nonroad category is estimated to contribute significantly to a 1999 inventory is that it has been unregulated up to this time. The other reason is that substantial growth is projected for the category: 8.8 tons per day NO X increase from 1990 to 1999. If growth in emissions from the largest NO X -emitting nonroad sources could be avoided, the task of attaining the standards by 1999 or any later date would be made easier. EPA is proposing as part of the 1999 attainment FIP that growth in the nonroad heavy-duty category be capped such that NO X emissions not exceed 1995 projected levels. The cap would be implemented via a fleet averaging concept like that described in section III.D.4 which contains the nonroad proposal for the 2005 attainment strategy. Section III.D.4 proposes a declining fleet average emissions level to assure that the historical rate of engine turnover is maintained; the 1999 attainment cap would require that fleet operators acquire and utilize low emission engines as necessary to maintain NO X emissions at projected 1995 levels. The estimated benefit of this cap is the reduction of approximately 4 tons per day of NO X which would have resulted from further growth in the heavy-duty equipment category. (3) No drive days. The remaining NO X shortfall is approximately 13 tons per day which amounts to approximately 10 percent of the total mobile source inventory, 16 percent of the on-road mobile source inventory, or 25 percent of the light duty motor vehicle inventory in 1999. This represents a substantial reduction from sources that can not be significantly controlled by further technological solutions or forced turnover to cleaner alternatives. Therefore, the shortfall would have to be achieved with even more difficult measures that focus on reducing the use of mobile sources. Activity restrictions could be obtained from various mobile source categories using a variety of regulatory approaches. For example, broad-based reductions from essentially all categories could be obtained with such blunt measures as fuel surcharges or gas rationing. More focused reductions could be made by targeting motor vehicle activity through fees on vehicle-miles- traveled (VMT) or no-drive days. EPA believes such potentially severe measures should only be selected after substantial public participation and debate. However, the Agency is compelled to make a selection for the proposed 1999 attainment date option. When faced with a similar dilemma in the 1990 proposed FIP for the South Coast Basin (55 FR 36458), EPA chose to limit mobile source activity with a no-drive day program for on-road motor vehicles. Today's proposal also contains that control measure in order to achieve the sizeable, remaining NO X shortfall for the 1999 attainment option. More specifically, in order to achieve the 13 tons of NO X reductions needed, EPA is proposing that each highway vehicle registered in the Sacramento nonattainment area be prohibited from being driven one day out of five weekdays. (4) Recreational boat fees or prohibitions. A no-drive day, which is imposed on all highway vehicles one out of five weekdays, would produce approximately a 20 percent decrease in the emissions of the remaining NO X and VOC from highway vehicles. This would be sufficient to reduce NO X in the Sacramento area to the area's carrying capacity. However, the VOC reductions from the above no-drive day proposal provides only eleven out of the required fifteen tons per day. The accelerated retirement strategy and growth cap proposed for heavy duty engines do not significantly affect VOC emissions. There is a nonroad mobile source category, recreational boating, which does contribute significantly to the VOC inventory in Sacramento and which will eventually be reduced through the adoption of national standards for new engines and subsequent fleet turnover. It is possible to achieve an accelerated turnover similar to that required for heavy equipment either by restricting the operation of boats which use engines which do not meet new national standards, or by imposing a fee on the excess emissions from such boats. As a final measure in a 1999 attainment option for VOC reductions, EPA is proposing a fee system or boating restriction which will reduce emissions from recreational boating by one- third in 1999. A similar fee system is explained in the 2005 attainment proposal.
