FR940110-1-00097 FR940110-1-00006 (ii) Providing housing for special needs populations such as homeless persons, abused or battered persons, persons with AIDS, mentally or physically disabled persons, or persons with substance abuse problems; (iii) Providing housing in rural areas or areas targeted by local, state or federal governments for community development or revitalization through the development of affordable housing or economic investment; or (iv) Providing housing with special services to meet the needs of low- or moderate-income households including, but not limited to, child care, job training, medical care, substance abuse programs, independent living skill training, and rental household and homeowner household counseling. (4) District Bank priority. Applications for projects that meet one or more priorities recommended by the Bank's Advisory Council and adopted by the Bank's board of directors that each address a housing need in the Bank's district and are consistent with the purposes of this part. The Bank shall describe in its AHP implementation plan how the points for the priority or priorities will be distributed. (5) Economic mobility priority. Applications for projects that provide housing for low- or moderate-income households that move from low- or moderate-income neighborhoods or housing projects to neighborhoods, mixed-income buildings or owner-occupied housing developments in which at least 50 percent of the households have incomes above the median income for the area, as published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. (e) Targeting_20-point category. An application can receive a maximum of 20 points for this category. The Bank shall award points to applications based on the extent to which the project(s) serve(s) the greatest percentage of very low-, low- and moderate-income households, in that priority order. In the alternative, if a weighted-average scoring methodology is provided in the Bank's AHP implementation plan, the Bank shall award points to an application based on the extent to which the project has the lowest weighted-average income determined by multiplying the percentage of units reserved for households at certain income levels by those incomes expressed as a percentage of median income, and adding the totals. Applications shall be scored relative to each other with the maximum number of points allowable awarded to the application(s) that best achieve(s) the targeting objective, and the remaining application scores shall be adjusted and awarded points on a declining scale basis. However, owner-occupied housing projects shall be scored as one group and rental housing projects shall be scored as a separate group. (f) Other objectives. The five other objectives categories are as set forth in the following paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section. The Bank in its AHP implementation plan shall define more specifically each of the five other objectives categories and explain specifically how points will be awarded for satisfying each category. For each category, the Bank shall award the maximum number of points allowable for such category to the application(s) that best achieve(s) the objective, and the remaining application scores shall be adjusted and awarded points on a declining scale basis. (1) AHP subsidy per unit_10-point category. An application can receive a maximum of 10 points for this category. The Bank shall award points to applications based on the extent to which the project proposes to use the least amount of AHP subsidy per AHP-subsidized unit. Projects should be scored relative to each other; however, owner-occupied housing projects shall be scored as one group and rental housing projects shall be scored as a separate group. This scoring criterion may not include a leveraging criterion whereby the application is scored based on the percentage of the project's total development cost that is to be financed with the AHP subsidy. (2) Applicant participation_5-point category. An application can receive a maximum of 5 points for this category. The Bank shall award points to applications based on the extent to which the project involves participation by applicants other than the receipt of a subsidized advance or direct subsidy under the AHP. Such participation can be financial or non-financial, including but not limited to debt or equity financing of the project, grants to the project, applicant involvement on the boards of nonprofit sponsors, and applicant provision of technical assistance to the nonprofit sponsors for the project. (3) Community involvement_10-point category. An application can receive a maximum of 10 points for this category. The Bank shall award points to applications based on the extent to which there is demonstrated support for the project by local community organizations and individuals other than as project sponsors, such as through the commitment by such organizations and individuals of funds, goods and services, and volunteer labor. (4) Community stability_10-point category. An application can receive a maximum of 10 points for this category. The Bank shall award points to applications based on the extent to which the project(s) maximize(s) community stability, such as by: committing to a greater long-term period pursuant to ยง960.5; revitalizing vacant or abandoned properties or being integrally part of a neighborhood stabilization plan, if such revitalization or stabilization is not identified as a special needs category by the Bank pursuant to ยง960.10(d)(3)(iii); and not displacing low- or moderate-income households, or if such displacement will occur, indicating how such households will be assisted to minimize the impact of such displacement. (5) Innovation_5-point category. An application can receive a maximum of 5 points for this category. The Bank shall award points to applications based on the extent to which the project(s) involve(s) a particularly new or unusual approach, either financial or non-financial, for meeting the requirements of this part. ยง960.11 Modifications of approved AHP applications. (a) An applicant that seeks a modification of an approved AHP application before completion and occupancy of the project must submit a request for such modification in writing to the Bank for review and approval. A modification is any change that affects or could potentially affect the material facts under which the application was originally evaluated and scored.
