FR940721-2-00068 FR940721-2-00036 09&hyph;60&hyph;0058 System name: Master Files of Social Security Number (SSN) Holders and SSN Applications, HHS/SSA/OSR. Security classification: None. System locations: Social Security Administration, Office of Systems Operations, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235 Social Security Administration, Office of Central Records Operations, Metro West Building, 300 N. Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201. Records may also be maintained at contractor sites (contact the system manager at the address below to obtain contractor addresses). Categories of individuals covered by the system: This system contains a record of each individual who has applied for and obtained a Social Security number (SSN) and of each individual whose application was supported by documents which are suspected to be fraudulent and are being verified with the issuing agency, or have been determined to be fraudulent. Categories of records in the system: This system contains all of the information received on original applications for SSNs (e.g., name, date and place of birth, sex, both parents' names, and race/ethnic data), and any changes in the information on the applications that are submitted by the SSN holders. It also contains applications supported by evidence suspected or determined to be fraudulent, along with the mailing addresses of the individuals who filed such applications and descriptions of the documentation which they submitted. Cross-references may be noted where multiple numbers have been issued to the same individual and an indication may be shown that a benefit claim has been made under a particular SSN(s). Authority for maintenance of the system: Sections 205(a) and 205(c)(2) of the Social Security Act. Purpose(s): Information in this system is used by the Social Security Administration (SSA) to assign SSNs. The information also is used for a number of administrative purposes, such as: •By SSA components for various title II, XVI, and XVIII claims purposes including usage of the SSN itself as a case control number and a secondary beneficiary cross- reference control number for enforcement purposes and use of the SSN record data for verification of claimant identity factors and for other claims purposes related to establishing benefit entitlement; •By SSA as a basic control for retained earnings information; •By SSA as a basic control and data source to prevent issuance of multiple SSNs; •As the means to identify reported names or SSNs on earnings reports; •For resolution of earnings discrepancy cases; •For statistical studies; •By the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Office of Inspector General, Office of Audit Services, for auditing benefit payments under Social Security programs;
