FR940728-0-00059 FR940728-0-00019 VIII. Demonstration That Recovered Oil Meets Conditions of Exclusion Under §261.2(f), persons claiming that recovered oil is excluded from the definition of solid waste bear the burden of proof in enforcement actions to demonstrate that they qualify for the exclusion. This would normally require some type of demonstration that the recovered oil is going to be and actually is used in a petroleum refining operation prior to crude distillation or catalytic cracking. For on-site sources, this documentation could be entries in the operating records of the facility showing where the oil is recovered and where it re-enters the refining process. For off-site sources, this demonstration is especially important. Adequate documentation could entail bona fide contractual agreements with other facilities to take the recovered oil, shipping or delivery records to the receiving facility, or other similar records. These records are important to show enforcement personnel that the conditions of the exclusion have been met. Without this documentation, the burden of proof will ordinarily not be satisfied because enforcement personnel will have no way of verifying that the recovered oil actually was used in the refining process and the assumption can be made that the oil was not reused, and was instead sent off-site or managed on-site as a hazardous waste. IX. Examples of How Today's Rule Operates Example 1 Petroleum refinery A generates wastewater. As part of primary wastewater treatment, it skims oil from the wastewater. This operation occurs in wastewater treatment tanks. The skimmed oil is then gathered and inserted directly into crude oil storage units for insertion into the refining process. The refinery process wastewater is still considered to be a solid waste, notwithstanding that some oil is skimmed from it. The wastewater treatment tanks used for treating the wastewater are exempt from subtitle C regulation. Section 264.1(g)(6), 265.1(c)(10). The skimmed oil is recovered oil that is excluded from being a solid waste under today's regulation because it originates from petroleum refining, it is not land disposed before being recycled, and it is returned to the designated part of the petroleum refining process. (This answer assumes that the recovered oil is not being accumulated speculatively.) Example 2 Same facts as Example 1, except that the skimmed oil requires processing in the plant's slop oil system. This process involves demulsifying and separation via chemical addition, thermal treatment, and gravity separation. Same answer as in Example 1. It should also be noted that water and solids from the slop oil system can be wastes, and if hazardous, can be subject to Subtitle C regulation once they are removed from the slop oil tank. Example 3 Same facts as Example 1, except that the source of the recovered oil is a petrochemical plant wastewater treatment system. The oil is not excluded from being a solid waste under today's rule because it does not come from petroleum refining, exploration or production operations. Example 4 Facility B recovers oil from spills at exploration and production operations. The oil is trucked to a tank, where separation occurs. The separated oil is put into a pipeline for ultimate insertion into crude oil storage units at a petroleum refinery. The oil recovered from the spills is excluded from being a solid waste. It is a type of recovered oil, and is excluded because it originates from exploration and production activities, is not land disposed or accumulated speculatively, and is inserted into a refining process. Example 5 Facility C is a bulk petroleum storage facility. Oil spilled from its product storage tanks is too contaminated to be directly used as product. The oil is sent back to a refinery where it is placed in a slop oil system and returned to the refining process. The spilled oil is excluded from being a solid waste, not under today's rule, but under §261.33 (and §261.2 Table 1) because it is a commercial chemical product that is being recycled rather than abandoned. (EPA interprets this principle to apply to commercial chemical products that exhibit characteristics as well as those listed in §261.33. 50 FR 14219 (April 11, 1985).) (This answer assumes that the oil is recovered promptly and that the spills do not create permanent land disposal units. See 55 FR 22671 (June 1, 1990).) All of these answers assume that legitimate recycling is occurring. See discussion of sham recycling criteria in many prior Agency notices, such as 53 FR 522 (Jan. 8, 1988) and 56 FR 7143, 7185 (Feb. 21, 1991). X. Relationship to Other Programs A. Clean Air Act (Benzene NESHAP) On January 7, 1993 (58 FR 3072) EPA promulgated under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7412) final amendments to the benzene waste operations national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) (V FF at 40 CFR part 61). Sources affected by V FF include chemical manufacturing plants, by-product recovery plants, petroleum refineries, and facilities at which waste management units are used to treat, store, or dispose of waste generated by chemical manufacturing plants, by-product recovery plants, or petroleum refineries. B. Clean Water Act Today's rule does not affect petroleum facilities' obligations under the Clean Water Act, and is consistent with the Agency's prior descriptions of primary wastewater treatment activities at petroleum refineries as involving wastewater treatment, not recycling of in-process material. C. RCRA 1. RCRA Air Emission Standards EPA has issued regulations that implement portions of RCRA Section 3004(n), which provision requires EPA to issue rules regulating air emissions resulting from facilities that treat, store, or dispose of hazardous wastes. 40 CFR parts 264 and 265 Subparts AA and BB. These rules control organic emissions from vents and equipment leaks from units managing hazardous wastes, which units either are already subject to RCRA Subtitle C permitting requirements, or are recycling units located at facilities which has other units already subject to Subtitle C permitting requirements. Today's rule does not affect any units that are subject to regulation under subparts AA or BB. This is because the units that are affected by today's rule are not presently subject to Subtitle C regulation, either because they are wastewater treatment tanks exempt from regulation under §§264.1(g)(6) and 265.1(c)(10), because they are recycling units not covered by the Subpart AA or BB regulations (i.e., are not ``distillation, fractionation, thin-film evaporation, solvent extraction, or air or steam stripping operation'', see §§264.1030(b), 264.1050(b), 265.1030(b), and 265.1050(b)) and otherwise exempt from regulation under §261.6(c)(1), or because they manage materials exempt from regulation under §261.6(a)(3) (iv), (v) and (vi).
