FR940720-0-00099 FR940720-0-00007 40 CFR Part 85 [AMS&hyph;FRL&hyph;5011&hyph;9] Air Pollution Control; Preemption of State Regulation for Nonroad Engine and Vehicle Standards AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: EPA is promulgating a final rule that sets forth requirements and procedures for EPA authorization of California enforcement of standards and other requirements relating to the control of emissions from new nonroad vehicles or engines under section 209(e) of the Clean Air Act (Act), as amended. The rule includes definitions of the categories of new nonroad engines and vehicles that the Act specifies as preempted from state regulation. These definitions of ``farm equipment'', ``construction equipment'', and ``locomotive'' clarify which nonroad engines and vehicles may be subject to state regulation because such regulation is not preempted. The definition of ``new'' in this rulemaking applies to all new nonroad engines and vehicles with the exception of locomotives and engines used in locomotives. This rule also provides procedures by which EPA may authorize California to enforce standards and provides guidance for states that adopt California standards. Finally, the rule discusses the criteria to be used by EPA in its analysis of California authorization requests. The rule will provide guidance to California, other states, and vehicle and engine manufacturers regarding new nonroad engine and vehicle preemption. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation becomes effective August 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of material relevant to this rulemaking have been placed in Docket A&hyph;91&hyph;18 and are available for public inspection between the working hours of 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, at: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, Room M1500, First Floor Waterside Mall, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460 (Telephone (202) 260&hyph;7548). A reasonable fee will be charged by EPA for copying docket material. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Dickinson, Attorney Advisor, Manufacturers Operations Division (6405&hyph;J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460, Telephone: (202) 233&hyph;9256. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Table of Contents I. Statutory Authority and Background II. Discussion of Final Rule and Comments Received A. Changes to Proposed Rule for Final Rule B. Nonroad Engines and Vehicles C. Definitions of ``new'' as used in ``new nonroad engine'' and ``new nonroad vehicle'' D. Definition of ``farm equipment'' E. Definition of ``construction equipment'' F. Definition of ``locomotive'' G. Application of Definitions; Primary Use Test H. Labeling Requirement I. Authorization Criteria and Procedures J. State Adoption of California Standards and Test Procedures K. Rulemaking Procedure L. Executive Order 12291 M. Paperwork Reduction Act N. Regulatory Flexibility Act I. Statutory Authority and Background EPA is required under section 209(e) of the Clean Air Act (Act), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7543, to ``issue regulations to implement'' subsection (e). Section 209(e) of the Act addresses the state adoption of emission standards for new nonroad vehicles and engines. Under section 209(e), all states are preempted from adopting emissions standards for ``[n]ew engines which are used in construction equipment or vehicles or used in farm equipment or vehicles and which are smaller than 175 horsepower'' or for ``[n]ew locomotives or new engines used in locomotives''. In this final rule, EPA defines these preempted categories, except that EPA does not define the term ``new'' with respect to locomotives and engines used in locomotives. For new nonroad engines and vehicles not included in the preempted categories, EPA is directed to authorize California, after notice and opportunity for public hearing, to enforce such standards and other requirements as California adopts for the regulation of such engines and vehicles, if these regulations meet the criteria set forth in the Act. Several of the criteria to be used for nonroad engine and vehicle authorizations are similar to the requirements applicable to waivers of Federal preemption of emission standards for new motor vehicles under section 209(b). Section 209(a) prohibits state adoption of emission standards for new motor vehicles and engines. Section 209(b) directs EPA to waive this prohibition for California if certain criteria are met. Other states may adopt California nonroad vehicle or engine emission standards under section 209(e) if they comply with several requirements. This rule was proposed at 56 FR 45866, Sept. 6, 1991. A public hearing was held on September 20, 1991. Many industries presented comments through an association or individually. Represented in the comments presented at the hearing and submitted in writing are the following: engine manufacturers; manufacturers and dealers of various types of equipment including agricultural, construction, mining, utility, and lawn and garden; manufacturers of emission controls; railroads; manufacturers of industrial trucks; the San Diego County Air Pollution Control District; and the State of California. II. Discussion of Final Rule and Comments Received
