FR940930-0-00199 FR940930-0-00028 (4) Clean-fuel vehicle aftermarket conversion certifiers that are subject to the post-installation emissions testing requirements in paragraph (c) of this section and who will satisfy these requirements by using the two speed idle test procedure detailed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section must conduct the following testing at the time of certification in order to generate the required certification CO emissions reference values. The certification CO emissions reference values generated must be submitted to the Administrator at the time of application for certification. (i) For dual and flexible fuel vehicles, certification reference values must be generated for each certification test fuel required for exhaust emissions testing pursuant to 40 CFR 86.113 or 40 CFR 86.1313. (ii) For light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks the test fuels used during the emissions testing required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section must comply with the fuel specifications for exhaust emissions testing found in 40 CFR 86.113. For heavy-duty engines the test fuels used during the emissions testing required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section must comply with the fuel specifications for exhaust emissions testing found in 40 CFR 86.1313. (iii) Single, consecutive idle mode and high-speed mode segments of the two speed idle test must be conducted pursuant to the requirements of 40 CFR 85.2215 and as modified by the provisions of paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(D) of this section and this paragraph to determine the required certification CO emission reference values. (A) The certification CO emission reference value for the idle mode of the test will be the simple average of all emissions measurements taken during an idle mode of 90 seconds duration pursuant to the requirements in 40 CFR 85.2215(a). (B) The certification CO emission reference value for the high-speed mode of the test will be the simple average of all emissions measurements taken during a high-speed mode of 180 seconds duration pursuant to the requirements in 40 CFR 85.2215(a). (c) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, each converted vehicle manufactured by a clean-fuel vehicle aftermarket conversion certifier with aggregate sales of less than 10,000 converted vehicles within a given calendar year must satisfy the post-installation emissions testing requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. If a vehicle fails to satisfy the emissions testing requirements such vehicle may not be considered a clean- fuel vehicle until such noncompliance is rectified and compliance is demonstrated. (1) A clean-fuel vehicle aftermarket conversion certifier with estimated sales of 300 or fewer engines and vehicles in a calendar year and which sells or converts vehicles outside of a non-attainment area (as classified under subpart D of Title I) which has an inspection and maintenance program that includes a test of carbon monoxide emissions may submit a request to the Administrator for an exemption from the post-installation emission test requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. If granted, such an exemption would apply to converted vehicles that have the conversion installation performed outside of a nonattainment area which has an inspection and maintenance program that includes a test of carbon monoxide emissions. (i) The request for exemption submitted to the Administrator must include the following: (A) The estimated number of engines and vehicles that will be converted in the calendar year. (B) Sufficient information to demonstrate that complying with the post-installation emission test requirement represents a severe financial hardship. (C) A description of any emission related quality control procedures used.
