FR940419-1-00031 FR940419-1-00006 (2) The design, application, and use of the tag required by this section shall be in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.145(f)(4). (3) In addition to the information set forth in 1910.145(f), the tag shall identify the equipment, state that a citation has been issued, and identify where the citation is posted. (4) The employer shall ensure that the tag remains affixed to the cited equipment in a conspicuous location at or near the controls of such equipment and/or the hazardous portion of the equipment, until the cited equipment is brought into compliance with OSHA requirements or the equipment is permanently removed from service. The temporary removal from service of cited equipment is not compliance with OSHA requirements for the purpose of this section. The protection and posting requirements of paragraph (i)(4) of this section are also applicable to this paragraph. (g) Document Transmittal . When this section requires submission of a document to the Area Director, it may be submitted by first-class mail, postage prepaid, facsimile transmission, or hand delivery. When the document is mailed, the date of submission is the date of the postmark. When the document is submitted by facsimile transmission or hand delivery, the date of submission is the date when the document is received by the Area Director. Note: Receipt of an employer's documents by the Agency under this regulation does not constitute an agreement that the employer is in compliance. (h) Accuracy of documentation . The employer shall assure that each statement in a document or accompanying documentation required by this section is accurate. (i) Posting requirements . A copy of each document required to be submitted to the Area Director shall be posted, at the time of submission, at or near each place the violation(s) described in the citation occurred. (1) Where, because of an employer's operations, it is not practicable to post a document at or near the location of the violation(s), such document shall be posted, unedited, in a prominent place where it will be readily observable by all affected employees. (2) Where it is physically impracticable, because of a document's size or magnitude, to post abatement plans and progress reports, a notice to affected employees shall be posted indicating the location where the document(s) can be reviewed. (3) The abatement certificates, abatement plan(s) and progress reports shall be provided, upon request for examination and copying, to employees, to employee representatives, and to the Assistant Secretary. Note: If employers are engaged in activities which are geographically dispersed (see ยง1903.2(b)), the document may be posted at the location where employees report each day. If employees do not primarily work at, or report to, a single location (see ยง1903.2(b)), the document may be posted at the location where employees work. (4) The employer shall assure that any document required to be posted by this section is not altered, defaced, or covered by other material. (5) Any document required to be posted by this section shall remain posted until the violation has been abated, or for six calendar days, whichever is later. (j) Penalties . Any employer failing to comply with the provisions of this section shall be subject to citation and penalty in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 and 17 of the Act. (k) False statements . False statements knowingly made in any document required by this section are subject to criminal penalties set forth in section 17(g) of the Act. False statements knowingly and willfully made in any document required by this section are subject to the criminal penalties set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1001. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9109 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;26&hyph;P
