FR941107-2-00228 FR941107-2-00112 A. Patient Placement Place the patient in a private room. When a private room is not available, place the patient in a room with a patient(s) who has active infection with the same microorganism, but with no other infection (cohorting). When a private room is not available and cohorting is not achievable, consider the epidemiology of the microorganism and the patient population when determining patient placement; consultation with infection control professionals is advised before patient placement. Category IB B. Gloves and Handwashing In addition to wearing gloves as outlined under Standard Precautions, wear gloves (clean nonsterile gloves are adequate) when entering the room. During the course of providing care for a patient, change gloves after having contact with infective material that may contain high concentrations of microorganisms (fecal material and wound drainage). Remove gloves before leaving the patient's room and wash hands immediately with an antimicrobial agent. After glove removal and handwashing, ensure that hands do not touch potentially contaminated environmental surfaces or items in the patient's room to avoid transfer of microorganisms to other patients or environments. Category IB C. Gown In addition to wearing a gown as outlined under Standard Precautions, wear a gown (a clean nonsterile gown is adequate) when entering the room if you anticipate that your clothing will have substantial contact with the patient, environmental surfaces, or items in the patient's room, or if the patient is incontinent, or has diarrhea, an ileostomy, a colostomy, or wound drainage not contained by a dressing. Remove the gown before leaving the patient's environment. After gown removal, ensure that clothing does not contact potentially contaminated environmental surfaces to avoid transfer of microorganisms to other patients or environments. Category IB D. Patient Transport Limit the movement and transport of the patient from the room to essential purposes only. If the patient is transported out of the room, ensure that precautions are maintained to minimize the risk of transmission of microorganisms to other patients and contamination of environmental surfaces or equipment. Category IB E. Environmental Control Ensure that patient-care items, bedside equipment, and frequently touched surfaces receive daily cleaning. Category IB F. Patient-Care Equipment When possible, dedicate the use of noncritical patient-care equipment and items such as a stethoscope, sphygmomanometer, bedside commode, or electronic rectal thermometer to a single patient (or cohort of patients infected or colonized with the pathogen requiring precautions) to avoid sharing between patients. If use of common equipment or items is unavoidable, then adequately clean and disinfect them before use for another patient. Category IB G. Additional Precautions for Preventing the Spread of Vancomycin Resistance Consult the HICPAC report on preventing the spread of vancomycin resistance for additional prevention strategies.94 VI. Adherence to Precautions Periodically evaluate adherence to precautions, and use findings to direct improvements. Category IB
