FR941116-0-00059 FR941116-0-00011 e. The following specific background data would be submitted concurrently with any request for new or changed property account depreciation rates for oil pipelines: 57 57 All of the information listed here may not be appropriate and thus could be omitted from the filing. For example, if the pipeline carries only crude oil, information requested concerning petroleum products would not be needed. (1) Up-to-date engineering maps of the pipeline including the location of all gathering facilities, trunkline facilities, terminals, interconnections with other pipeline systems, and interconnections with refineries/plants. These maps must indicate the direction of flow. (2) A brief description of the pipeline's operations and an estimate of any major near-term additions or retirements including the estimated costs, location, reason, and probable year of transaction. (3) The present depreciation rates being used, by account. (4) For the most current year available and for the two prior years, a breakdown of the throughput (by type of product, if applicable) received from each source (e.g., name of well, pipeline company) at each receipt point and throughput delivered at each delivery point. (5) The daily average throughput (in barrels per day) and the actual average capacity (in barrels per day) for the most current year, by line section. (6) A list of shipments and their associated receipt points, delivery points, and volumes (in barrels) by type of product (where applicable) for the most current year. (7) For each primary carrier account, the latest month's book balances for gross plant and accumulated reserve for depreciation. (8) An estimate of the remaining life of the system (both gathering and trunk lines) including the basis for the estimate. (9) For crude oil, a list of the fields or areas from which crude oil is obtained. (10) If the proposed depreciation rate adjustment is based on the remaining physical life of the properties, the Service Life Data Form (FERC Form No. 73) through the most current year. This may only require an updating from the last year for which information was filed with the Commission. (11) Estimated salvage value of properties by primary carrier account. An oil pipeline company is required to provide this, and any other information it deems pertinent, in sufficient detail to fully explain and justify its proposed rates. Any modifications, additions, and deletions to these data elements should only be made to reflect the individual circumstances of the pipeline's properties and operations, and must be accompanied by a full explanation of why the modifications, additions, or deletions are being made. VII. Other Issues In addition to the issues discussed above, certain other issues were raised by the commenters. The TAPS Carriers seek clarification on whether they must file page 700 of Form No. 6 in their annual reports. For consistency, the Commission will require that page 700 be included in the Form No. 6 filing, but the information required need not be submitted by those entities excluded, for ratemaking purposes, from the Act of 1992. 58 Page 700, as indicated above, is a tool to assist in the analysis of rate changes and cost changes brought about by the rate methodologies of Order No. 561, which was issued to conform with the Act of 1992. Since certain entities, such as the TAPS Carriers, are excluded from its provisions, no useful purpose would be served by having the exempted entities submit the information required on page 700. 58 Section 1804(2)(B) of the Act of 1992 excludes from the provisions of the Act, for ratemaking purposes, TAPS and any pipeline delivering oil directly or indirectly to TAPS. Chevron objects to the use of a test year comprised of nine months of known and measurable changes after the last month of available actual experience utilized in a cost-of-service rate filing. It argues that the Commission's natural gas regulations, which have the same nine-month period ``factors into the nine-month adjustment period the fact that the gas pipeline's rate filing will be protested by its customers and suspended by the Commission for the statutory five-month period.'' It asserts that oil pipeline rates are typically suspended for only one day, and by allowing the full nine-month period, the pipeline may recover costs five months before the costs are incurred. 59 Chevron suggests that the Commission not allow changes that occur outside a three-month period, or which do not take place before the rate goes into effect, whichever is later. 60 The Commission will not adopt this proposed change. The nine months of known and measurable changes applied to the base period to arrive at the test period is a method long established and utilized in natural gas pipeline regulation. The nine-month period is appropriate in establishing rates which are prospective in nature and which will be in effect into the future. Only ``known and measurable'' changes are properly allowed to be included. By including these changes, the resulting test period correctly reflects the best projection of the actual circumstances which will be in effect under which the proposed rates of the pipeline are filed. Moreover, there is no basis for Chevron's suggestion that the nine-month period factors into account a five-month suspension period, especially as §154.63(e)(2)(i) provides for a test period up to nine months beyond the date of filing. 59 Chevron, p. 6. 60 Chevron, p. 7. VIII. Environmental Analysis Commission regulations require that an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement be prepared for Commission action that may have a significant adverse effect on the human environment. 61 The Commission categorically excludes certain actions from this requirement as not having a significant effect on the human environment. 62 No environmental consideration is necessary for the promulgation of a rule that does not substantially change the effect of the regulation being amended, or that involves the gathering, analysis, and dissemination of information, or the review of oil pipeline rate filings. 63 Because this final rule involves only these matters, no environmental consideration is necessary. 61 Regulations Implementing the National Environmental Policy Act, 52 FR 47897 (Dec. 17, 1987); FERC Stats. and Regs., Regulations Preambles 1986&hyph;1990, ¶30,783 (1987). 62 18 CFR 380.4. 63 18 CFR 380.4(a). IX. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Regulatory Flexibility Act 64 generally requires the Commission to describe the impact that a rule would have on small entities or to certify that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. An analysis is not required if a rule will not have such an impact. 65 64 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612. 65 5 U.S.C. 605(b).
