FR940304-2-00024 FR940304-2-00018 Procurement List; Addition AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Addition to the procurement list. SUMMARY: This action adds to the Procurement List a service to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On October 1, 1993, the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled published notices (58 FR 51319) of proposed addition to the Procurement List. Comments were received from the current contractor in response to a Committee request for sales data. The contractor claimed that addition of these services to the Procurement List would have a tremendous impact on its employees in the Burlington, Vermont area, on its Vermont operations, and on the company as a whole. It noted that unemployment is high in the Burlington area, making it unlikely that the displaced workers would find other employment, and that non-Government-contract wages are lower. The contractor indicated that the contracts at issue are a large enough part of its Vermont operations that without them it would have to close its Vermont office and attempt to service its contracts in the area from its Massachusetts headquarters. It claimed that performance on those contracts would likely be impaired, and that performance problems would limit its ability to obtain Government contracts, which constitute the great majority of its business. The contracts for the services proposed to be added to the Procurement List are only a very small portion of the contractor's total sales. Accordingly, loss of these contracts would not cause a severe adverse impact on the contractor's sales. People with severe disabilities generally have unemployment rates exceeding 65 percent, considerably higher than the unemployment rate for people without disabilities in the Burlington, Vermont area. Consequently, the Committee believes that any potential loss of employment for the contractor's workers is outweighed by the actual creation of jobs for people with severe disabilities, who would have a much harder time finding other employment than the contractor's workers. The Committee has taken into account the contractor's claims concerning the possible closing of its Vermont office and the effects this might have on its ability to perform its Government contracts and acquire others. However, the Committee, noting the speculative nature of these claims, does not believe they increase the impact of the small loss in sales which addition of these services to the Procurement List would have on the contractor sufficiently to constitute severe adverse impact on the contractor. After consideration of the material presented to it concerning capability of qualified nonprofit agencies to provide the service, fair market price, and impact of the addition on the current or most recent contractors, the Committee has determined that the service listed below is suitable for procurement by the Federal Government under 41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c and 41 CFR 51&hyph;2.4. I certify that the following action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The major factors considered for this certification were: 1. The action will not result in any additional reporting, recordkeeping or other compliance requirements for small entities other than the small organizations that will furnish the service to the Government. 2. The action does not appear to have a severe economic impact on current contractors for the service. 3. The action will result in authorizing small entities to furnish the service to the Government. 4. There are no known regulatory alternatives which would accomplish the objectives of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c) in connection with the service proposed for addition to the Procurement List. Accordingly, the following service is hereby added to the Procurement List: Janitorial/Custodial for the following locations: Federal Building, 11 Elmwood Avenue, Burlington, Vermont Federal Building, 11 Lincoln Street, Essex Junction, Vermont Social Security Administration Building, 58 Pearl Street, Burlington, Vermont This action does not affect current contracts awarded prior to the effective date of this addition or options exercised under those contracts. E.R. Alley, Jr., Deputy Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5002 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;33&hyph;P
