FR940630-0-00109 FR940630-0-00036 Low-income person. See the definition of ``section 3 resident'' in this section. Metropolitan area means a metropolitan statistical area (MSA), as established by the Office of Management and Budget. Neighborhood area means: (1) For HUD housing programs, a geographical location within the jurisdiction of a unit of general local government (but not the entire jurisdiction) designated in ordinances, or other local documents as a neighborhood, village, or similar geographical designation. (2) For HUD community development programs, see the definition, if provided, in the regulations for the applicable community development program, or the definition for this term in 24 CFR 570.204(c)(1). New hires mean full-time employees for permanent, temporary or seasonal employment opportunities. Nonmetropolitan county means any county outside of a metropolitan area. Other HUD programs means HUD programs, other than HUD public and Indian housing programs, that provide housing and community development assistance for ``section 3 covered projects,'' as defined in this section. Public housing agency (PHA) has the meaning given this term in 24 CFR part 941. Public housing resident has the meaning given this term in 24 CFR part 963. Recipient means any entity which receives section 3 covered assistance, directly from HUD or from another recipient and includes, but is not limited to, any State, unit of local government, PHA, IHA, Indian tribe, or other public body, public or private nonprofit organization, private agency or institution, mortgagor, developer, limited dividend sponsor, builder, property manager, community housing development organization, resident management corporation, resident council, or cooperative association. Recipient also includes any successor, assignee or transferee of any such entity, but does not include any ultimate beneficiary under the HUD program to which section 3 applies and does not include contractors. Secretary means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Section 3 means section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701u). Section 3 business concern means a business concern, as defined in this section_ (1) That is 51 percent or more owned by section 3 residents; or (2) Whose permanent, full-time employees include persons, at least 30 percent of whom are currently section 3 residents, or within three years of the date of first employment with the business concern were section 3 residents; or (3) That provides evidence of a commitment to subcontract in excess of 25 percent of the dollar award of all subcontracts to be awarded to business concerns that meet the qualifications set forth in paragraphs (1) or (2) in this definition of ``section 3 business concern.'' Section 3 clause means the contract provisions set forth in ยง135.38. Section 3 covered activity means any activity which is funded by section 3 covered assistance public and Indian housing assistance. Section 3 covered assistance means: (1) Public and Indian housing development assistance provided pursuant to section 5 of the 1937 Act; (2) Public and Indian housing operating assistance provided pursuant to section 9 of the 1937 Act; (3) Public and Indian housing modernization assistance provided pursuant to section 14 of the 1937 Act; (4) Assistance provided under any HUD housing or community development program that is expended for work arising in connection with: (i) Housing rehabilitation (including reduction and abatement of lead-based paint hazards, but excluding routine maintenance, repair and replacement); (ii) Housing construction; or
