FR940404-2-00159 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Organizational Session of the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), New York, March 3&hyph;5, 1993 Representative The Honorable Edward Marks, Acting Representative on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, United States Mission, New York Alternate Representative Peter Kimm, Director, Office of Housing and Urban Programs, Bureau for Private Enterprise, Agency for International Development Advisers Lindsey Elmendorf, Housing and Urban Development Officer, Office of Housing and Urban Programs, Bureau for Private Entreprise, Agency for International Development David L. Schiele, United States Mission to the United Nations, New York Private Sector Adviser John T. Howley, Vice President for International Affairs, National Association of Realtors, Washington, DC United States Observer Delegation to the Intergovernmental Working Group of Experts on International Standards of Accounting and Reporting (ISAAR), United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), New York, March 4&hyph;12, 1993 Principal Observer Cathy J. Cole, Assistant Chief Accountant, Office of the Chief Accountant, Securities and Exchange Commission Alternate Principal Observer The Honorable Edward Marks, Acting Representative on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, United States Mission, New York Observers Hugh T. Dugan, United States Mission to the United Nations, New York Marilyn E. Harrington, United States Mission to the United Nations, New York John V. Hurley, United States Mission to the United Nations, New York Private Sector Adviser Michael A. Diamond, Dean of the School of Accounting, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California United States Delegation to the 24th Session of the Subcommittee on Standards of Training and Watchkeeping (STW), International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, March 8&hyph;12, 1993 Representative John F. McGowan, Captain, Chief, Merchant Vessel Personnel Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Christopher M. Young, Merchant Vessel Personnel Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Myles S. Boothe, Commander, Chief, Vessel Manning Branch, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Bruce J. Carlton, Director, Office of Maritime Labor and Training, Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation Michael P. DeCesare, Commander, Merchant Vessel Personnel Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation William Luther, International Advisor of the Field Operations Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Private Sector Advisers Mark Delesdernier, Jr., President, Crescent River Pilots Association, New Orleans, Louisiana Edward V. Kelly, Vice President, Marine Engineers Beneficial Association_District 2, Washington, DC Russel Levin, Director, Inland and Deep Sea Transport Program, Seafarers International Union, Camp Springs, Maryland
