FR940907-1-00025 FR940907-1-00012 (c) Physical progress and weighting factors. (1) Within sixty (60) days after contract award, the Contractor shall submit a progressing system description for review and approval by the Contracting Officer. Upon approval of such system, progress payments shall be in accordance with the approved system. Subsequent revisions to the approved system shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer for approval prior to implementation. (2) The mutually agreed upon weighting factors for the categories of labor and material for each vessel are set forth in Attachment___ to this contract. The weighting factors shall be revised quarterly. Notwithstanding the above, revision of weighting factors may be requested by either party when factual data indicate that the weighting factors then in use are no longer representative of the actual labor and material distribution. Revisions of weighting factors shall be supported by detailed de-escalated (estimated final) direct material, direct labor, and indirect costs and additional data concerning the cause of the change in the weighting factors. In the event that the parties fail to agree on the establishment of, or a revision to the weighting factors, the Contracting Officer may establish on a unilateral basis the weighting factors to be used in the administration of this provision. Any change in the weighting factors shall be set forth in a Standard Form 30, ``Amendment of Solicitation/Modification of Contract''. (d) Incurred costs. For the purpose of this requirement, ``incurred costs'' are those costs identified through the use of the accrual method of accounting, as supported by the records maintained by the Contractor and which are allowable in accordance with Part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Part 231 of the Department of Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS) in effect on the effective date of this contract and include only: (1) The costs of supplies and services purchased by the Contractor directly for this contract may be included only after payment by cash, check, or other form of actual payment. (2) Costs for the following may be included when incurred even if before payment, when the Contractor is not delinquent in payment of costs of contract performance in the ordinary course of business: (i) Materials issued from the Contractor's stores inventory and placed in the production process for use on this contract; (ii) Direct labor, direct travel, and other direct inhouse cost; (iii) Properly allocable and allowable indirect costs. (3) Accrued costs of Contractor contributions under employee pension or other post-retirement benefit, profit sharing, and stock ownership plans shall not be considered incurred until actually paid unless_ (i) The Contractor's practice is to contribute to the plans quarterly or more frequently; and (ii) The contribution does not remain unpaid 30 days after the end of the applicable quarter or shorter payment period. (Any contributions remaining unpaid shall be excluded from the Contractor's total cost for progress payment limitations until paid.) (4) Incurred costs shall not include: (i) Any costs that are required under any requirement of this contract (other than the ``COMPENSATION ADJUSTMENTS (LABOR AND MATERIAL)'' requirement) to be reimbursed or paid by the Government to the Contractor or by the Contractor to the Government other than through an equitable adjustment in the contract price; (ii) Costs incurred by subcontractors or suppliers; (iii) Costs ordinarily capitalized and subject to depreciation or amortization except for the properly depreciated or amortized portion of such costs; (iv) Payments made or amounts payable to subcontractors or suppliers, except for_(A) Completed work, including partial deliveries, to which the Contractor has acquired title; and (B) Work under cost-reimbursement or time-and-material subcontracts to which the Contractor has acquired title. (5) If an overpayment is made relative to this paragraph (d), interest shall be charged at the prevailing per annum rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to Public Law 92&hyph;41, from the date such overpayment is made (date of Government check) until the date the overpayment if fully recovered. (e) Progress payments to subcontractors. Progress payments made by the Contractor to its subcontractors shall be the unliquidated progress payments that are mentioned in (a)(1) and (a)(2) above shall be all progress payments to subcontractors or divisions, if the following conditions are met: (1) The amounts included are limited to the unliquidated remainder of progress payments made. (2) The subcontract or interdivisional order is expected to involve a minimum of approximately six months between the beginning of work and the first delivery, or, if the subcontractor is a small business concern, four months. (3) The terms of the subcontract or interdivisional order concerning progress payments_
