FR940503-2-00118 FR940503-2-00082 [Docket No. 50&hyph;341] Detroit Edison Co. (Fermi 2); Exemption I Detroit Edison Company (the licensee) is the holder of Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;43 which authorizes operation of the Fermi 2 Nuclear Plant at steady-state reactor power levels not in excess of 3430 megawatts thermal. The Fermi 2 facility is a boiling water reactor located at the licensee's site in Monroe County, Michigan. The license provides, among other things, that it is subject to all rules, regulations, and Orders of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) now or hereafter in effect. II Paragraph III.C of appendix J to 10 CFR part 50 requires, in part, that valves, unless pressurized with fluid (e.g., water, nitrogen) from a seal system, shall be tested by pressurizing with air or nitrogen at a test pressure of Pa (56.5 psig), the calculated peak containment internal pressure as a result of the design basis accident. Further, the combined leakage rate of all penetrations and valves subject to Type B and C testing shall be less than 0.60 La (La is the maximum allowable leakage rate at Pa). Leakage from containment isolation valves that are sealed with fluid from a seal system may be excluded, provided the leakage rates for these valves do not exceed the Technical Specification leakage requirements and the seal system fluid inventory is sufficient to ensure the sealing function for 30 days following an accident at a pressure of 1.10 Pa. Pursuant to 10 CFR 50.12(a), the NRC may grant exemptions from the requirements of the regulations (1) which are authorized by law, will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety, and are consistent with the common defense and security; and (2) where special circumstances are present. III By letter dated May 24, 1993, the licensee requested an exemption from the requirements of 10 CFR part 50, appendix J, III.C for performing Type C integrated leak rate tests of the containment isolation valves in the Low pressure coolant injection (LPCI) lines of the residual heat removal (RHR) system. The valves in question are the loop A and B LPCI isolation valves, which are motor-operated gate valves, outboard of containment and which are operable from the control room and are designated as E11&hyph;F015 A and B. The licensee proposed, as alternative testing, an external leakage test, with water as the test medium, at a pressure of 1045 psig with an allowable leakage value of 5 milliliters per minute (ml/min). The license also provided justification in its May 24, 1993, letter to reclassify the inboard containment LPCI valve configuration (which consists of a reverse flow swing check valve with a 1-inch, locked closed, solenoid-operated bypass valve) as other than containment isolation valves and thus no longer subject to Type C testing. The staff evaluated the licensee's proposal for reclassification of the inboard containment valves and concluded that the licensee's proposal met the guidance in the Standard Review Plan (SRP), NUREG&hyph;0800, Section 6.2.4 for differing from the explicit requirements of General Design Criterion 55 in 10 CFR part 50, appendix A for containment isolation valves (CIVs). Subsection II.6.e allows only a single CIV outside containment, if the system is closed outside containment and certain other criteria are met. Details concerning the staff's review are contained in the staff's safety evaluation dated April 22, 1994. Two aspects of the RHR system form the basis for the proposed exemption. It is a closed system outside of containment, and the containment penetrations will be water sealed during a loss of coolant accident (LOCA). The licensee's analyses showed that a water seal. pressurized to greater than 1.1 Pa (62.15 psig), would exist outboard of the LPCI CIV for at least 30 days following the design basis LOCA despite the most limiting single active failure. However, if one or both of the LPCI CIVs is shut, that water seal might not prevent external valve leakage (valve stem or bonnet leakage). The licensee also showed that a water seal, would exist inboard of the LPCI CIVs following a design basis LOCA. The licensee's analyses demonstrated that the volume of the water seal is sufficient to last for greater than 30 days assuming the leakage limit proposed in their alternative testing acceptance criteria. The licensee's analyses also showed that through seat leakage of the LPCI CIVs would be in toward containment and would not deplete the water seal. Although the external leakage water seal would prevent atmosphere from leading out of containment, it does not satisfy the requirements for a water seal contained in Appendix J. Appendix J allows water sealed valves to be excepted from the normal Type C testing with air, but it requires that the water seal be pressurized to at least 1.1 Pa during an accident. The water leg inboard of the LPCI CIVs does not meet this requirement. Nevertheless, the staff has determined that the licensee's analyses of the water seals provide sufficient assurance that containment atmosphere leakage out of containment will be prevented during an accident to justify granting the requested exemption from Type C testing of the LPCI CIVs with air as the test medium. The licensee's alternative test will measure external valve leakage with a limit of 5 ml/min using water as the test medium at a pressure of 1045 psig. IV Accordingly, the Commission concluded that the licensee's proposed alternative testing plan and analyses provide sufficient assurance that the containment atmosphere would not leak out of containment through the LPCI CIVs during a design basis accident and that containment integrity will be maintained by granting the proposed exemption. The special circumstances for granting this exemption pursuant to 10 CFR 50.12 have also been identified. As stated in part in 10 CFR 50.12(a)(2)(ii), special circumstances are present when application of the regulation in the particular circumstances is not necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of the rule. The purpose of Section III.C of Appendix J is to measure containment isolation valve leakage rates. This leakage, when summed with the allowable Type A and Type B leakage is limited to a value which ensures overall containment integrity in preventing the uncontrolled release of radioactivity to the environment. The licensee has demonstrated through analyses and by proposing alternative testing criteria, that containment integrity will be maintained. Consequently, the Commission concludes that the special circumstances of 10 CFR 50.12 (a)(2)(ii) exist in that application of the regulation in these particular circumstances is not necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of the rule. V Accordingly, the Commission has determined that, pursuant to CFR 50.12 this exemption as described in Section III above is authorized by law, will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety, and is consistent with the common defense and security. The Commission further determines that special circumstances as provided in 10 CFR 50.12(a)(2)(ii) are present justifying the exemption. Therefore, the Commission hereby grants an exemption as described in Section III above the requirements in 10 CFR 50.12, Appendix J, III.C. for performing Type C containment integrated leak rate tests of the CIVs in the LPCI lines of the RHR system and approves the licensee's alternative testing plan. Pursuant to CFR 51.32, the Commission has determined that the granting of this exemption will have no significant impact on the environment (59 FR 19028). This exemption is effective upon issuance. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 22nd day of April 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Elinor G. Adensam, Acting Director; Division of Reactor Projects_III/IV; Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10530 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
