FR940912-2-00113 FR940912-2-00075 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management [WY&hyph;017&hyph;4331&hyph;08] Availability of the Brown/Howe Dinosaur Area Environmental Assessment AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of availability of the Brown/Howe Dinosaur Area Environmental Assessment (EA) for public review and comment. SUMMARY: The Environmental Assessment for the planning review of the Brown/Howe Dinosaur Area documents the analysis of four alternatives for managing the area, including the Bureau of Land Management's preferred alternative. The planning review area encompasses 5,457 acres of BLM-administered public land in the Cody Resource Area of the BLM's Worland District in Big Horn County, Wyoming. The planning review is being conducted to evaluate the management needs and issues associated with the discovery of an Allosaurus skeleton in the review area. The discovery was made approximately 1 year after the approval of the Cody Resource Management Plan (RMP) and a review of the RMP is needed to evaluate the adequacy of existing management decisions for the management and protection of paleontological resources in the review area. Management actions being considered include designation of the review area as an Area of Critical Environmental Concern (ACEC) and closure of the area to the staking and development of mining claims and closure to entry under the land laws. Based on preliminary analysis, BLM has established a temporary closure to the staking of mining claims in the planning review area. As part of the planning review, BLM has collected information and conducted analyses described in this Environmental Assessment to determine whether a long-term closure is necessary for the protection of paleontological resources. Based on the results, the Cody RMP will be amended, if necessary. DATES: Comments must be received by November 14, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tom Hare, Team Leader, Cody Resource Area, P.O. Box 518, Cody, Wyoming 82414&hyph;0518, 307&hyph;587&hyph;2216; or Bob Ross, Worland District Planner, P.O. Box 119, Worland, Wyoming 82401&hyph;0119, 307&hyph;347&hyph;9871. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following the discovery of the Allosaurus skeleton, the BLM completed a temporary management plan for the lands in and around the fossil discovery area. Protective measures have been initiated and have been in effect pending completion of this planning review. This planning review includes opportunities for public participation. The steps followed for this planning review are: 1. An interdisciplinary planning team described and analyzed the existing management in the planning review area and described the affected environment. 2. A notice was published in the Federal Register informing the public of known and anticipated issues and of opportunities for public participation and comment. 3. Public contracts and meetings were held for scoping and development of the preliminary issues and alternatives. 4. With the help of the public, management alternatives for the area were formulated and analyzed and the BLM's preferred alternative was identified. 5. The alternatives, including the BLM's preferred alternative, and their environmental consequences are described in the EA and the EA is now being issued for public review and comment. 6. A 60-day period will be provided for reviewing and commenting on the EA and for submitting protests on any proposed decisions to be added to or changed in the Cody RMP. 7. The EA will then be revised, as necessary, and a decision record will be issued. If necessary, this decision record will identify and include any needed amendment to the Cody RMP. Based on the public's input and analysis by the BLM interdisciplinary team, the following issues were identified: 1. Whether or not there is a need to protect important paleontological resources from being damaged by potential surface-disturbing activities in the planning review area, including closure to and withdrawal from possible mining claim and mining-related activities and from possible entry under the land laws (for example, Desert Land Entry). 2. Whether or not the area should be designated an ACEC with management emphasis primarily for research, public education, and recreation, associated with the significant paleontological resources in the area. The four alternatives analyzed in the EA are: 1. No Action (continuation of existing management). 2. Designating an Area of Critical Environmental Concern (ACEC) of about 5,457 acres with management emphasis on protection of fossils for scientific research and public education. 3. Designating an ACEC of about 5,457 acres with management emphasis on protection of fossils for scientific research and public education, and with mineral location and land law withdrawals of the known fossil concentration area (120.9 acres). 4. Designating an ACEC of about 5,457 acres with management emphasis on protection of fossils for scientific research and public education, and with mineral location and land law withdrawals of the fossil concentration areas and adjacent lands (approximately 4,182 acres). The BLM's preferred alternative is Alternative 3. Designating the planning review area an ACEC with a 120.9-acre mineral withdrawal under the 1872 Mining Law and withdrawal from operation of land laws represents what the BLM believes is the best balance between the public land and resource uses and environmental protection in the planning review area. The various impacts that would be expected from implementing each of the Alternatives is also presented in the EA. At the end of the comment/protest period, any of the decisions mentioned above or similar decisions based on public comment would amend the Cody RMP at the time a Decision Record is issued. Based on the analysis of potential environmental impacts contained in the EA, it has been determined that impacts are not expected to be significant and an Environmental Impact Statement is not needed. Dated: September 1, 1994. Robert A. Bennett, Acting State Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22388 Filed 9&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;22&hyph;M
