FR940817-1-00054 FR940817-1-00013 (ii) A course or courses of instruction, appropriate to the duties of an aviation maintenance technician and acceptable to the Administrator, consisting of a total of not less than 16 hours of instruction; (b) A certificated aviation maintenance technician who has not met the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may exercise the privileges of the certificate and rating including for compensation or hire if, within the preceding 24 months the aviation maintenance technician has: (1) Successfully completed a requalification course acceptable to the Administrator; or (2) The Administrator has found that the aviation maintenance technician is competent to exercise the privileges of the certificate and rating. (c) A certificated aviation maintenance technician who has not completed the training specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section but has otherwise met the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section may exercise the privileges of the certificate and rating but not for compensation or hire. (d) Paragraph (a)(2) of this section does not apply to an aviation maintenance technician who within the preceding 24 months exercised the privileges of the certificate and ratings_ (1) for a certificate holder authorized to operate under the provisions of parts 121, 127, or 135 of this chapter; or (2) for a U.S.-certificated repair station that performs work in accordance with §145.2(a), or for a U.S.-certificated repair station that conducts a maintenance and preventive maintenance training program; or (3) as an aviation maintenance instructor for an aviation maintenance training program acceptable to the Administrator. §66.85 Airframe rating; additional privileges. A certificated aviation maintenance technician with an airframe rating may approve and return to service an airframe, or any related part or appliance, after the aviation maintenance technician has performed, supervised, or inspected its maintenance or alteration (excluding major repairs and major alterations). In addition, the aviation maintenance technician may perform the 100-hour inspection required by part 91 of this chapter on an airframe, or any related part or appliance, and approve and return it to service. §66.87 Powerplant rating; additional privileges. A certificated aviation maintenance technician with a powerplant rating may approve and return to service a powerplant or propeller or any related part or appliance, after the aviation maintenance technician has performed, supervised, or inspected its maintenance or alteration (excluding major repairs and major alterations). In addition, the aviation maintenance technician may perform the 100-hour inspection required by part 91 of this chapter on a powerplant or propeller, or any part thereof, and approve and return it to service. §66.89 Display of certificate. Each person who holds an aviation maintenance technician certificate shall keep it within the immediate area where the aviation maintenance technician normally exercises the privileges of the certificate and shall present it for inspection upon the request of the Administrator or an authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board, or of any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer. §66.91 Inspection authorization. (a) An application for an inspection authorization is made on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Administrator. (b) An applicant who meets the requirements of this section is entitled to an inspection authorization. (c) To be eligible for an inspection authorization, an applicant must: (1) Hold a currently effective aviation maintenance technician certificate with both an airframe rating and a powerplant rating, each of which is currently effective and has been in effect for a total of at least 3 years; (2) Have been actively engaged, for at least the 2-year period before the date of application, in maintaining aircraft certificated and maintained in accordance with this chapter; (3) Have a fixed base of operations at which the applicant may be located in person or by telephone during a normal working week but it need not be the place where the applicant will exercise inspection authority; (4) Have available the equipment, facilities, and inspection data necessary to properly inspect airframes, powerplants, propellers, or any related part or appliance; and (5) Pass a written test demonstrating the ability to inspect according to safety standards for returning aircraft to service after major repairs, major alterations, annual inspections, and progressive inspections performed under part 43 of this chapter. (d) An applicant who fails the test prescribed in paragraph (c)(5) of this section may not apply for retesting until at least 90 days after the date of the test. §66.92 Inspection authorization: Duration. (a) Each inspection authorization expires on March 31 of the second year after its issuance. However, the holder may exercise the privileges of that authorization only while holding a currently effective aviation maintenance technician certificate with both a currently effective airframe rating and a currently effective powerplant rating. (b) An inspection authorization ceases to be effective whenever any of the following occurs: (1) The authorization is surrendered, suspended, or revoked,. (2) The holder no longer has a fixed based of operation. (3) The holder no longer has the equipment, facilities, and inspection data required by §66.91(c) (3) and (4) for issuance of the authorization. (c) The holder of an inspection authorization that is suspended or revoked shall, upon the Administrator's request, return it to the Administrator. §66.93 Inspection authorization: Renewal. (a) To be eligible for renewal of an inspection authorization for a 2-year period, an applicant must present biennially, during the month of March, at an FAA Flight Standards District Office or an International Field Office, evidence that the applicant still meets the requirements of §66.91(c)(1) through (4) and must show that, during the current period that the applicant held the inspection authorization, the applicant_ (1) Has performed at least one annual inspection for each 3 months that the applicant held the current authority; or (2) Has performed inspections of at least two major repairs or major alterations for each 3 months that the applicant held the current authority; or (3) Has performed or supervised and approved at least one progressive inspection in accordance with standards prescribed by the Administrator for each 12 months that the applicant held the current authority; or
