FR941007-1-00161 FR941007-1-00009 §563e.27 Strategic plan assessment. (a) Alternative election. A savings association may request to be rated under a strategic plan rather than under the lending, service, and investment tests (§§563e.22 through 563e.24 of this part), the community development test (§563e.25 of this part), or the small savings association assessment standards (§563e.26 of this part), by submitting to the OTS a strategic plan as provided for in this section. A savings association's request to be rated under a strategic plan is not approved until the OTS approves the plan. The OTS's approval of a strategic plan does not affect the savings association's obligation, if any, to report data as required by §Part 563e.42 of this part. (b) Strategic plans in general. (1) A plan may have a term of no more than five years, and any multi-year plan shall include annual interim measurable goals according to which the OTS shall evaluate the savings association's performance. (2) A savings association with more than one service area may prepare a single plan for all of its service areas or a plan for one or more but not all of its service areas. (3) Affiliated institutions may prepare joint plans if the plans provide measurable goals for each institution. (c) Public participation in strategic plan development. Before submitting a plan to the OTS for approval, the savings association shall: (1) Informally seek suggestions from the public in its service area(s) while developing the plan; (2) Once the savings association has developed a plan, formally solicit public comment on the plan for at least 30 days by publishing notice in a newspaper of general circulation in each of its service areas; and (3) During the period of formal public comment, make copies of the plan available for review at all offices of the savings association in any service area covered by the plan. (d) Submission of plan. The savings association shall submit its plan to the OTS at least three months prior to the proposed effective date of the plan. The savings association shall also submit with its plan any public comments received, and, if the plan was revised in light of the comments received, the initial plan as released for public comment. (e) Plan content_ (1) Measurable goals. (i) A savings association shall specify in its plan measurable goals for helping to meet the credit needs of each of its service area(s) covered by the plan, particularly the needs of low- and moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals, through lending, investment, and the provision of services, as appropriate. (ii) A savings association shall address all three performance categories and, unless the savings association has been designated as a wholesale or limited purpose savings association, shall emphasize lending and lending-related activities. Nevertheless, a different emphasis, including a focus on one or more performance categories, may be appropriate if responsive to the characteristics and credit needs of its service area, considering public comment and the savings association's capacity and constraints, product offerings, and business strategy. (2) Confidential information. The savings association may submit additional information to the OTS on a confidential basis, but the goals stated in the plan shall be sufficiently specific to enable the public and the OTS to judge fairly the merits of the plan. (3) Satisfactory and outstanding goals. A savings association shall specify in its plan measurable goals that constitute ``satisfactory'' performance. A plan may specify measurable goals that constitute ``outstanding'' performance. In order to be considered for an ``outstanding'' performance rating, the savings association shall submit both ``satisfactory'' and ``outstanding'' performance goals. (f) Plan approval_ (1) Timing. The OTS shall act upon a plan within 60 days after the complete plan and required accompanying material are submitted. If the OTS fails to act within this time period, the plan shall be deemed approved unless the OTS extends the review period for good cause. (2) Public participation. In evaluating the plan's goals, the OTS shall consider the public's involvement in formulating the plan, public comment on the plan, and any response by the savings association to public comment on the plan. (3) Criteria for evaluating plan. The OTS shall evaluate a plan's measurable goals using the following criteria, as appropriate: (i) The extent and breadth of lending or lending-related activities, including, as appropriate, the distribution of loans among different geographies, businesses and farms of different sizes, and individuals of different income levels, the extent of community development lending, and the use of innovative or flexible lending practices to address credit needs;
