FR940303-2-00205 FR940303-2-00098 _Cultural enrichment expenses (admissions, tickets, etc.) _In-country administration costs (e.g. publicity, recruitment and selection costs). Administrative Costs_Not To Exceed 20% of the Requested Budget _Administration (salaries, benefits); _Communications (e.g. fax, telephone, postage); _Office supplies; _Other direct costs; _Indirect costs. Organizations should demonstrate substantial cost-sharing (dollar and in-kind support) in both program and administrative expenses, including overseas partner contributions. USIA reserves the right to reduce, revise or increase budget proposals in accordance with the needs of the program. No grants funded under this program will include profit or fee. Please note: It is required that requested administrative funds, including indirect costs and administrative expenses for recruitment and orientation, not exceed 20 percent of the total amount requested from USIA. Cost-sharing is encouraged. Cost-sharing may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The Recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as cost to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A110, Attachment E. Cost-sharing and matching should be described in the proposal. In the event the recipient does not provide the minimum amount of cost-sharing as stipulated in the recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the recipient's contribution. The recipient's proposal shall include the cost of the audit that: (1) Complies with the requirements of OMB Circular No A&hyph;133, Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and other Nonprofit Institutions. (2) Complies with the requirements of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 92&hyph;9; and (3) Includes review by the recipient's independent auditor of the recipient-prepared supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation, if such a rate is being proposed. The audit costs shall be identified separately for: (1) Preparation of basic financial statements and other accounting services; and (2) Preparation of the supplemental reports and schedules required by OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, AICPA SOP 92&hyph;9, and the review of the supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not adhere to the guidelines established herein. Eligible submissions will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible submissions will also be reviewed by the appropriate geographic area office, and the budget and contracts offices. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Agency's Office of General Counsel. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting office. Review Criteria Technical by eligible proposals for this competition will be reviewed according to the following criteria: 1. Quality/responsiveness_Quality of administrative plan and adherence of the proposed activity to the criteria and conditions described in the application material available from USIA. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the organization will meet the programs objectives and plan. 2. Institutional capacity_Proposed personnel and institutional resources to be applied to the project should be adequate and appropriate to achieve all goals and objectives.
