FR941021-0-00007 FR941021-0-00001 (4) Outside plant housings shall be manufactured in accordance with National Electrical Code (NEC) requirements, Underwriters' Laboratories (UL) requirements, Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration Standards (OSHA), and all other applicable Federal, State, and local requirements including, but not limited to, statutes, rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances otherwise imposed by law. (c) General documentation requirements _(1) Installation and maintenance instructions. (i) Each product shall have available a set of instructions designed to provide sufficient information for the successful installation of the housing, cables, auxiliary equipment, and the associated splice preparation. The instructions shall be of sufficient size to be easily read and shall be printed using waterproof ink. Pedestal instruction sheets shall include a list of miscellaneous replacement parts that may be purchased locally. SAI systems shall be supplied with complete instructions for installation and use. (ii) When requested by REA, or an REA borrower, the manufacturer shall prepare a training package for the purpose of training technicians in the use and installation of the product and its auxiliary equipment. (iii) The manufacturer shall provide ordering information for repair parts. Repair parts shall be obtainable through a local distributor or shall be easily obtainable. Information describing equivalent parts and their sources should be provided for those parts that may also be obtained from other sources. (2) Quality assurance. The manufacturer shall demonstrate the existence of an ongoing quality assurance program that includes controls, procedures, and standards used for vendor certification, source inspection, incoming inspection, manufacture, in process testing, calibration and maintenance of tools and test equipment, final product inspection and testing, periodic qualification testing and control of nonconforming materials and products. The manufacturer shall maintain quality assurance records for five years. (3) REA acceptance applications. (i) The tests described in this specification are required for acceptance of product designs and major modifications of accepted designs. All modifications shall be considered major unless otherwise declared by REA. The tests are intended to show the inherent capability of the manufacturer to produce products which have an expected service life of 30 years. (ii) For initial acceptance the manufacturer shall: (A) Submit an original signature certification that the product complies with each section of the specification; (B) Provide qualification test data; (C) Provide OSHA Material Safety Data Sheets for the product; (D) Provide a detailed explanation concerning the intended use and capacity of the product; (E) Provide a complete set of instructions, recommendations for equipment organization and splicing;
