FR940720-0-00125 FR940720-0-00010 Most land bordering the river where the species currently exists is owned by the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, which is a quasi-public agency of the State of New Mexico. Other landowners include six Native American Pueblos, the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, the Service, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, New Mexico State Parks, New Mexico Department of Game and Fish, New Mexico State Lands Department, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). Water flow in the middle Rio Grande is controlled by the Rio Grande Compact Commission. Established in 1929 for the purpose of permanently and equitably apportioning the flows of the Rio Grande, the Commission is composed of a Federal chairperson appointed by the President of the United States and three voting members_a representative designated by the Texas Governor and the State Engineers of New Mexico and Colorado. The Commission meets annually to review compliance with the compact over the preceding year, to hear reports from Federal water management agencies, and to consider water management decisions that have interstate implications. Federal agencies that also determine timing and amount of flow in the river include the International Boundary and Water Commission, the Bureau of Reclamation, and the Corps. Previous Service Actions The Rio Grande silvery minnow was listed on the Service's Animal Notice of Review (56 FR 58804; November 21, 1991) as a category 1 species. A category 1 species is one for which the Service has on file substantial information on biological vulnerability and threat(s) to support a proposal to list it as an endangered or threatened species. A proposed rule to list the Rio Grande silvery minnow as endangered with critical habitat was published in the Federal Register on March 1, 1993 (58 FR 11821). Summary of Comments and Recommendations In the March 1, 1993, proposed rule and associated notifications, all interested parties were requested to submit factual reports or information that might contribute to the development of a final rule. The comment period originally scheduled to close on April 30, 1993, was extended until August 25, 1993, (58 FR 19220; April 13, 1993) to conduct public hearings and allow submission of additional comments. Appropriate Tribal governments, State agencies, county governments, Federal agencies, scientific organizations, and other interested parties were contacted and requested to comment. Newspaper notices inviting public comment were published in New Mexico in the Albuquerque Journal on May 2, 1993; Las Cruces Sun News on April 30, 1993; Socorro Defensor Chieftain on April 28, 1993; Santa Fe New Mexican on April 20, 1993; and in Texas in the El Paso Times on March 20, 1993. Because of anticipated widespread public interest, the Service held two public hearings that were announced in an April 13, 1993, Federal Register notice. Interested parties were contacted and notified of the hearings. Thirty-seven people attended the hearing in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and 58 attended the hearing in Socorro, New Mexico. Oral or written comments were received from 25 parties at the hearings; none directly supported the proposed listing. Transcripts of these hearings are available for inspection (see ADDRESSES ). Briefing sessions were also held for tribal leaders on May 18, 1993, in Albuquerque, New Mexico; and for a number of northern pueblos at Santo Domingo Pueblo, New Mexico, on September 9, 1993. A total of 40 written comments were received at the Service's Ecological Services State Office in Albuquerque, New Mexico: 13 supported the proposed listing; 14 opposed the proposed listing; and 13 commented on information in the proposed rule but expressed neither support nor opposition. Oral or written comments were received from 7 Federal and 5 state agencies, 14 local officials, and 36 private organizations, companies, and individuals. Written comments and oral statements presented at the public hearings and received during the comment periods are covered in the following summary. Comments of a similar nature or point are grouped into a number of general issues. These issues, and the Service's response to each, are discussed below. Issue 1: The Service has come to the conclusion that only instream flow will assure the species' existence. Will the Service propose a program for the purchase of water rights in order to provide water for the species? Response: The Service has not reached this conclusion. Possible instream flow requirements of the species are among several factors that need to be considered in the recovery planning process. If, during the recovery planning process, the Service determines that the purchase of water rights will enhance recovery of the species, the Service would explore with other State and Federal entities the possible purchase of water rights from willing sellers. Issue 2: The United States, under the terms of the Convention of 1906, has the obligation to deliver 60,000 acre-feet of water annually to the Republic of Mexico. The U.S. International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) is responsible for ensuring that the U.S. government meets those obligations. The IBWC is concerned that the listing may interfere with their ability to meet these treaty requirements. Response: The Service recognizes the treaty obligation of the United States to provide to the Republic of Mexico 60,000 acre-feet of water annually from the Rio Grande. Measures taken to protect and recover the Rio Grande silvery minnow will take into consideration this treaty obligation and IBWC's ability to meet treaty requirements. Issue 3: Completion of the dams above Elephant Butte Dam has had the effect of extending stream flow. Flood control and conservation storage operations do not, cannot, and have not been used to create or extend reaches of no flow in the riverbed. Response: The Service agrees with the statement. Availability of flow is likely not the only factor affecting decline of the silvery minnow. These operations change the natural flow regime of the river and thus may affect survival of the Rio Grande silvery minnow. The final rule recognizes these other factors in the ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species.''
