FR940725-0-00052 FR940725-0-00008 (ii) Counseling the preschool child or child with a disability and his or her family on a group or individual basis, pursuant to an IEP. (iii) Working with problems in a preschool child's or child's living situation (home, school, and community) that adversely affect his or her adjustment in school. (iv) Using school and community resources to enable the preschool child or child to receive maximum benefit from his or her educational program. (12) Speech pathology . This term includes the: (i) Identification of preschool children and children with speech or language disorders. (ii) Diagnosis and appraisal of specific speech or language disorders. (iii) Referral for medical or other professional attention to correct or ameliorate speech or language disorders. (iv) Provision of speech and language services for the correction, amelioration, and prevention of communicative disorders. (v) Counseling and guidance of preschool children, children, parents, and teachers regarding speech and language disorders. (13) Transportation . This term includes transporting the individual with a disability and, when necessary, an attendant or family member or reimbursing the cost of travel ((e.g., mileage, or travel by taxi, common carrier or other means) and related costs (e.g., tolls and parking expenses)) when such travel is necessary to enable a preschool child or child to receive special education (including related services) or an infant or toddler and the infant's or toddler's family to receive early intervention services. Transportation services include: (i) Travel to and from school and between schools, including travel necessary to permit participation in educational and recreational activities and related services. (ii) Travel from school to a medically related service site and return. (iii) Travel in and around school buildings. (iv) Travel to and from early intervention services. (v) Specialized equipment (including special or adapted buses, lifts, and ramps) if required to provide special transportation for an individual with a disability. (vi) If necessary, attendants assigned to vehicles transporting an individual with a disability when that individual requires assistance to be safely transported. (ss) Section 6 School Arrangement . The schools (pre-kindergarten through grade 12) operated by the Department of Defense within the CONUS, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Wake Island, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands. Section 6 School Arrangements are operated under DoD Directive 1342.21. 4 4 See footnote 1 to ยง80.1(c). (tt) Separate facility . A school or a portion of a school, regardless of whether it is used by the Section 6 School Arrangement, that is only attended by children with disabilities. (uu) Serious emotional disturbance . The term includes: (1) A condition that has been confirmed by clinical evaluation and diagnosis and that, over a long period of time and to a marked degree, adversely affects educational performance and that exhibits one or more of the following characteristics:
