FR941005-1-00021 FR941005-1-00004 Retaining the existing definition would avoid another regulatory change for insured depository institutions. The existing definition is generally well understood and operable, and has relatively few measurement problems. However, because quarter-end data are used to calculate the current assessment base, there is a high risk of assessment avoidance, and the problem of receiving abnormally large deposits or misdirected wire transfers at quarter end would not be addressed. Relative to assessable deposits, there has been recent growth of other liabilities and off-balance-sheet activities. If this is a long-term trend, it might not be desirable to link assessments to a base that may be shrinking in relation to overall banking activity unless the protection provided in connection with the federal deposit insurance program is reduced commensurately. Commenters are requested to provide an evaluation of this option for defining the assessment base, in terms of the following criteria discussed in section III of this Notice: 3. Fairness 4. Measurability 5. Relation to Risk 6. Non-Avoidability 7. Recordkeeping Burden 8. Any other criteria suggested by the commenter. Commenters are also requested to respond to the following specific questions regarding this option: 9. Should the float deductions be retained at their existing levels, or should they be modified? (The deduction for adjusted demand deposits is 162/3 percent and the deduction for adjusted time and savings deposits is 1 percent.) State the advantages and disadvantages of the recommended method for addressing the float deduction for the status quo option. 10. Identify other advantages or disadvantages of this option for defining the assessment base. B. Total Unadjusted Domestic Deposits Under this option, the assessment base would be defined in its existing form (status quo), except that current assessment base adjustments would be eliminated. The float deductions, which were established over 30 years ago, are the most significant adjustments to the assessment base provided for in the current regulations. Since that time, there have been dramatic changes in the payments system in the United States that may have caused the current float deductions to become obsolete. Therefore, many advocate the elimination of these float deductions. The other existing adjustments to the assessment base have a less dramatic effect on the total assessments paid by institutions. However, these adjustments complicate the measurability of the assessment base and increase the reporting and recordkeeping burden. Commenters are requested to provide an evaluation of this option for defining the assessment base, in terms of the following criteria discussed in section III of this Notice: 11. Fairness 12. Measurability 13. Relation to Risk 14. Non-Avoidability 15. Recordkeeping Burden 16. Any other criteria suggested by the commenter. Commenters are also requested to respond to the following specific questions regarding this option:
