FR940404-2-00182 FR940404-2-00092 United State Delegation to the First Meeting of Study Group 13, Telecommunication Standardization Bureau (TSB), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, Switzerland, July 5&hyph;16, 1993 Representative William F. Utlaut, Director, Institute for Telecommunication Sciences, National Telecommunications, and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Alternatwe Representative Gary M. Fereno, Director of CITEL and TSS Standards Policy, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Nicholas E. Andre, Electronics Engineer, National Communications Systems Randall S. Bloomfield, Electronics Engineer, Institute for Telecommunication Sciences, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Wendell R. Harris, Assistant Bureau Chief, Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Frank M. McClelland, Electronics Engineer, National Communications Systems Victor Mueller, Standards Coordinator, Defense Information Systems Agency Richard O. Savoye, Electronics Engineer, National Communications Systems Neil Seitz, Deputy Director, Institute for Telecommunications Sciences, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Donald Chislow, Standards Engineer, Telecom Standards, San Jose, California Robert Cubbage, Network Product Planner, ALCATEL Network Systems, Richardson, Texas William L. Edwards, Standards Engineer, Sprint International, Overland Park, Kansas Glen H. Estes, Director, BELLCORE, Morristown, New Jersey Gary Fishman, Engineer, AT&T, Bedminster, New Jersey Amitabha Sen, Member Technical Staff, Motorola, Inc., Washington, DC Anthony Toubassi, Advisory Engineer, MCI, Richardson, Texas Melvin Woinsky, Manager, Technology Planning, Northern Telecom, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey United States Delegation to the United Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, New York, July 12&hyph;30, 1993 Representatives David A. Colson, Ambassador, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Larry L. Snead, Director, Office of Fisheries Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Congressional Staff Adviser Gregory L. Lambert, Counsel, Subcommittee on Fisheries Management, Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, United States House of Representatives Advisers David A. Balton, Attorney-Adviser, Office of the Legal Adviser, Department of State Daniel J. Christovich, Lieutenant, USCG, Coast Guard Law Enforcement Liaison Officer for the Office of Fisheries Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State William E. Dilday, Foreign Affairs Officer, Office of Fisheries Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Margaret Frailey-Hayes, General Counsel for Fisheries, Office of the General Counsel, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce David Schiele, United States Mission to the United Nations, New York Michael Sissenwine, Senior Scientist, National Marine Fisheries Service, Department of Commerce Steve Springer, Special Agent-in-Charge, Office of Enforcement, National Marine Fisheries Service, Department of Commerce Richard Stone, Director, Highly Migratory Species Management Division, National Marine Fisheries Service, Department of Commerce Dean Swanson, Chief, International Agreements Division, Office of International Affairs, National Marine Fisheries Service, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers David A. Benton, Director, Office of External and International Fisheries Affairs, Alaska Department of Fish and Game, Juneau, Alaska David G. Burney, U.S. Tuna Foundation, San Diego, California Deming Cowles, United Fishermen of Alaska, Washington, DC Andrew C. Palmar, American Oceans Campaign, Washington, DC
