FR940825-0-00006 FR940825-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Parts 300 and 319 [Docket No. 93&hyph;101&hyph;2] Importation of Fruits and Vegetables AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are allowing a number of previously prohibited fruits and vegetables to be imported into the United States from certain parts of the world. All of the fruits and vegetables, as a condition of entry, will be subject to inspection, disinfection, or both, at the port of first arrival as may be required by a U.S. Department of Agriculture inspector. In addition, some of the fruits and vegetables will be required to undergo prescribed treatments for fruit flies or other injurious insects as a condition of entry, or to meet other special conditions. This action will provide the United States with additional kinds and sources of fruits and vegetables while continuing to provide protection against the introduction and dissemination of injurious plant pests by imported fruits and vegetables. We are also making several minor changes to the regulations for the sake of clarity. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 25, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Frank E. Cooper or Mr. Peter Grosser, Senior Operations Officers, Port Operations, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 635, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8295. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 7 CFR 319.56 through 319.56&hyph;8 (referred to below as the regulations) prohibit or restrict the importation of fruits and vegetables into the United States from certain parts of the world to prevent the introduction and dissemination of injurious insects that are new to or not widely distributed within and throughout the United States. On May 2, 1994, we published in the Federal Register (59 FR 22538&hyph;22545, Docket No. 93&hyph;101&hyph;1) a document in which we proposed to amend the regulations to allow additional fruits and vegetables to be imported into the United States from certain parts of the world under specified conditions. The importation of those fruits and vegetables had been prohibited because of the risk that the fruits and vegetables could introduce injurious insects into the United States. We proposed to allow those importations at the request of various importers and foreign ministries of agriculture and after determining that the fruits or vegetables could be imported under certain conditions with insignificant pest risk. Also in the proposed rule, we proposed to make some minor changes to the regulations for the sake of clarity. We solicited comments on the proposed rule for a 30-day period ending on June 1, 1994. We received 50 comments by that date. One comment, from a State agricultural agency, supported the proposal. The other 49 comments, from fruit growers and distributors, State agricultural agencies, fruit growers' cooperative associations, and trade associations, opposed the proposal or some of its provisions and/or made recommendations. We carefully considered all of the comments we received. They are discussed below. Comment: The treatments and other requirements proposed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) for the various fruits and vegetables to be imported would be inadequate in preventing the introduction of exotic pests into the United States. Response: Prior to proposing that various fruits and vegetables be allowed into the United States, APHIS researches the pests, including diseases, afflicting those fruits and vegetables in their countries of origin. After reviewing the results of the research on the fruits and vegetables in this proposal, we are confident that the treatments and other requirements proposed as conditions of entry into the United States will be adequate to prevent the introduction of exotic plant pests. Comment: APHIS is proposing to use methyl bromide as a fumigant in the treatment of imported fruits and vegetables even though the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), in a final rulemaking published in the Federal Register on December 10, 1993 (58 FR 65018&hyph;65082), has frozen methyl bromide production at 1991 levels and required the phasing out of domestic use of methyl bromide by the year 2001. Response: APHIS is aware of the EPA rulemaking on the use of methyl bromide. APHIS is studying the effectiveness and environmental acceptability of alternative treatments to prepare for the eventual unavailability of methyl bromide fumigation. Our current proposal, however, assumes the continued availability of methyl bromide for use as a fumigant for at least the next few years.
