FR940711-1-00052 FR940711-1-00013 NHTSA requests comments about the potential safety problems discussed in this notice. To what extent does adding a second convex mirror to a System A mirror increase the blind spot? How significant a safety problem is caused by the increase in the blind spot? How significant a safety problem is caused by the driver's inability to use the entire mirror system, particularly with mirrors with a radius of curvature less than 35 inches, while operating a moving bus? If a manufacturer added a second convex mirror to a System A mirror system, couldn't the driver use the preexisting high radius of curvature driving mirror? As to Blue Bird's request for the agency to ``immediately issue'' its requested change to the Standard, NHTSA has determined that it cannot legally accommodate Blue Bird's request. The Administrative Procedure Act generally requires an agency to issue a notice for public comment before issuing a final rule such as a rescission of a requirement. (5 U.S.C 553) There is one narrow exception to this requirement which provides that an agency may forego notice-and-comment procedures upon a finding that such procedures are ``impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest.'' ( 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B)) However, the courts have construed this exception very narrowly, emphasizing that: circumstances justifying reliance on this exception are ``indeed rare'' and will be accepted only after the court has ``examine[d]'' closely proffered rationales justifying the elimination of public procedures. Council of Southern Mountains, Inc. v. Donovan, 653 F.2d 573 (DC Cir. 1981) citing American Federation of Government Employees v. Block, 655 F.2d 1153 (DC Cir 1981). This case law and previous agency experience indicate that foregoing notice-and-comment is a disfavored approach to be used only in emergency situations involving great urgency. The agency has determined that the circumstances surrounding Blue Bird's petition do not rise to this level of urgency. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices A. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This notice was not reviewed under E.Q. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review.'' NHTSA has considered the impact of this rulemaking action under the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. The agency believes that a full regulatory evaluation is not required because the rule would have only minimal economic impacts. The proposal, if adopted, would not result in any cost savings or cost increases since to comply, the small radius of curvature mirrors would be replaced by larger radius of curvature mirrors. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act NHTSA has also considered the impacts of this notice under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. I hereby certify that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. School bus manufacturers are generally not small businesses within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Small governmental units and small organizations are generally affected by amendments to the Federal motor vehicle safety standards as purchasers of new school buses. However, any impact on small entities from this action would be minimal since it would make a minimal change that would not impose additional costs. Accordingly, the agency has determined that preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis is unnecessary. C. Paperwork Reduction Act In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;511), NHTSA notes that there are no requirements for information collection associated with this proposed rule. D. National Environmental Policy Act NHTSA has also analyzed this proposed rule under the National Environmental Policy Act and determined that it would not have a significant impact on the human environment. E. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) NHTSA has analyzed this proposal in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in E.O. 12612, and has determined that this proposed rule would not have significant federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. F. Civil Justice Reform This proposed rule would not have any retroactive effect. Under section 103(d) of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (Safety Act; 15 U.S.C. 1392(d)), whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard is in effect, a State may not adopt or maintain a safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance which is not identical to the Federal standard, except to the extent that the state requirement imposes a higher level of performance and applies only to vehicles procured for the State's use. Section 105 of the Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 1394) sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules establishing, amending or revoking Federal motor vehicle safety standards. That section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. Submission of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments on the proposal. It is requested, but not required, that 10 copies be submitted. All comments must not exceed 15 pages in length. (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in a concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, three copies of the complete submission, including purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address given above, and seven copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in the agency's confidential business information regulation. 49 CFR part 512. All comments received before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above for the proposal will be considered, and will be available for examination in the docket at the above address both before and after that date. To the extent possible, comments filed after the closing date will also be considered. Comments received too late for consideration in regard to the final rule will be considered as suggestions for further rulemaking action. Comments on the proposal will be available for inspection in the docket. The NHTSA will continue to file relevant information as it becomes available in the docket after the closing date, and it is recommended that interested persons continue to examine the docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the rules docket should enclose a self-addressed, stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 571 Imports, Motor vehicle safety, Motor vehicle. PART 571_FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
