FR941125-1-00012 FR941125-1-00006 DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 38 CFR Part 3 RIN 2900&hyph;AG99 Claims Based on Exposure to Ionizing Radiation (Lymphomas Other Than Hodgkin's Disease and Cancer of the Rectum) AGENCY: Department of Veterans Affairs. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This document proposes to amend the Department of Veterans Affairs adjudication regulations concerning diseases presumed to be the result of exposure to ionizing radiation. This amendment is necessary to implement a decision by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs that lymphomas other than Hodgkin's disease and cancer of the rectum are ``radiogenic.'' The intended effect of this action is to add these conditions to the list of radiogenic diseases for service-connected compensation purposes. DATES: Comments must be received on or before January 24, 1995. ADDRESSES: Mail written comments concerning these proposed regulations to: Director, Office of Regulations Management (02D), Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20420: or hand deliver written comments to: Office of Regulations Management, Room 1176, 801 Eye Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001. Comments should indicate that they are submitted in response to ``RIN 2900&hyph;AG99.'' All written comments will be available for public inspection in the Office of Regulations Management, Room 1176, 801 Eye Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001 between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday (Except holidays). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lorna Weston, Consultant, Regulations Staff, Compensation and Pension Service, Veterans Benefits Administration, (202) 273&hyph;7210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under 38 CFR 1.17(c), when the Secretary determines that a significant statistical association exists between exposure to ionizing radiation and any disease, 38 CFR 3.311(b)(2) is amended to provide guidelines for the establishment of service-connection for that disease. Such a determination is made after receiving the advice of the Veterans Advisory Committee on Environmental Hazards (VACEH) based on its evaluation of scientific and medical studies. On October 28&hyph;29, 1993, the VACEH held a public meeting in Washington, DC, and reviewed 53 medical and scientific studies having to do with radiation exposure and subsequent development of disease. Based on this review, VACEH recommended that VA add lymphomas other than Hodgkin's disease and rectal cancer to the list of diseases recognized by VA as being radiogenic. VA has previously recognized an association between radiation exposure and the development of multiple myeloma as well as all forms of leukemia except chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In its report, VACEH noted the close histologic relationship between acute lymphocytic leukemia and some of the lymphomas. Further, the report of the National Research Council's Committee on the Biological Effects of Ionizing Radiation (BEIR), entitled ``Health Effects of Exposure to Ionizing Radiation: BEIR V,'' noted that both malignant myeloma and the non-Hodgkin's lymphomas are malignancies of the B lymphocytes which have been observed in humans to increase in frequency after irradiation. Based on these considerations, the Secretary has determined that an association exists between radiation exposure and subsequent development of lymphomas other than Hodgkin's disease. VA has also previously recognized both colon cancer and skin cancer as radiogenic diseases. While some studies have addressed colon cancer and rectal cancer together, the BEIR V report addressed them separately. VACEH also considered them as separate entities, noting that the rectal tissue of ectodermal origin is not pathologically part of the colon. While the BEIR V report gave conflicting conclusions about rectal cancer, the report of the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation recognized an association between radiation exposure and rectal cancer. VACEH therefore recommended that cancer of the rectum be added to the radiogenic disease list. After review of these studies, the Secretary has determined that an association exists between radiation exposure and rectal cancer. We propose to amend 38 CFR 3.311(b) (2) to implement the Secretary's decision effective the date of publication of the final rule. The Secretary hereby certifies that this regulatory amendment will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities as they are defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612. The reason for this certification is that this amendment would not directly affect any small entities. Only VA beneficiaries could be directly affected. Therefore, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b), this amendment is exempt from the initial and final regulatory flexibility analysis requirements of sections 603 and 604. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance program numbers are 64.109 and 64.110.
