FR940707-2-00061 FR940707-2-00039 [OPP&hyph;50791; FRL&hyph;4869&hyph;8] Arthropod Pheromones; Experimental Use Permits AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: EPA is announcing in this notice that it is expanding the acreage cut-off for when an experimental use permit (EUP) is required under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) from 10 acres to 250 acres for certain uses of biological pesticides. These uses include arthropod pheromones, irrespective of formulation, when used in non-food areas at a maximum use rate of 150 grams active ingredient (ai)/acre/year. Tests conducted on these pheromone uses under the conditions specified in this notice would not require an EUP at acreages up to and including 250 acres. Tests conducted with pheromone products on food crops entering commerce would still require an EUP and a temporary tolerance or an exemption from the requirement of a temporary tolerance. Similarly, testing on acreages exceeding 250 acres for all pheromones (food and nonfood uses) still requires an EUP. EFFECTIVE DATE: This policy becomes effective July 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Phil Hutton, Product Manager (PM&hyph;18), Registration Division (7505C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Rm. 213, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202, (703) 305&hyph;7690. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction Biological pesticides, which include biochemical and microbial pesticides, comprise the single fastest growing segment of registration activity within EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs. Biochemical pesticides encompass both semiochemicals and pheromones plus other naturally occurring substances that elicit pesticidal effects by a nontoxic mode of action to the target pest [40 CFR 158.65(a)]. A semiochemical is a biochemical that transmits messages between living organisms. A pheromone is a subclass of semiochemicals and is defined as a chemical produced by an arthropod that modifies the behavior of other individuals of the same species [40 CFR 152.25(b)(1)]. Currently only pheromones labeled for use in pheromone traps and in which the pheromone are the sole active ingredient(s) are exempt from regulation under FIFRA [40 CFR 152.25(b)]. The Agency recognizes that pheromones are inherently different in their nontoxic pesticidal mode of action, low use rate, and target species specificity, and is employing various measures to facilitate their registration. Most recently the Agency has provided some regulatory relief for pheromones in retrievably sized polymeric matrix dispensers. EPA exempted the inert ingredients in the polymeric matrix dispenser from the requirement of a tolerance under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) on December 8, 1993 (58 FR 64493). EPA issued in the Federal Register of January 26, 1994 (59 FR 3681), a notice expanding the minimum acreage required for an experimental use permit from 10 to 250 acres for arthropod pheromones in polymeric matrix dispensers with an annual application rate limitation of 150 grams/acre for pest control in or on all raw agricultural commodities. And most recently, on March 30, 1994 (59 FR 14757), EPA exempted from the requirement of a tolerance under FFDCA the residues of arthropod pheromones resulting from the use of these compounds in polymeric matrix dispensers at the above use rates. EPA has determined that additional regulatory relief for pheromones is warranted. The Agency now wishes to further broaden the scope of regulatory relief for arthropod pheromone researchers and producers to formulations beyond traps and polymeric matrix dispensers by including broadcast applications under certain non-food use conditions outlined in this notice. With the implementation of this policy, EPA hopes to encourage the development and use of environmentally acceptable biological pesticides as alternatives to more toxic conventional chemical pesticides. The aim is to ease the testing requirements of these products, to speed their market entry, and promote their integration into pest management strategies. It is important to note that this policy is only applicable to arthropod pheromone products where the pheromone is the sole active ingredient(s). For pheromone products formulated to include other pesticide active ingredients, the data requirements for biological/chemical pesticides is appropriate [40 CFR part 158]. The need for further regulatory relief above that provided for retrievable polymeric matrix dispensers prompted the Agency to reconsider broadcast application. Of consideration were human dietary exposure, promotion of reduced risk alternative pesticides, persistence, and environmental risk. In regard to nontarget organism effects, the risks from broadcast application should not be appreciably greater than from a polymeric dispenser application if the broadcast formulations are also for terrestrial use only and experimental application does not include use in or around marshes, swamps, rivers, streams, ponds, lakes, estuaries, flood plains, or drainage ditches, nor should the product be allowed to wash or drain into water. Low rates of experimental application, high volatility, limited acreage, and the current extent of knowledge indicating generally low orders of toxicity are all justifications to overcome potential increased risks to nontarget organisms due to exposure to foliar residues. Today's notice sets forth that for non-food uses of arthropod pheromone pesticides only, EPA is permitting the acreage expansion from 10 to 250 acres for experimental testing at a maximum use rate of 150 grams ai/acre/year before triggering the requirement of an EUP under FIFRA. The Agency contends, that for experimental uses involving non-food crops and other nondietary uses, this change in policy provides significant flexibility to determine product efficacy without resulting in significant risk to human health or the environment due to the active ingredient's low use rate, high volatility, and lack of dietary exposure. II. Toxicology A. Ecological Effects Wildlife toxicity data indicate high toxicity to aquatic invertebrates and moderate toxicity to fish, but practically no toxicity to birds tested. Therefore, these products should not be applied directly to water nor be allowed to runoff into water. To minimize the potential toxic effects on aquatic organisms, this policy is limited to pheromone products tested for terrestrial use only and would not apply to pheromones for use in or around marshes, swamps, rivers, streams, ponds, lakes, estuaries, flood plains, or drainage ditches. The Agency believes that aquatic exposure will be minimal if experimental use is limited to the terrestrial use only pattern of the pheromone. Similarly, the Agency has determined that exposure to wildlife will be minimal when release of the pheromone is confined to experimental purposes only and applications are limited to a maximum of 150 grams ai/acre/year on a maximum of 250 acres. B. Human Health The data available to date on arthropod pheromones, including several pheromones with aromatic structures, have indicated no mammalian toxicity at the limit dose levels recommended for the following studies: acute oral toxicity (LD 50 >5,000 mg/kg - category IV, nontoxic), acute dermal toxicity (LD 50 >2,000 mg/kg category III-IV, nontoxic), acute inhalation toxicity (LD 50 generally >5 mg/L - category III-IV, practically nontoxic), no evidence of mutagenicity (Ames Salmonella assay), and minimal eye and skin irritation. In general, the Agency recommends, however, that whenever using pesticides, adequate precautions to minimize applicator exposure should be taken. Human health concerns arise for any experimentally treated crops that may enter the food supply. Experimentally treated food crops are normally destroyed as a routine provision to prevent the food from entering commerce. Crop destruction, however, may not be economically feasible for crop acreages of up to 250 treated acres. Under FFDCA, a food tolerance or an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance must be established prior to any treated crop entering commerce or the seller of the food crop will be in violation of FFDCA provisions for pesticide residues in food. Temporary tolerances may be established for food crops that have been treated with experimental pesticides under an EUP. EPA is not able at this time to make a no unreasonable adverse effects finding for arthropod pheromone pesticides for use on food crops. Subsequent testing on food or feed crops of other formulations involving, for example, broadcast sprays or dispensers that are not retrievable, will require an EUP to generate adequate data for determining a food tolerance, or exemption from tolerance, and the greater exposure potential of the pesticide to the resulting food. For these uses, an EUP is needed to accompany a temporary tolerance and to generate adequate data to allow for a food tolerance determination. Requests for exemption from the requirement of a temporary tolerance will also be considered in conjunction with an EUP. EPA would consider waivers for many requirements for an experimental use permit on acreages from 10 to 250 acres and use rates up to a maximum of 150 grams ai/acre/year. In the past, EPA has waived some or all of the required toxicology studies for volatile biochemical pesticide active ingredients in dispensers when the registrant has demonstrated an extremely low exposure scenario, lack of food residues, and inert materials of the dispenser were cleared by the Agency. The Agency will consider waivers for studies of other pheromone formulations when the registrant can adequately demonstrate that either a low application rate, rapid degradation of the active ingredient, high volatilization, and/or timing of the last application prior to harvest will result in no detectable pesticide residues in or on the food crop. III. Statutory and Regulatory Authority Section 5 of FIFRA, 7 U.S.C. 136c, and 40 CFR part 172 provide for issuance by the Agency of experimental use permits for the testing of new, unregistered pesticides or new uses of existing pesticides for product performance and registration purposes. Such permits are generally issued for large-scale testing of pesticides on more than 10 acres. Contained within the scope of the regulation, however, is the presumption that small-scale testing, i.e., on less than 10 acres of land, does not require an EUP providing that any treated crops are destroyed or a temporary tolerance for residues in or on the crop is in place (40 CFR 172.3(a)). This presumption, however, is caveated not to preclude experimental testing on larger areas in certain circumstances where the purpose of the large acreage test is only to determine the substance's value for pesticidal purposes or to determine its toxicity or other properties, and no benefit from pest control is expected (40 CFR 172.3(b)). EPA issued in the Federal Register of January 22, 1993 (58 FR 5878), a proposed amendment to 40 CFR part 172. The proposed amendment would, among other things, modify ยง172.3 to clarify that the determination of whether an EUP is required is based on risk considerations. The amendment would provide that tests conducted on not more than 10 acres of land are presumed not to involve unreasonable risks, and therefore, do not require an EUP. Due to the unique characteristics of pheromones, EPA believes that pheromone products used for non-food purposes must be tested at acreages larger than 10 acres and as large as 250 acres to determine the products' value for pesticidal purposes. Many pheromone uses are effective as mating disruptants to the adult insects. Larger test acreages are needed to evaluate sufficiently the disruption of the natural flight range of the adult target insect. An additional factor necessitating larger acreages is the volatile nature of most pheromone compounds. Separate treatments in adjoining small plots is unfeasible, and test plot sizes ranging from 20 to 60 acres are usually required depending upon the nature of the treated site and the pest in question. Thus, EPA believes that 250 acres should be sufficient to determine the value for pesticidal purposes of most pheromones. The Agency has found that given the generally low expected toxicity and high volatility of arthropod pheromones, an upper limit of 150 grams ai/acre/year is adequate for testing the pheromone product performance while still protecting the public health, nontarget organisms and the environment from unreasonable risks. These application rates encompass the majority of pheromone uses seen by the Agency to date. IV. Agency Determination EPA is now expanding the terrestrial use limitation for testing arthropod pheromone pesticides without the need for an experimental use permit from 10 acres to 250 acres for non-food use patterns at treatment rates not exceeding 150 grams ai/acre/year. Upon meeting the above conditions, the Agency has determined that pheromones of the type described do not present an unreasonable adverse effect to human health or the environment due to unlikely exposure. The above policy applies to only the experimental phase of pheromone product development and not to registration of the product. The intent of this regulatory relief policy is to permit adequate conditions for practical research and development, while protecting the food supply and nontarget species from higher pheromone levels than occur naturally. The current set of studies listed in 40 CFR 158.690 are still required for the registration and sale of the final product. Dated: June 28, 1994. Stephen L. Johnson, Director, Registration Division, Office of Pesticide Programs [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16461 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
