FR941021-0-00125 FR941021-0-00020 (a) Federally-owned property. (1) Title to federally-owned property remains vested in the Federal Government. Recipients shall submit annually an inventory listing of federally-owned property in their custody to DOE. Upon completion of the award or when the property is no longer needed, the recipient shall report the property to DOE for further Federal agency utilization. (2) If DOE has no further need for the property, it shall be declared excess and reported to the General Services Administration, unless DOE has statutory authority to dispose of the property by alternative methods (e.g., the authority provided by the Federal Technology Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 3710 (i)) to donate research equipment to educational and non-profit organizations in accordance with E.O. 12821, ``Improving Mathematics and Science Education in Support of the National Education Goals.'') Appropriate instructions shall be issued to the recipient by DOE. (b) Exempt property. When statutory authority exists, DOE may vest title to property acquired with Federal funds in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government and under conditions DOE considers appropriate. For example, under 31 U.S.C. 6306, DOE may so vest title to tangible personal property under a grant or cooperative agreement for basic or applied research in a nonprofit institution of higher education or in a nonprofit organization whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research. Such property is ``exempt property.'' Program regulations or the terms and conditions of award may establish provisions for vesting title to exempt property. Should such conditions not be established and the recipient has no need for the equipment, the recipient shall request disposition instructions from DOE. If DOE does not issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days of receipt of the request, title to the property shall vest in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government. If, at the end of the project, DOE fails to issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days of the receipt of a final inventory, title to the property shall vest in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government. ยง600.134 Equipment. (a) Title to equipment acquired by a recipient with Federal funds shall vest in the recipient, subject to conditions of this section. (b) The recipient shall not use equipment acquired with Federal funds to provide services to non-Federal outside organizations for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services, unless specifically authorized by Federal statute, for as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the equipment. (c) The recipient shall use the equipment in the project or program for which it was acquired as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by Federal funds and shall not encumber the property without approval of DOE. When no longer needed for the original project or program, the recipient shall use the equipment in connection with its other federally-sponsored activities, in the following order of priority: (1) Activities sponsored by DOE, then (2) Activities sponsored by other Federal agencies. (d) During the time that equipment is used on the project or program for which it was acquired, the recipient shall make it available for use on other projects or programs if such other use will not interfere with the work on the project or program for which the equipment was originally acquired. First preference for such other use shall be given to other projects or programs sponsored by DOE that financed the equipment; second preference shall be given to projects or programs sponsored by other Federal awarding agencies. If the equipment is owned by the Federal Government, use on other activities not sponsored by the Federal Government shall be permissible if authorized by DOE. User charges shall be treated as program income. (e) When acquiring replacement equipment, the recipient may use the equipment to be replaced as trade-in or sell the equipment and use the proceeds to offset the costs of the replacement equipment subject to the approval of DOE. (f) The recipient's property management standards for equipment acquired with Federal funds and federally-owned equipment shall include all of the following.
