FR940217-1-00045 FR940217-1-00009 The proposed standards require quantification on the record in order for the Commission to make decisions based on these factors. To that end, it requests that commenters provide specific, detailed information that would permit the Commission to base a decision on the public interest impact of various options. In particular, the Commission requires precise data on the exact nature of services proposed to be offered by each applicant, what entities would provide the services, the business plans of the service providers, and the expected primary and secondary benefits of the proposed services. Comment Dates Pursuant to applicable procedures set forth in §§1.415 and 1.419 of the Commission's Rules, 47 CFR 1.415 and 1.419, interested parties may file comments at a time to be established by public notice if the Commission does not establish a Committee or if a Committee is established but does not reach any consensus. To file formally in this proceeding, you must file an original and five copies of all comments, reply comments, and supporting comments. If you want each Commissioner to receive a personal copy of your comments, you must file an original plus nine copies. You should send comments and reply comments to the Office of the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. Comments and reply comments will be available for public inspection during regular business hours in the Dockets Reference Room of the Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street, NW., Washington DC 20554. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 1. Reason for action. The purpose of this Second NPRM is to obtain comment on the proposed changes in fixed terrestrial and satellite service usage for the 28 GHz frequency band. 2. Objectives. The objective of this proposal is to consider methods for appropriating spectrum in the 28 GHz band among existing and potential service proponents. 3. Legal basis. The authority for this action is the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553; and Sections 4(i), 4(j), 301, 303(r) of the Communications Act of 1934 as amended, 47 U.S.C. 145, 301, and 303(r). 4. Reporting, recordkeeping and other compliance requirements. None. 5. Federal rules which overlap, duplicate or conflict with these rules. None. 6. Description, potential impact and number of small entities involved. Since the first NPRM was issued, the Commission has been made aware of numerous small entities interested in manufacturing and/or providing customer services using a variety of new technologies being developed in the 28 GHz band. The proposals contemplated herein, to the extent they limit the previously proposed rule changes, could impact these small businesses. The impact on small entities described in the NPRM released January 8, 1993, applies to this action as well. 7. Significant alternatives. Since the first NPRM was issued, the Commission has been made aware of other firms researching the potential for new technology for video and other telecommunications services in the 28 GHz band. In addition, satellite entities may offer alternatives to some services that would be offered in this band. In part due to these alternatives, the Commission is taking the instant action. Ordering Clauses Accordingly, It is ordered That the Second Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is hereby adopted; It is further ordered That a Public Notice pursuant to the Negotiated Rulemaking Act, 5 U.S.C. Sec. 581, SHALL BE ISSUED in accordance with the findings herein; It is further ordered That the Secretary shall mail a copy of this document to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 21 Communications common carriers, Radio. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3771 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
