FR940527-1-00209 FR940527-1-00014 The expected change in total hospital service output is the product of projected growth in total admissions (adjusted for outpatient usage), projected real case-mix growth, and expected quality enhancing intensity growth, net of expected decline in intensity due to reduction of cost ineffective practice. Case-mix growth and intensity numbers for Medicare are used as proxies for those of the total hospital, since case-mix increases (used in the intensity measure as well) are unavailable for non-Medicare patients. Thus, expected output growth is simply the product of the expected change in intensity (0.0 percent), projected admissions change (3.2 percent for 1995) and projected real case-mix growth (1.0 to 1.4 percent for 1995), or 4.2 to 4.6 percent. The share of direct labor services in the hospital market basket rate of increase (consisting of wages and salaries and employee benefits) is 61.7 percent. Multiplying the expected change in total hospital service output by the ratio of historical service productivity change to total service growth of 0.30 to 0.35 and by the direct labor share percentage provides our productivity standard of 0.8 to 1.0 percent. ProPAC also believes hospitals should be given an incentive for additional productivity improvement. ProPAC measures productivity as the ratio of hospital admissions (adjusted for case mix and outpatient services) per FTE employee (adjusted for changes in skill mix). ProPAC includes in its productivity measurement the effect of changes in practice patterns. We treat practice pattern changes as a portion of our intensity adjustment, described below. This year, ProPAC assumes a productivity gain of at least 1.4 percent and recommends a ^0.7 percentage point adjustment on the basis that any productivity gains should be shared equally by Medicare and hospitals. • Intensity : We base our intensity standard on the combined effect of three separate factors: changes in the use of quality enhancing services, changes in the use of services due to shifts in within-DRG severity, and changes in the use of services due to reductions of cost-ineffective practices. For 1995, we recommend an adjustment of 0.0 percent. The basis of this recommendation is discussed below. We have no empirical evidence that accurately gauges the level of quality-enhancing technology changes. Typically, a specific new technology increases costs in some uses and decreases costs in other uses. Concurrently, health status is improved in some situations while in other situations it may be unaffected or even worsened using the same technology. It is difficult to separate out the relative significance of each of the cost-increasing effects for individual technologies and new technologies. The quality enhancing technology component is intended to recognize the use of services which increase cost but whose value in terms of enhanced health-status is commensurate with these costs. Such services may result from technological change, or in some cases, increased use of existing technologies. The latter recognizes that as cost and medical effectiveness studies become available, some increased use of existing, as well as new, services may be warranted. The component for reduction of cost-ineffective practice recognizes that some improvements in practice patterns could be made so that the intensity of services provided is more consistent with the efficient use of limited resources. That is, improvements could be made so that the number of services provided during an inpatient stay, and their complexity, produce an improvement in health status that is consistent with the cost of care. This component of our update recommendation is intended to encourage both hospitals and physicians to more carefully consider the cost-effectiveness of medical care. This component of the framework also accounts for real within-DRG change, since that should be directly reflected in the CMI- adjusted growth in real charges per case. We note that, since 1985, the intensity of services per inpatient admission has increased, even after adjusting for the growth in real case mix each year. These increases, which are similar to pre-prospective payment system increases, followed intensity decreases in both 1984 and 1985. Following methods developed by HCFA's Office of the Actuary for deriving hospital output estimates from total hospital charges, ProPAC has estimated that case mix constant intensity per admission increased at an average of 1.5 percent annually from 1985&hyph;1990. We have developed Medicare-specific intensity measures for inpatient services based on a five-year average using FY 1988&hyph;1993 MedPAR billing data. Consistent with ProPAC, case-mix constant intensity is calculated as the change in total Medicare charges per discharge adjusted for changes in the average charge per unit of service as measured by the Medical CPI hospital component, and changes in real case-mix. Past studies of case-mix change by the RAND Corporation indicate that the change in real case-mix ranges from 1.0 percent to 1.4 percent per year. If we assume that real case-mix change is 1.4 percent per year, we estimate case-mix constant intensity to have declined by an average of 0.4 percent each year during the FY 1988&hyph;1993 period, a cumulative decrease of 2.1 percent. If we assume that real case-mix has been growing at 1.0 percent annually, case-mix constant intensity has declined by an average of 0.1 percent annually, for a cumulative decrease of 0.6 percent. We note that regardless of which real case-mix number we assume (1.0 or 1.4), we used the observed case-mix increase for FY 1993 of 0.8 percent to calculate the real case-mix constant intensity. Since we estimate that intensity has declined during the FY 1988&hyph;1993 period, we are recommending a 0.0 percent intensity adjustment for FY 1995.
