FR940920-2-00023 FR940920-2-00007 As a threshold matter, we note that the record in this case is different from Flowers in that European markets play a relatively less important role in our analysis. In Flowers, the Department's analysis focused solely on a comparison of the U.S. market with European markets as the vast majority of third country markets under consideration were in Europe. The Department did not evaluate conditions in other markets. In this case, and the companion investigation in Colombia, respondents reported significant sales to Argentina and Canada, as well as Europe. Respondents in this case have submitted additional information for all the relevant markets_Europe, Canada, and Argentina. However, it is not clear that the information submitted up to this point supports respondents' assertion that sales in the third country markets should not be compared to U.S. sales in this case. Negative Correlation Factor In Flowers, the Department found a negative correlation between price and volume movements in the United States and European markets. This negative correlation indicated that price differences between markets could either mask or exaggerate dumping. The Department determined that the negative correlation was caused by a number of elements, including: 1) the greater price and volume volatility of the U.S. market; 2) the sporadic, gift-giving nature of U.S. demand; 3) respondents' lack of access to the European auctions (the main distribution point for flowers in Europe); and 4) differing peak price periods. Respondents argue that, in this case, there is similar evidence of a negative correlation of price and volume movements between the U.S. and third country markets. In support of their position, respondents have submitted several reports. A 1994 report by Professor Tayama analyzes, among other things, the consumption patterns for roses in the United States, Europe, Canada and Argentina, and compares seasonal and holiday purchasing patterns in the markets. Tayama asserts that both Europe and Canada have mature and relatively stable markets because both markets are supply driven ( i.e., in times of peak production as supply increases, prices go down). In contrast, Tayama claims that the U.S. market is demand driven_the majority of sales are made for Valentine's Day when demand increases and prices rise. With regard to Argentina, Tayama states that roses are grown for home consumption and imports occur mainly during the winter months, as in Europe. Moreover, Tayama asserts, Argentina has a different seasonal and holiday pattern from the United States. No market, he states, has the extraordinary demand for roses that exists in the U.S. market on Valentine's Day. Petitioners have countered Tayama's assertions with an August 10, 1994, submission which contains, among other things, a report by Roses Inc., an association of U.S. rose producers. The Roses Inc. report raises questions about the conclusions in the Tayama report, asserting that: 1) there is a global market for roses which is driven by demand everywhere; and 2) key holiday periods are actually very similar between the United States and Europe_specifically that the highest prices in both the United States and Europe occur in February. Thus, we are not in a position to conclude that the Tayama report provides a sufficient basis to determine that comparison of U.S. sales to third country sales is inappropriate. In support of the conclusions drawn in the Tayama report, respondents submitted the 1994 Fresh Cut Roses: Issues in the Estimation of Dumping in the U.S. Market (Botero Report) which contains a statistical analysis of the United States, European, and Canadian markets and seeks to demonstrate the lack of correlation between price movements in the third country and U.S. markets. The Botero Report provides three types of statistical analyses which, according to respondents, support their contention that third country prices should not be used due to the ``different equilibrium conditions'' of these markets as compared to the U.S. market for roses. First, Botero analyzes price movements within the United States, Europe and Canada, from which he concludes that different market forces are at work ( i.e., price and quantity movements within Europe and Canada are negatively correlated and price and quantity movements within the United States are positively correlated). Second, Botero analyzes price and quantity movements across markets and concludes that there is no correlation between the U.S. market and either the European or Canadian markets. Third, he estimates the price cycles for roses in the U.S., European and Canadian markets and concludes that ``the seasonal patterns of the two markets [U.S. and European, U.S. and Canadian] are different and therefore monthly price comparisons do not reflect price discrimination.'' Botero asserts that these test results demonstrate that prices in these third country markets should not be compared to prices in the U.S. market to determine price discrimination. We have reviewed the Botero Report and have concerns regarding the data and the statistical parameters used to perform the statistical analysis on European, Canadian and U.S. rose prices. For example, Dr. Botero relied on prices that may not be comparable. U.S. prices for a single hybrid tea variety rose were compared to European prices for all hybrid tea variety roses; and U.S. import prices, rather than U.S. domestic prices, were compared to European domestic prices. These comparisons may be inappropriate_we have no basis to conclude that a single hybrid tea rose is representative of all hybrid tea roses, or that U.S. import prices are representative of U.S. domestic prices. Moreover, Dr. Botero's F-test results appear to be invalid. Dr. Botero apparently used the incorrect degrees of freedom_(k,n-2) instead of (k-1,n-2). More importantly, Dr. Botero appears to have misread the ``F Table'': he reported the value of F n-2,k at the 99 percent confidence level, rather than F k-1,n-2 at the 99 percent confidence level. Finally, Dr. Botero provided no explanation of his use of a 99 percent confidence level.
