FR940224-2-00143 FR940224-2-00091 Definitions For purposes of this reporting requirement: (1) The term ``United States person'' includes a person which is organized or exists under the laws of any State or, in the case of a natural person, a citizen or resident of the United States; a domestic estate; or a trust in which one or more of the foregoing persons has cumulative direct or indirect beneficial interest in excess of 50 per centum of the value of the trust. [Section 7(f)(2)(A) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(f)(2)(A))] (2) The term ``foreign person controlled by a United States person'' includes any noncorporate entity in which United States persons directly or indirectly have more than a 50 per centum beneficial interest, and any corporations in which one or more United States persons, directly or indirectly, own stock possessing more than 50 per centum of total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote, or more than 50 per centum of the total value of shares of all classes of stock. [Section 7(f)(2)(C) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(f)(2)(C))] Who Must Report The weekly FC&hyph;1 and monthly FC&hyph;2 reports must be filed throughout the calendar year by each foreign exchange market participant which had more than $50 billion equivalent in foreign exchange contracts on the last business day of any calendar quarter during the previous year (ending March, June, September, or December) calculated using then prevailing exchange rates. The quarterly FC&hyph;3 reports must be filed throughout the calendar year by each foreign market participant which had more than $1 billion equivalent in foreign exchange contracts on the last business day of any calendar quarter during the previous year (ending March, June, September, or December) calculated using then prevailing exchange rates. Such contracts include the amounts of foreign exchange spot contracts bought and sold, foreign exchange forward contracts bought and sold, foreign exchange futures bought and sold, and one half the notional amount of foreign exchange options bought and sold. Institutions required to report include all banks and banking institutions in the United States; the agencies, branches, and subsidiaries located in the United States of foreign banks and banking institutions; business concerns and nonprofit institutions; brokers; dealers; mutual fund, foreign exchange, and hedge fund managers, and other concerns located in the United States, whether sole proprietorships, partnerships, groups, associations, syndicates, trusts, or corporations, including the U.S. branches and subsidiaries of foreign nonbanking concerns. U.S. reporters should include data for all domestic and foreign branches and subsidiaries. U.S. subsidiaries of foreign entities should file for themselves and their subsidiaries, but not for their parents. In determining whether exemptions apply and in filing reports, reportable items of direct and indirect subsidiaries_including banks, Edge Acts, and nonbanks_should be consolidated with those of the parent. Inter- and intra-company off-balance sheet contracts should be reported on a gross basis. Banks which file the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) 035 report (``Monthly Consolidated Foreign Currency Report'') are not required to file the FC&hyph;2 or FC&hyph;3 reports. Holding companies whose subsidiaries file FFIEC 035 reports are not required to file the FC&hyph;2 report unless, directly or indirectly, the holding company has foreign exchange contracts of $10 billion or more which are not reflected in FFEIC 035 reports. In such cases, the holding company should report all foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities on FC&hyph;2 which are not included on FFIEC 035 reports. How to Report The reports are to be submitted on forms provided by the Department of the Treasury and the district Federal Reserve Banks. Computer printouts in the same format as the form may be used if approved in writing by the district Federal Reserve Bank to which it is submitted. The use of a facsimile machine is recommended for weekly reports, optional for monthly and quarterly reports. Enforcement Provided by Law United States persons who meet the reporting requirements are advised that failure to report can result in a civil penalty up to $10,000 (31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(3); 31 CFR 128.4(c)). Dated: February 4, 1994. Alicia H. Munnell, Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4083 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;25&hyph;M
