FR941103-2-00060 FR941103-2-00031 Response: Western has made a conscientious effort to provide all of the information needed to develop the purchased power expense analysis in a timely manner. Western's staff has provided explanations to customers and their consultants and are available and willing to provide additional clarification as needed. 3. Future Flow Restrictions at Glen Canyon Dam a. Comment: A large customer organization expressed concern that Western has overstated revenues of $3 to $8 million per year from short-term capacity sales through 2004. Response: It is improbable that flows restricted for environmental reasons will ever again provide enough firm power from the Glen Canyon Unit to reach levels used in past power projections. Western does not know which of many possible flow regimes will finally be imposed at the Glen Canyon Unit. The treatment of short-term sales has been consistent with the firm power assumptions. Therefore, it is impossible to modify power projections for the proposed rate adjustment to recognize the reduced power output. The only course of action Western is able to follow is to stay with historic power projection figures, using the methodology already used in previous processes, until the Glen Canyon regime is finally determined. Western will evaluate the firm power rate then in place when the new flow regimes from the Glen Canyon Dam are decided. If it is needed, a firm power rate adjustment will be proposed then. b. Comment: An organization of several customers stated: While it is understood that a degree of uncertainty surrounds the exact level of flows at Glen Canyon, Western should conduct a sensitivity analysis predicated on the alternative flow assumptions identified in the Operation of Glen Canyon Dam Environmental Impact Statement. Such sensitivity analysis (sic) would give customers a range of possible replacement power costs. Response: Western has done extensive analyses of the power and rate impact of every flow regime identified for study in the GCD&hyph;EIS. Detailed descriptions of the studies and their results are reported in the draft GCD&hyph;EIS, and will be contained in the final GCD&hyph;EIS when it is published. In the meantime, Western is specifically required, by law and by regulation, to use known or statistically probable estimates of future activity in creating rates. The level of uncertainty still existing with the GCD&hyph;EIS prevents the use of any of its data at this time. As is noted above, when a decision about environmentally related flows through Glen Canyon Dam is made, a revised PRS will be prepared, and a new rate will be proposed, if needed. 4. O&M-Related Issues a. Western O&M: CREDA signed an agreement with Western and Reclamation dated September 24, 1992, which states: Western shall utilize the Work Program Information made available to its Customers by Western and Reclamation (including adjustments thereof which may result from reviews, from internal corrections or the dispute resolution process provided for in these Joint Procedures but excluding the costs of future transmission system additions in a Planning Year or Out Year which are conceptual in nature), to prepare the power repayment studies upon which it relies to promulgate any interim or final rates proposed or adopted for SLCAIP firm power or transmission services. Several customers and their member organizations are concerned about the implementation of the 1992 Agreement. (1) Comment: (One commentor) continues to be concerned with Western's inconsistent use of budgeted information in the preparation of the PRS . . . (the commentor) has been some-what frustrated in its attempts in this rate adjustment process to reconcile certain information used in the 1994 Rate Brochure PRS with the information previously provided in the Work Program review process. Response: The FY 1995 Work Program is merely a copy of the proposed FY 1994 Congressional Budget Submission. It was used as the starting point in planning expenditures for the FY 1995 congressional budget. CREDA's September 1992 agreement with Western and Reclamation allows power customers to have meaningful input to the new congressional budget. However, this work program document is prepared too early in the planning process for either customers or Western to say that no further changes will be made. Western feels that the timing and use of documents stated in the agreement should be revisited. Western is willing to continue to work with the customers in improving the budget and work plan review process in the future.
