FR940114-1-00046 FR940114-1-00008 A coordinated effort with enforcement agencies, educators, and community leaders to provide information on setting of speed limits; and Training traffic and enforcement personnel in the proper techniques for establishing safe and reasonable speed limits and in the use and deployment of speed monitoring equipment. IV. Public Information and Education Focused public information and education campaigns are an essential part of a comprehensive speed control program. Research shows that compliance with and support for traffic laws can be increased through aggressive, targeted enforcement combined with an effective public information and education campaign. The SHSA, in cooperation with law enforcement and transportation agencies, should develop a Statewide public information and education campaign that: Identifies and targets specific audiences; Addresses criteria for setting speed limits and enforcement of speed limits particularly for locations experiencing excessive speed or speed related crashes; Capitalizes on special events (cooperative, multi-jurisdictional enforcement efforts) such as Operation Co-Flame and Span I&hyph;70 and other special holiday enforcement programs; Identifies and supports the efforts of traffic safety activist groups to gain increased support of and attention to traffic safety and speed control; Use national themes, events, and materials; and Motivates the public to support speed control by pointing out the public health issues of injury, death, and economic costs of speed related crashes. V. Technology New and updated technology for speed measurement is needed to determine appropriated speed limits for a variety of conditions and to provide maximum enforcement activity with fewer available resources. Current technology for measuring speed, such as loop detectors, should be used not only to establish viable speed limits but also to vary speed limits to conform to existing conditions. State and local governments should only utilize speed measurement equipment for enforcement that is approved or recognized as reliable and accurate. All law enforcement agencies should use the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) regional testing laboratories to ensure that equipment used to measure speeds meets minimum standards. For CMV enforcement purposes, the FHWA will provide MCSAP funding only for those items of speed control equipment approved by the ICAP or which meet other suitable standards. The SHSA, in conjunction with law enforcement and traffic/highway agencies, should support programs providing for: Collection of operational speed data to determine appropriate speed limits and for use of these data in conjunction with variable message signs; Police Radar Model Minimum Specifications_NHTSA, in cooperation with the IACP and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), has developed model specifications and testing protocols for police traffic radar. Using these model specification, IACP in cooperation with radar manufacturers and NHTSA, has established a program to test radar sets that are available for purchase by law enforcement agencies. Reports of the testing were published by IACP along with a Consumer Products List which provides law enforcement agencies with the names of radar sets conforming with the model performance specifications. Police Radar Testing Program_To ensure that law enforcement agencies can continue to purchase and operate accurate radar devices, IACP, in cooperation with radar manufacturers and NHTSA, has established an ongoing process of performance testing for newly developed devices and for maintaining existing equipment. Testing laboratories have been established at five universities. These laboratories will continue the testing program and will provide services to the law enforcement community. Model Performance Specifications and Test Protocols_NIST, Law Enforcement Standards Laboratory, is developing model minimum performance and testing protocols for automated speed enforcement (ASE) devices, including photo-radar devices and laser speed measurement devices; Basic Training Program in VASCAR Speed Measurement_NHTSA has developed a training course for the VASCAR (Visual Average Speed Computer and Recorder) time-distance speed measurement devices. This course was developed specifically for use by law enforcement officers; and Basic Training Program in Radar Speed Measurement_NHTSA has developed a basic training course which teaches the correct procedures for law enforcement's use of police radar and also the proper instructional techniques for those teaching the course; VI. Legislation To encourage voluntary compliance by drivers, speed limits must be safe, reasonable, and uniform to the greatest extent possible. Realistic speed limits on roadways (other than those governed by the National Maximum Speed Limit) should: Be based upon traffic and engineering investigations;
