FR940324-2-00078 FR940324-2-00044 The PHS Act (in section 517(b)(1)) specifies that priority be given to substance abuse prevention projects directed at children of substance abusers, latchkey children, children at risk of abuse or neglect, preschool children eligible for services under the Head Start Act, children at risk of dropping out of school, children at risk of becoming adolescent parents, and children who do not attend school and who are at risk of being unemployed. CSAP will therefore give special consideration in its award decision-making process to projects addressing these populations and their prevention needs. Conceptual Framework: Based on research and knowledge gleaned from CSAP's previous demonstration projects, CSAP expects applicants to propose a comprehensive prevention approach that is conceptualized, implemented, and evaluated in a logical manner. To ensure comprehensiveness, CSAP strongly recommends that applicants use a risk/protective factor approach, an approach that delineates factors that appear to be correlated with the use of ATOD among children and youth (risk factors) and that appear to protect youth from ATOD use (protective factors). These risk and protective factors can be organized according to six major life areas or ``domains''_the individual, family, school, peer group, neighborhood/community, and society. Each domain represents an important sphere of influence in the lives of children and youth. To ensure that the demonstration is based in a logically sound framework, CSAP strongly recommends that applicants use the logic model, a model that articulates the links between the specific risk and protective factors that have been identified and are to be addressed, the specific project objectives, the proposed intervention strategies, and the anticipated outcomes. CSAP strongly encourages applicants to use the risk/protective factor approach and the logic model. However, applicants may propose alternative frameworks and will be given fair and due consideration, so long as the applicant provides a clear description of any alternative frameworks, the alternative frameworks are comprehensive and logical, and the applicant offers a rationale for their selection over the risk/protective factor approach and/or the logic model. Guidelines for using the risk/protective factor approach and the logic model for ATOD prevention programs targeting high risk youth populations are included as part of the complete application kit. This notice consists of four parts: Part I covers information on the legislative authority and applicable regulations and policies of the Substance Abuse Prevention Demonstration Grants for High Risk Youth Populations Program. Part II is a summary of the application receipt date, estimate of funds available, anticipated number of awards, period of support, and project start dates. Part III describes the four programmatic priority areas (Modules A&hyph;D) under which CSAP is inviting applications. Part IV provides additional guidance related to the application process and requirements, review criteria, award decision criteria, and contacts for additional information. Part I_Legislative Authority and Other Applicable Regulations and Policies Grants awarded under this Program Announcement are authorized under section 517 of the Public Health Service Act, (42 U.S.C. 290bb&hyph;23) as amended. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number for this program is 93.144. Federal regulations at title 45 CFR parts 74 and 92, generic requirements concerning the administration of grants, are applicable to these awards.
