FR940906-2-00121 FR940906-2-00083 2. Activation and Deployment Once notified, each agency will respond according to its plan. The LFA will assess the technical response requirements and cause the activation and deployment of response components. FEMA, in conjunction with the LFA, will coordinate the non-technical assistance in support of State and local governments. Initially, the LFA, FEMA, and other Federal agencies will coordinate response actions from their headquarters locations, usually from their respective headquarters EOCs. a. Role of the Lead Federal Agency (LFA). (1) Deploy LFA response personnel to the scene and provide liaison to the State and local authorities as appropriate; (2) Designate a Federal Onscene Commander (OSC) at the scene of the emergency to manage onsite activities and coordinate the overall Federal response to the emergency; (3) Establish bases of Federal operation, such as the JOC and the JIC; (4) Coordinate the Federal response with the owner/operator; and (5) Provide advice on the radiological hazard to the Federal responders. b. Role of Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). (1) Deploy an Advance Emergency Response Team (ERT&hyph;A) to the State EOC; (2) Designate a Senior FEMA Official (SFO); (3) Establish a DFO; and (4) Establish contact with the LFA and the responsible State agency to determine the status of response efforts. c. Role of Other Federal Agencies. (1) Designate an onscene Senior Agency Official; (2) Activate agency emergency response personnel and deploy them to the scene; (3) Deploy FRMAC assets; (4) Deploy Advisory Team representatives; (5) Keep the LFA and FEMA informed of status of response activities; and (6) Coordinate all State requests and offsite activities with the LFA and FEMA, as appropriate. 3. Response Operations The following describes the general operational structure for meeting Federal agency roles and responsibilities in response to a radiological emergency. At the headquarters level, the LFA, FEMA, and other Federal agencies (OFAs) will generally exchange liaison personnel and maintain staffs at their EOCs to support their respective onscene operations. Federal agencies may also activate a regional or field office EOC in support of the emergency. Figure II&hyph;2 provides a graphic depiction of the onscene structure. BILLING CODE 6718&hyph;02&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN06SE94.001 BILLING CODE 6718&hyph;02&hyph;C
