FR940404-2-00180 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Subcommittee on Fire Protection, 38th Session, International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, June 28&hyph;July 2, 1993 Representative Marjorie Murtagh, Chief, Fire Protection Section, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Joseph Westwood-Booth, Fire Protection Section, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Klaus Wahle, Survival Systems Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Matthew T. Gustafson, Fire Protection Section, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers Robert G. Bill, Research Specialist, Factory Mutual Research Corporation, Norwood, Massachusetts William M. Carey, Senior Staff Engineer, Underwriter Laboratories, Northbrook, Illinois Rupert Chandler, Hopeman Brothers, Incorporated, Waynesboro, Virginia Russell P. Fleming, Vice President, National Fire Sprinkler Association, Paterson, New York Hugh S. Rynn, Director, Fleet Engineering Services, Sea-Land Services, Elizabeth, New Jersey Robert D. Tagg, Vice President, Herbert Engineering Corporation, San Francisco, California William L. Testa, General Manager, Grinnell Corporation, North Providence, Rhode Island Thomas S. Winslow, Director, Vessel Engineering, American President Lines, Oakland, California United States Delegation to the Codex Alimentarius Commission, Twentieth Session, Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO), Geneva, June 28&hyph;July 7, 1993 Representative Alejandro B. Thiermann, Deputy Administrator, International Services, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture Alternate Representatives Fred Shank, Director, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services H. Russell Cross, Administrator, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture Advisers Doug Archer, Deputy Director for Programs, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services Roy Barrett, Office of Food Safety and Technical Services, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture Charles W. Cooper, Director, International Activities Staff, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services Jane Hopkins, Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency Harry C. Mussman, Agricultural Attache, United States Mission to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, Rome Rhonda S. Nally, Executive Officer for Codex Alimentarius, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture Steve Tanner, Deputy Director, Quality Assurance and Research Division, Federal Grain Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture Richard Teske, Acting Director, Center for Veterinary Medicine, Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services Craig A. Thorn, Agricultural Counselor, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Geneva Private Sector Advisers Kyd D. Brenner, Vice President, Corn Refiners Association, Washington, District of Columbia Franta J. Broulik, Director, Regulatory Affairs and Information Services, McNeil Specialty Products Company, New Brunswick, New Jersey J. B. Cordaro, President, Council for Responsible Nutrition, Washington, District of Columbia
