FR940628-0-00066 FR940628-0-00019 RSPA does not agree that another NPRM is needed. The subject of in-plant piping and the associated issues were clearly discussed in the published NPRM. Also, all interested persons, including plant owners as well as pipeline operators, were given an opportunity to comment on the subject of in-plant piping. RSPA received comments on the proposed definition from seven operators, two pipeline-related associations, and one state agency. Two operators and one association fully supported the proposal. One operator and a pipeline-related association thought plant owners were not adequately notified of the proposed rule, and that RSPA should treat the subject in a separate NPRM. Our position on this issue is given supra in response to a similar criticism by four THLPSSC members. Another operator was concerned that the proposed definition would cause operator-owned components, such as pipe, meters, instruments, and manifolds, that are located on plant grounds downstream from the operator's pressure control device to fall outside part 195. The operator was worried that other agencies would regulate these components as non-transportation related facilities. We are not persuaded, however, that the potential for such regulation is sufficient reason to exclude the components from the definition of in-plant piping system. The aim of the proposed definition was to distinguish unregulated piping, not to limit the jurisdiction of other government agencies. In contrast, an operator of gathering and processing facilities was concerned that part 195 would apply to plant piping that lies between any necessary pressure control device and the connection to a pipeline. This commenter apparently did not realize that such piping is subject to part 195. RSPA has applied part 195 to such piping because it is subject to pressure which is controlled by a device operators must have to meet ยง195.406(b). However, this application has had little effect on plant owners, because we hold the pipeline operator, not the plant owner, responsible for compliance. An operator commenting on the plant device exclusion in the proposed definition advised us to change ``control pressure'' to ``prevent overpressure.'' This commenter said the change would avoid making pipeline operators responsible under part 195 for nonessential pressure control devices. We agree the suggested rewording would better convey the intent of the proposal. But, in the final definition, we have changed ``control pressure in the pipeline'' to ``control pressure in the pipeline under ยง195.406(b)'' to convey the intent even more precisely.
