FR940128-2-00055 FR940128-2-00032 (2) Payment of this fee entitles the user to launch a boat at any Corps operated recreation area at any Corps project on that day, except at boat ramps located within a fee campground and reserved exclusively for the use of campers. c. Swimming Beach User Fee. A day user fee of $1.00 per person, up to $3.00 per vehicle, will be charged for the use of a designated, developed swimming beach in a Corps operated day use recreation area, provided that the net revenue test in paragraph 5.a.(2) is met. (1) The swimming beach fee will be charged at Corps operated, designated, developed swimming beaches, with the exception of swimming beaches located in recreation areas which are exclusively campgrounds and reserved exclusively for the use of campers. A designated, developed swimming beach is properly signed, buoyed and delineated in accordance with established design and safety requirements contained in EM 1110&hyph;1&hyph;400. (2) Payment of this fee entitles the user to use any developed beach at any Corps operated recreation area at any Corps project on that day, with the exception of swimming beaches located within fee campgrounds and reserved exclusively for the use of campers. d. Daily User Fee Exclusivity. The daily boat launch ramp and swimming beach user fees are mutually exclusive. Payment of a daily boat launch ramp user fee does not permit swimming at a designated beach, and vice versa. e. Annual Day User Fee Pass. An annual pass may be purchased for $25.00, which permits the holder and all accompanying passengers in the vehicle to use any or all boat launch ramps and/or designated, developed swimming beaches at any Corps operated recreation area at any Corps project for that calendar year, except at facilities located within a fee campground and reserved exclusively for the use of campers. A sample annual pass is shown in Appendix D. f. Paid Camping Permits. A paid camping permit will entitle the holder to use any or all day use facilities without paying additional day user fees at the same project, on any day for which the permit is valid. In certain instances, some form of vehicle pass may be required for campers who have more than one vehicle or where the camping unit is also the mode of transportation. A separate pass, locally printed for this situation, is acceptable. Resource managers should consider local situations when determining applicability. g. Lessees. Lessees may not charge a fee for Corps operated facilities. They may charge, however, for Corps constructed facilities located on their leasehold in accordance with real estate policy, prescribed in CERE&hyph;MC memorandum, dated 15 Oct 1993, Subject: Fees Charged at Leased Recreation Sites. h. Native American Indian Tribes. The District Engineer may waive user fees under this circular for Native American Indian Tribal members, consistent with rights reserved to the Tribes under the law. i. Children. No day user fee charge will be made for children under 12 years of age. 6. Procedures. a. The district commander will provide the established schedule of day user fees to the major subordinate command NLT 30 December each year, beginning in 1994. The major subordinate command commander will periodically review/audit the district's establishment of fee schedules. b. Information on approved user fee areas and charges will be submitted through the National Resource Management System (NRMS), as outlined in ER 1130&hyph;2&hyph;414. 7. Cost of Collection. Since day user fees will be collected only at facilities where revenue significantly exceeds cost of collection, strict attention must be given to tracking costs associated with the collection of day user fees at designated facilities. An annual analysis of revenues versus cost of collection, including amortized implementation costs, must be available for review by Major Subordinate Commands and by HQUSACE by 30 December of each year. 8. Effective Dates for Fee Collection. District commanders will assess seasonal visitation patterns of individual fee areas to determine the period during which a fee program will be in effect. 9. Signs. All areas designated as recreation user fee areas will be marked with appropriate signs that provide necessary instructions to users of the area with regard to collection of fees. The official U.S. fee area symbol will be displayed at the entrance to designated user fee areas. The U.S. fee area symbol will be installed prior to collection of fees in the area. All signs and symbols will conform to the guidance provided in EP 610&hyph;1&hyph;6a and b and ER 1130&hyph;2&hyph;431. 10. Fee Collection. a. Methods of Collection. Fees may be collected by one or more of the following methods: (1) Control stations. Fees may be collected by either contract or Corps personnel. Contractors will be properly identified to prevent unauthorized personnel from collecting fees.
