FR940504-2-00098 FR940504-2-00086 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY North-South Center External Research Grant Program ACTION: Notice-request for proposals. SUMMARY: The United States Information Agency (USIA) invites applications from eligible institutions under the auspices of the North-South Center's 1994 Research Grant Programs. The North-South Center is located at the University of Miami and is funded through a Congressional appropriation managed through the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of the United States Information Agency. The Center's External Research Grant Program and Short-Term Field Research Program support selected research activities which are of importance to the people and governments of the Western Hemisphere. Through grant awards, the Center brings together human and technical resources to address major themes relevant to policy making in North, South, and Central America and the Caribbean. The Grant Programs provide funding for research projects with innovative approaches to contemporary concerns throughout the region. There are currently two grant competitions for which solicitation of research proposals is being sought: External Research Grant Program: The Program supports research, analysis, and the exchange of information important to the economic, social, political, and cultural development of the countries of the Western Hemisphere. The general aim of the grant program is to promote scholarly research of contemporary regional issues including: Democratization, social change and equity, trade, debt, investment, environment, and drug policy. Since 1991, approximately 100 External Research Grants have been awarded involving over 250 institutions throughout the hemisphere. Short-term Field Research Grant Program on Poverty and Urban Violence: Designed to coincide with the upcoming United Nations World Summit for Social Development (March 1995) these awards are to be specifically focused around the theme of poverty. Research proposals will be accepted from various disciplines for research projects or field research to investigate issues of poverty and its relationship to migration pressures and illegal immigration, youth and violence, distributional equity, and the impact of stabilization and adjustment measures on the overall well-being of the population. The one-time competition for the Short-Term Field Research Grants on Poverty and Urban Violence will be held in Spring of 1994. Dates/Deadlines: It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the stated deadlines for selected program. External Research Grant Program: For information purposes the External Research Grant Program requires one original and nineteen (19) copies of the final proposal, written in English, and have been received at the Office of Grant Programs, North-South Center by 5 p.m. Miami time on Monday, May 2, 1994. Please conserve paper by making copies double-sided. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on May 2, 1994 but received at a later date. Project activities should begin no earlier than July 1, 1994 and should run no longer than September 30, 1995. An additional External Research Grant Program will be announced in July of 1994, with projects to begin no earlier than September 1994.
