FR940512-0-00041 FR940512-0-00018 Changes: The Secretary is amending §693.12(f) to clarify that this provision applies to a NEISP Program scholarship recipient who also is eligible for and receiving other student assistance. Section 693.20␣What criteria does the Secretary use to determine whether a State's proposed early intervention component meets the requirements under this program as a formula grant program? Comment: One commenter believed that the extensive data requested under §693.20(e)(2) should be collected for the targeted area in which the State plans to operate its program rather than providing data covering the entire State. Discussion: The Secretary believes that, in order to be able to target the areas in which the NEISP Program will be most beneficial, it is necessary for States to collect and analyze Statewide data as required under §693.20(e)(2). The Secretary notes that this requirement is not intended to be overly prescriptive and that a State is expected to have sufficient information available to make a reasonable determination of Statewide needs for early intervention activities. Changes: None. Section 693.22␣How does the Secretary allot funds to States on a competitive basis? Comment: One commenter believed that the ``tie-breaker'' to be used in the selection of similarly rated applications under §693.22(c)(4) should not give preference to Statewide programs. Due to the limited Federal funding, the commenter proposed that priority be given to programs that will serve a targeted population well, rather than serving students Statewide but in a less effective way. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the emphasis placed on selecting applicants with Statewide, coordinated programs is appropriate. Since this provision is a ``tie-breaker'' for otherwise similarly rated applications, the Secretary does not believe that the State providing services to more areas will be less effective. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter believed that early intervention programs should be provided as early in a student's schooling as necessary to be effective and, therefore, believed that there should be a stronger preference for long-term early intervention programs in the selection criteria. Discussion: During the development of the NPRM, the Secretary gave careful consideration to the need to emphasize long-term mentoring and advising and believes that adequate emphasis on long-term mentoring and advising has been incorporated into §693.22 after taking into consideration the overall objectives of the early intervention program. Changes: None. Section 693.40␣What are the requirements for a student to receive a scholarship under this program? Comment: One commenter recommended adding to the scholarship requirements under §693.40 that a student (1) must meet or exceed the academic milestones listed in the student agreement and (2) be determined at the time of application to be a low-income student.
