FR941207-0-00133 FR941207-0-00022 84. In its petition, Pacific Bell contends that the Intermountain Microwave test needs to be clarified to eliminate uncertainty about the permissible scope of management agreements. Pacific Bell notes that the D.C. Circuit has recently remanded a case in which the Commission purportedly misapplied the Intermountain test and argues that further guidance from the Commission is therefore needed to prevent sham agreements between designated entities and third party managers. Other parties also support the view that the Commission should clarify its standards regarding management contracts, but do not necessarily agree about what standard should be anticipated. NABOB, for example, argues that the Intermountain test is too rigid and that a more flexible standard should be applied to designated entities who enter into management agreements. Columbia PCS, on the other hand, contends that the Commission should apply a stricter standard by limiting managers to performing discrete functions on a subcontractor basis as opposed to assuming broad responsibility for system management. 85. We have recently held in Gen. Docket 93&hyph;252 that the Intermountain Microwave standard applies to all CMRS licensees who enter into management contracts. Because we have determined that broadband PCS licensees will be presumptively classified as CMRS providers, 51 we reaffirm the applicability of the Intermountain standard here. We disagree with NABOB's view that this standard is not sufficiently flexible to account for the management needs of designated entities. The six Intermountain factors provide reasonable benchmarks for ensuring retention of control by the licensee while allowing for full consideration of the circumstances in each case. In the case of designated entity applicants, they will ensure that designated entities participate actively in the day-to-day management of the company while allowing reasonable flexibility to obtain services from outside experts as well. We believe that relaxing the Intermountain standard, by contrast, could give rise to sham agreements in which designated entities do not exercise actual control. 51 See Second Report and Order , Gen. Docket No. 93&hyph;252, 9 FCC Rcd 1411 (1994) at ¶119. 86. While we reject the view that scrutiny of management contracts should be relaxed, we also disagree with the view that such contracts should be subject to a stricter standard than we have applied previously. We conclude that limiting managers to discrete ``subcontractor'' functions, as Columbia PCS proposes, could prevent designated entities from drawing on managers with broad expertise. Moreover, whether a manager undertakes a large number of operational functions is irrelevant to the issue of control so long as ultimate responsibility for those functions resides with the licensee. Attribution Rules Voting Equity 87. The Fifth Report and Order provided that an investor may hold a 25 percent passive equity interest in the entrepreneurs' block applicant before its interest is attributable for purposes of our eligibility rules. 52 In addition, the passive equity investment for closely-held companies could include no more than five percent voting equity, while publicly-traded companies could include no more than 15 percent voting equity. In a subsequent Order , we increased the threshold percentage of non-attributable voting equity from five percent to 15 percent for closely-held companies, 53 Similarly, for the alternative equity option available to women and/or minority principals, the 49.9 percent passive investment could include no more than 15 percent voting equity. 52 Fifth Report and Order, FCC 94&hyph;178 at ¶158. 53 Order on Reconsideration, FCC 94&hyph;217 at ¶8&hyph;10. 88. Petitioners request that the Commission increase the threshold percentage of non-attributable voting equity from 15 percent to an amount ranging from 20 percent to 49 percent. In addition, petitioners request that the Commission clarify whether the existing rules permit nonattributable investors outside of the control group to hold a less than 25 percent or a less than or equal to 25 percent equity interest in the applicant. Also, on reconsideration of our Order on Reconsideration parties have debated our decision to raise the voting equity threshold for closely-held applicants from five to 15 percent. AIDE argues that raising the voting level of closely-held applicants is imprudent because it increases the likelihood that big business will control the applicant. AMP disagrees with AIDE that 15 percent voting control would increase the likelihood of shams, because 15 percent is still not a controlling percentage. Rather, AMP argues that increasing the permissible level of voting equity will enable applicants to attract more equity financing, thereby increasing the applicant's likelihood of success.
