FR941216-1-00090 FR941216-1-00012 Subpart F_Hazard Classification and Q/D Criteria §184.51 General. (a) This subpart outlines Q/D requirements applicable to storage, processing, and handling of A&E. The maximum amount of explosives permitted at any location is determined by the distance from that location to other exposed sites and the hazard classification assigned to the A&E involved. The applicable Q/D table in this subpart shall be used to determine this distance. Greater distances than those shown in the tables should be used when practicable. (b) Distances required in the standard Q/D tables may be reduced if structural data or engineering demonstrate that explosion effects will be reduced or eliminated through containment, direction or suppression shields or building volume. The rationale or test results justifying the proposed distance reduction shall accompany A&E site and general construction plans when submitted through the ACO for the PCO's approval. See §184.7. §184.52 Hazard classes and class divisions. (a) The United Nations Organization (UNO) classification system consists of nine hazard classes, with ammunition and explosives included in Class 1; however, some items containing explosives components may be included in other classes based upon the ``predominant hazard'' of that item (flammable liquids or compressed gas). Thirteen compatibility groups are included for segregating ammunition and explosives on the basis of similar characteristics, properties, and potential accident effects. (b) The A&E hazard classes are further subdivided into ``divisions'' according to the associate hazards, including the potential for causing personnel casualties or property damage as shown: ␣ 1Hazard class and division designator 1Hazards 1.1 Mass detonating. 1.2 Nonmass-detonating fragment producing. 1.3 Mass fire. 1.4 Moderate fire, no blast. 1.5 Extremely insensitive detonating substances (EIDS). 1.6 EIDS loaded items. (c) DoD Explosives Hazard Classification Procedures (TB 700&hyph;2, NAVSEAINST 8020.8, TO IIA&hyph;I&hyph;47 and DLAR 8220.1) shall be used as a basis for assignment of hazard classes/divisions to all DoD ammunition and explosives. As stated in §184.47(d), these classifications pertain to A&E packaged for transportation or storage. Such hazard classification information may not be valid when applied to the hazards associated with manufacturing or loading processes. For such processes, the materials and processes shall be analyzed on a case-by-case basis. Sources of information to support this process of analysis are available from service research and development organizations through contract channels, and other sources. The methodologies described in §184.199 for propellant is an example of an acceptable approach. Sections 184.73 through 184.81 provide examples of processes requiring analysis to determine the hazards. (d) The separation of the A&E hazard classes into the several divisions does not necessarily mean that the different items in a division may be stored together. Also, some items may appear in more than one division, depending upon factors such as the degree of confinement or separation, type of packaging, storage configuration, or state of assembly. (e) The maximum amount of explosives permitted in any location is limited by the Q/D criteria. Explosives limits shall be established in amounts no greater than those consistent with safe and efficient operations. (f) A numerical figure (in parentheses) is used to indicate the minimum separation distance (in hundreds of feet) for protection from debris, fragments, and firebrands when distance alone is relied on for such protection. This number shall be placed to the left of the division designators 1.1 through 1.3, such as (18)1.1, (08)1.2, and (06)1.3. The following apply to minimum fragment distances: (1) A hazardous fragment is one having an impact energy of at least 58 ft-lb and a hazardous fragment density is constituted by at least one hazardous fragment impacting in an area of 600 square feet or less. Fragment distances do not indicate the maximum range to which fragments may be projected. (2) For divisions 1.1 and 1.3, a minimum distance number shall be used where the ranges of hazardous fragments and firebrands EXCEED the distances specified for inhabited buildings in the applicable Q/D table. (3) Minimum fragment distance protects personnel in the open; minimum firebrand distance primarily protects facilities.
