FR940513-2-00092 FR940513-2-00039 Item 1. Preprinted on the form. Item 2. Fill in the date you submitted the application. Leave the applicant identifier box blank. Item 3. Not applicable. Item 4. Leave blank. Item 5. Provide the legal name of applicant; the name of the primary organizational unit which will undertake the assistance activity; the applicant address; and the name and telephone number of the person to contact on matters related to this application. Item 6. Enter the employer identification number (EIN) of the applicant organization as assigned by the Internal Revenue Service. Please include the suffix to the EIN, if known. Item 7. Enter the appropriate letter in the box provided. Item 8. Preprinted on form. Item 9. Preprinted on form. Item 10. Preprinted on form. Item 11. The title should describe concisely the nature of the project. Avoid repeating the title of the priority area or the name of the applicant. Try not to exceed 10 to 12 words and 120 characters including spaces and punctuation. Item 12. Preprinted on form. Item 13. Enter the desired start date for the project, beginning on or after September 1, 1994 and the desired end date for the project. Projects may be from 17 to 48 months in duration. Check the description of the priority area under which you are applying for the expected project duration. Item 14. List the applicant's Congressional District and the District(s), if any, directly affected by the proposed project. Item 15. All budget information entered under item # 15 should cover either: (1) the total project period if that period is 17 months or less; or (2) just the first 12 months if the project period is for 24, 36, or 48 months. The applicant should show the federal grant support requested under sub-item 15a. Sub-items 15b&hyph;15e are considered cost-sharing or ``matching funds''. The value of third party in-kind contributions should be entered in sub-items 15c&hyph;15e, as applicable. It is important that the dollar amounts entered in sub-items 15b&hyph;15e total at least 25 percent of the total project cost (total project cost is equal to the requested federal funds plus funds from non-federal sources). Check: Please check item 15 to make sure you have presented budget amounts only for the first year if you are proposing a multi-year project. A common error is to present budget totals for a full project period of 24, or 36, or 48 months in item 15. Item 16. Preprinted on form. Item 17. This question applies to the applicant organization, not the person who signs as the authorized representative. Categories of debt include delinquent audit disallowances, loans and taxes. Item 18. To be signed by an authorized representative of the applicant organization. A document attesting to that sign-off authority must be on file in the applicant's office. 2. SF 424A_Budget Information This form (SF424A) is designed to apply for funding under more than one grant program; thus, for purposes of this AoA program, most of the budget item columns/blocks are superfluous and should be regarded as not applicable. The applicant should consider and respond to only the budget items for which guidance is provided below. Section A_Budget Summary and Section B_Budget Categories should include both federal and non-federal funding for the proposed project covering (1) the total project period if that period is 17 months or less or (2) the first 12 months if the project period is for 24, 36, or 48 months. Section A_Budget Summary On line 5, enter total federal Costs in column (e) and total non-federal Costs (including third party in-kind contributions but not program income) in column (f). Enter the total of columns (e) and (f) in column (g). Section B_Budget Categories Use only the last column under Section B, namely the column headed Total (5), to enter the total requirements for funds (combining both the federal and non-federal shares) by object class category. A separate budget justification should be included which shows, preferably in the form of a table, the breakdown of budget cost items by federal and non-federal shares and fully explains and justifies each of the major budget items, personnel, travel, other, etc., as outlined below. The budget justification should not exceed four typed pages and should immediately follow SF 424A. Line 6a_Personnel: Enter total costs of salaries and wages of applicant/grantee staff. Do not include the costs of consultants, which should be included under 6h_Other. Justification: Identify the principal investigator or project director, if known. Specify the key staff, their titles, and time commitments in the budget justification. Line 6b_Fringe Benefits: Enter the total costs of fringe benefits unless treated as part of an approved indirect cost rate. Justification: Provide a breakdown of amounts and percentages that comprise fringe benefit costs, such as health insurance, FICA, retirement insurance, etc. Line 6c_Travel: Enter total costs of out-of-town travel (travel requiring per diem) for staff of the project. Do not enter costs for consultant's travel or local transportation. Justification: Include the total number of trips, destinations, length of stay, transportation costs and subsistence allowances. Line 6d_Equipment: Enter the total costs of all equipment to be acquired by the project. For state and local governments, including federally recognized Indian Tribes, ``equipment'' is non-expendable tangible personal property having a useful life of more than two years and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit. For all other grantees, the threshold for equipment is $500 or more per unit. Justification: Equipment to be purchased with federal funds must be justified as necessary for the conduct of the project. The equipment, or a reasonable facsimile, must not be otherwise available to the applicant or its sub-grantees. The justification also must contain plans for the use or disposal of the equipment after the project ends. Line 6e_Supplies: Enter the total costs of all tangible expendable personal property (supplies) other than those included on line 6d.
