FR940606-2-00114 FR940606-2-00077 Verbatim transcripts of the proceedings will be prepared and made a part of the rulemaking record. Copies of the hearing transcripts will be made available to the public for review. MSHA and NIOSH will also accept for the record additional written comments and other appropriate data from any interested party, including those not presenting oral statements. Written comments and data submitted to MSHA or NIOSH will be included in the rulemaking record. To allow for the submission of any post-hearing comments, the record will remain open until August 5, 1994. Issues Rescission of Joint 1971/1972 Finding Comments received to date have reflected some confusion over the MSHA and NIOSH decision to rescind the 1971 Notice of Finding which was affirmed in 1972. On July 17, 1971, a Notice of Finding under section 202(f)(2) of the Mine Act was published by the Secretaries of the Interior and Health, Education, and Welfare (36 FR 13286, July 17, 1971). This finding was based on an analysis of mine operator dust sample results from 2,179 working sections in compliance with the dust standard. Specifically, the average concentration of all 10 full-shift samples submitted from each working section under the regulations in effect at the time (referred to as ``basic samples'') ``*␣*␣* was compared with the average of the two most recently submitted samples *␣*␣*, then to the three most recently submitted samples, then to the four most recently submitted samples, etc.'' In discussing the results of these comparisons, the Secretaries stated that ``*␣*␣* the average of the two most recently submitted samples of respirable dust was statistically equivalent to the average concentration of the current basic samples for each working section in only 9.6 percent of the comparisons.'' The finding concluded that ``[a] single shift measurement of respirable dust would not, after applying valid statistical techniques to such measurement, accurately represent the atmospheric conditions to which the miner is continuously exposed.'' MSHA and NIOSH have concluded that the statistical analysis and the 1971 Finding itself were not germane to the Congressional intent as stated in section 202(f) of the Mine Act. On examination, it can be seen that the conclusion reached in the notice is not consistent with the title of the notice. Specifically, the title of the notice published in 1971 and affirmed in 1972 states the following: ``Notice of Finding That Single Shift Measurements of Respirable Dust Will Not Accurately Represent Atmospheric Conditions During Such Shift''. The conclusion reached in the notice states that: ``*␣*␣* a single shift measurement would not, after applying valid statistical techniques, accurately represent the atmospheric conditions to which the miner is continuously exposed''. Section 202(f) specifies a finding focused on the ``atmospheric conditions on such shift,'' not the ``atmospheric conditions during which the miner is continuously exposed.'' The analysis did not address the accuracy of a single full-shift measurement in representing atmospheric conditions during the shift on which it was taken. Therefore, the 1971/1972 finding does not establish that a single-shift measurement is invalid. NIOSH and MSHA request additional comments on their decision to rescind the joint 1971/1972 finding and issue a new finding. Accuracy of Single Full-Shift Measurements The proposed joint finding is based on NIOSH and MSHA's position that a sample taken in accordance with the provisions of 30 CFR parts 70, 71, and 90 accurately represents the full-shift, average atmospheric dust concentration at the location where the sample is collected. These regulatory provisions were designed to assure that measurements taken with approved sampling devices in a prescribed manner would meet a level of accuracy acceptable to the Secretaries. Some commenters suggested that the joint finding was invalid because NIOSH and MSHA had no evidence that a single shift sample would accurately measure atmospheric conditions as required by section 202(f). MSHA and NIOSH request further comments and data from the mining community concerning the accuracy of a single, full-shift respirable coal dust measurement. Dated: May 27, 1994. J. Davitt McAteer, Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health. Dated: May 31, 1994. Linda Rosenstock, Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13664 Filed 6&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4570&hyph;43&hyph;P
