FR941110-0-00073 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Two commenters suggested that ombudsmen should be informed in advance of a survey in order to be able to participate fully, provided ombudsmen are subject to the penalties mandated by law and to loss of employment if they cause the time of the survey to be known. One of these commenters suggested that advance notice of the survey should be given to the local ombudsman by means of a letter from the survey agency stamped ``CONFIDENTIAL.'' This commenter feels ombudsmen should be informed in advance because they are currently notified on the first or second day of three or four day surveys and may have already scheduled appointments which cannot be changed in order to accommodate the survey schedule. This commenter feels that advance notice would guarantee better surveys by strengthening ombudsman/consumer input. Response: We disagree. Each additional individual or organization that has knowledge of a scheduled survey decreases the likelihood that the survey will remain unannounced. The ombudsman is contacted soon after the survey team has entered the facility and can participate meaningfully even if not present for the initial tour of the facility or other early phases of the survey. Comment: Two commenters stated that a $2,000 fine is not a severe enough penalty for willfully disclosing in advance the timing of a nursing home inspection or taking advantage of foreknowledge of an inspection. Another suggested that this type of violation should also be referred to the Department of Justice for prosecution for obstruction of justice. Response: The $2,000 fine is the maximum allowable under sections 1819(g)(2)(A)(i) and 1919(g)(2)(A)(i) of the Act. The exact amount of the civil money penalty is determined by the OIG. In response to the suggestion that this violation be referred to the Department of Justice, OIG decides which cases are appropriate for such referral. Comment: This commenter stated that §488.307(c) is weakened by the use of the word ``standard'' and that civil money penalties should be applied as a penalty for the announcement of any type of survey including validation, complaint, or other surveys. Response: Sections 1819(g)(2)(A) and 1919(g)(2)(A) of the Act are applicable to standard surveys only, so that the civil money penalties specified at sections 1819(g)(2)(A)(i) and 1919(g)(2)(A)(i) are imposed for announcing standard surveys. We do not have the statutory authority to require that civil money penalties be imposed for announcing anything other than standard surveys. Section 488.308␣Survey Frequency
