FR941202-2-00187 FR941202-2-00098 iii. Failing to address each item noted as a deficiency in the corrective action report; iv. Failing the same performance evaluation sample analysis two consecutive times for the same analyte; or v. Failing to achieve an overall testing event passing score for two consecutive testing events or two out of three consecutive testing events. (d) All information included and documented in a deficiency report and the corrective action report are considered to be public information. Other states participating in the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program would have access to this information through a national database. At a minimum, the database would include the following information: i. Name and location of laboratory; ii. Number and dates of assessments performed and whether they were announced or unannounced; iii. Performance evaluation samples and analyses done, the date completed and the status (in process; passed, failed); iv. Categories and methods for which the laboratory is currently accredited and date of accreditation; and/or v. Categories and method for which the laboratory has lost accreditation and the date of loss of accreditation. 4.1.5␣Ethical Standards Elements in a national program that ensure consistency and promote the use of quality assurance/quality control procedures to generate quality data for regulatory purposes are (a) NELAC strongly recommends requires that each laboratory seeking national accreditation have a named Quality Assurance Officer. NELAC strongly recommends that the Quality Assurance Officer be a person other than any supervisor of laboratory analysts, who reports directly to the laboratory management and not to the laboratory supervisor in matters related to quality assurance and quality control of analyses, methods relating to these analyses, and instrumentation. (b) NELAC will consider that responsibility for falsification of data, records or instrument parameters will rest upon the Quality Assurance Officer (named in 4.1.4a above), the laboratory management and the company. (c) The National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program shall establish a ``Laboratory Fraud Hotline'' telephone number. Alleged cases of data, record or analytical fraud reported via this hotline will be referred to the relevant state authority for investigation. The fact that a federal or state has taken regulatory, legal, or contractual action against a laboratory will be made available on the national database. 4.1.6␣Fee Process for National Accreditation Refer to Policy and Structure, specifically funding of the program 1.7.3, regarding the funding of state accreditation programs, including a fee structure covering the actual cost of an accreditation. (a) The cost incurred in the application process for national environmental laboratory accreditation will be called an accreditation fee. (b) Where required, accreditation fees will be paid to the state(s) which grants accreditation to the laboratory. These fees must be paid in accordance with existing state regulations, levels and practices.
