FR941116-0-00141 FR941116-0-00022 (ii) The historical weighted yield can be increased by decreasing such CAB if both irrigated and nonirrigated yields are present for such crop; or (iii) The CAB exceeds the cropland and the producer prefers a permanent reduction instead of a temporary reduction. (2) The crop involved in the reduction does not have to be participating in the ARP. (c)(1) The operator of a farm may request that the acreage base for a crop of a commodity produced on a farm be established in accordance with either §1413.24(b) or (d) for wheat and feed grains and §1413.24(c) or (d) for upland cotton and rice. The sum of the CAB's in the rotation cycle after adjustment cannot exceed the sum of the CAB in the cycle before adjustment. The county or State committee may approve an increase in the acreage base established for such crop in future crop years. (2) If the sum of CAB's, plus double cropping history, exceeds the cropland, the operator will be given the opportunity to reduce one or more CAB's. If the operator fails to make such a reduction, such a reduction shall be made by the county committee. Producers must designate, in writing, the CAB's to be reduced before any current year participation in the ARP, or CRP is requested, reconstitution to the farm is requested, or crop acreage report is filed according to part 718 of this title. Producers shall not reduce the CAB below the amount of the CAB that is designated for the CRP according to part 704 of this title, and the CAB's shall not be reduced below the cropland acreage. (d)(1) For the 1994 through 1997 crops of upland cotton, and the 1994 and 1995 crops of rice, producers may increase individual CAB's on the farm above the levels that would otherwise be established under §1413.24 in order to restore the total of the upland cotton CAB's on the farm for the 1994 through 1997 crop years, and the 1994 and 1995 total of the rice CAB's on the farm to the same level as the total of CAB's on the farm for the 1990 crop year, if the county committee determines: (i) A producer of upland cotton or rice was required to reduce one or more individual CAB's on the farm during the 1991 crop year because of CAB's exceeding cropland in order to comply with §1413.24(e) for establishing bases for upland cotton and rice; and (i) The producers on the farm have participated in the production adjustment program during the 1991 crop year and each subsequent crop year through the current crop year. (2) Producers affected by this method of calculation may request that the county committee adjust the rice and cotton CAB's on a farm to the higher of the preceding 3-year average or the preceding 5-year average. (3) To determine the adjustment, county committees may: (i) Calculate a 5-year average; (ii) Compare the 5-year average to the current 3-year average; (iii) Adjust the CAB to equal the 5-year calculation if the 5-year calculation is higher than the 3-year calculation. (4) Such eligible producers may appeal: (i) The 3-year calculation of upland cotton and rice CAB's each year, (ii) No later than the final date as shown on Form ASCS&hyph;476, Notice of Bases and Yields. §1413.27 Conservation compliance CAB exchanges. CAB's established in accordance with §1413.24 may be adjusted on a one-time basis by the county committee to increase the high residue CAB's on the farms, with an offsetting decrease in the low residue CAB's on the farm, so that producers can plant in compliance with the approved conservation plan for the farm. §§1413.28&hyph;1413.29 [Reserved] §1413.30 Reconstitution of farms. (a) Farms shall be reconstituted in accordance with part 719 of this title. (b) The yield established by the county committee for any crop on a farm resulting from a combination of farms or portions of farms shall not, except for rounding, exceed the weighted average of the applicable yields established for the component portions of such farm. (c) The yield established by the county committee for any crop on a farm resulting from a division of a farm shall not, except for rounding, exceed the applicable yields established for the parent farm before the division of such farm. (d) In determining the weighted average yields determined in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the CAB for the farm for the current year shall be used. (e) The actual yield established for ELS cotton for a farm resulting from a combination of farms or portions of farms shall not, except for rounding, exceed the weighted average of the applicable yields established for the component portions of such farm. (f) The weighted average of the actual yield established for ELS cotton for a farm resulting from a division of a farm shall not, except for rounding, exceed the applicable yields established for the parent farm before the division of such farm. (g) The IAM for a crop established in accordance with §1413.18 for a farm shall be divided among the farms resulting from the division of such farm in proportion to the CAB for such crop established for each resulting farm. However, such division may be modified in order to more fairly reflect the cropping history of the land in such resulting farms in accordance with part 719 of this title. The sum of the IAM's established for any crop for a farm resulting from a division of a farm shall equal, except for rounding, the IAM established for the parent farm before the division of such farm.
