FR940725-0-00166 FR940725-0-00019 OSHA proposed in paragraph (a) that the employer ensure that employees understand all warning signs and limitations provided by Marine Chemists and the OSHA Form 74. OSHA has dropped the reference to the OSHA Form 74 since it is no longer required, and has added new language to clarify that the employer must present warning materials in a manner that can be understood by all of his or her employees. There are many methods such as dual language signs or pictorial graphics that an employer may use to ensure that employees can and do understand all warning signs and instruction addressing dangerous working conditions. This is consistent with the position OSHA has taken on other rulemakings that address signs, tags, and labels. For example, in 29 CFR ยง1910.145, OSHA permits the use of accident prevention tags using graphic or second language text where necessary. Moreover, the obligation to present signs and labels in a manner that can be perceived by all employees also means that the label or sign must be posted in a place where employees will see it in the course of their work. Other factors the employer must consider are size, material, and methods of attachment. In short, this new performance-oriented language requires that employers provide adequate notice to all employees of dangerous working conditions, but leaves the method of presentation up to the employer. In paragraph (b) of the final rule, OSHA continues to allow employers to post the warning signs or labels at all means of access rather than requiring each tank or space to be labeled, as long as the entire space has been tested and certified. This is the same as paragraph (c) of the previous standard. III. Statutory Considerations A. Introduction OSHA has described the hazards found in confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres in shipyard employment and the measures required to protect affected employees from those hazards in Section I, Background, and in Section II, Summary and Explanation of the Final Rule, earlier in this preamble. The Agency is providing the following discussion of the statutory mandate for OSHA rulemaking activity to explain the legal basis for its determination that the Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres standard, as promulgated, is reasonably necessary to protect affected employees from significant risks of injury and death. Section 2(b)(3) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act authorizes ``the Secretary of Labor to set mandatory occupational safety and health standards applicable to businesses affecting interstate commerce'', and section 5(a)(2) provides that ``[e]ach employer shall comply with occupational safety and health standards promulgated under this Act'' (emphasis added). Section 3(8) of the OSH Act (29 U.S.C. 652(8)) provides that ``the term `occupational safety and health standard' means a standard which requires conditions, or the adoption or use of one or more practices, means, methods, operations, or processes, reasonably necessary or appropriate to provide safe or healthful employment and places of employment.'' In two recent cases, reviewing courts have expressed concern that OSHA's interpretation of these provisions of the OSH Act, particularly of section 3(8) as it pertains to safety rulemaking, could lead to overly costly or under-protective safety standards. In International Union, UAW v. OSHA, 938 F.2d 1310 (D.C. Cir. 1991), the District of Columbia Circuit rejected substantive challenges to OSHA's lockout/tagout standard and denied a request that enforcement of that standard be stayed, but it also expressed concern that OSHA's interpretation of the OSH Act could lead to safety standards that are very costly and only minimally protective. In National Grain & Feed Ass'n v. OSHA, 866 F.2d 717 (5th Cir. 1989), the Fifth Circuit concluded that Congress gave OSHA considerable discretion in structuring the costs and benefits of safety standards but, concerned that the grain dust standard might be under-protective, directed OSHA to consider adding a provision that might further reduce significant risk of fire and explosion. OSHA rulemakings involve a significant degree of Agency expertise and policy-making discretion to which reviewing courts must defer. (See for example, Building & Constr. Trades Dep't, AFL&hyph;CIO v. Brock, 838 F.2d 1258, 1266 (D.C. Cir. 1988); Industrial Union Dep't, AFL&hyph;CIO v. American Petroleum Inst., 448 U.S. 607, 655 n. 62 (1980).) At the same time, the Agency's technical expertise and policy-making authority must be exercised within discernable parameters. The lockout/tagout and grain handling standard decisions sought clarification of the Agency's view of the scope of its expertise and authority. In light of those decisions, the preamble to this safety standard states OSHA's views regarding the limits of its safety rulemaking authority and explains why the Agency is confident that its interpretive views have in the past avoided regulatory extremes and continue to do so in this rule. Stated briefly, the OSH Act requires that before promulgating any occupational safety standard, OSHA demonstrate based on substantial evidence in the record as a whole that: (1) The proposed standard will substantially reduce a significant risk of material harm; (2) compliance is technologically feasible in the sense that the protective measures being required already exist, can be brought into existence with available technology, or can be created with technology that can reasonably be developed; (3) compliance is economically feasible in the sense that industry can absorb or pass on the costs without major dislocation or threat of instability; and (4) the standard is cost-effective in that it employs the least expensive protective measures capable of reducing or eliminating significant risk. Additionally, proposed safety standards must be compatible with prior Agency action, must be responsive to significant comment in the record, and, to the extent allowed by statute, must be consistent with applicable Executive Orders. These elements limit OSHA's regulatory discretion for safety rulemaking and provide a decision-making framework for developing a rule.
