FR940628-0-00016 FR940628-0-00013 40 CFR Part 372 [OPPTS&hyph;400063A; FRL&hyph;4767&hyph;5] Barium Sulfate; Toxic Chemical Release Reporting; Community Right-To-Know AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: EPA is deleting barium sulfate from the category ``barium compounds'' on the list of toxic chemicals for which reporting is required under section 313 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA). This action is based on EPA's conclusion that barium sulfate meets the deletion criteria of EPCRA section 313(d)(3). By promulgating this rule, EPA is relieving facilities of their obligation to report releases of barium sulfate that occurred during the 1993 reporting year, and releases that will occur in the future. DATES: This rule is effective June 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Maria J. Doa, Petitions Coordinator, 202&hyph;260&hyph;9592, for specific information regarding this final rule. For further information on EPCRA section 313, contact the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Information Hotline, Environmental Protection Agency, Mail Stop 5101, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460, Toll free: 800&hyph;535&hyph;0202, Toll free TDD: 800&hyph;553&hyph;7672. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction A. Statutory Authority This action is issued under section 313(d) and (e)(1) of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023). EPCRA is also referred to as Title III of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) of 1986. B. Background Section 313 of EPCRA requires certain facilities manufacturing, processing, or otherwise using listed toxic chemicals to report their environmental releases of such chemicals annually. Beginning with the 1991 reporting year, such facilities also must report pollution prevention and recycling data for such chemicals, pursuant to section 6607 of the Pollution Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 13106, ``PPA''). Section 313 established an initial list of toxic chemicals that was comprised of more than 300 chemicals and 20 chemical categories. Section 313(d) authorizes EPA to add chemicals to or delete chemicals from the list, and sets forth criteria for these actions. Under section 313(e), any person may petition EPA to add chemicals to or delete chemicals from the list. EPA has added chemicals to and deleted chemicals from the original statutory list. EPA issued a statement of petition policy and guidance in the Federal Register of February 4, 1987 (52 FR 3479), to provide guidance regarding the recommended content and format for petitions. On May 23, 1991 (56 FR 23703), EPA issued guidance regarding the recommended content of petitions to delete individual members of the section 313 metal compound categories. II. Effective Date This action becomes effective immediately. Thus, the last year in which facilities had to report releases of barium sulfate was 1993, covering releases that occurred in 1992. The effect of this deletion is that, since barium sulfate will not be on the section 313 list when facilities report in 1994 for releases that occured in 1993, these reports and all subsequent reports need not include barium sulfate release data. Facilities will therefore not have to collect release information for any releases of barium sulfate that occur during the 1993 reporting year or for any releases that occur in the future. Section 313(d)(4) provides that ``[a]ny revision [to the section 313 list] made on or after January 1 and before December 1 of any calendar year shall take effect beginning with the next calendar year. Any revision made on or after December 1 and before January 1 shall take effect beginning with the calendar year following the next calendar year.'' The Agency interprets this delayed effective date provision to apply only to actions that add chemicals to the section 313 list. For deletions, the Agency may, in its discretion, make such actions immediately effective. An immediate effective date is authorized, in these circumstances, under 5 U.S.C. section 553(d)(1) since a deletion from the section 313 list relieves a regulatory restriction. The Agency believes that the purpose behind the section 313(d)(4) effective date provision is to allow facilities adequate planning time to incorporate newly added chemicals to their TRI release data collection processes. A facility would not need additional planning time to not report releases of a given chemical. Thus, a reasonable construction of section 313(d)(4), given the overall purpose and structure of EPCRA _ to provide the public with information about chemicals which meet the criteria for inclusion on the section 313 list _ is to apply the delayed effective date requirement only to additions to the list. Where the Agency has determined, as it has with barium sulfate, that a chemical does not satisfy the criteria of section 313(d)(2)(A)-(C), no purpose is served by requiring facilities to collect release data or file release reports for that chemical, or, therefore, by leaving that chemical on the section 313 list for any additional period of time. Nothing in the legislative history suggests that 313(d)(4) was intended to apply to deletions as well as additions; indeed, such a construction would be incongruous, since deleted chemicals, by definition, do not satisfy the criteria for being on the section 313 list and their deletion from that list should not be delayed in the absence of any compelling reason to the contrary. This construction of section 313(d)(4) is also consistent with previous rules deleting chemicals from the section 313 list. Indeed, the Agency has not given any of its rules deleting chemicals from the section 313 list the delayed effective dates specified in section 313(d)(4). III. Description of Petition and Rationale for Delisting A. Petition and Proposed Action On September 24, 1991, EPA received a petition from the Chemical Products Corporation (CPC) to delete barium sulfate (BaSO 4 ) from the list of toxic chemicals established under EPCRA section 313. A second petition, submitted by the Dry Color Manufacturer's Association (DCMA), to delete barium sulfate was received on November 6, 1991. Both petitions are based on the contention that barium sulfate is not toxic and does not meet any of the statutory criteria under EPCRA section 313(d)(2). Following a review of the petitions, EPA granted the petitions and issued a proposed rule in the Federal Register of June 11, 1993 (58 FR 32622), to delete barium sulfate from the category ``barium compounds'' on the list of toxic chemicals under EPCRA section 313. EPA's proposal was based on its conclusion that BaSO 4 meets the EPCRA section 313(d)(3) criteria for deletion from the list. With respect to deletions, EPCRA section 313(d)(3) provides that ``[a] chemical may be deleted if the Administrator determines there is not sufficient evidence to establish any of the criteria described in paragraph [(d)(2)(A)-(C)].'' Specifically, in the proposal EPA preliminarily concluded that there is not sufficient evidence to establish that BaSO 4 causes adverse acute human health effects, chronic human health effects, or environmental toxicity. EPA's rationale is detailed in the proposed rule and is based on the Agency's review of the petitions, as well as other relevant materials. B. Rationale for Delisting After reviewing comments received and other relevant information, EPA has concluded that the assessment set out in the proposed rule should be affirmed. Therefore, this final rule is based on EPA's conclusion that BaSO 4 is essentially non-toxic to humans and the environment, and thus meets the EPCRA section 313(d)(3) criterion for delisting (i.e., it does not meet any of the EPCRA section 313(d)(2) listing criteria). In reaching this conclusion, EPA considered the toxicity of the barium ion because another potential source of barium sulfate toxicity could be from the barium ion. EPA initially analyzed the availability of barium ion. If the ion is not available, barium sulfate cannot cause toxicity due to barium ion. EPA has concluded that barium ion from barium sulfate will not be available to humans or the environment in any way that would affect the Agency's decision under EPCRA section 313(d)(3). This is because barium ion from barium sulfate will occur at significant levels only under anaerobic conditions in stagnant water bodies that are cut-off from surface and ground waters. As discussed below, such conditions do not give rise to human health or environmental concerns under the EPCRA section 313(d)(2) criteria. Because intact BaSO 4 is acutely toxic only at levels that greatly exceed releases and resultant exposures, BaSO 4 cannot reasonably be anticipated to cause ``. . .significant adverse acute human health effects at concentration levels that are reasonably likely to exist beyond facility site boundaries as a result of continuous, or frequently recurring releases.'' EPA believes that barium ion anaerobically released from barium sulfate into isolated stagnant water bodies cannot reasonably be anticipated to result in adverse effects on human health because people do not routinely use these waters as sources of drinking water or food, or for recreation. Under other conditions, barium ion could not be an issue because it is not available. Thus, EPA has concluded that BaSO 4 does not meet the toxicity criterion for listing under EPCRA section 313(d)(2)(A). EPA has concluded that BaSO 4 does not meet the toxicity criteria of EPCRA section 313(d)(2)(B) because BaSO 4 cannot reasonably be anticipated to cause cancer, developmental toxicity, reproductive toxicity, neurotoxicity, gene mutations, or chronic toxicity. Intact BaSO 4 is not known to cause such effects, and for the reasons discussed above barium ion will not be available to cause chronic human toxicity. EPA has concluded that BaSO 4 does not meet the EPCRA section 313(d)(2)(C) toxicity criteria because of the lack of availability of soluble barium from barium sulfate. Moreover, ecotoxicity data indicate that barium ion generated in low sulfate, anaerobic environments cannot reasonably be anticipated to result in adverse effects on the environment of sufficient seriousness to warrant reporting under EPCRA section 313. C. Response to Comments EPA received 34 comments on the proposed rule, all in support of the deletion of barium sulfate. While all the comments received were in support of the deletion, a few commenters requested clarification on some points discussed in the proposed rule. Two commenters wanted clarification of the statement regarding the water solubility of barium sulfate and how it relates to the maximum contaminant level (page 32624, second column, first full paragraph). EPA agrees with the commenters that, at the water solubility of 2.4 mg/L (2.4 ppm) at 25 ○C, there are 1.4 ppm of barium ion and 1.0 ppm of sulfate ion, and that the 1.4 ppm concentration of barium ion is below the maximum contaminant level of 2 mg/L (2 ppm) established by EPA under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Many commenters requested clarification of EPA's characterization of the regulatory status of barium sulfate under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the disposal of drilling fluids. Specifically, one commenter stated that EPA did not clarify that discharges of drilling fluids are in fact exempt from EPCRA as well as RCRA. Another commenter stated that EPA should clarify the statement in the proposed rule that there are no Federal regulations prohibiting land disposal of drilling fluids to include the possibility of state regulations. EPA agrees with the commenters that some clarification is needed on these issues. 40 CFR 261.4(b)(5) exempts from Federal regulation as hazardous waste drilling fluids and other wastes from the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural gas, or geothermal energy. Therefore, EPA regulations do not prohibit the land disposal of drilling fluids. This activity, however, may be regulated by state agencies. In addition, the commenter added that underground injection controls pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act and the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program under the Clean Water Act also regulate drilling waste. EPA does not agree with the comment that disposal of drilling fluids is totally exempt from EPCRA reporting. Although the discharge of drilling fluids is not specifically reportable under EPCRA section 313, the drilling fluids may contain a reportable component and the discharge of that chemical would require reporting if all applicable criteria are met. One commenter wanted clarification of the statements ``Although the TCLP may indicate that barium sulfate is not a hazardous waste as defined by RCRA. ..'' and later, ``Furthermore, drilling fluids are specifically exempted and are not considered hazardous wastes under RCRA including those containing barium sulfate, even if the barium sulfate itself meets the TCLP (40 CFR 261.4)'' (page 32624, column 1, second and third full paragraphs). To clarify, barium sulfate is not a listed hazardous waste as defined by RCRA. Furthermore, the exemption under 40 CFR 261.4(b)(5) for barium sulfate in drilling fluids may apply. EPA notes that barium is one of the contaminants tested for in the Toxicity Characteristics (TC) of 40 CFR 261.24. However, due to its limited water solubility, barium sulfate is not expected to produce an extractable concentration of barium that exceeds the maximum allowable concentration of soluble barium (100 mg/L) using the Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure (TCLP) as described in 40 CFR 261.24. Thus, in these cases, land disposal of barium sulfate is not regulated under RCRA subtitle C. However, EPA reiterates that the TCLP is not conducted under anaerobic (reducing) conditions and that it is possible for barium sulfate to liberate soluble barium under such conditions. Thus, even though land disposal of barium sulfate is permissible under RCRA if TC levels for barium are not exceeded, such disposal may lead to the availability of soluble barium. One commenter claimed that throughout the proposal EPA placed too much emphasis on the release of barium ion from barium sulfate under anaerobic conditions. In addition, the commenter added that it is unlikely that disposal of drilling fluids as solid wastes would ``encourage perched water and anaerobic digestion of barium sulfate in low sulfate environments.'' In the proposed rule EPA wanted to make clear that although barium sulfate is poorly soluble (i.e., does not significantly dissociate to barium and sulfate ions) in water, it is still possible for this substance to liberate barium ion in water as a result of anaerobic degradation. In the proposed rule EPA cited several studies which clearly show that barium ion concentrations can become elevated as a result of anaerobic degradation of barium sulfate. EPA agrees with the commenter that it is probably unlikely that discharge of barium sulfate-containing drilling fluids will encourage the formation of stagnant waterbodies, where anaerobic degradation is likely to occur. In its discussions on the availability of barium ion from barium sulfate (units IV.D. and E. of the proposed rule) the Agency did not specifically address discharges of drilling fluids containing barium sulfate. Although EPA cited studies that showed elevated barium ion concentrations in experiments which used drilling fluids that contained barium sulfate, the main purpose of these discussions is to illustrate that under certain environmental conditions barium ion can become available from barium sulfate, regardless of the source of the barium sulfate. One commenter stated in the proposal that EPA does not clearly make the distinction that barium is not a heavy metal (page 32626, column 3, first full paragraph). EPA agrees that barium is not a heavy metal, and it is not EPA's intent to imply that barium is or can be viewed as a heavy metal. EPA was describing how the solubility of barium sulfate may be influenced by factors other than sulfate concentration. EPA used references which describe how substances normally found in the environment (e.g., fulvic and humic acids, bicarbonate, and hydroxyl ions) or soil particle grain size can enhance the solubility of otherwise poorly soluble metal salts, such as salts of heavy metals. EPA maintains that the cited studies provide sufficient evidence that the solubility of any metal salt may be significantly affected by a variety of naturally occurring environmental conditions. The same commenter provided additional information on the toxicity of barium ion. EPA is considering this information but is not addressing it in this final rule since it is not relevant to this delisting. In accordance with the May 23, 1991 guidance, this delisting decision is made on the basis of availability of barium ion and not on barium ion toxicity. If the ion is not available, its inherent toxicity is irrelevant because it cannot cause adverse effects. Today's action is not intended, and should not be inferred to affect the status of BaSO 4 under any statute or program other than the Toxic Chemical Release Inventory reporting under EPCRA section 313 and PPA section 6607. IV. Rulemaking Record The record supporting this final rule is contained in the docket number OPPTS&hyph;400063A. All documents, including an index of the docket, are available in the TSCA Document Receipt Office from noon to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The TSCA Document Receipt Office is located at EPA Headquarters, Rm. NE&hyph;B607, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. V. Regulatory Assessment Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the requirements of the Executive Order. Section 3(f) of the Order defines a ``significant regulatory action'' as an action likely to lead to a rule (1) Having an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely and materially affecting a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities (also referred to as ``economically significant''); (2) creating serious inconsistency or otherwise interfering with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially altering the budgetary impacts of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs; or (4) raising novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of this Executive Order, it has been determined that this final rule is not ``significant'' and therefore not subject to OMB review. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, the Agency must conduct a small business analysis to determine whether a substantial number of small entities would be significantly affected by the final rule. Because this final rule eliminates an existing requirement, it would result in cost savings to facilities, including small entities. C. Paperwork Reduction Act This final rule does not have any information collection requirements under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 372 Environmental protection, Chemicals, Community right-to-know, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Toxic chemicals. Dated: June 16, 1994. Lynn R. Goldman, Assistant Administrator, Office of Prevention, Pesticides and Toxic Substances. Therefore, 40 CFR part 372 is amended to read as follows: Part 372_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 372 continues to read as follows: Authority : 42 U.S.C. 11023 and 11048. §372.65 [Amended] 2. In §372.65(c), by adding the following language to the barium compounds listing ``(except for barium sulfate, (CAS No. 7727&hyph;43&hyph;7).'' [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15578 Filed 6&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
