FR940429-0-00255 FR940429-0-00015 (ii) The institution may appeal the loss of full participation in a Title IV, HEA program under paragraph (m)(1) of this section by submitting an appeal in writing to the Secretary in accordance with and on the grounds specified in §668.17(d); and (n) Does not otherwise appear to lack the ability to administer the Title IV, HEA programs competently. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1082, 1085, 1094, 1099c; Section 4 of Pub. L. 95&hyph;452, 92 Stat. 1101&hyph;1109; E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189), 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235)) 14. Newly redesignated §668.17 is revised to read as follows: §668.17 Default reduction measures. (a) Default rates. If the Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS cohort default rate for an institution exceeds 20 percent for any fiscal year, the Secretary notifies the institution of that rate and may, after consultation as the Secretary deems appropriate with cognizant guaranty agencies take one or more of the following actions: (1) Initiate a proceeding under subpart G of this part to limit, suspend, or terminate the participation of the institution in the Title IV, HEA programs, if_ (i) The institution's Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS cohort default rate exceeds 40 percent for any fiscal year after 1989 and has not been reduced by an increment of at least 5 percent from its rate for the previous fiscal year (e.g., a 50-percent rate was not reduced to 45 percent or below); or (ii) The institution's Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS cohort default rate exceeds_ (A) 60 percent for fiscal year 1989; (B) 55 percent for fiscal year 1990; (C) 50 percent for fiscal year 1991; (D) 45 percent for fiscal year 1992; or (E) 40 percent for any fiscal year after fiscal year 1992. (2) To help the Secretary make a preliminary determination as to the appropriate action to be taken by the Secretary regarding the institution, require the institution to submit to the Secretary and one or more guaranty agencies, as defined in 34 CFR part 682, any information relating to that determination, as reasonably required by the Secretary, within a time frame specified by the Secretary. (b) Default management plan. If the Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS cohort default rate for an institution_ (1) Is greater than 20 percent but less than or equal to 40 percent, the institution must submit a default management plan that implements the measures described in appendix D to this part. An institution that wishes to submit a default management plan that deviates from the measures described in appendix D must submit a justification for the deviation that includes a rationale explaining why the measures from which the plan deviates are not appropriate for the institution's specific situation. The institution must implement the default management plan upon notification from the Secretary that the plan has been approved; or (2) Exceeds 40 percent for any fiscal year, the institution must implement all of the default management reduction measures described in appendix D to this part no later than 60 days after the institution receives the Secretary's notification of the institution's cohort default rate. An institution is not required to submit any written plans to the Secretary or a guaranty agency unless the Secretary or guaranty agency specifically requests the institution to do so. (c) End of participation. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, an institution's participation in the FFEL programs ends if the Secretary determines that the institution's cohort default rate, for each of the three most recent fiscal years for which the Secretary has determined the institution's rate, is equal to or greater than the applicable threshold rates. (2) For purposes of the determinations made under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the threshold rates are_ (i) 35 percent for each of fiscal years 1991 and 1992; (ii) 30 percent for fiscal year 1993; and (iii) 25 percent for fiscal year 1994 and all subsequent fiscal years. (3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, an institution whose participation ends under paragraph (c)(1) of this section may not participate in the FFEL programs beginning with the date that the institution receives notification from the Secretary that its cohort default rate exceeds the thresholds specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and continuing_ (i) For the remainder of the fiscal year in which the Secretary determines that the institution's participation has ended under paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and (ii) For the two subsequent fiscal years. (4) An institution whose participation in the FFEL programs ends under paragraph (c)(1) of this section may not participate in the FFEL programs until the institution_ (i) Receives notification from the Secretary that the notice ending the institution's participation is withdrawn pursuant to paragraph (d)(6) of this section; or (ii) Following the period described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, satisfies the Secretary that the institution meets all requirements for participation in the FFEL programs and executes a new agreement with the Secretary for participation in the FFEL programs. (5) If the Secretary withdraws the notification of an institution's loss of participation pursuant to paragraph (d)(6) of this section, the participation of the institution is restored effective as of the date that the institution received notification from the Secretary of the loss of participation. (6) Until July 1, 1998, the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section and the provisions of §668.16(m) do not apply to a historically black college or university within the meaning of section 322(2) of the HEA, a tribally controlled community college within the meaning of section 2(a)(4) of the Tribally Controlled Community College Assistance Act of 1978, or a Navajo community college under the Navajo Community College Act. (7)(i) If the Secretary's designated department official receives written notice from an institution whose participation ends under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, within seven calendar days from the date on which the institution receives notification from the Secretary that its cohort default rate exceeds the thresholds specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, that the institution intends to appeal the end of participation under paragraph (d) of this section, the institution may, notwithstanding §668.26(d) continue to participate in the FFEL programs until no later than the 30th calendar day following the date on which the institution receives notification from the Secretary that its cohort default rate exceeds the thresholds specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section. (ii) If an institution satisfies the conditions in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section for participating in the FFEL programs until the 30th calendar day following the date on which the institution receives notification from the Secretary that its cohort default rate exceeds the thresholds specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the institution may, notwithstanding §668.26(d), continue to participate in the FFEL programs after that date, until the Secretary issues a decision on the institution's appeal, if the institution, by the 30th calendar day following the date on which the institution receives notification from the Secretary that its cohort default rate exceeds the thresholds specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, files an appeal that is complete in all respects in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. However, the appeal of an institution relying on paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section is not considered incomplete by virtue of a guaranty agency's not having yet complied with_or having failed to comply with_34 CFR 682.401(b)(14), which requires the agency to respond to an institution's request for verification of data within 15 working days, if the institution submitted that request within 10 working days from the date on which the institution received notification from the Secretary that its cohort default rate exceeds the thresholds specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and the institution simultaneously submitted a copy of that request to the Secretary's designated department official. When the institution receives the guaranty agency's response, to complete its appeal, the institution must submit the verified data to the Secretary's designated department official within five working days in order to continue participating in the FFEL programs until the Secretary issues a decision on the institution's appeal.
