FR940817-1-00071 FR940817-1-00014 (i) A plan that provides for broad-based employee participation, by its terms does not discriminate in favor of highly compensated employees, and is qualified pursuant to Section 401 or Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code; or (ii) A plan that: (A) Operates in conjunction with a plan that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section; and (B) Provides only the benefits or contributions that would be provided under a tax-qualified plan but for the limitations of Sections 401(a)(17), 415 and any other applicable contribution limitation set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. (2) For intra-plan transfers between an equity securities of the issuer fund and another fund: (i) The transaction is pursuant to an election made during a quarterly time period specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; or (ii) The transaction results from a diversification election that satisfies the requirements of Section 401(a)(28) of the Internal Revenue Code. (e) Cash settlements of stock appreciation rights. A transaction involving the exercise and cancellation of a stock appreciation right (whether or not the transaction also involves the related surrender and cancellation of a stock option), and the receipt of cash in complete or partial settlement of that right, shall be exempt from Section 16(b) of the Act if the plan satisfies the conditions of paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of this section, if applicable, and the following conditions are met: (1) Information about the issuer. (i) The issuer of the stock appreciation right has filed all reports and statements required pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Act for at least a year prior to the transaction or such shorter time as the issuer has been subject to that section; and * * * * * (f) Cancellations, expirations, and surrenders. *␣*␣* (2) The surrender or delivery to the issuer, or the withholding by the issuer, of shares of its stock as payment for the exercise of an option, warrant or right with respect to shares of the same class; and (3) The surrender or delivery to the issuer, or the withholding by the issuer, of an equity security to satisfy the tax withholding consequences of either the receipt or vesting of the equity security or the exercise of a derivative security related to the equity security. (g) Distributions of plan securities or cash. The following distributions are exempt from Section 16(b) of the Act; provided that paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section shall be available only if the plan pursuant to which the distribution is made satisfies the conditions of paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of this section, if applicable, and the securities with respect to which the distribution is made were acquired in a transaction exempt pursuant to §240.16b&hyph;3: (1) A distribution of either securities or cash, or a combination of securities and cash; or a deferral of a distribution of securities or cash in whole or in part, provided such distribution or deferral is incident to death, retirement, disability, termination of employment, or a diversification election permitted by Section 401(a)(28) of the Internal Revenue Code; (2) An involuntary distribution of either securities or cash, including cash in lieu of fractional shares, for the purpose of satisfying the limitations on employee elective contributions and employer matching contributions imposed by the Internal Revenue Code; and (3) Any other distribution to a participant of securities that have been held pursuant to any employee benefit plan for the benefit of that participant. (h) Participant-directed transactions. A participant-directed transaction and any related employer matching contribution shall be exempt from Section 16(b) of the Act if the plan satisfies the conditions of paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of this section, if applicable, and the transaction is pursuant to an election made by the participant at least six months in advance of the effective date of the transaction; provided that such election is irrevocable or may be revoked or changed only by means of a subsequent election that shall not take effect until six months elapse from the date of such subsequent election. * * * * * 14. By amending §240.16b&hyph;5 by revising the section heading, redesignating the existing text as paragraph (a) and adding new paragraph (b) to read as follows: §240.16b&hyph;5 Bona fide gifts, inheritance and qualified domestic relations orders. * * * * * (b) The disposition of equity securities pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules thereunder, shall be exempt from the operation of section 16(b) of the Act. PART 249_FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 15. The authority citation for Part 249 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a, et seq., unless otherwise noted; * * * * * 16. By amending Form 3 (referenced in §249.103) and the General Instructions thereto by adding paragraph (b)(v) to General Instruction 5, by revising the first sentence of General Instruction 6, and by revising Item 1 and adding Item 7 to the information preceding Table I to read as follows: Note_ The text of Form 3 does not and this amendment will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
