FR941026-1-00009 FR941026-1-00005 14 CFR Part 93 [Docket No. 27941] Study of Child Restraint Systems AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration [FAA], DOT. ACTION: Notice of Study and Request for Comments. SUMMARY: On August 23, 1994, Public Law (Pub. L.) 103&hyph;305 was enacted and requires that the FAA conduct a study on the availability, effectiveness, cost, and usefulness of restraint systems that may offer protection to children, who presently do not use child restraint systems and who are presently carried on the laps of adults, aboard air carrier aircraft. The report to Congress is due February 23, 1995. This document requests comments from the public on the issues surrounding child restraint systems. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send or deliver other comments in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;200), Docket No. 27941, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments must be marked Docket No. 27941. They will be on display in Room 915G weekdays between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except on Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Gary Becker, APO&hyph;310, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, telephone No. 202&hyph;267&hyph;7766. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background United States air carriers have a superb safety record that has continued to improve over time and now ranks among the best in the world. The risk of injury or death when traveling on an airline is low. Air carrier accidents are infrequent. Even identifying the causes of these accidents (e.g., severe inflight turbulence) requires thorough and wide-ranging research. Children under the age of two (infants) are permitted to travel aboard airlines on the laps of their parents, guardians, or attendants. Air carriers decide whether to charge for the transportation of infants who are held on adult laps. Infants traveling in this manner, however, are not secured by any safety/restraint systems. In the rare event of a crash or rapid aircraft movements such as those caused by severe in-flight turbulence, forces may be too great for the accompanying adult, guardian, or attendant to protect the infant from injury. In these circumstances, infants are at higher risk of death or injury than all other travelers who must fasten safety belts. Infants may also be placed in acceptable child/infant safety seats. However, most air carriers require that a ticket be purchased for those children under two in order to reserve a seat to which the safety seat can be attached. The added ticket cost, and the generally perceived low rate of accidents and injuries, results in many parents, guardians or attendants opting to hold infants in their laps. The alternative of incurring an added cost to reserve a seat for use with an infant safety seat may divert some air travelers to other less costly modes of transportation. Infants and adults may be at a higher risk of death or injury when traveling in alternative modes than if they flew. Congress, in Public Law 103&hyph;305, amended the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982. This amendment directs the FAA to conduct a study of child restraint systems on air carrier aircraft. The study is due to Congress on February 23, 1995. The purpose of this study is to determine the availability, effectiveness, cost, and usefulness of restraint systems that may offer protection to a child, carried in the lap of an adult aboard an air carrier aircraft or provide for the attachment of a child restraint device to the aircraft. Congress has directed the FAA to study the following issues: 1. The direct cost to families of requiring air carriers to provide restraint systems and requiring infants to use them, including whether airlines will charge a fare for use of seats containing restraining systems. 2. The impact on air carrier aircraft passenger volume by requiring use of infant restraint systems, including whether families will choose to travel to destinations by other means, including automobiles. 3. The impact on fatalities and fatality rates of infants and adults using airplanes, automobiles, and other modes of transportation. 4. The efficacy of infant restraints currently marketed as able to be used for air carrier aircraft. There are at least four additional issues that are related to the Congressional issues described above:
