FR940428-2-00166 FR940428-2-00072 d. Burden of proof . In any enforcement proceeding the permittee seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset has the burden of proof. Section C. Monitoring and Records 1. Monitoring and Records a. Samples and measurements taken for the purpose of monitoring shall be representative of the monitored activity. b. Except for records of monitoring information required by this permit related to the permittee's sewage sludge use and disposal activities, which shall be retained for a period of at least five years (or longer as required by 40 CFR Part 503), the permittee shall retain records of all monitoring information, including all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this permit, and records of all data used to complete the application for this permit, for a period of at least 3 years from the date of the sample, measurement, report or application except for the information concerning storm water discharges which must be retained for a total of 6 years. This retention period may be extended by request of the Regional Administrator at any time. c. Records of monitoring information shall include: (1) The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements; (2) The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurements; (3) The date(s) analyses were performed; (4) The individual(s) who performed the analyses; (5) The analytical techniques or methods used; and (6) The results of such analyses. d. Monitoring results must be conducted according to test procedures approved under 40 CFR Part 136 or, in the case of sludge use or disposal, approved under 40 CFR Part 136 unless otherwise specified in 40 CFR Part 503, unless other test procedures have been specified in the permit. e. The Clean Water Act provides that any person who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required to be maintained under this permit shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000, or by imprisonment for not more than 2 years, or both. If a conviction of a person is for a violation committed after a first conviction of such person under this paragraph, punishment is a fine of not more than $20,000 per day of violation, or by imprisonment of not more than 4 years, or both. 2. Inspection and Entry The permittee shall allow the Regional Administrator, or an authorized representative (including an authorized contractor acting as a representative of the Administrator), upon presentation of credentials and other documents as may be required by law, to: a. Enter upon the permittee's premises where a regulated facility or activity is located or conducted, or where records must be kept under the conditions of this permit;
