FR940406-2-00084 FR940406-2-00048 Lines 9, 10, and 11 should be left blank. Line 12_Carry the total of each column of Line 8, (b) through (e). The amount in Column (e) should be equal to the amount on Section A, Line 5, Column (f). Justification Describe third party in-kind contributions, if included. Section D_Forecasted Cash Needs Line 13_Federal: Enter the amount of Federal (OCS) cash needed for this grant, by quarter, during the 12 month budget period. Line 14_Non-Federal: Enter the amount of cash from all other sources needed by quarter during the first year. Line 15_Totals: Enter the total of Lines 13 and 14. Section F_Other Budget Information Line 21_Direct Charges: Include narrative justification required under Section B for each object class category for the total project period. Line 22_Indirect Charges: Enter the type of HHS or other Federal agency approved indirect cost rate (provisional, predetermined, final or fixed) that will be in effect during the funding period, the estimated amount of the base to which the rate is applied and the total indirect expense. Also, enter the date the rate was approved, where applicable. Attach a copy of the approved rate agreement. Line 23_Provide any other explanations and continuation sheets required or deemed necessary to justify or explain the budget information. 3. SF&hyph;424B ``Assurances Non-Construction'' All applicants must sign and return the ``Assurances'' with the application. 4. Project Narrative Each narrative should include the following major Sections: a. Analysis of Need b. Project Design (Work Programs) c. Organizational Experience in Program Areas d. Management History e. Staffing and Resources f. Staff Responsibilities The project narrative must address the specific purposes mentioned in Part A of this Program Announcement. The narrative should provide information on how the application meets the evaluation criteria in part D of this Program Announcement. Part F_Application Procedures 1. Availability of Forms Applications for awards under this OCS program must be submitted on Standard Forms (SF) 424, 424A, and 424B. Part E and attachment B to this Program Announcement contain all the instructions and forms required for submittal of applications. The forms may be reproduced for use in submitting applications. Copies of the Federal Register issue containing this Announcement are available at most local libraries and Congressional District Offices for reproduction. If copies are not available at these sources they may be obtained by writing or telephoning the office listed in the section entitled FOR FURTHER INFORMATION at the beginning of this Announcement. 2. Application Submission The closing date for submission of applications is June 6, 1994. a. Deadlines. Applications shall be considered as meeting the deadline if they are either: (1) Received on or before the deadline date at the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20447, or (2) Sent on or before the deadline date and received by the granting agency in time for them to be considered during the competitive review and evaluation process under Chapter 1&hyph;62 of the Health and Human Services Grants Administration Manual. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or the U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) b. Applications submitted by other means. Applications which are not submitted in accordance with the above criteria shall be considered as meeting the deadline only if they are physically received before the close of business on or before the deadline date. Hand delivered applications will be accepted at the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 901 D Street, SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC during the normal working hours of 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. c. Late Applications. Applications which do not meet one of these criteria are considered late applications. The ACF Division of Discretionary Grants will notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in this competition. d. Extension of Deadline. The ACF Office of Community Services may extend the deadline for all applicants because of acts of God such as floods, hurricanes, etc. or when there is a disruption of the mails. However, if the granting agency does not extend the deadline for all applicants, it may not waive or extend the deadline for any applicant. Applications once submitted are considered final and no additional materials will be accepted . One signed original application and four copies should be submitted. Note: Applicants should note that the U.S. Postal Service does not uniformly provide a dated postmark. Before relying on this method, applicants should check with their local post office. In some instances packages presented for mailing after a pre-determined time are postmarked with the next day's date. In other cases, postmarks are not routinely placed on packages. Applicants are cautioned to verify that there is a date on the package, and that it list the correct date of mailing, before accepting a receipt. Applications which have a postmark later than the closing date, or which are hand-delivered after the closing date, will be returned to the sender without consideration in the competition. One signed original application and four copies is required. 3. Intergovernmental Review
