FR940721-2-00165 FR940721-2-00086 Proof of an applicant's nonprofit status, such as an IRS determination of nonprofit status under IRS Code 501(c)(3), must be included in the application. Under each competitive area, ANA will only accept one application which serves or impacts a reservation. If a Tribe chooses not to submit an application under a specific competitive area, it may support another applicant's project (e.g., a tribal organization) which serves or impacts the reservation. In this case, the applicant must include a Tribal resolution which clearly demonstrates the Tribe's support of the project and the Tribe's understanding that the other applicant's project supplants the Tribe's authority to submit an application under that specific competitive area for the duration of the approved grant period. E. Grantee Share of the Project Grantees must provide at least 20 percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the ACF share and the non-Federal share. The non-Federal share may be met by cash or in-kind contributions; although applicants are encouraged to meet their match requirements through cash contributions. Therefore, a project requesting $300,000 in Federal funds must include a match of at least $75,000 (20% total project cost). The non-Federal share may include funds distributed to a tribe, including interest, by the Federal government: •Pursuant to the satisfaction of a claim made under Federal law; •From funds collected and administered on behalf of such tribe or its constituent members; or •For general tribal administration or tribal development under a formula or subject to a tribal budgeting priority system, such as, but not limited to, funds involved in the settlement of land or other judgment claims, severance or other royalty payments, or payments under the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.) or tribal budget priority system. An itemized budget detailing the applicant's non-Federal share, and its source, must be included in an application. A request for a waiver of the non-Federal share requirement may be submitted in accordance with 45 CFR 1336.50(b)(3) of the Native American Program Regulations. Applications submitted as a partnership arrangement with a school, college, or university, may use contributions from the ``partner'' organization(s) to meet the non-Federal share, as appropriate. Applications originating from American Samoa, Guam, Palau, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands are covered under section 501(d) of Public Law 95&hyph;134, as amended (48 U.S.C. 1469a) under which HHS waives any requirement for local matching funds under $200,000 (including in-kind contributions). F. Review Criteria A proposed project should reflect the Native American languages purposes stated and described in the Background section of this competitive area. The evaluation criteria are closely related to each other and are considered as a whole in judging the overall quality of an application. Points are awarded only to applications which are responsive to this competitive area and these criteria. Proposed projects will be reviewed on a competitive basis using the following evaluation criteria: (1) Current status of Native American language(s) addressed and description(s) of existing programs/projects (if any) which support the language(s) addressed. (10 points). (a) The application fully describes the current status of the Native American language(s) to be addressed; current status is defined as data compiled within the previous thirty-six (36) months. The description of the current status minimally includes the following information: (1) number of speakers; (2) age of speakers; (3) gender of speakers; (4) level(s) of fluency; (5) number of first language speakers (the Native language is the first language acquired); (6) number of second language speakers (the Native language is the second language acquired); (7) where the language is used (specific uses such as: home, court system, religious ceremonies, church, multimedia, school, governance activities and other, as appropriate to applicant); (8) source of data; (formal and/or informal); and (9) rate of language loss or gain. The application has clearly delineated the current status of the Native American language(s) to be addressed by the project. (b) The application fully describes existing community language or language training programs and projects, if any, in support of the Native American language to be addressed by the proposed project. Existing programs and projects may be formal (e.g., work performed by a linguist, and/or a language survey conducted by community members) or informal (e.g., a community consensus of the language status based on elders, tribal scholars, and/or other community members). The description should address the following: (1) Has applicant had a community language or language training program within the last thirty-six (36) months? (2) Has applicant had a community language or language training program within the last ten (10) years? Applicants that answer ``no'' to either question (1) or (2) should provide a detailed explanation of what barriers or circumstances prevented the establishment or implementation of a community language program. Applicants that answer ``yes'' to either questions (1) or (2) should describe recent language program, including: (1) program goal(s); (2) number of program participants; (3) number of speakers; (4) age range of participants (e.g., 0&hyph;5; 6&hyph;10; 11&hyph;18;, etc.); (5) number of language teachers; (6) criteria used to acknowledge competency of language teachers; (7) resources available to applicant (e.g., valid grammars, dictionaries, and/or orthographics. If there are other suitable resources, please describe); and (8) other outcomes. (2) Long-range goals and available resources. (25 points). (a) The application explains how specific Native American(s) long range community goals relate to the project. Goals are described within the context of the applicant's current language status. The strategies described will assist in assuring the survival and continued vitality of the Native American language(s) addressed.
