FR940429-0-00184 FR940429-0-00015 Changes: None. Comments: A number of commenters contended that it would be too burdensome for institutions to document the placement rates of students because students and employers would have little incentive to provide written verification of employment. Some commenters believed the substantiation requirement would discourage employers from hiring students from institutions that solicited documentation. Some commenters recommended that the institution should be required to record information, such as the name, address, and telephone number of the employer, the job title, and the starting date of employment, instead of obtaining the documentation proposed in the February 28, 1994 NPRM. A State agency, or the Department's reviewers, or an auditor could then use this information to verify the placement. Other commenters suggested that a written statement from the student that his or her employment was a result of the institution's training would be sufficient verification; or that an institution should merely be required to document its attempt to obtain written verification from employers or graduates. Many commenters also were concerned about the cost of the Secretary's proposed requirement that an institution's auditor should review the documentation of placement rates for each student in the placement-rate calculation. Some of these commenters suggested that the auditor be permitted to verify the placement rates by selecting a random sample. Some commenters suggested that the Department should administer and pay for its own placement substantiation procedures. Discussion: As stated in the preamble to the February 28, 1994 NPRM, the Secretary believes that requiring institutions to document this data and requiring an auditor to review this data will help curb abuse by institutions that may overstate their placement rates to achieve and maintain eligibility for short-term programs. In order to address this concern, the Secretary believes that documentation of employment must be made by a reliable source and that written statements by the student or the institution are not sufficient. The failure of an employer or student to respond to requests for documentation is accounted for by using a placement rate that excludes up to 30 percent of the institution's graduates. The Secretary disagrees with comments that the requirement of auditing each placement rate is unnecessary or prohibitively expensive. The audit will be conducted as part of the institution's annual compliance review and specific guidance provided in the Department of Education's audit guide should be drafted in a manner sufficient to detect abuse and avoid unnecessary costs. Changes: None. Comments: Some commenters suggested that based on auditing literature, certified public accountants cannot certify the accuracy of an institution's placement-rate calculations, but must instead follow the procedures of an attestation engagement. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters that a clarification is necessary. Changes: This section has been amended to require that an institution shall substantiate the calculation of its completion and placement rates by having the certified public accountant who prepares its audit report required under ยง668.23 report on the institution's calculations based on performing an attestation engagement in accordance with the Standards for Attestation Engagements of the American Institute of Independent Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Section 668.24 has also been amended to reflect the same type of change discussed here. Comments: Some commenters argued that students who are hired by an institution either before or after they receive a degree or certificate from that institution, should not be excluded from the placement rate calculation. The commenters suggested that institutions would be penalized for hiring the most qualified candidate and that any abuse in this area could be easily detected. Other commenters suggested that graduates who are employed by separate businesses that are operated by, or financially linked to, an institution's owner(s) should be excluded from the placement-rate calculation. Some commenters suggested that graduates who were student employees should not be subtracted from the number of students who have degrees or certificates if they find a position with another employer. Discussion: Upon further consideration, the Secretary agrees that including students who are hired by an institution would have a negligible effect on the institution's placement rate, particularly if the hiring is based on a legitimate employment selection process. The Secretary does not agree with the suggestion to exclude graduates from an institution's placement-rate formula if they are hired by separate businesses that have some financial connection to the institution. In many of these cases, the potential for abuse is not as great because the economic interests of the parties that control the separate businesses do not necessarily coincide with the financial interests of the institutions. The Secretary agrees that student employees who are no longer employed by the institution upon graduation and who are hired by another employer after graduation, should not be excluded from the placement rate calculation. Changes: The requirement that an institution exclude from the calculation of a placement rate students who are hired by the institution has been deleted from these regulations. Comments: Some commenters believed that the placement rate calculation may be misinterpreted by some institutions because the proposed placement rate calculation requires the school to include students in the numerator who, ``on the date of this calculation are employed, or have been employed for at least 13 weeks following receipt of the credential by the institution.'' These commenters suggested that the phrase ``are employed'' will be interpreted to mean that any student employed at the time the calculation is made, regardless of whether they have met the 13-week standard, can be included in the numerator. Discussion: Every student must be employed for at least 13 weeks in a recognized occupation for which they were trained or in a related comparable occupation before that student can be counted as placed. The Secretary agrees to clarify this provision. Changes: A change has been made to clarify that every student must be employed for at least 13 weeks in a recognized occupation for which they were trained or in a related comparable occupation before that student can be counted as placed by inserting a comma after the words ``have been employed.'' English as a Second Language. Comments: Some commenters argued that the purpose of the testing requirement for students who completed a program in English as a Second Language (ESL) was unclear, and that testing the proficiency of these students was an intrusion on an institution's internal academic affairs and a violation of the Department of Education Organization Act. Another commenter recommended testing students before they enrolled in an ESL program to determine whether they needed to improve their proficiency skills, as well as testing students who completed the program. A commenter suggested that the ESL testing provisions should also apply to vocational programs that include ESL education within the curriculum. Another commenter expressed support for the provision as written in the February 28, 1994 NPRM.
