FR940418-0-00034 FR940418-0-00010 Rockwell recommended that NHTSA require that the automatic adjuster's readjustment limits ``be in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended limits.'' It commented that this language would be sufficiently objective because NHTSA could confirm the compliance of a brake system by comparing the actual readjustment limits of a brake system with those recommended by the manufacturer. These manufacturer recommendations are routinely provided by the manufacturer with each vehicle. The petitioner stated that NHTSA has taken this approach in other circumstances, such as with respect to testing safety belts for permissible levels of slack. (See, Standard No. 208, section S7.4.2.) The agency adopted the FHWA readjustment limits to provide a clear means of determining whether a brake adjuster was performing properly. However, as explained above, the agency now believes that the FHWA requirement is inappropriate for use by NHTSA given the differences among air brake systems. As mentioned above, FHWA's in-use inspection requirements were developed primarily with drum brake systems in mind, and thus place disc brake systems, long stroke brake chambers and piston-type systems at a competitive disadvantage. After reviewing the petitions, NHTSA has decided to delete reference to the FHWA requirements and to adopt a requirement that ``the adjustment of the service brakes shall be within the limits recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.'' This language is similar to that of the NPRM (which would have required air brake adjusters to ``maintain brake adjustment within the manufacturer's recommended adjustment limits''), in that the adjuster would be required to perform as intended by the vehicle manufacturer. However, NHTSA believes that the language adopted in this document avoids the concerns about objectivity and vagueness engendered by the NPRM. Those concerns about the NPRM stemmed from the word ``maintain'' in the language quoted above. Since there was no objective criteria specified for determining whether a particular brake adjuster would ``maintain adjustment'' of the brakes, manufacturers were concerned that questions could arise between a manufacturer and NHTSA as to whether a particular system complied with the standard, particularly when it was unclear when exactly the determination of compliance would be made. Manufacturers were concerned that the proposed language implied that Standard 121 requires a vehicle to ``maintain'' conformance to the FMVSS's throughout the life of the vehicle, which is incorrect and confusing. NHTSA concurred with the commenters that the proposed language was inappropriate (57 FR at 47796):
