FR941219-2-00073 FR941219-2-00049 Publication of OIG Special Fraud Alerts AGENCY: Office of Inspector General, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This Federal Register notice sets forth the 5 previously-developed Special Fraud Alerts issued directly to the health care provider community by the HHS Office of Inspector General (OIG). In keeping with the OIG's goal and intent of publicizing its concern about possible widespread and abusive health care industry practices, and seeking wider dissemination of this information to the general public, we are republishing the main content of these Special Fraud Alerts in the Federal Register . This notice also serves to alert the general public of our intention to publish all future OIG Special Fraud Alerts in this same manner, in addition to the current method used to distribute this material to Medicare and State health care program providers. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joel J. Schaer, Legislation, Regulations and Public Affairs Staff, (202) 619&hyph;0089. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The Use of Fraud Alerts by the OIG Over the years, the OIG has used fraud alerts as a vehicle to identify fraudulent and abusive practices within the health care industry. The majority of these fraud alerts are disseminated internally to the OIG's Office of Investigations and other agencies within the Department. However, the OIG has also developed and issued Special Fraud Alerts intended for extensive distribution directly to the health care provider community. Special Fraud Alerts Since 1988, the OIG has issued 5 ``Special Fraud Alerts'' addressing specific trends of health care fraud and certain practices of an industry-wide character. Specifically, the OIG Special Fraud Alerts have served to provide general guidance to the health care industry on violations of Federal law (including various aspects of the anti-kickback statute), as well as to provide additional insight to the Medicare carrier fraud units in identifying health care fraud schemes. In developing these Special Fraud Alerts, the OIG relies on a number of sources, such as studies or management and program evaluations conducted by the OIG's Office of Evaluation and Inspections. In addition, the OIG may consult with experts in the subject field, including those within the OIG, other agencies of the Department, other Federal and State agencies, and from those in the health care industry. The Nature of Past Special Fraud Alerts For the most part, the OIG Special Fraud Alerts have been reserved for national trends in health care fraud and have addressed potential violations of the Medicare and State health care programs' anti-kickback statute. The Special Fraud Alerts have addressed the following topic areas that could violate the anti-kickback statute: •Joint venture arrangements; •Routine waiver of Medicare Part B copayments and deductibles; •Hospital incentives to referring physicians; •Prescription drug marketing practices; •Arrangements for the provision of clinical laboratory services. II. Federal Register Publication of Special Fraud Alerts In the past, the OIG has always printed and distributed copies of these Special Fraud Alerts directly to all Medicare program providers. While the OIG Special Fraud Alerts have been designed to be available to all affected program providers, we believe it is useful to publicize these various issues and concerns involving potential abusive health care industry practices to a more widespread audience. For this reason, we are using this Federal Register notice as a vehicle to reprint the substance of the 5 previously-issued Special Fraud Alerts cited above. It is our intention to use this same Federal Register form for publishing future Special Fraud Alerts developed by the OIG. Because each of the previously-developed Special Fraud Alerts contained a similar brief narrative as to the nature of the OIG and a description of the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute, we will first summarize and set out this material in one section, as it is germane to all 5 subject issuances. Following that will be the main body and content of each of the Special Fraud Alerts. Lastly, we have provided the general information set forth in each of these Special Fraud Alerts addressing information on how to report information on suspected violations. The OIG Special Fraud Alerts A. General Background The Office of Inspector General was established at the Department of Health and Human Services by Congress in 1976 to identify and eliminate fraud, abuse and waste in Health and Human Services programs and to promote efficiency and economy in departmental operations. The OIG carries out this mission through a nationwide program of audits, investigations and inspections. To help reduce fraud in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, the OIG is actively investigating violations of the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute, 42 U.S.C. Section 1320a-7b(b).
