FR940426-1-00052 FR940426-1-00006 ATF believes that its regulations should address all arrangements that clearly embody the substance of the ``consignment sale'' practice proscribed by Congress, and not merely particular forms of that practice. Therefore, ATF proposes to amend its regulations to specify payment of ``slotting allowances'' from an industry member to a trade buyer as a form of consignment sale. Section 11.32, Defective Products The current regulation specifically allows products which are unmarketable for certain reasons to be exchanged, under certain conditions, for an equal quantity of identical products, but is silent as to whether such products may be returned for cash or credit. Industry Circular 81&hyph;11 states that a return of such products for cash or credit is not precluded by section 11.32. ATF proposes changing this regulation to incorporate the provisions of Industry Circular 81&hyph;11 into the section. The revised section would also delete references to mutilated and missing strip stamps since they are no longer a requirement. Section 11.34, Products Which May No Longer Be Lawfully Sold ATF proposes revising the current regulation to allow the return of a product if, due to a change in law or regulation over which the trade buyer has no control, a particular size or brand is no longer permitted to be sold. The addition of the phrase ``over which the trade buyer has no control'' is intended to address situations in which the trade buyer is a State agency with the authority to delist a particular product. Section 11.35, Termination of Business ATF proposes revising this section to cite ยง11.39 instead of the incorrect ยง11.40 citation. Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this proposed rule is not a significant regulatory action as defined by Executive Order 12866. Therefore, a Regulatory Assessment is not required. Regulatory Flexibility Act Based on information currently available, it is hereby certified under the provisions of section 3 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)) that this proposed regulation, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. It has been suggested, however, that implementing the proposed interpretation of exclusion may have the effect of ``freezing'' industry member standings where they are. For instance, a large wholesaler might be in a better position to offer indiscriminately premiums for volume purchases, and retain a competitive advantage over a small wholesaler who could not afford to offer a similar inducement to all customers. On the trade buyer side, a small retailer might be more likely to lose its freedom in purchasing decisions because of a relatively minor service or piece of equipment it receives from a particular supplier. Although ATF believes that the proposed regulations are required to bring ATF's policy into conformance with Federal court decisions on the FAA Act, ATF requests the comments of small businesses and their representatives on this subject. We will review this certification in light of any pertinent comments we may receive. Paperwork Reduction Act The collection of information contained in this notice of proposed rulemaking has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)). Comments on the collection of information should be directed to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503, with copies to: Reports Management Officer, Information Programs Branch, Room 3450, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 650 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20226. The collection of information in this regulation is in 27 CFR parts 6, 8, and 10. This information is required by ATF to protect the public interest and ensure fair trade competition in the alcoholic beverage industry. The information will be used to analyze promotional activities as part of an investigation. The likely respondents are industry members.
