FR941110-0-00158 FR941110-0-00016 •For deficiencies with a severity level of 2, civil money penalties should be required using scope and severity to determine the size of the fine and other remedies should be applied according to §488.408; •Provision should be made for remedies for deficiencies not in the area of quality of care with a severity level of 2 and scope level of 3 or 4; •A variety of specific schemes were proposed for correlating each of the scope and severity levels to specific types of remedies; and •Non-life threatening deficiencies should be exempted from remedies and fines. Response: As noted earlier, we addressed these issues under §488.408 of this preamble. Also, in response to the many comments we received advocating a clearer correlation between levels of noncompliance and types of remedies imposed, we are making extensive revisions to the scope and severity grid published in the proposed rule. We are, in fact, correlating categories of remedies to various categories of noncompliance. A revised grid appears below. BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSER10NO94.000 BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;C Section 488.414␣Action When There Is Repeated Substandard Quality of Care While analyzing the comments for this section, we again reviewed the provisions of the Act to ensure conformance in the final regulation. Through this process, we noted that this section does not address the portions of the statutory provisions at sections 1819(h)(2)(E) and 1919(h)(2)(D) of the Act that specify that the denial of payment and monitoring must continue until the facility has demonstrated that it is in compliance and that it will remain in compliance. Accordingly, we are modifying this provision to specify that the mandatory denial of payment and State monitoring imposed for the finding of substandard quality of care on three consecutive standard surveys must continue until the facility has demonstrated that it has achieved substantial compliance and can maintain substantial compliance over the period of time specified by HCFA or the State. We further noted that the remedy described in section 1819(h)(2)(B)(i) of the Act can be either denial of payment for all Medicare residents or denial of payment for all new Medicare admissions in a facility. In recognition of this fact, the regulation is being amended to reflect this distinction. Finally, because the provisions of the Act were in effect prior to the effective date of this regulation, we have had actual experience processing enforcement actions for facilities with substandard quality of care noted in three consecutive standard surveys. Our experience pointed out the need for further clarification in this section in two respects. One of these related to the handling of actions against facilities whose type of program participation changed during the period of time spanned by the three consecutive standard surveys, and the other related to whether remedies could be avoided through an allegation of compliance or actual corrections which followed the finding that there had been repeated substandard quality of care.
