FR940110-0-00004 FR940110-0-00001 §58.2426 Butter. The food product usually known as butter, and which is made exclusively from milk or cream, or both, with or without common salt, with or without additional coloring matter, and containing not less than 80 percent by weight of milkfat, all tolerances having been allowed for. §58.2427 Cream. The term cream when used in this subpart G means cream separated from milk produced by healthy cows. The cream shall be pasteurized at a temperature of not less than 165 ○F and held continuously in a vat at such temperature for not less than 30 minutes; or pasteurized at a temperature of not less than 185 ○F for not less than 15 seconds; or pasteurized by other approved methods giving equivalent results. U.S. Grades §58.2428 Nomenclature of U.S. grades. The nomenclature of U.S. grades is as follows: (a) U.S. Grade AA. (b) U.S. Grade A. §58.2429 Basis for determination of U.S. grade. The U.S. grade of whipped butter is determined on the basis of classifying first the flavor characteristics and then the characteristics in body, color, and salt of a representative sample. Flavor is the basic quality factor in grading whipped butter and is determined organoleptically by smell and taste. The flavor characteristic and intensity is identified and rated according to the applicable classification contained in Table I in §58.2430. When more than one flavor characteristic is discernible in a sample of whipped butter, the flavor classification of the sample shall be established on the basis of the flavor that carries the lowest rating. Body, color, and salt characteristics are then noted and disratings are made in accordance with the established classification in Table II in §58.2430. The final U.S. grade for the sample is then established in accordance with the flavor classification, subject to permitted disratings for body, color, and salt as outlined in §58.2431. §58.2430 Specifications for U.S. grades. The specifications for the U.S. grades of whipped butter are as follows: (a) U.S. Grade AA. U.S. Grade AA whipped butter conforms to the following: Shall possess a fine and highly pleasing butter flavor. Whipped butter may also have a lactic culture flavor. May possess a slight feed, or a definite cooked flavor. The permitted disratings in body, color, and salt characteristics are limited to one-half (1/2). For detailed specifications and classification of flavor characteristics, see Table I of this section. For body, color, and salt disratings, see Table II of this section. (b) U.S. Grade A. U.S. Grade A whipped butter conforms to the following: Shall possess a pleasing and desirable butter flavor. Whipped butter may also have a lactic culture flavor. May possess to a slight degree the following flavors: acid, aged, bitter, coarse, flat, smothered, and storage. May possess a definite feed flavor. The permitted disratings in body, color, and salt characteristics are limited to one-half (1/2). For detailed specifications and classification of flavor characteristics, see Table I of this section. For body, color, and salt disratings, see Table II of this section. (c) General. Whipped butter of all U.S. grades shall be free from foreign materials and visible mold. When total disratings exceed the permitted amount, the final U.S. grade shall be lowered one grade level for each additional one-half (1/2) disrating.
