FR940128-1-00055 FR940128-1-00006 J. Guideline for Cooked, Ready-to-Eat Fishery Products FDA is proposing a guideline in Appendix A for cooked, ready-to-eat fishery products. These products possess an elevated microbiological risk relative to most other seafood products because they are cooked as part of processing and do not normally receive any additional cooking by consumers before consumption. Consequently, to be safe, these products must be essentially pathogen-free by the time they leave the processing facility. Immediate refrigeration at proper temperatures to prevent the growth of pathogens is also essential for these products, which are not shelf-stable. The guideline addresses critical control points that apply to these products as a class and that thus will typically be identified in the HACCP plans of most processors of cooked, ready-to-eat products. The guideline also addresses ways of controlling hazards at each critical control point. Processors of cooked, ready-to-eat products that are also smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products should apply the controls set forth in Appendix 1. If FDA adopts that regulation, it will codify it in reserved subpart B of part 123. This guideline is not relevant to most of the cooked, ready-to-eat products that are processed as low acid canned foods under part 113. However, the recommendations in Appendix A, section 4. a., b., and d. for cooling, processing after cooking, and refrigerated storage, will apply to those low acid canned foods that are cooked, processed, and then cooked again. The guideline provides information on how to control the growth of S. aureus during the processing step between cooks. It also addresses the control of microbiological hazards that can occur within the processing environment for cooked, ready-to-eat products. It does not address nonprocessing hazards, because they are not relevant to this class of products. FDA intends to publish separate guidance that will, among other things, address nonprocessing hazards. Likewise, this guideline will not address the nonsafety hazards, such as decomposition that is not associated with human illness and economic adulteration, that FDA has suggested in proposed ยง123.6(c) should be covered by the HACCP plan. These hazards will also be covered in the separately published guidance. Economic adulteration, for example, is addressed in Appendix D. FDA has tentatively decided to address the processing controls for cooked, ready-to-eat products in a guideline, rather than by regulation, to permit flexibility in the face of changing processing technologies and knowledge. As stated earlier in this preamble, the guidelines are intended to advise processors about what FDA believes will be acceptable in a HACCP plan. The agency acknowledges, however, that there are basic processing norms to which conscientious processors adhere, and that these norms are not likely to change for the foreseeable future. FDA therefore invites comments on whether any or all of the guideline on the cooked, ready-to-eat products ought to be codified as requirements in part 123 if it is adopted as a final regulation. 1. Thermal Processing: Cooking and Pasteurization Processes and Equipment The proposed guideline in Appendix A, section 4 advises processors on how to ensure that: (1) Their cooking and pasteurization processes are adequate to inactivate pathogens; and (2) their cooking and pasteurization equipment is adequate to deliver their cooking and pasteurization processes. A cooking process is, in essence, the temperature and time at that temperature that will both kill pathogens and create a marketable product. A pasteurization process is the temperature and time at temperature that is necessary to reduce the numbers of pathogens to the point where they will not cause harm over the shelf life of a refrigerated product. It is essential that C. botulinum type E not survive the pasteurization process for cooked, ready-to-eat products that are packed in hermetically sealed containers and held at refrigerated temperatures (Ref. 52). Such containers are typically vacuum or modified atmosphere packaged and thus can provide a good environment for the growth of C. botulinum type E. To meet the requirements in part 123, subpart A, processors must have assurance that their cooking and pasteurization processes are adequate to inactivate pathogens and must document this assurance in their HACCP records. This approach is similar to that in the regulations for low acid canned foods, which require that processors of those products know that their thermal processes are adequate to destroy C. botulinum . The low acid canned food regulations do not specify to processors what their time/temperature parameters must be in order to destroy those pathogens. There are simply too many variables and possibilities with regard to thermal processing parameters for this kind of specificity in those regulations to be practical or appropriate. Rather, the regulations require that processors use a thermal process that is at least equivalent to one established by a competent process authority, i.e., a third party who has the expertise to determine the parameters of a thermal process that will destroy pathogens (Ref. 85). This approach has served the consuming public, the agency, and the industry well over the years. FDA is therefore recommending in proposed Appendix A, section 4. a.1. and b.1. that processors utilize the services of process authorities to establish the parameters of their cooking and pasteurization processes.
