FR940826-0-00134 FR940826-0-00020 89. Where we adopt sized-based eligibility rules and provide that such eligibility determinations shall include the applicant and all its ``affiliates,'' the following rules shall govern determinations regarding affiliation. Apart from determining affiliation between the applicant itself and outside entities, the need to determine affiliation arises where an investor has an attributable interest in a designated entity. 131 In this context it is necessary for the Commission to examine whether such investor has a relationship with other persons or outside entities that rise to the level of an affiliation with the applicant, and if so, whether the affiliate's assets, revenues, net worth, number of access lines, or other applicable financial thresholds, when aggregated with the applicant's, exceed the Commission's size eligibility thresholds. 131 In the context of broadband PCS, we stated that, generally, investors owning more than 25 percent of the applicant's passive equity would be considered to have ``attributable'' interests. See Fifth Report and Order at ¶158. With regard to IVDS, we used the SBA standard to determine attributable interests, i.e., control. 90. General Principles of Affiliation. An affiliation under the SBA rules would arise, first, from ``control'' of an entity or the ``power to control it.'' Thus, under the SBA rules, entities are affiliates of each other when either directly or indirectly (i) one concern controls or has the power to control the other, or (ii) a third party or parties controls or has the power to control both. 132 In determining control, the SBA's rules provide generally that every business concern is considered to have one or more parties who directly or indirectly control or have the power to control it. The rules, in addition, provide specific examples of where control resides under various scenarios, such as through stock ownership or occupancy of director, officer or management positions. The rules also articulate general principles of control, and note, for example, that control may be affirmative or negative and that it is immaterial whether control is exercised so long as the power to control exists. 133 Second, an affiliation, under SBA rules, may also arise out of an ``identity of interest'' between or among parties. 134 We adopted these same general provisions as our affiliation rules for broadband PCS and will also incorporate them into our general affiliation rules. 132 13 CFR §121.401(a)(2) (i), (ii). 133 Id. §121.401(c)(1). 134 Id. §121.401(a)(2)(iii), (d). 91. In adopting these affiliation rules, we emphasize that these rules will not be applied in a manner that defeats the objectives of our service specific attribution rules. For example, in the context of broadband PCS, our attribution rules expressly permit applicants to disregard the gross revenues, total assets and net worth of certain passive investors, provided that an eligible control group has de facto and de jure control of the applicant. 135 Our attribution rules are designed to preserve control of the applicant by eligible entities, yet allow investment in the applicant by entities that do not meet the size restrictions in our rules. Therefore, so long as the requirements of our attribution rules are met, the affiliation rules will not be used to defeat the underlying policy objectives of allowing such passive investors. More specifically, if a control group has de facto and de jure control of the applicant, we shall not construe the affiliation rules in a manner that causes the interests of passive investors to be attributed to the applicant. 135 See Fifth Report and Order at ¶205. 92. Applying these SBA affiliation rules, an affiliation would arise, for example, where an entity with an attributable interest in an applicant is under the control of another entity. An affiliation would also arise where an entity with an attributable interest in an applicant controls, or has the power to control, another entity. For example, if an attributable investor in an applicant is also a shareholder in a large Corporation X, when should Corporation X be deemed an affiliate of the applicant as a result of the shareholder's ownership interest in both entities? Under the SBA rules and the rules we adopt here, Corporation X would be deemed an affiliate of the applicant if the shareholder controlled or had the power to control Corporation X, in which case, Corporation X's gross revenues must be included in determining the applicant's gross revenues. 136 136 See Fifth Report and Order at ¶206. 93. For purposes of determining control, ownership interests will be calculated on a fully-diluted basis. Thus, for example, stock options, convertible debentures, and agreements to merge (including agreements in principle) will generally be considered to have a present effect on the power to control or own an interest in either an outside entity or the PCS applicant or licensee. We will treat such options, debentures, and agreements generally as though the rights held thereunder had been exercised. 137 However, an affiliate cannot use such options and debentures to appear to terminate its control over or relationship with another concern before it actually does so. 138 137 See 13 CFR 121.401(f). SBA's rules provide the following examples to guide the application of this provision: Example 1. If company ``A'' holds an option to purchase a controlling interest in company ``B,'' the situation is treated as though company ``A'' had exercised its rights and had become owner of a controlling interest in company ``B.'' The [annual revenues] of both concerns must be taken into account in determining size. Example 2. If company ``A'' has entered into an agreement to merge with company ``B'' in the future, the situation is treated as though the merger has taken place. [A and B are affiliates of each other]. 138 Id. SBA's rules provide this example: If large company ``A'' holds 70 percent (70 of 100 outstanding shares) of the voting stock of company ``B'' and gives a third party an option to purchase 66 of the 70 shares owned by A, company ``B'' will be deemed to be an affiliate of company ``A'' until the third party actually exercises its option to purchase such shares. In order to prevent large company ``A'' from circumventing the intent of the regulation which [gives] present effect to stock options, the option is not considered to have present effect in this case. 94. Voting and Other Trusts. In a similar vein, we also borrow from the SBA's rules and our own rules in other services to find affiliation under certain voting trusts in order to prevent a circumvention of eligibility rules. The SBA's rules provide that a voting trust, or similar agreement, cannot be used to separate voting power from beneficial ownership of voting stock for the purpose of shifting control of or the power to control an outside concern, if the primary purpose of the trust is to meet size eligibility rules. 139 Similarly, under the Commission's broadcast multiple ownership rules, stock interests held in trust may be attributed to any person who holds or shares the power to vote such stock, has the sole power to sell such stock, has the right to revoke the trust at will or to replace the trustee at will. 140 Also, under the broadcast rules, if a trustee has a familial, personal or extra-trust business relationship to the grantor or the beneficiary of a trust, the stock interests held in trust will be considered assets of the grantor or beneficiary, as appropriate. 141 Because we believe the broadcast rules provide more definitive guidance in this particular area, we shall use them as a model for the general affiliation rules adopted here. Thus, for example, if an investor with an attributable interest in an applicant holds a beneficial interest in stock of another firm that amounts to a controlling interest in that other firm, depending on the identity of the trustee, the other firm may be considered an affiliate and its assets and gross revenues may be attributed to the applicant. 139 13 CFR 121.401(g). 140 See 47 CFR 73.3555 note 2(e). 141 Id.
