FR940720-0-00005 FR940720-0-00001 2. Fees Based on Other Factors Comment. As in FYs 1991&hyph;1993, commenters indicated that NRC should assess fees based on the amount or type of material possessed, the number of radioactive sources, the sales generated by the licensed location, the competitive condition of certain markets and the effect of fees on domestic and foreign competition. Response. The issues of basing fees on the amount of material possessed, the frequency of use of the material, the size of the facilities, and market competitive positions, was addressed by the NRC in previous rules and in the Regulatory Flexibility Analysis in Appendix A to the final rule published July 10, 1991 (56 FR 31511&hyph;31513). The NRC did not adopt that approach because it would require licensees to submit large amounts of new data and would require additional NRC staff to evaluate the data submitted and to develop and administer even more complex fee schedules. The NRC continues to believe that uniformly allocating the generic and other regulatory costs to the specific licensee within a class to determine the amount of the annual fee is a fair, equitable, and practical way to recover those costs and that establishing reduced annual fees based on gross receipts (size) is the most appropriate approach to minimize the impact on small entities. Therefore, NRC finds no basis for altering its approach at this time. This approach was upheld by the D.C. Circuit in its March 16, 1993, decision in Allied-Signal. 3. High-Level Waste Comment. One commenter stated that the Department of Energy (DOE) should pay, through user fees, for NRC's costs related to DOE's high-level waste (HLW) activities at Yucca Mountain. Response. All of NRC's direct costs related to the disposal of civilian high-level waste in DOE's geologic repository are paid for with funds appropriated from the Nuclear Waste Fund (NWF). For FY 1994, the budgeted amount appropriated to the NRC from the NWF is about $22 million. The amount appropriated from the NWF is subtracted from the total NRC appropriation, and is therefore not included in the fee base. This is shown in Table I. Thus, no NRC fees are assessed to recover the direct HLW costs. C. Specific Fee Issues_Part 170 1. Fees for Special Projects. Comment. Several commenters supported the proposed change in 10 CFR part 170 special project fees whereby the definition would be revised to indicate that 10 CFR part 170 fees will not be assessed for certain reports submitted to the NRC. Rather, commenters point out these costs are more appropriately assessed as 10 CFR part 171 annual fees because the related activities are in support of generic efforts such as development of regulatory guidance applicable to a class of licensees. One commenter, while supporting the proposed change, stated that the terms ``alternate method'', ``reanalysis'', and ``unreviewed safety issue'' are imprecise and should be further defined or explained. Another commenter requested that the NRC reinstate a fee ceiling for topical report reviews. The commenter indicated that a fee ceiling would encourage the submittal of topical reports and contribute to the advance of the state-of-the-art in the nuclear industry and resultant improvement in nuclear plant safety. Response. The NRC has revised the definition of special projects as provided in ยง170.3 of the regulations to indicate that 10 CFR part 170 fees will not be assessed for certain requests/reports. Based on a commenter's suggestion, the terms ``alternate method'', ``reanalysis'', and ``unreviewed safety issue'' have been further explained in section IV, Section-by-Section Analysis. The NRC indicated in the FY 1991 final fee rule that it had decided to eliminate the ceiling for topical report reviews based on the 100 percent recovery requirement and congressional guidance that each licensee or applicant pay the full costs of all identifiable regulatory services received from the NRC. Further, the NRC costs for topical reports reviews vary significantly depending on the particular topical report reviewed. This makes it impractical to establish an equitable ceiling or flat fee (56 FR 31478; July 10, 1991). Recently, the Commission revisited this issue as part of its review of fee policy that was required by EPA&hyph;92. The policy of assessing 10 CFR part 170 fees, without a ceiling, for the review and approval of topical reports was reconfirmed. For these reasons, the NRC is not establishing a fee ceiling for topical reports in this final rule.
