FR941013-2-00007 FR941013-2-00006 Export Trade Certificate of Review ACTION: Notice of application. SUMMARY: The Office of Export Trading Company Affairs (``OETCA''), International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce, has received an application for an Export Trade Certificate of Review. This notice summarizes the conduct for which certification is sought and requests comments relevant to whether the Certificate should be issued. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, (202) 482&hyph;5131. This is not a toll-free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title III of the Export Trading Company Act of 1982 (15 U.S.C. 4001&hyph;21) authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to issue Export Trade Certificates of Review. A Certificate of Review protects the holder and the members identified in the Certificate from state and federal government antitrust actions and from private, treble damage antitrust actions for the export conduct specified in the Certificate and carried out in compliance with its terms and conditions. Section 302(b)(1) of the Act and 15 CFR 325.6(a) require the Secretary to publish a notice in the Federal Register identifying the applicant and summarizing its proposed export conduct. Request for Public Comments Interested parties may submit written comments relevant to the determination whether a Certificate should be issued. An original and five (5) copies should be submitted no later than 20 days after the date of this notice to: Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce, Room 1800H, Washington, D.C. 20230. Information submitted by any person is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). Comments should refer to this application as ``Export Trade Certificate of Review, application number 94&hyph;00006.'' A summary of the application follows. Summary of the Application Applicant: P & B International, 7 Broadway, Suite 1032, New York, New York 10004, Contact: Peter T. Peterson, Managing Partner. Telephone: (800) 762&hyph;7740. Application No.: 94&hyph;00006. Date Deemed Submitted: October 6, 1994. Members (in addition to applicant): Peter T. Peterson, Managing Partner and Oliver L. Brown, Senior Partner. P & B International seeks a Certificate to cover the following specific Export Trade, Export Markets, and Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operations. Export Trade: 1. Products All products. 2. Services All services. 3. Export Trade Facilitation Services (as they relate to the Export of Products and Services) All export trade facilitation services including, but not limited to, consulting; foreign market research; marketing and trade promotion; financing; insurance; licensing; services related to compliance with customs documentation and procedures; transportation and shipping; warehousing and other services to facilitate the transfer of ownership and/or distribution; and communication and processing of export orders. Export Markets The Export Markets include all parts of the world except the United States (the fifty states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands). Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation To engage in Export Trade in the Export Markets, as an Export Intermediary, P & B International may: 1. Provide and/or arrange for the provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services; 2. Engage in promotional and marketing activities as they relate to exporting Products and/or Services to the Export Markets; 3. Enter into exclusive sales agreements with Suppliers regarding sales of Products and/or Services in the Export Markets; such agreement may prohibit Suppliers from exporting independently of P & B International; 4. Enter into exclusive sales and/or territorial agreements with distributors in the Export Markets; 5. Establish the price of Products and/or Services for sale in the Export Markets; 6. Allocate export orders among his Suppliers; and 7. Exchange information on a one-on-one basis with individual Suppliers regarding inventories and near-term production schedules for the purpose of determining the availability of Products for export and coordinating exports with distributors. Definitions 1. ``Export Intermediary'' means a person who acts as a distributor, sales representative, sales or marketing agent, or broker, or who performs similar functions, including providing or arranging for the provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services. 2. ``Supplier'' means a person who produces, provides, or sells a Product and/or Service. Dated: October 7, 1994. W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25378 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DR&hyph;P
