FR940413-0-00033 FR940413-0-00007 Under ยง142.3(a)(6), the required information, including the appropriate importer identification number or numbers, must be provided for each entry of imported merchandise processed through cargo selectivity, whether the entry is electronically or manually transmitted to Customs. In particular, for a consolidated entry, where the entry is made listing one broker or freight forwarder as consignee, the required information must be submitted for each separate and distinct shipment within the consolidated shipment. The notice of proposed rulemaking which led to the final rule adopting ยง142.3(a)(6) set forth seven examples which were designed and intended to illustrate the application of the identification requirement contained in this regulation (55 FR 2528, 2529). These examples, however, were dropped from the final rule because they created confusion on the part of the brokerage community as to which party should be identified in some of the more complex import transactions (T.D. 90&hyph;92, 55 FR 49879, 49883). However, it was noted in the final rule that examples meeting the needs of both Customs and the trade would be developed and issued separately ( ibid. ). Accordingly, after working with the trade community in this endeavor, Customs published a notice of clarification in the Federal Register on July 29, 1992 (57 FR 33463), proposing, and asking for public comment on, a number of examples intended to effectively illustrate the correct application of ยง142.3(a)(6). A total of twelve commenters responded during the public comment period. A number of the comments made were outside the scope of the notice, inasmuch as they did not address or concern the examples themselves. A description of the specific issues that were raised with respect to these examples, together with Customs response, is set forth below. Discussion of Comments Comment: One commenter requested an explanation of the procedures for including the ultimate consignee on the entry documents when there are multiple ultimate consignees (both electronically via the Automated Commercial System and on the paperwork). Response: While this comment is beyond the scope of this notice, as a result of the passage of the Customs modernization portion of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;182, Title VI), Customs will be undertaking a broad-based review of its regulations. This comment would be more appropriately addressed at that time. Comment: One commenter wanted to know what would happen if a ``customer'' refuses to give his ultimate consignee number or power of attorney to his broker. Response: If the ultimate consignee number is not provided on the required entry documents, the documentation shall not be considered to be filed in proper form and shall be returned to the importer for correction pursuant to ยง141.64, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 141.64).
