FR940525-0-00060 FR940525-0-00025 Response: The 4-day blocks of time during which all gillnets would be removed from the water each month throughout the range of species covered by the Northeast Multispecies FMP was almost universally rejected by commenters who attended public meetings and by those who submitted written comments. The Council and NMFS are aware that initiatives are underway which involve acoustical alarm research and possible modifications to gillnet gear to reduce porpoise bycatch. If any of these approaches produce scientifically supportable results that can be incorporated into a management strategy, the Council would recommend them through a framework adjustment with a minimum of regulatory delay. Comment: Several commenters questioned why the Council rejected the use of an industry proposal based on a reduction in the number of gillnets in use. Response: At this time, it is not possible to determine the relationship between the number of nets and fishing or harbor porpoise mortality. It is known only that there is a relationship that is not linear. Even a simple estimation of the number of nets in use is impossible, at present, because of the variability of length of nets, numbers of nets in a string, soak time and the variable numbers of both full- and part-time vessels participating in the fishery. Moreover, enforcement of a reduction in the number of nets in the ocean, as opposed to a time and area prohibition, would be very difficult, if not impossible, to accomplish at this time. Classification This regulation is not subject to the requirements to prepare a proposed rule under the conditions met by this framework action that have provided adequate prior public comment when the action was proposed and discussed over the course of several Council meetings. Therefore, a regulatory flexibility analysis was not prepared for this action because it is exempt from such an analysis under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA) finds there is good cause to waive prior notice under 5 U.S.C. 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). Public meetings held by the Council to discuss the management measures implemented by this rule provided adequate opportunity for public comment to be considered. Thus, additional opportunity for public comment is unnecessary. The AA also finds that under section 553(d)(1) of the APA, because immediate implementation of this rule relieves a restriction that would require 4 days out of the water by all vessels using sink gillnet gear in May and June, there is no need to delay for 30 days the effectiveness of this regulation. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 651 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: May 20, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 651 is amended as follows: PART 651_NORTHEAST MULTISPECIES FISHERY 1. The authority citation for part 651 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. 2. Section 651.2 is amended by removing the definition of ``bottom-tending gillnet or sink gillnet'' and adding a definition of ``sink gillnet'' in alphabetical order to read as follows: ยง651.2 Definitions. * * * * * Sink gillnet means any gillnet, anchored or otherwise, that is designed to be, capable of being, or is fished on or near the bottom in the lower third of the water column. * * * * *
