FR941026-0-00045 FR941026-0-00017 The Coast Guard conducted a study entitled Review of Marine Safety Issues Related to Uninspected Towing Vessels. The Review recommended, among other initiatives, establishment of a radar-training requirement for certain operators of towboats. The Coast Guard held a public meeting on April 4, 1994, to examine the Review . The public comments, both offered then and submitted afterward, figured in the development of this rule. Consequently, the Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may ask for one by writing to the Marine Safety Council at the address under ADDRESSES . The request should include the reasons why one would be beneficial. If the Coast Guard determines that another opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, it will schedule a hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in the drafting of this document are Mr. Robert S. Spears, Jr., Project Manager, Office of Marine Safety, Security, and Environmental Protection, and Mr. Patrick J. Murray, Project Counsel, Office of the Chief Counsel. Regulatory Information This rule is being published as an interim rule and will be effective on November 25, 1994. The Coast Guard has determined that it would be contrary to the public interest to delay publication of this rule, which applies current statutory law [46 U.S.C. 2103, 7101, and 8904(a)], establishes an overdue regulatory requirement at a minimal cost, and shows great potential for improving public safety. For these good reasons, the Coast Guard finds under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(3)(B) that no public notice is necessary. Background and Purpose The derailment of the Amtrak Sunset Limited, a passenger train, on September 22, 1993, with extensive injury and loss of life, resulted in a study entitled Review of Marine Safety Issues Related to Uninspected Towing Vessels. This study, based on an investigation conducted jointly by the Offices of Navigation Safety and Waterway Services (G&hyph;N) and of Marine Safety, Security, and Environmental Protection (G&hyph;M), provided the Commandant of the Coast Guard with a number of recommendations to enhance safety in the towing industry. One of these recommendations called for a regulatory project to amend 46 CFR parts 10 and 15 to require radar-observer training and endorsements for operators of radar-equipped towing vessels more than 8 meters (approximately 26 feet) in length. The Commandant concurred, and directed the Merchant Vessel Personnel Division (G&hyph;MVP) to initiate the project. Discussion of Rule This interim rule amends the current rules in two basic ways. First, it adds to 46 CFR part 15 language that extends the requirement of a radar-observer endorsement to licensed operators of radar-equipped towboats 8 meters (approximately 26 feet) or more in length. Second, it adds to part 10 two courses: A Radar-Observer (Rivers) course and a Radar-Operation course, the latter temporary. Because operators with unlimited and inland-waters endorsements may navigate on rivers, the Coast Guard also found it necessary to add rivers-related topics to the list of subjects for the courses encompassing broader routes. (``River'' means any river, canal, or similar body of water designated by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection; ``Inland Waters'' means the navigable waters of the United States shoreward of the Boundary Lines as described by 46 CFR part 7, excluding the Great Lakes [46 CFR 10.103].) To provide a reasonable opportunity for affected personnel to complete full radar-observer courses and obtain radar-observer endorsements, this interim rule requires these courses and endorsements only of personnel receiving original licenses, renewing licenses, or upgrading licenses, on or after February 15, 1995. (Since licenses are valid for five years, some OUTVs will not have to complete these courses until January, 2000.) However, because of the urgent need to improve safety, this rule requires the Radar-Operation course of all affected personnel not yet required to hold the radar-observer endorsement. Because of the large number of personnel required to attend radar-training by February 15, 1995, and the importance of their getting basic training as soon as possible, the Radar-Operation course may be conducted by individuals, companies, or other organizations without prior approval of the Coast Guard. However, offerors must state on their course-completion certificates that the courses conform to rules of the Coast Guard. Each such certificate is valid until the holder's license is renewed or upgraded, whichever occurs first. By then, a holder of this certificate must have completed an approved radar-observer course to obtain the endorsement on his or her license. No mariner who renews or upgrades his or her license on or after February 15, 1995, without having attended a radar-observer course, may serve as the master, mate, operator, or pilot of any vessel identified by 46 CFR 15.815_among which are radar-equipped uninspected towing vessels of at least 8 meters (approximately 26 feet) in length. The radar-observer endorsement on a license expires after five years. To renew, an applicant must present a certificate of training from an approved course: radar-observer renewal or original. Like the original course, the renewal course will contain two principal components: a demonstration of skills on a radar simulator, and a radar-theory examination. Any applicant successfully completing the appropriate approved course and presenting the certificate of training to the OCMI may have his or her endorsement renewed. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review,'' and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under that Order. It is nonsignificant under the Regulatory Policies and Procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) [44 FR 11040 (February 26, 1979)]. The requirements announced by this rule will apply to licensed operators of radar-equipped towing vessels 8 meters (approximately 26 feet) or more in length operating in U.S. waters.
