FR941206-2-00113 FR941206-2-00076 When the PHILADEP participant must deliver SDFS securities, the PHILADEP participant sends instructions via facsimile to PHILADEP's Interface Department on or before the established cut-off times that are consistent with DTC established procedures. PHILADEP, on behalf of its participant, then sends notification of the delivery to DTC, but only after PHILADEP confirms that its participant has a current position in the subject security. Once DTC determines the transaction will not cause its participant or PHILADEP to exceed their respective net debit caps or collateralization controls and allows the transaction to be completed, PHILADEP will credit the participant's account. Finally, PHILADEP and DTC reconcile PHILADEP's positions in SDFS eligible securities on account at DTC each day, and PHILADEP reconciles its individual participant's positions that reflect that aggregate. Because PHILADEP's SDFS system is offered as an accommodation to its participant, PHILADEP will restrict use of the system to the one participant currently using the system and will restrict the number of transactions that may be processed in the system to one hundred per day. 11 Future expansion of the SDFS system is dependent, among other things, upon PHILADEP's operational capabilities and will require the filing of a proposed rule change under Section 19(b)(2) of the Act. 11 Supra footnote 6. II. Discussion The Commission believes that PHILADEP's proposal is consistent with Section 17A of the Act and specifically with Sections 17A(b)(3)(A) and (F). 12 Sections 17A(b)(3)(A) and (F) require that a clearing agency be organized and its rules be designed to facilitate and promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to assure the safeguarding of securities and funds in the clearing agency's custody or control or for which it is responsible. The Commission believes that PHILADEP's proposal to incorporate the safeguards proposed in DTC's SDFS system ( e.g. collateralization controls, net debit caps, receiver-authorized delivery, and SDFS Fund deposit) should help protect PHILADEP from the failure of the PHILADEP participant to meet its settlement obligation to PHILADEP. For example, the collateralization control requires that the participant have sufficient collateral in its account to cover any projected net settlement debit. This assures that the transactions do not result in financial loss to PHILADEP. The net debit cap helps to protect against abnormal intraday debit peaks that are out of line with the participant's prior month's average daily activity level. The third safeguard is the receiver-authorized delivery instructions which allow the participant to monitor deliveries directed to its account before the deliveries are posted to its account. The SDFS Fund protects PHILADEP from losses from defaults by providing a source of liquidity in the SDFS system. These incorporated safeguards will not operate independently but will function as an interdependent set of controls that will help ensure the safety of PHILADEP's interface with DTC. 12 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3) (A) and (F) (1988). Section 17A(b)(3)(F) also requires that the rules of a clearing agency foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in the clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. The Commission believes that PHILADEP's proposal is consistent with this section of the Act because the interface will provide the PHILADEP participant with the ability to have its transaction in SDFS securities efficiently processed through the facilities of a clearing agency thus avoiding the inefficiencies inherent in the settlement of SDFS securities outside the automated facilities of a securities clearing agency. III. Conclusion The Commission finds that PHILADEP's proposal is consistent with the requirements of the Act and particularly with Section 17A and the rules and regulations thereunder. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;PHILADEP&hyph;91&hyph;03) be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 13 13 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29933 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
