FR940622-1-00039 FR940622-1-00011 Current §1.305&hyph;5(b)(1) can apply to preferred stock that is redeemable solely at the option of the issuer. The holder generally must treat a call premium as a constructive distribution under §1.305&hyph;5(b) to the extent that the premium is unreasonable. Section 305(c) was amended by the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1990 (the 1990 Act), Pub. L. 101&hyph;508, which changed the treatment of stock redeemable at a premium. The amendments provide that: (a) If the issuer is required to redeem stock at a specified time, or the holder has the option to require the issuer to redeem stock, at a premium, the redemption premium will result in a constructive distribution if it exceeds a de minimis amount computed under the principles of section 1273(a)(3); (b) a redemption premium will not fail to be treated as a distribution (or series of distributions) merely because the stock is callable; and (c) in any case where a redemption premium is treated as a distribution (or series of distributions), the premium will be taken into account under principles similar to those of section 1272(a). The amendments to section 305(c) did not alter the requirement that constructive distributions resulting from a redemption premium be treated as distributions to which section 301 applies only if they have the effect described in section 305(b), including section 305(b)(4). Rather, the amendments were adopted because Congress believed that ``the economic accrual rules applicable to debt instruments issued with [original issue discount (OID)] also should generally apply to certain preferred stock issued with a redemption premium if the stock will be redeemed, or if it can reasonably be assumed that the stock will be redeemed, on a fixed date.'' H.R. Rep. No. 881, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. 347 (1990). The legislative history to the 1990 amendments indicates that Congress did not intend to limit the authority of the Treasury and the IRS to determine the proper treatment of redemption premiums on callable preferred stock. Id. at 348&hyph;49. Explanation of Proposed Regulations 1990 Act Amendments. Proposed §1.305&hyph;5 (b)(1) and (b)(2) restate the basic rules concerning the treatment of mandatorily redeemable and puttable stock in conformity with the 1990 Act. The IRS and Treasury anticipate that other issues raised by the 1990 Act will be addressed in subsequent guidance. Treatment of issuer call rights . The primary focus of the proposed regulations is on the treatment under section 305(c) of stock callable at a premium at the option of the issuer. If stock is subject to an issuer call, the holder cannot control whether the stock will be redeemed at the premium amount. Moreover, if the payment of a call premium merely reflects increases in the value of the holder's stock resulting from market fluctuations after the date of issuance, the call premium is not the equivalent of a distribution and its payment is more appropriately taxable only upon realization. If, on the date of issuance, however, it is more likely than not that an issuer will exercise its call option based on the economic terms of the stock, the holder's anticipated increase in the earnings and assets of the issuer through the call premium is equivalent to a periodic return on the stock that should be taxed over time as a distribution. Such a call has the effect of a mandatory redemption provision, and should produce comparable tax consequences. Accordingly, proposed §1.305&hyph;5(b)(3) requires constructive distribution treatment with respect to an issuer call only if, based on all of the facts and circumstances as of the issue date, redemption pursuant to the call right is more likely than not to occur. Even if redemption may be likely, however, constructive distribution treatment does not result if the redemption premium is solely in the nature of a penalty for premature redemption. A penalty for premature redemption is a premium paid as a result of changes in economic or market conditions over which neither the issuer nor the holder has control. Examples include changes in prevailing dividend rates or in the value of the common stock into which the stock is convertible. Calls in such cases reflect increases in the value of the holder's stock resulting from events that occur after the date of issuance, and the premiums paid thereon therefore represent a penalty for premature redemption rather than the equivalent of a periodic return on the stock. Under a safe harbor, constructive distribution treatment does not result from an issuer call if the issuer and the holder are unrelated, there are no arrangements that effectively require the issuer to redeem the stock, and exercise of the option to redeem would not reduce the yield of the stock. The standard in the proposed safe harbor is similar to the standard for taking into account call options in determining the yield of debt instruments potentially subject to the accrual of OID. See §1.1272&hyph;1(c)(5). However, the determination of whether a redemption premium should be treated as a constructive distribution is not based solely on the effect of an issuer call on yield. Proposed §1.305&hyph;5(b)(1) does not provide any exception from constructive distribution treatment for stock that is immediately callable by the issuer. Under proposed §1.305&hyph;5(b)(3), a constructive distribution by reason of the issuer call would only occur in cases where a call is more likely than not to occur, based on the facts and circumstances as of the issue date. The holder is treated as constructively receiving the premium as a distribution over the period from the issue date to the date on or by which redemption is most likely to occur.
