FR940407-1-00048 FR940407-1-00012 (iv) Final Estimate of ``g''. The final estimate of ``g'' for the DCF model is commonly based on an average of the separate estimates arrived at using the historical data, the professional investment services' projections, and the sustainable growth model. Thus, the Commission's proposed rule reflects such an averaging procedure. (b) Dividend Yield. Two methods are commonly used to calculate dividend yields in DCF analyses. The standard DCF model uses the annual dividend expected to be paid 12 months following the purchase of the security. This method assumes that dividends are paid annually. The other method uses the current dividend to compute the yield portion of the annual return. This method assumes that dividends are paid continuously. However, the assumption of annual payments results in an overstatement of the required return ( i.e., the regulated firm's cost of common-stock equity capital), and the assumption of continuous payments results in an understatement of the required return. Since most firms pay dividends on a quarterly basis, however, it is proper to use a method that recognizes such quarterly installments. Such a method applies an adjustment factor to the current dividend yield to account for quarterly payment of dividends. The dividend yield, assuming quarterly payment of dividends, is calculated on the basis of the following formula: E:GRAPHICSEP07AP94.010 where: D 0 is the current annualized dividend (defined as four times the current quarterly installment) per share; P 0 is the current market price per share of the common stock; and g is the constant expected annual rate of growth in dividends per share. To illustrate the quarterly dividend formula, assume that the current market price of a hypothetical regulated company's common stock is $30.00 per share, and that a single common stock share currently pays quarterly a 50 cent dividend ($2.00 annually), which is expected to grow at a rate of 5 percent per year. The dividend yield for such a company is: E:GRAPHICSEP07AP94.011 The Commission proposes to use this formula in calculating the dividend yield in DCF analyses. In calculating the current price per share found in the denominator of the expression for the dividend yield, an average price over a period of time, rather than a price on a particular day, is often used in order to remove aberrations from the calculation. Such aberrations could be the result of events internal to the company ( e.g., the stock may go ex-dividend 30 ) or external factors ( e.g., political events that affect the price of a firm's stock). The period over which to average the price of the common stock should be sufficiently long to remove the aberration, but sufficiently short so as not to obscure any real trends in the stock market. The Commission believes that the use of an average of the monthly high and low prices for a six-month period in computing the dividend yield meets these criteria, and such an average is, therefore, reflected in the proposed rule. 30 Ex-dividend is the interval between the announcement and the payment of the next dividend. An investor who buys shares during that interval is not entitled to that dividend. Typically, a stock's price moves up by the dollar amount of the dividend as the ex-dividend date approaches, then falls by the amount of the dividend after that date. (c) Company-Specific Versus Comparable Group DCF Approach. The DCF model can be applied directly to a regulated company which issues publicly-traded common-stock equity (so that the requisite stock market price data for doing so exist), to a group of companies comparable in risk to the subject carrier which issue publicly-traded common-stock equity, or, where possible, both. The company-specific DCF approach provides the stock market's most direct and meaningful measure of a company's cost of common-stock equity capital. Accordingly, the Commission's proposed rule requires that the DCF model be applied directly to the subject carrier where the carrier issues common-stock equity which trades publicly. 31 Only where a carrier issues no publicly-traded common-stock equity is the DCF model to be applied to a comparable group of firms under the proposed rule. Some expert witnesses do, however, apply the DCF model to a comparable group of firms, even where direct stock market data are available, either in place of, or in addition to, the company-specific DCF approach. The Commission's proposed rule does not prescribe the comparable group DCF approach where direct stock market price data are available because it is not certain that this approach would improve upon the accuracy of the cost of common-stock equity capital estimate obtained using the carrier-specific DCF approach. 31 Alternatively, under the proposed rule, the DCF model is to be applied directly to the parent company of a subsidiary carrier where a consolidated capital structure and consolidated system capital component costs are to be used to calculate the WACC, assuming that the parent company issues common-stock equity which trades publicly.
