FR941117-2-00137 FR941117-2-00093 [Investment Company Act Release No. 20694; International Series Release No. 749/812&hyph;9292] The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.; Notice of Application November 9, 1994. Agency: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). Action: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``Act''). Applicant: The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. (``Chase''). Relevant Act Sections: Exemption requested under section 6(c) from the provisions section 17(f) of the Act. Summary of Application: Chase seeks an order to enable it to maintain foreign securities and other assets of United States registered investment companies for which Chase serves as custodian or subcustodian in the custody of The Chase Manhattan Bank Mexico, S.A. (``Chase-Mexico, S.A. (``Chase-Mexico''). Filing Date: The application was filed on October 14, 1994. Counsel for Chase has undertaken to file an amendment during the notice period, the substance of which is incorporated herein. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving Applicant with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on December 2, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicant, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reasons for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request such notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. Addresses: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicant, c/o Daniel L. Goelzer, Esq., Baker & McKenzie, 815 Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20006. For Further Information Contact: H.R. Hallock, Jr., at (202) 942&hyph;0564 or Barry D. Miller, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). Supplementary Information: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations and Legal Analysis 1. Chase requests exemptive relief for itself, any management investment company registered under the Act, other than an investment company registered under section 7(d) of the Act (a ``U.S. Investment Company''), and any custodian for a U.S. Investment Company from section 17(f) of the Act. The requested exemption would let Chase, such U.S. Investment Company and such custodian maintain foreign securities, cash, and cash equivalents (collectively, ``Assets'') in the custody of Chase-Mexico, an indirect subsidiary of Chase located in Mexico. For purposes of the application, the term ``foreign securities'' includes (a) securities issued and sold primarily outside the United States by a foreign government, a national of any foreign country, or a corporation or other organization incorporated or organized under the laws of any foreign country, and (b) securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of the United States or by any state or any political subdivision thereof or by any agency thereof or by any entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof which have been issued and sold primarily outside of the United States. 2. Section 17(f) of the Act requires every registered management investment company to place and maintain its securities and similar investments in the custody of certain enumerated entities. Rule 17f&hyph;5 under the Act expands the group of entities located outside the United States that are permitted to serve as custodians for the Assets of registered management investment companies. Rule 17f&hyph;5 defines the term ``Eligible Foreign Custodian'' to include a majority-owned direct or indirect subsidiary of a qualified U.S. bank-holding company that is incorporated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States and that has shareholders' equity in excess of $100,000,000 (U.S. $ equivalent or U.S. $) as of the close of its most recently completed fiscal year. The rule defines the term ``Qualified U.S. Bank'' to include a banking institution organized under the laws of the United States that has an aggregate capital, surplus and undivided profit of not less than $500,000.
