FR940503-0-00043 FR940503-0-00009 (3) Remind the laboratory that accreditation does not relieve it from complying with applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. * * * * * 22. Section 285.24 is revised to read as follows: §285.24 Denying, suspending, and revoking accreditation. (a) If NVLAP proposes to deny or revoke accreditation of a laboratory, NVLAP shall inform the laboratory of the reasons for the proposed denial or revocation and the procedure for appealing such a decision. (b) The laboratory will have 30 days from the date of receipt of the proposed denial or revocation letter to appeal the decision to the Director of NIST. If the laboratory appeals the decision to the Director of NIST, the proposed denial or revocation will be stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. The proposed denial or revocation will become final through the issuance of a written decision to the laboratory in the event that the laboratory does not appeal the proposed denial or revocation within that 30-day period. (c) If NVLAP finds that an accredited laboratory has violated the terms of its accreditation or the provisions of these procedures, NVLAP may, after consultation with the laboratory, suspend the laboratory's accreditation, or advise of NVLAP's intent to revoke accreditation. If accreditation is suspended, NVLAP shall notify the laboratory of that action stating the reasons for and conditions of the suspension and specifying the action(s) the laboratory must take to have its accreditation reinstated. (d) A laboratory whose accreditation has been denied, revoked, terminated, or expired, or which has withdrawn its application before being accredited, may reapply and be accredited if the laboratory: (1) Completes the assessment and evaluation process; and (2) Meets the conditions and criteria for accreditation that are set out in §§285.32 and 285.33. (e) Conditions of suspension will include prohibiting the laboratory from using the NVLAP logo on its test or calibration reports during the suspension period. The determination of NVLAP whether to suspend or to propose revocation of a laboratory's accreditation will depend on the nature of the violation(s) of the terms of its accreditation. 23. Section 285.26 is added to read as follows: §285.26 Change in status of laboratory. Accreditation of a laboratory is based on specific conditions and criteria including the laboratory ownership, location, staffing, facilities, and configuration. Changes in any of these conditions or criteria could result in loss of accreditation. NVLAP must be informed if any of the conditions or criteria for accreditation are changed so that a determination can be made concerning the status of the accreditation. 24. Section 285.31 is revised to read as follows: §285.32 Application of accreditation conditions and criteria. To become accredited and maintain accreditation, a laboratory must meet the conditions for accreditation set out in §285.32, the criteria set out in §285.33, and the guidance provided in the Handbooks for specific LAPs. 25. Section 285.32 is revised to read as follows: §285.32 Conditions for accreditation (a) To become accredited and maintain accreditation, a laboratory shall agree in writing to: (1) Be assessed and evaluated initially and on a periodic basis; (2) Demonstrate, on request, that it is able to perform the calibrations or tests representative of those for which it is seeking accreditation; (3) Pay all fees; (4) Participate in proficiency testing as required; (5) Be capable of performing the calibrations or tests for which it is accredited according to the latest version of the calibration or test method within one year after its publication or within another time limit specified by NVLAP; (6) Limit the representation of the scope of its accreditation to only those calibrations, tests or services for which accreditation is granted; (7) Resolve all deficiencies; (8) Limit all its work or services of clients to those areas where competence and capacity are available; (9) Maintain records of all actions taken in response to complaints for a minimum of one year; (10) Maintain an independent decisional relationship between itself and its clients, affiliates, or other organizations so that the laboratory's capacity to render calibration or test reports objectively and without bias is not adversely affected; (11) Report to NVLAP within 30 days any major changes involving the location, ownership, management structure, authorized representative, approved signatories, or facilities of the laboratory; and (12) Return to NVLAP the Certificate of Accreditation and the Scope of Accreditation for revision or other action should it: (i) Be requested to do so by NVLAP; (ii) Voluntarily terminate its accredited status; or (iii) Become unable to conform to any of these conditions, the applicable criteria of §285.33, and related technical requirements.
