FR941219-0-00003 FR941219-0-00001 (7) Office of Planning and Resource Management Services. (b) The principal functions of the Board's headquarters offices are as follows: (1) Office of the Administrative Law Judge and Regional Operations. The Administrative Law Judge hears Hatch Act cases, disciplinary and corrective action complaints brought by the Special Counsel, actions against administrative law judges, appeals of actions taken against MSPB employees, and other cases that the Board assigns. The office also manages the appellate functions of the MSPB regional and field offices. (2) Office of Appeals Counsel. The Director, Office of Appeals Counsel, prepares proposed decisions that recommend appropriate action by the Board in petition for review cases and other cases assigned by the Board. (3) Office of the Clerk of the Board. The Clerk of the Board enters petitions for review and original jurisdiction cases onto the Board's docket and monitors their processing. The Clerk of the Board also does the following: (i) Gives information on the status of cases; (ii) Manages the Board's records, reports, and correspondence style and control programs; and (iii) Answers requests under the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts at the Board's headquarters. (4) Office of the General Counsel. The General Counsel provides legal advice to the Board and its headquarters and regional offices, represents the Board in court proceedings, coordinates legislative policy and performs congressional liaison, coordinates the Board's public affairs function, and plans and directs audits and investigations. (5) Office of Policy and Evaluation. The Director, Policy and Evaluation, conducts special reviews and studies of Federal merit systems, including reviews of the significant actions of the Office of Personnel Management. (6) Office of Equal Employment Opportunity. The Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity, manages the Board's equal employment programs. (7) Office of Planning and Resource Management Services. The Director, Office of Planning and Resource Management Services, develops and coordinates internal management programs and projects, conducts agencywide management reviews, and manages the Board's three administrative divisions: Financial and Administrative Management; Information Resources Management; and Human Resources Management. (c) Regional and Field Offices. The Board has six regional offices and five field offices located throughout the country (See Appendix II to 5 CFR part 1201 for a list of the regional and field offices). The regional and field offices enter initial appeals onto their dockets and decide these cases as provided for in the Board's regulations. Dated: December 12, 1994. Robert E. Taylor, Clerk of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30892 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7400&hyph;01&hyph;P
