FR940203-2-00007 FR940203-2-00004 The Department shall determine, and the U.S. Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. Individual differences between United States price and foreign market value may vary from the percentage stated above. Upon completion of this administrative review, the Department will issue appraisement instructions directly to the U.S. Customs Service. Furthermore, the following deposit requirements will be effective for all shipments of the subject merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the publication date of the final results of this administrative review, as provided by section 751(a)(1) of the Act: (1) The cash deposit rate for the reviewed company, in the event the order is not revoked in part, will be that established in the final results of this administrative review; (2) for previously reviewed or investigated companies not listed above, the cash deposit rate will continue to be the company-specific rate published for the most recent period; (3) if the exporter is not a firm covered in this review, a prior review, or the original less-than-fair-value investigation, but the manufacturer is such a firm, the cash deposit rate will be the rate established for the most recent period for the manufacturer of the merchandise. The cash deposit rate for all other manufacturers or exporters will be 1.96 percent ad valorem. On May 25, 1993, the Court of International Trade (CIT) in Floral Trade Council v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;79, and Federal-Mogul Corporation v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;83, decided that once an ``all others'' rate is established for a company, it can only be changed through an administrative review. The Department has determined that in order to implement these decisions, it is appropriate to reinstate the original ``all others'' rate from the less-than-fair-value (LTFV) investigation (or that rate as amended for correction of clerical errors or as a result of litigation) in proceedings governed by antidumping duty orders for the purposes of establishing cash deposits in all current and future administrative reviews. In proceedings governed by antidumping findings, unless we are able to ascertain the ``all others'' rate from the Treasury LTFV investigation, the Department has determined that it is appropriate to adopt the ``new shipper'' rate established in the first final results of administrative review published by the Department (or that rate as amended for correction of clerical error or as a result of litigation) as the ``all others'' rate for the purposes of establishing cash deposits in all current and future administrative reviews. Because this proceeding is governed by an antidumping duty order, the ``all others'' rate for the purposes of this review will be 1.96 percent ad valorem, the ``all others'' rate established in the LTFV investigation by the Department, (52 FR 8324, March 17, 1987). This notice also serves as a preliminary reminder to importers of their responsibility under 19 CFR 353.26 to file a certificate regarding the reimbursement of antidumping duties prior to liquidation of the relevant entries during this review period. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in the Secretary's presumption that reimbursement of antidumping duties occurred and the subsequent assessment of double antidumping duties. Public Comment Parties to the proceeding may request disclosure within five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register , and any interested party may request a hearing within 10 days of publication. Any hearing, if requested, will be held 44 days after the date of publication, or the first workday thereafter. Case briefs and/or written comments from interested parties may be submitted not later than 30 days after the date of publication. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttals to written comments, limited to issues raised in those comments, may be filed not later than 37 days after publication. The Department will publish a notice of final results of this administrative review, including an analysis of issues raised in any written comments. This administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)) and ยง353.22(c)(5)) of the Department's regulations. Dated: January 26, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2450 Filed 2&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS-P
