FR940429-0-00140 FR940429-0-00014 Changes: Section 600.5(d)(1) has been amended to clarify this requirement. Comment: Several commenters suggested that an institution should be allowed to include institutional charges that were paid by institutional scholarships and loans as revenue in the denominator of the fraction contained in ยง600.5(d)(1). One commenter said that his school awarded $1,000 institutional scholarships to all students in the second year of their program. The commenter felt strongly that his institution should be able to include these scholarships as institutional revenues. Discussion: An institution is not prohibited from including institutional charges that were paid by institutional scholarships and institutional loans as revenue in the denominator of the fraction contained in ยง600.5(d)(1), provided that the scholarships and loans are valid and not just part of a scheme to artificially inflate an institution's tuition and fee charges. For this purpose, the Secretary does not consider institutional loans to be real unless such loans are routinely repaid by the student borrowers. The Secretary does not consider institutional scholarships to be valid if every student receives such a scholarship so that no student ever pays the claimed tuition and fee charges. The Secretary considers the above-described practice of the commenter to be a classic example of this scheme. In this connection, the Secretary will scrutinize institutions that raise their tuition and fee charges to avoid the 85 percent rule but can show no actual payment of those additional charges, or payment through ``artificial'' institutional scholarships and loans. Changes: None. Comment: A number of commenters suggested that non-need-based title IV, HEA program assistance, such as funds under the Federal PLUS Loan Program, the Federal SLS Program, and the unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loan Program, should not be included in the numerator of the 85 percent rule calculation because it is unrealistic to penalize an institution whose students chose to borrow under these programs. Discussion: The statutory provision that established the 85 percent rule, section 481(b)(6) of the HEA, provides that an eligible proprietary institution must have at least 15 percent of its revenues that ``are not derived from funds provided under this title,'' i.e., title IV of the HEA. Section 481(b)(6) does not differentiate between ``need-based'' title IV, HEA program funds and non-need-based title IV, HEA program funds. However, when determining the amount of title IV, HEA program funds derived from FFEL programs or the Federal Direct Loan Program, the institution should only include loan proceeds disbursed to students. It should not include the face amount of a loan because that amount includes loan origination fees and loan guarantee fees that are not disbursed to students. Changes: None. Comment: A number of commenters pointed out problems with the fraction the Secretary proposed to determine whether an institution satisfies the 85 percent rule. The commenters noted that the title IV, HEA program funds in the numerator were reported on an award year basis but the revenues in the denominator were reported on a fiscal year basis. The commenters indicated that when the institution's fiscal year does not coincide with an award year, the computation would not provide reliable results. In addition, a number of commenters raised concerns that the information reported in the numerator and denominator would be produced under two different methods of accounting. Several auditing organizations noted that the title IV, HEA program funds must be reported in the numerator on a cash basis of accounting (received). They further noted that the revenue figure in the denominator would be verified through the use of a financial statement audit, and in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), financial statements are prepared on an accrual basis of accounting. The commenters concluded that it does not make sense to compare the amount determined in the numerator with the amount determined in the denominator when each number is determined under a different basis of accounting. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters about the deficiencies in the proposed rule and has made the following changes. First, the Secretary agrees that there should be a common reporting period for the numerator and the denominator. The Secretary will not require institutions to change their fiscal year to parallel an award year. Therefore, although the Secretary will be giving up a degree of oversight, the Secretary will allow institutions to use their fiscal year as the reporting period for the numerator as well as the denominator. Second, since institutions must report and account for title IV, HEA program funds on a cash basis, the institution must also account for revenue in the denominator on a cash basis. Under a cash basis of accounting, the institution reports revenues on the date that the revenues are actually received. An institution's computation must be verified as part of the institution's title IV, HEA program compliance audit or as part of its financial statement audit. The institution may choose which audit will include the verification. Changes: Section 600.5 is amended as follows: institutions will report title IV, HEA program funds in the numerator of the fraction set forth in ยง600.5(d) on a fiscal year basis and that fiscal year will be the same fiscal year used to report revenues in the denominator of that fraction; institutions will report revenues in the denominator on a cash basis of accounting; and institutional computations will be verified in financial statement audits or title IV, HEA program compliance audits. Comment: Several commenters suggested that 30 or 60 days after an award year or fiscal year does not provide enough time for an institution to compute its percentage of title IV, HEA program funds because of possible year-end adjustments and because the institution's computation must be verified by the financial audit.
