FR940228-1-00107 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary proposes to define a student attending an institution for the first time as a student who has not previously attended at least one class at the institution. A student who received a refund of 100 percent of his or her tuition and fees (less any permitted administrative fee) under the institution's refund policy for previous attendance at the institution would also be considered a first-time student. The Secretary believes that a first-time student at an institution is a student who is attending that institution, as opposed to any institution, for the first time. Therefore, if the student has not previously attended at least one class at a specific institution, the Secretary would consider the student to be attending that institution for the first time. If a student transfers to another institution, he or she would count as a first-time student at the new institution, if he or she has not previously attended at least one class at the new institution. If a student attends an institution, withdraws from the institution (and receives less than a 100 percent refund), and then returns to the same institution, the student would not be treated as a first-time student for his or her second period of attendance. The Secretary believes that if a student has previously received a 100 percent refund at an institution, for purposes of this definition, the student should be treated as if he or she had not previously attended the institution. The Secretary proposes that a student should remain a first-time student until the student withdraws from the institution after attending at least one class, or completes the period of enrollment for which he or she has been charged, whichever occurs first. Therefore, the shortest amount of time a student could remain a first-time student is the period until he or she withdraws after attending one class. The longest amount of time a student could remain a first-time student is the period until his or her completion of the period of enrollment for which he or she has been charged. The Secretary proposes to adopt for all the Title IV, HEA programs the requirement currently found in the FFEL program regulations that an institution's payment to a lender of the portion of a refund allocable to a Title IV, HEA program cannot be delayed because of a delay in the return of equipment. The provision would apply to the portion of the refund due to any Title IV, HEA program. In the actual calculation of a refund under the pro rata refund provisions of section 484B of the HEA, the amount of the refund is based on ``the portion of the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged that remains [after the student stopped attending].'' Under the law, ``the portion of the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged that remains'' in an educational program measured in credit hours is determined by dividing the number of weeks that the student did not complete by the total number of weeks in the program. For a clock-hour program, the determination is made by dividing the number of clock hours not completed by the total number of clock hours. For a correspondence program, the determination is made by dividing the number of lessons not completed by the total number of lessons. The Secretary has merely repeated that language here. The Secretary would like to note that ``the portion of the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged that remains'' is used to calculate the pro rata refund to a student and is distinct from the determination of the 60 percent point in time in the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged that is used to determine whether the pro rata refund calculation is applicable. The definition of ``the 60 percent point in time in the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged'' was discussed earlier in the summary. Period of Enrollment for Which the Student Has Been Charged Generally, the Secretary proposes to define ``the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged,'' as the actual period for which an institution charges a student. However, the Secretary proposes to establish a minimum period of enrollment for which the student has been charged to prevent institutions from establishing very short periods to minimize the program charges that would be subject to pro rata refunds for first-time students. In the case of an educational program that is measured in credit hours and uses semesters, trimesters, quarters, or other academic terms, the minimum period would be the semester, trimester, quarter, or other academic term. In the case of an educational program that is measured in credit hours and does not use semesters, trimesters, quarters, or other academic terms, or an educational program that is measured in clock hours, the minimum period would be the lesser of the length of the educational program or an academic year. This proposed definition is based on the current policy for the FFEL programs that sets minimum certification periods for loans. This policy was designed partly to prevent institutions from circumventing the refund provisions currently found in ยง668.22. The Secretary invites comments on whether other safeguards are needed to prevent institutions from circumventing the pro rata refund requirements.
