FR940224-2-00126 FR940224-2-00081 (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The National Business Conduct Committee of the NASD (``NBCC'') is composed of participating members of the first year class of the NASD Board of Governors (``Board'') plus an elected Chair and Vice-Chair from the Board's second year class. The members of the NBCC are sent a weekly package (``weekly mailings'') for review on proposed Acceptance, Waiver, and Consents (``AWCs''), Minor Rule Violations Letters, and Offers of Settlement. The NBCC also reviews, on a weekly basis, all disciplinary decisions of the District Business Conduct Committees and the Market Surveillance Committee. All matters are first reviewed by the Chair and Vice-Chair of the NBCC and then reviewed by the other members of the NBCC along with the recommendations of the Chair and Vice-Chair. The NASD has determined that the weekly mailings to the NBCC require a substantial commitment of time of NBCC members and that the review by NBCC members of all the foregoing matters is unnecessary and unduly burdensome. In order to reduce the amount of materials which must be read by NBCC members, the NASD proposes to amend Article II, Sections 10(a), 10(b), and 11(e) 2 of the Code of Procedure (``Code'') to allow the NBCC to designate a Subcommittee composed of members of the NBCC to review AWCs, Minor Rule Violations Letters, and Offers of Settlement in all instances other than matters that are outside the NASD Sanction Guidelines 3 or where the designated Subcommittee, in its discretion, otherwise believes full NBCC review is appropriate. The NASD intends that, initially, the Subcommittee designated by the Committee will consist of the Committee Chair and Vice-Chair, but may modify the composition of the Subcommittee in the future., 2 NASD Manual, Code of Procedure, Article II, Sections 10(a), 10(b), and 11(e), (CCH) ¶¶ 3030, 3031. 3 The NASD Sanction Guidelines were published in May 1993 and sent to all NASD members, See NASD Regulatory & Compliance ALERT, Volume 7, No. 2 (June 1993). The NASD is, therefore, proposing to amend Article II, Sections 10(a) and 10(b) of the Code, to allow acceptance and rejections of AWCs and Minor Rule Violations Letters to be made by a Subcommittee designated by the NBCC as an alternative to full NBCC review. The NASD is also proposing to amend Article II, section 11(e) of the Code to allow acceptances and rejections of Offers of Settlement to be made by a Subcommittee designated by the NBCC as an alternative to full NBCC review. The NASD is also proposing to delete the phrase ``by a majority vote'' from Article II, section 11(e) of the Code. The NASD considers the phrase ``by a majority vote'' to be confusing since a majority vote is always required by an NASD review body acting pursuant to the Code. The NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of section 15A(b)(8) of the Act in that the proposed rule change provides for fair procedures for the disciplining of members and persons associated with members. The proposal enhances the NASD's disciplinary procedures with respect to AWCs, Minor Rule Violations Letters, and Offers of Settlement by facilitating the review of such matters by the NBCC. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition. The NASD does not believe that the proposed rule change will result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, as amended. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: A. By order approve such proposed rule, or B. Institute proceeding to determine whether the proposed rule should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by March 17, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4143 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
