FR940419-0-00081 FR940419-0-00019 As a result of public comment, the following changes are made to the clause and its prescription: _The proposed annual certification requirement is changed from applying to all Superfund contracts to only contracts where the contract does not include the submission of other conflict of interest certifications during contract performance. Superfund contracts requiring annual certification include: Site Specific contracts and the Contract Laboratory Program (CLP) and the Sample Management Office (SMO) contracts. This change is made in response to comments that multiple certification requirements are duplicative and overburdensome. _To reduce reporting requirements, the update of conflict of interest plan requirement, which was included in the proposed rule's clause, EPAAR 1552.210&hyph;78, Annual Certification and Update of Conflict of Interest Plan, has been deleted. Its prescription has also been removed from the proposed rule's prescription, EPAAR 1510.011&hyph;78, Annual Certification and Update of Conflict of Interest Plan. _The annual certification requirement in the proposed rule's EPAAR 1552.210&hyph;78 and the prescription EPAAR 1510.011&hyph;78 is designated, under the final rule, as EPAAR 1552.210&hyph;80, Annual Certification, and its prescription is EPAAR 1510.011&hyph;80, Annual Certification. _The requirement that contractors certify annually that all personal conflicts of interest have been reported is changed to ``the Contractor shall certify that it has informed its personnel who perform work under EPA contracts or relating to EPA contracts of their obligation to report personal and organizational conflicts of interest to the contractors.'' This change was made in response to public comments that it is unfair and overburdensome to require contractors to certify that personal conflicts have been reported since contractors have to rely on their personnel to report such conflicts. _The term ``apparent'' has been removed in response to comments that the term is vague and difficult to define. _The prescription to this clause has been changed to be consistent with the prescription to the Organizational Conflict of Interest Clause. The final prescription, EPAAR 1510.011&hyph;80, Annual Certification, includes a small purchase limitation threshold. Other comments and our response include: 1. Timing of submittal of annual certification. One comment expressed concern that the timing of the annual certification should be changed to a date certain or tied to a company's fiscal year calendar. We retain the requirement that the annual certification cover a one year period from time of award, and all subsequent certifications shall cover successive annual periods thereafter. Such certification must be received by the Contracting Officer no later than 45 days after the close of the certification period covered. However, if a contractor has sufficient justification to change the filing date, the contractor may submit a request to the Contracting Officer who can consider the request for an adjustment and has the authority to modify the contract accordingly. Other comments and our response include: 1. Clarification of conflict of interest plan, evaluation process and confidential data. Some commenters recommended that we clarify what should be in a conflict of interest plan and the evaluation process and exclude confidential data. Conflict of interest plans are only required for solicitations in which the Contracting Officer makes a determination that a significant potential for conflict of interest exists. Any requirements for conflict of interest plans and information regarding their evaluation will be included in individual solicitations. If any confidential information is provided, e.g., sensitive corporate structure information, the contractor should mark it accordingly and it will be safeguarded to the full extent of the law. EPAAR 1552.212&hyph;71, Work Assignments, is amended to add two alternate clauses to be used for all Superfund contracts which do not require annual certifications. The alternate clauses require contractors to certify within 20 days of receipt of a work assignment that all actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest have been reported to the Contracting Officer, or that no actual, or potential organizational conflicts of interest exist. Where work assignments are issued under a contract for work related to a site, a contractor is only required to provide a certification for the first work assignment issued for that site under the contract. In addition, the clauses require a contractor to certify that its personnel who perform work under this work assignment or relating to this work assignment have been informed of their obligation to report personal and organizational conflicts of interest.
