FR941216-1-00138 FR941216-1-00012 (c) Controls for ventilating fan motors for spray painting booths shall be interlocked with the controls for the paint sprayer. With this arrangement, failure of the ventilating system will shut off power to the paint sprayer. (d) High-voltage electrically powered paint-spraying equipment shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of National Fire Protection Association, Standard No. 33, 19 Static Electricity, as applicable. 19 Copies may be obtained from the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Attn: National Fire Codes Subscription_Service Department, Quincy, MA 02269. (e) Conventional equipment used for spray painting in standard spray booths shall meet the requirements of NFPA Standard No. 33. The nozzles of all spray guns shall be electrically grounded because of the static electricity generated. §184.171 Drying freshly painted loaded ammunition. Ovens used in drying loaded ammunition shall comply with the National Fire Codes. Other requirements include the following: (a) Automatic thermostatic controls shall regulate temperatures once they reach a maximum determined by the ammunition and explosives involved. It is recommended that temperatures not exceed 170 ○F. (b) Automatic internal sprinkler systems shall equip each oven and shall conform with NFPA Standard No. 13, 20 Installation of Sprinkler Systems. Automatic operation of the system may be accomplished by approved electrical heat-actuated devices, installed as required for NEC-defined class I, division 1, group D, hazardous locations. Refer to NFPA Standard No. 70, National Electric Code. 20 See footnote 15 to §184.170. (c) Hot air or other means may supply heat, provided ammunition and explosives are kept from contact with coils, radiators, and heating elements. (d) In case of power failure, the heat supply for any conveyor system shall automatically stop. (e) Electric drying units that are not approved for use in class I hazardous locations should be designed so that solvent vapor concentration in the oven is kept below 25 percent of its lower explosive limit. §184.172 Rework, disassembly, renovation, and maintenance. (a) Rework and disassembly operations shall not usually be conducted with other inert or explosives operations. However, when concurrent scheduling cannot be avoided, operations shall be sufficiently distanced from one another to protect adjacent personnel and equipment, and prevent propagation to adjacent explosives. Such separation may be accomplished with Q/D, operational shielding, or the remote control of operations. (b) The operator and all other personnel shall be fully protected during rework and disassembly operations known or expected to use force exceeding assembly specifications. (c) If A&E items have been assembled normally, the same equipment, tools, methods, and applied forces may be used to disassemble them. In such cases, only that personnel protection required during the assembly operations is also required during the rework or disassembly operations. Care shall be taken, however, to ascertain that the assembly was normal and that the surfaces to be separated are not corroded and not sealed with metallic applicants. (d) When renovation or maintenance not adequately addressed in the contract is required, the contractor shall request specific safety guidance through contract channels. §184.173 Munitions loading and associated operations. (a) Screening and blending high explosives. Bulk high explosives intended for processing shall be screened or visually inspected and passed over a magnetic separator to detect extraneous material for removal. Screening equipment shall not subject explosives to pinching, friction, or impact. Explosives screening units without exhaust ventilation shall be thoroughly cleaned as often as necessary and after every shift, to prevent hazardous accumulations of explosives dusts. (b) Screening and blending initiating explosives. Suitable operational shields shall be provided for screening and blending operations involving initiating explosives, or operators shall be located at intraline distance from screening and blending facilities. (c) Explosives melting. (1) Temperatures used for melting explosives and keeping explosives molten should not exceed 228 ○F. However, steam pressures up to 15 psi (250 ○F) may be used to melt composition B and similar binary explosives and to maintain a molten state. (2) Melt unit valves and melt mix draw-off or other lines carrying molten explosives shall provide against friction or impact capable of initiating the explosives. Diaphragm-type valves should be disassembled and inspected regularly. Damaged or old diaphragms shall be replaced so no cracks allowing metal-to-metal contact can develop. Draw-off lines should be constructed to prevent exposure of threads, fastening screws, and bolts, both outside and between the flanges. A sealing compound should be used to prevent explosives seepage or vapor condensation on the contacting surfaces of the bolts, flanges, screws, and nuts. Melt mix kettle draw-off pipes should be electrically connected to items being filled during draw-off operations. Items shall be individually grounded unless tests show that grounding through contact surface is adequate. (3) Wet-type collectors effectively remove dust and vapors from exhausted air, and are recommended for melt mix exhausting systems. Water in the wet collector will not be recirculated unless the system removes hazardous suspensions. Water retaining such explosives shall be discharged to a sump designed to keep such explosives wet. The exhaust and collecting equipment shall be regularly inspected and flushed of explosives accumulations. When protective construction prevents propagation of a detonation between melt kettles, a complete dust and vapor collection system shall equip each kettle.
