FR941004-2-00109 FR941004-2-00068 VI. Establishment of the Credentials Committee and Committees I and II No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. Support the establishment of the Credentials Committee and Committees I and II. Establishment of the Credentials Committee is a pro forma matter. The Credentials Committee approves the credentials of delegates to the COP, by confirming that they are official representatives of their government, thereby affording them the right to vote in Committee and Plenary sessions. The United States supports the establishment of Committees I and II, provided most participating Parties have been able to send at least two delegates, or that the rules governing debate of the Committees ensure that most delegations will have an opportunity to debate recommendations before a final decision is made. VII. Report of the Credentials Committee No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. Support adoption of the report of the Credentials Committee if it does not recommend the exclusion of legitimate representatives of countries that are Parties to CITES. Representatives whose credentials are not in order should be afforded observer status as provided for under Article XI. If credentials have been delayed, representatives should be allowed to vote on a provisional basis. A liberal interpretation of the Rules of Procedure on credentials should be adhered to in order to permit clearly legitimate representatives to participate. Adoption of the report is generally pro forma. Exclusion of Party representatives whose credentials are not in order could undermine essential cooperation among Parties. VIII. Admission of Observers No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. Support admission to the meeting of all technically qualified non-governmental organizations and oppose unreasonable limitations on their full participation at COP9. Non-governmental organizations representing a broad range of viewpoints and perspectives play an important role in CITES activities and have much to offer to the debates and negotiations at a COP. Their participation is specifically provided by Article XI of CITES. The United States supports the opportunity for all technically qualified observers to fully participate at COPs.
