FR940628-1-00027 FR940628-1-00001 (b) Exceptions. This subpart does not apply to the interstate movement of poultry, vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, or other equipment or material if the interstate movement is made by the United States Department of Agriculture for the purposes of research or diagnosis. ยง82.24 Other interstate movements and special permits. (a) A special permit is required for the interstate movement of items whose movement interstate is restricted under this subpart in a manner or to a destination other than is specifically prescribed by this subpart. A special permit is required for the disinfection of vehicles, premises, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment by a method other than is specifically prescribed by this subpart. To apply for a special permit, contact the Administrator, c/o the Veterinarian in charge for the State in which the items are located. The Administrator may, at his or her discretion, issue special permits if he or she determines the activity authorized will not increase the risk of spreading chlamydiosis interstate. (b) The special permit will list the name and address of the person to whom the special permit is issued, and the special conditions under which the interstate movement, or cleaning and disinfection, may be carried out. (1) For an interstate movement, the special permit will also include the following: (i) The name and mailing address of the person who will receive the items; (ii) The addresses of both the origin and destination of the items; (iii) The number and type of items to be moved interstate; and (iv) The reason for the interstate movement. (2) For cleaning and disinfection, the special permit will also include the following: (i) The address of the place where the items are located; and (ii) The number and type of items involved. (c) For an interstate movement, a copy of the special permit must accompany the items moved, and copies must be submitted so that a copy is received by both the State animal health official and the Veterinarian in charge for the State of destination within 72 hours of the arrival of the items at the destination listed on the special permit. ยง82.25 Denial and withdrawal of permits and special permits. (a) Denial. If the Administrator determines that the applicant for a permit or special permit is not complying with or could not comply with this subpart or any special conditions needed to prevent the spread of chlamydiosis, or, in the case of a special permit, that the special permit is not required under this subpart, the Administrator may deny the request for a permit or special permit. If the request is denied, the Administrator will send the applicant a written notice explaining why the permit or special permit was denied. (b) Withdrawal. The Administrator may withdraw a permit or special permit, orally or in writing, if he or she determines the person to whom the permit or special permit has been issued is violating either this subpart or some condition specified in the permit or special permit. The Administrator may withdraw the permit or special permit without advance notice if he or she determines that the person to whom the permit or special permit has been issued is violating either this subpart or some condition specified in the permit or special permit in a way that threatens the public health, interest, or safety. The Administrator will send the person to whom the permit or special permit has been issued a written explanation of why the permit or special permit is to be or was withdrawn. (c) Appeals. Denial or withdrawal of a permit or special permit may be appealed to the Administrator within 10 days after receipt of the written notice of denial or withdrawal. The appeal must be in writing 3 and must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the permit or special permit was wrongfully denied or withdrawn. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, explaining all of the reasons for the decision, as promptly as circumstances allow. In cases where there is a conflict as to any material fact, the person denied a permit or special permit, or from whom a permit or special permit is withdrawn, shall be given an opportunity for a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the denial or withdrawal in accordance with rules of practice adopted for the proceeding. 3 See footnote 10 to ยง82.13. PART 92_IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS AND POULTRY AND CERTAIN ANIMAL AND POULTRY PRODUCTS; INSPECTION AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AND SHIPPING CONTAINERS THEREON 11. The authority citation for part 92 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1622; 19 U.S.C. 1306; 21 U.S.C. 102&hyph;105, 111, 114a, 134a, 134b, 134c, 134d, 134f, 135, 136, and 136a; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.51, and 371.2(d). 12. The heading for part 92 would be revised to read as follows: PART 92_IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS, BIRDS, AND POULTRY, AND CERTAIN ANIMAL, BIRD, AND POULTRY PRODUCTS; REQUIREMENTS FOR MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AND SHIPPING CONTAINERS.
