FR941013-1-00045 FR941013-1-00005 (c) The 15-day advance notification requirement for listed chemical exports may be waived for: (1) any regulated person who has satisfied the requirements of §1313.24 for reporting to the Administration an established business relationship with a foreign customer as defined in §1313.02(j). (2) A specific listed chemical to a specified country, as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, for which the Administrator determines that advance notification is not necessary for effective chemical diversion control. (d) For exports where advance notification is waived pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the DEA Form 486 must be received by the Drug Enforcement Administration, Chemical Operations Section, on or before the date of exportation through use of the mailing address listed in §1313.12(b) or through use of electronic facsimile media. (e) For exportations where advance notification is waived pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the regulated person shall file quarterly reports to the Drug Enforcement Administration, Chemical Operations Section, PO Box 28346, Washington, DC 20038, by no later than the 15th day of the month following the end of the each quarter. The report shall contain the following information regarding each individual importation: (1) The name of the listed chemical; (2) The quantity and date exported; (3) The name and full business address of the foreign customer; (4) The port of embarkation; and (5) The foreign port of entry. (f) The 15 day advance notification requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this section has been waived for exports of the following listed chemicals to the following countries: ␣ 1Name of Chemical 1Country [Reserved] (g) No person shall export or cause to be exported any listed chemical, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the export is in violation of the laws of the country to which the chemical is exported or the chemical will be used to manufacture a controlled substance in violation of the Act or the laws of the country to which the chemical is exported. The Administration will publish a notice of foreign import restrictions for listed chemicals of which DEA has knowledge as provided in §1313.25. 6. A new undesignated center heading and new §§1313.32, 1313.33 and 1313.34 are proposed to be added to read as follows: Transshipments, In-Transit Shipments, and International Transactions Involving Listed Chemicals 1313.32␣Requirement of Authorization for international transactions. 1313.33␣Contents of an international transaction declaration. 1313.34␣Distribution of the international transaction declaration. Transshipments, In-Transit Shipments, and International Transactions Involving Listed Chemicals §1313.32 Requirement of authorization for international transactions. (a) A broker or trader shall notify the Administrator prior to an international transaction involving a listed chemical which meets or exceeds the threshold amount identified in §1310.04 of this chapter, in which the broker or trader participates. Notification must be made no later than 15 days before the transaction is to take place. In order to facilitate an international transaction involving listed chemicals and implement the purpose of the Act, regulated persons may wish to provide advance notification to the Administration as far in advance of the 15 days as possible. (b) A completed DEA Form 486 must be received at the following address not later than 15 days prior to the international transaction: Drug Enforcement Administration, PO Box 28346, Washington, DC 20038. A copy of the DEA Form 486 may be transmitted directly to the Drug Enforcement Administration, Chemical Operations Section, through electronic facsimile media not later than 15 days prior to the exportation. (c) No person shall serve as a broker or trader for an international transaction involving a listed chemical knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the transaction is in violation of the laws of the country to which the chemical is exported or the chemical will be used to manufacture a controlled substance in violation of the laws of the country to which the chemical is exported. The Administration will publish a notice of foreign import restrictions for listed chemicals of which DEA has knowledge as provided in §1313.25. §1313.33 Contents of an international transaction declaration. (a) An international transaction involving a chemical listed in §1310.02 of this chapter which meets the threshold criteria established in §1310.04 of this chapter may be arranged by a broker or trader if the chemical is needed for medical, commercial, scientific, or other legitimate uses. (b) Any broker or trader who desires to arrange an international transaction involving a listed chemical which meets the criteria set forth in §1310.04 of this chapter shall notify the Administration through the procedures outlined in §1313.32(b). (c) The DEA Form 486 must be executed in triplicate and must include all the following information: (1) The name, address, telephone number, telex number, and, where available, the facsimile number of the chemical exporter; the name, address, telephone number, telex number, and, where available, the facsimile number of the chemical importer; (2) The name and description of each listed chemical as it appears on the label or container, the name of each listed chemical as it is designated in §1310.02 of this chapter, the size or weight of container, the number of containers, the net weight of each listed chemical given in kilograms or parts thereof, and the gross weight of the shipment given in kilograms or parts thereof; (3) The proposed export date, the port of exportation, and the port of importation; and (4) The name, address, telephone, telex, and where available, the facsimile number, of the consignee in the country where the chemical shipment is destined; the name(s) and address(es) of any intermediate consignee(s). §1313.34 Distribution of the international transaction declaration. The required three copies of the DEA Form 486 will be distributed as follows: (a) Copies 1 and 3 shall be retained on file by the broker or trader as the official record of the international transaction. Declaration forms involving List I chemicals shall be retained for four years; declaration forms for List II chemicals shall be retained for two years. (b) Copy 2 is the Drug Enforcement Administration copy used to fulfill the notification requirements of §1313.32.
