FR940505-1-00039 FR940505-1-00012 The fourth rule proposed for statewide application is designed to reduce VOC emissions from agricultural and structural pesticides use. Many other pesticides are subject to CARB's consumer product rule and EPA's proposed 40 CFR 52.2957. The proposed agricultural and structural pesticides rule, 40 CFR 52.2960, is necessarily complex and is discussed extensively in section III.C.4.d. The rule initially requires producers to submit VOC analyses of their pesticides. Following EPA review of the data, EPA will implement a six-step procedure for setting a VOC limit to achieve target VOC reductions. In order to achieve further necessary reductions from stationary and area sources, EPA proposes declining emission ``cap'' rules in each of the FIP areas. The cap rules apply to a large portion of the stationary sources of VOC and NO X . For these sources, the rules require annual reductions in emissions from 2001 through 2005, but allow each source the flexibility to determine how reductions are to be made. If a 1999 attainment option is selected for Sacramento, the Sacramento VOC cap rule would require that all reductions be achieved in the attainment year (i.e., by January 1, 1999). EPA strongly encourages affected sources to identify pollution prevention approaches as the ideal response to this market-based initiative. The proposed cap rules require sources to submit compliance plans in the year 2000, showing how the mandated reductions will be achieved, using 1990 actual emissions as the baseline but subtracting emissions required to be reduced through any SIP or FIP rules in the period after 1990. EPA is proposing VOC cap rules in each area, with annual reductions of between 4 and 9 percent, depending upon public comment and EPA's final determination of the appropriate and necessary reduction rate. A NO X cap rule with annual reductions of between 6 and 9 percent is proposed only in Ventura, since further NO X reductions are not needed in Sacramento, and the South Coast has recently adopted a cap program (RECLAIM) achieving comparable reductions to the proposed FIP NO X cap rule. EPA is inviting comment on a number of important issues associated with these innovative rules. The Agency particularly solicits comment on whether a trading component should be added to increase compliance options, and whether it is preferable to establish a manufacturers' ``bubble'' rule for industrial and commercial solvents and coatings, rather than regulating users (see III.C.5. and 40 CFR 52.2952&hyph;52.2955). b. Mobile source measures_ (1) Programs for vehicles. Because the magnitude of needed emissions reductions is so great, the FIPs seek to build on reductions already being achieved by the California Low Emission Vehicle (LEV) program. In order to achieve these reductions, EPA is asking for comment on the need for and benefits of adopting an enhanced in-use compliance program which would provide extra in-use emissions reductions beyond the substantial reductions already provided by the California LEV program.
