FR940922-2-00110 FR940922-2-00075 [Release No. 34&hyph;34679; International Series Release No. 714; File No. SR&hyph;ISCC&hyph;94&hyph;4] Self-Regulatory Organizations; International Securities Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing of a Proposed Rule Change Relating to a Data Transmission Link With Monte Titoli, S.P.A. September 15, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on August 9, 1994, the International Securities Clearing Corporation (``ISCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by ISCC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change consists of a data transmission link agreement with Monte Titoli, S.p.A. (``MT''). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, ISCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. ISCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change ISCC's Rule 40 provides that ISCC may establish links with foreign financial institutions and may make available for the benefit or on behalf of the foreign financial institution's participants and members such services of ISCC which ISCC in its sole discretion shall determine to provide. Pursuant to the authority granted by Rule 40, ISCC has entered into a link with MT. 2 This link is similar to the links ISCC has previously established with the Japan Securities Clearing Corporation and the Central Depository (Pte.) Ltd. of Singapore. 2 MT provides settlement and depository services for securities, including securities of U.S. issuers, listed on Italian stock exchanges. Under the link, MT will be able to hold securities in The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') through ISCC. Pursuant to the terms of the service agreement dated June 1, 1992, between ISCC and MT, MT will be bound by DTC rules applicable to the DTC services that MT will utilize through ISCC. While monetary obligations under the link are expected to be limited to payments for fees, MT will be required to collateralize its obligations to ISCC. Such collateral will be available to cover any assessments made by DTC to ISCC based on MT's use of DTC's services. ISCC's auditors will be able to consult with MT's auditors with regard to MT's financial condition and the activity arising under the link, and MT will furnish ISCC with MT's financial statements.
