FR940617-0-00075 FR940617-0-00016 This suggestion was adopted and identical definitions are provided in §§290.2 and 261.2. Section 261.8␣Fish and Wildlife Respondents were concerned that this prohibition would not allow a gate to be installed if it was needed to protect a species, including those listed as threatened or endangered. The paragraph was modified to address this concern by adding ``.␣.␣. except as authorized to protect a cave resource.'' A gate was not specifically cited since there may be other types of installations that could curtail the movement of cave life to protect a cave resource. Section 261.9(j)␣Property Two respondents were confused by the intent of this paragraph. One asked whether enlarging a naturally occurring cave passage or entrance would require a special use authorization. Another requested clarification stating that a special use authorization cannot permit damage to, or excavation of, a significant cave. One respondent suggested adding a new prohibition to address section 7(a)(2) of the Act dealing with possessing, consuming, selling, bartering, or exchanging any cave resource without authorization. Section 7(a)(1) of the Act states that activities that may lead to destroying altering, or removing of cave resources or interfering with free movement of plant or animal life may only be permitted with prior authorization. Thus, any excavation of a cave passage or entrance would have to be approved by a special use authorization. A special use authorization permitting excavation in a cave is site-specific, thus, this provision does not encourage nor allow blanket approval for this type of activity for all caves on a given forest. A clause has been added prohibiting the removal of any cave resource for commercial purposes. Section 261.10(d)␣Occupancy and Use One respondent requested the wording in this section include the cave entrance area. Another requested that the discharge of fireworks be prohibited. The proposed wording has been retained. The cave entrance area is protected by the existing wording in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2). A new paragraph (n) was added to specifically address the discharge of fireworks. No existing prohibition addressed this human safety concern. Section 261.58(ee)␣Occupancy and Use Most respondents requested that ``litter'' be incorporated into this clause. A couple of respondents felt that additional wording was needed to allow cavers to bring and remove their own receptacles. Another respondent recommended that fluid wastes be considered on a cave by cave basis. Paragraph 11(b) of this section already prohibits ``Possessing or leaving .␣.␣. litter in an exposed or unsanitary condition.'' Current wording does not specify who must provide the receptacles; therefore, it can be interpreted that cavers may bring in and remove their own receptacles. Since this prohibition is applicable to a specific area designated through an order by the Forest Supervisor, there is the flexibility to add an exception for a particular cave to only prohibit solid wastes. Regulatory Impact This final rule has been reviewed under USDA procedures and Executive Order 12866 on Regulatory Planning and Review. It has been determined that this is not a significant rule. This rule will not have an annual effect of $100 million or more on the economy nor adversely affect productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, nor State or local governments. This rule will not interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency nor raise new legal or policy issues. Finally, this action will not alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients of such programs. Moreover, this final rule has been considered in light of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et. seq.), and it has been determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities as defined by that Act. To the extent that small entities engaged in resource extraction activities may have to site operations to protect significant caves, these requirements are the minimum necessary to protect the public interest, and are well within the capability of small entities to perform. Environmental Impact Based on both experience and environmental analysis, this final rule (or final policy) will have no significant effect on the human environment, individually or cumulatively. Therefore, it is categorically excluded from documentation in an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement (40 CFR 1508.4). Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public The information required by this rule constitutes new information collection requirements as defined in 5 CFR part 1320, Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public. In accordance with those rules and the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3507), the Forest Service received approval from the Office of Management and Budget to collect cave nomination information and confidential cave information. The agency estimates that each person will spend an average of three hours per response for a cave nomination and one-half hour per response for the confidential cave information request. No Taking Implications This rule has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12630, and it has been determined that the rule does not pose the risk of a taking of Constitutionally-protected private property.
