FR940712-2-00052 FR940712-2-00040 1. The quality of the plan to evaluate the 1993 surveillance case definition and the impact of the case definition on AIDS surveillance. (10 points) 2. Descriptions of the alternative data bases that will be used and how they will be used. (10 points) 3. The applicant's current activities in the surveillance of AIDS and HIV infection and past or ongoing research projects to evaluate sensitivity, representativeness, and validity of reporting. (10 points) 4. The number and distribution of recent AIDS cases collected by the health department and their representativeness of minority populations, women, heterosexual transmission cases, and geographic areas with the largest increases in the number of cases reported. (25 points) 5. The applicant's willingness to cooperate in the project with CDC and other participants. (5 points) 6. The applicant's ability to obtain data from charts or interviews with patients directly or in association with personnel not currently responsible for the reporting of AIDS cases, and the ability to manage, analyze, and use surveillance data. (10 points) 7. Description of methods for evaluating project activities and for modifying activities based on evaluation findings. (5 points) 8. The extent to which the proposal describes how the project will be administered, including the size, qualifications, commitment, and time allocation of the proposed staff; the availability of facilities to be used during the project and a schedule for accomplishing activities. (10 points) 9. The applicant's ability to mobilize resources effectively to ensure the quality and quantity of data needed to implement this evaluation. (5 points) 10. A plan to protect the confidentiality of all surveillance data and a description of the applicant's authority to collect data from patients, alternate sources, and medical records. (10 points) 11. The extent to which the budget is reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with the intended use of funds. (Not Weighted) Funding Priorities Cooperative agreement recipients reporting at least 4,500 cumulative cases of AIDS to CDC through December 31, 1993 (as provisionally reported in the draft CDC HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report, 1993 Year-End Edition, released in March 1994), will be given priority for funding. In addition, the final selection of applications for this project must include at least one of each group of States representing these categories: (1) Laboratory-initiated HIV or CD4 reporting implemented by January 1, 1994, by law or regulation, and (2) provider-initiated reporting only. This approach is justified since the objective of the project is to evaluate the attributes of surveillance systems under various reporting alternatives. Interested persons are invited to comment on the proposed funding priority. All comments received on or before August 11, 1994, will be considered before the final funding priority should change as a result of any comments received, a revised Announcement will be published in the Federal Register prior to the final selection of awards. Written comments should be addressed to Edwin L. Dixon, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Room 314, Mailstop E&hyph;18, Atlanta, Georgia 30305. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC of each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should send them to Edwin L. Dixon, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Room 314, Mailstop E&hyph;18, Atlanta, Georgia 30305, no later than 60 days after the application deadline date. The Program Announcement Number and Program Title should be referenced on the document. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' State process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirement This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number assigned to this program is 94.944.
