FR941206-2-00165 FR941206-2-00110 The PTFP Director presents recommendations to the NTIA Administrator on a proposed slate of grant recipients. Acting on these recommendations, the NTIA Administrator selects the applications to be negotiated for possible grant award. In making the selections, the Administrator will consider the following: •The degree to which the slate of applications, taken as a whole, satisfies the program's stated purposes (see 47 U.S.C. §390 and 15 CFR §2301.2); •The geographic distribution of the proposed grant awards; •The Director's recommendations; •The evaluations of the various reviewers; •The program's priorities and the special applications category, as stated in 15 CFR §2301 (Appendix) (1991); •The extent of the involvement of minorities or women in the projects; •Consideration as to whether the application is for a broadcast or a nonbroadcast project; and, •The availability of funds. After the applications are selected in this manner, negotiations take place between PTFP staff and the applicant. These negotiations are intended to resolve whatever differences might exist between the applicant's original request and what PTFP proposes to fund. During negotiations, some applications may be dropped from the proposed slate, due to lack of Federal Communications Commission licensing authority, applicant inability to make adequate assurance certifications, or other reasons. When the negotiations are completed, the PTFP Director recommends final grant-award action to the NTIA Administrator. Applying the same factors as listed above, the Administrator then makes the final selection of grant recipients from the pool of negotiated application projects. Planning grant award periods customarily do not exceed one year, whereas construction grant award periods commonly range from one to two years. Although these time frames are generally applied to the award of all PTFP grants, variances in project periods may be based on specific circumstances of an individual proposal. Dr. Charles M. Rush, Acting Associate Administrator, Office of Telecommunications and Information Applications. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29917 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;60&hyph;M
