FR940429-0-00185 FR940429-0-00015 Discussion: As discussed in the February 28, 1994 NPRM, the purpose of this requirement, which is based on a California law, is to curb abuses by institutions. Some institutions have received significant amounts of Federal Pell Grant funds for students who have not attained an adequate proficiency in written and spoken English to use already existing knowledge, training and skills. Because this testing requirement is limited to ESL programs that are ancillary to an institution's academic programs, the Secretary does not believe it is an intrusion on an institution's internal academic affairs. The suggestions to add a pre-test requirement or to extend the testing requirement to vocational programs that include ESL courses were not adopted at this time. However, the Secretary intends to monitor reports of abuse in these areas to see if regulation is necessary. Institutions are encouraged to test all students before and after they enroll in ESL courses to determine whether the students need to improve their proficiency skills and to determine whether the students have attained the desired proficiency skills after completing the courses. Changes: None. Subpart B_Standards for Participation in the Title IV, HEA Programs Section 668.11␣Scope Comments: A few commenters opposed subjecting a third-party servicer to proceedings under subpart G of this part, which governs emergency actions, fines, and limitation, suspension, or termination of participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. The commenters felt that since the Secretary has noted that institutions are ultimately responsible for any liabilities incurred that the institutions should be responsible for monitoring the activities of the organization with which they contract. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenters who argued that third-party servicers should not be subject to proceedings under subpart G of this part. The statute specifically requires the Secretary to apply subpart G proceedings to third-party servicers. The Secretary agrees with commenters that institutions have a duty to monitor the actions of their third-party servicers, and that an institution is always ultimately liable for any violations caused by those servicers, but, the Secretary believes that Congress clearly intended for the Secretary to directly hold third-party servicers accountable for any program violations through the use of all sanctions that the Secretary is able to impose. The sanctions under subpart G of this part are an appropriate recourse to use to correct program violations because a third-party servicer, as an agent of an institution, contracts with institutions to provide services that parallel an institution's responsibilities under the institution's program participation agreement. Changes: None. Section 668.12␣Application Procedures
