FR940603-0-00060 FR940603-0-00025 Expected Impacts of Designating Critical Habitat A critical habitat designation directly affects only those actions authorized, funded, or carried out by Federal agencies. Federal agencies that may be affected by critical habitat designation of these areas include, but are not necessarily limited to, the U.S. Coast Guard, Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, NMFS (including the New England Fishery Management Council (NEFMC) and South Atlantic Fishery Management Council), National Ocean Service, Office of Coastal Zone Management, Minerals Management Service and the U.S. Navy. For a discussion of the expected impacts and significance of critical habitat designation, see ``Significance of Designating Critical Habitat'' in the proposed rule (58 FR 29187, May 19, 1993). Consideration of Economic and Other Factors NMFS prepared an EA on its proposed designation of critical habitat, based on the best available information, that described the environmental and economic impacts of alternative critical habitat designations. The economic impacts considered in this analysis were only those incremental economic impacts specifically resulting from a critical habitat designation, above the economic and other impacts attributable to the listing of the species, or resulting from authorities other than the ESA. Listing a species under the ESA provides significant protection to the species' habitat through the no-jeopardy standard of section 7 and, to a lesser extent, the prohibition against taking of section 9, both of which requires an analysis of harm to the species that can include impacts to habitat of the species. Therefore, the additional direct economic and other impacts resulting from the critical habitat designation are minimal. In general, the designation of critical habitat reinforces the substantive protection resulting from the listing itself. Designation of critical habitat in these areas may result in an increase in administrative time and cost to Federal agencies that conduct, authorize or fund projects in the designated areas. However, these agencies are currently required to address habitat alteration issues in section 7 consultations, and as a result, any increase in administrative time or cost is expected to be minimal. Designated Critical Habitat; Essential Features NMFS, by this final rule, designates areas essential for the reproduction, rest and refuge, health, continued survival, conservation and recovery of the northern right whale population. The following areas are designated as critical habitat: Great South Channel: The area designated as critical habitat in these waters is bounded by the following coordinates: 41 ○40 ’N/69 ○45 ’W; 41 ○00 ’N/69 ○05 ’W; 41 ○38 ’N/68 ○13 ’W; 42 ○10 ’N/68 ○31 ’W. Cape Cod Bay: The area designated as critical habitat in these waters is bounded by the following coordinates: 42 ○04.8 ’N/70 ○10.0 ’W; 42 ○12 ’N/70 ○15 ’W; 42 ○12 ’N/70 ○30 ’W; 41 ○46.8 ’N/70 ○30 ’W; and on the south and east, by the interior shoreline of Cape Cod, MA. Southeastern United States: The area designated as critical habitat in these waters encompasses waters between 31 ○15 ’N (approximately located at the mouth of the Altamaha River, GA) and 30 ○15 ’N (approximately Jacksonville, FL) from the shoreline out to 15 nautical miles offshore; and the waters between 30 ○15 ’N and 28 ○00 ’N (approximately Sebastian Inlet, FL) from the shoreline out to 5 nautical miles. Modifications to this critical habitat designation may be necessary in the future as additional information becomes available. References Most references used in this final designation can be found in the Final Recovery Plan for Right Whales (NMFS, 1991), and in the EA. Additional references found in the preamble to this rule are available upon request (see ADDRESSES ). Comments and Responses NMFS solicited information, comments and recommendations from concerned government agencies, the scientific community, industry and the general public (58 FR 29186, May 19, 1993). NMFS considered and incorporated, as appropriate, all comments received during the comment period (ending on August 31, 1993) and all comments received during public hearings on the proposed rule prior to making this final designation. During the comment period and at the public hearings, NMFS received a total of 35 sets of comments from regional and national environmental organizations; county, state and Federal agencies; and associations representing regional commercial and sport fisheries. NMFS also received more than 50 written and oral presentations (at public hearings) regarding the proposed designation of critical habitat for northern right whales.
