FR941003-1-00031 FR941003-1-00003 Section 1.660 is proposed to be amended by adding a new paragraph (e) explaining that the failure of a party to comply with the notice provisions of §1.660 may result in sanctions under §1.616, that knowledge by, or notice to, an employee of the Office other than an employee of the Board, of the existence of the reexamination, application for reissue, protest, or litigation shall not be sufficient, and that the notice contemplated by this section is notice addressed specifically to an administrative patent judge or the Board. In §1.662, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a) by changing ``filing by an applicant or patentee'' in the second sentence to ``filing by a party'' to make it clear that the terminal disclaimer can be signed by the party's attorney or agent of record. For the same reason, it is proposed to change ``by an applicant'' to ``by a party'' in the third sentence of paragraph (a), which concerns abandonment of an involved application. In paragraph (b) of §1.662, the first sentence is proposed to be amended to change ``omits all claims of the patent corresponding to the counts of the interference for the purpose of avoiding the interference'' to ``does not include a claim that corresponds to a count'' in order to make it clear that judgment may not be entered where the reissue application includes a new or amended claim that should be designated as corresponding to a count, even if the patentee argues that it should be designated as not corresponding to a count. Similarly, it is proposed to change ``reissue other than for the purpose of avoiding the interference'' to ``reissue which includes a claim that corresponds to a count.'' In §1.671, it is proposed to amend paragraph (a) by changing `` evidence from another interference, proceeding, or action filed §1.683'' to `` testimony from another interference, proceeding, or action filed under §1.683'' in order to be consistent with the terminology of §1.683. It is proposed to amend paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) of §1.671 to change ``by oral deposition or affidavit'' to ``by affidavit or oral deposition.'' Paragraph (f) is proposed to be amended to clarify that the requirement for the significance of documentary and other exhibits to be discussed with particularity by a witness applies only to documentary and other exhibits identified by a witness in an affidavit or during oral deposition. Paragraph (f) does not apply to official records and printed publications submitted into evidence pursuant to §1.682(a). In §1.672, in addition to the proposed amendments discussed above under the heading ``Amendments responsive to adoption of Public Law 103&hyph;182,'' it is proposed to amend paragraph (b) by deleting the third sentence, which specifies the type of paper to be used for affidavits, as being superfluous in view of §1.677(a). In paragraph (d), it is proposed to delete the fifth sentence (``A party electing to present testimony of a witness by deposition shall notice a deposition of the witness under §1.673(a).'') as superfluous in view of the second sentence of §1.672(d).
