FR940428-1-00029 FR940428-1-00008 Proposed Section 222.9_Renewal of Term Grazing permits This section of the proposed rule specifies the qualifications and priority for reissuance of a term permit. The current rule at §222.3(c)(1)(vi) merely authorizes the Chief of the Forest Service to prescribe the provisions and requirements under which term permits will be reissued, but does not set out those provisions in the rule. In the proposed rule, renewal of term permits is addressed in a separate section to ensure that all provisions related to renewal can be easily found in one place in the rule. Paragraph (a) of proposed §222.9 states that current permit holders must meet the requirements of §222.7 to qualify for renewal of a term permit, and paragraph (b) provides that current permit holders on National Forest System lands in the Western States have priority for receiving new term permits when the current permit expires. Under paragraph (c) of proposed §222.9, a new permit would be issued to the current permit holder if the agency must cancel an exiting permit to respond to changing law, executive order, regulation, or resource condition. This commitment to issue a new permit is necessary to protect permittees' interest when events beyond their control result in the need to establish new terms and conditions of the grazing permit. Proposed paragraph (d) provides a needed cross reference that notes that holders of expired term permits on the National Forest System lands in the Eastern States, issued under the competitive bidding process, are subject to the renewal procedures in 36 CFR part §222, Subpart C. Proposed paragraph (e) makes clear that term permits that are renewed are subject to the same duration provisions as set out in §222.5(b). Proposed Section 222.10_Cancellation Suspension, and Modification of Grazing Permits This section of the proposed rule contains the provisions found in the current rule at §222.4. In addition to editorial changes and reorganization of the text for clarity, the proposed rule makes several changes from the current rule that take into account important rangeland resource management needs. Areas of emphasis that were not specifically stated in the current rule include cancellation, suspension, or modification of a permit to correct documented resource damage [§222.10(b)] and for unauthorized use [§222.10(b)(3)]. Documented resource damage refers to damage occurring as a result of the livestock grazing. If permittee-owned livestock exceed the permitted numbers or are on the allotment at times or in locations not authorized under the permit, they are considered unauthorized livestock. This change replaces the current excess livestock designation and is consistent with the current Bureau of Land Management regulations. Proposed §222.10(b)(1) strengthens direction in the current rule at §222.4(a)(3) by explicitly providing for a permit to be canceled, suspended, or modified, in whole or in part for failure to pay grazing fees. The proposed rule includes failure to pay unauthorized use and service charges in the same category.
