FR940819-0-00073 FR940819-0-00018 1. Role of escort vessels. Four comments suggested that the guidelines concerning the role of the escort must be clearly specified and defined. One comment stated that the principal purpose of the escort should be to prevent tanker accidents by steering or retarding disabled tankers. One comment stated that an escort should be able to safely assist a tanker moving near its maneuvering speed, alter the tanker's speed or course, apply lateral force, and overtake the tanker within confined waters. The Coast Guard generally agrees with these comments. The role of the escort vessels is to assist a tanker that is experiencing a loss of propulsion or steering control and is therefore at risk of collision or grounding. However, it must be pointed out that escort vessels may not always be able to prevent all tanker accidents. This rule requires that reasonably capable escort vessels be immediately on hand to assist a tanker as circumstances permit. The decision to respond, however, must be left to the professional judgement of the escort vessel's master, who must always first consider the risk to the escort vessel and its crew. 2. Benefit of escort vessels. Four comments stated that they did not believe that the presence of escort vessels improves the safety of the transit; two comments further stated that safety is actually reduced because of increased vessel traffic (due to the escort vessels themselves) which increases opportunities for collisions. Additionally, another comment asserted that tug escorts would increase the risk of collision in Puget Sound. However, one comment points out that there are significant safety benefits gained by providing escorts for certain vessels. Although escort vessels may not always be able to prevent a tanker accident, the Coast Guard believes that escort vessels can successfully control a tanker under many circumstances. Having reasonably capable escort vessels on hand, coupled with the tanker master's duty to operate the tanker within the performance capabilities of the escort vessels, will provide the maximum feasible assurance that the transit can be safely made. The Coast Guard disagrees that vessel traffic would be substantially increased: in Prince William Sound the increased traffic would be two escort vessels once every two months; in Puget Sound the increased traffic would average four escort vessels per day, which is not a significant increase. 3. Definitions. Thirteen comments related to the various definitions proposed in the NPRM, or proposed additional definitions. Accordingly, ยง168.5 of this rule adds, revises, and deletes certain terms that were proposed in the NPRM. Definitions of ``disabled tanker'' and ``escort transit'' have been added.
