FR940318-1-00004 FR940318-1-00002 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 160 [Docket No. 93&hyph;033&hyph;1] Veterinary Accreditation AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: We are proposing to amend the regulations concerning Federal accreditation of veterinarians to add a definition of ``sign.'' Adding this definition would clarify that accredited veterinarians are prohibited from authorizing other persons to sign certain official documents. We believe this change is necessary to maintain the integrity of our veterinary accreditation program. DATES: Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before May 17, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 93&hyph;033&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are encouraged to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. J. A. Heamon, Staff Veterinarian, Sheep, Goat, Equine, and Poultry Diseases Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 700, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;6954. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR parts 160, 161, and 162 pertain to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service's (APHIS) veterinary accreditation program. Through this program, APHIS authorizes veterinarians in private practice to perform certain official services and duties on behalf of APHIS Veterinary Services officials. These responsibilities include such activities as examining livestock for clinical signs of disease, vaccinating animals for brucellosis, drawing and shipping blood for testing, and preparing health certificates required for domestic or international movement. Section 161.3 (hereafter referred to as the regulations) sets forth the standards for accredited veterinarian duties. The regulations cover several requirements and prohibitions regarding the preparation of official forms, certificates, records and reports. The regulations use the term ``sign.'' As used in the regulations, ``sign'' means that an accredited veterinarian signs a document, in his or her own hand. However, ``sign'' is not defined in the regulations. This has led to some confusion concerning the signature requirements. It has always been APHIS's policy that only accredited veterinarians may sign official documents. Accredited veterinarians may not authorize other persons, through power of attorney or other means, to sign official documents for them; neither may accredited veterinarians use signature stamps or other mechanical devices to sign official documents. For several reasons, we believe it is crucial for accredited veterinarians themselves to personally sign official documents. Perhaps the most important reason is the need to maintain the credibility of the veterinary accreditation program with foreign animal health officials. The regulations authorize accredited veterinarians to prepare health certificates for livestock destined for exportation; the regulations do not authorize any other individuals to prepare export health certificates. If we allow accredited veterinarians to delegate authority to other persons to sign export health certificates, foreign animal health officials could lose confidence in the integrity of the veterinary accreditation program. This, in turn, could result in the loss of export markets for U.S. livestock. Therefore, to clarify the regulations, we are proposing to amend 9 CFR part 160 to add a definition of ``sign.'' The proposed definition would clarify that accredited veterinarians may not delegate authority to sign documents, whether through a power of attorney or other means. The proposed definition would also clarify that signature stamps or other mechanical devices may not be used to sign documents in lieu of an accredited veterinarian's hand-inscribed signature.
