FR940412-1-00058 FR940412-1-00010 49 CFR Part 571 Lamps, Reflective Devices and Associated Equipment; Denial of Petition for Rulemaking AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Denial of petition for rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice denies a petition for rulemaking by Metalcore, Ltd., to amend the trailer conspicuity requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 108 as they apply to the rear of van trailers. The reason for the denial is the importance of maintaining a common image of rear conspicuity while ensuring the availability of appropriate cues to drivers following large trailers. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrick Boyd, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, NHTSA (202&hyph;366&hyph;6346). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Metalcore Ltd. is a Canadian company that manufactures aftermarket door seals for van trailers. It sells a model which includes 1/2-inch wide conspicuity tape on the rigid channel which supports the seal. The installed seals create a conspicuity tape pattern equivalent to outlining each rear van door with 1/2-inch wide conspicuity tape. In response to the final rule of December 10, 1992, adopting trailer conspicuity requirements (57 FR 58406), Metalcore submitted a ``petition for reconsideration'' on November 5, 1993, in which it asked for the adoption of an alternative rear conspicuity treatment in which outlining the doors of a van in 1/2-inch wide white material would replace the 2-inch wide red/white stripe across the rear of the body and the 2-inch wide white upper corner markings. However, because the petition was not filed within 30 days of the final rule, it has been considered as a petition for rulemaking in accordance with NHTSA regulations (49 CFR 553.35). Metalcore serves the trailer repair industry, and its products are used mainly on older trailers which are not subject to Federal requirements for conspicuity systems, and, to a lesser extent, on trailers which were equipped upon manufacture with conspicuity tape. Metalcore anticipates that fleets wishing to add conspicuity material voluntarily to older trailers will prefer to do so in a way that they can claim meets the standards for new vehicles. The requested amendment would allow Metalcore to make the sales claim that the use of its door seals would permit trailer owners to retrofit a conforming conspicuity system using about 12 feet less tape than the minimum 63 feet necessary for compliance on a typical 45-foot van trailer. The conspicuity rule does not prohibit the use of Metalcore's product as an auxiliary reflector on any trailer, and the ultimate value to customers of the Metalcore door seal resides in its qualities as a door seal rather than in the reflective tape attached to it. NHTSA considered that two issues to be important in the consideration of this petition for an alternative conspicuity system. The first issue was whether it is desirable to have any alternatives to the required conspicuity configuration, and the second issue was the merit of the proposed alternative. Desirability of Alternative Conspicuity Systems The notice proposing the conspicuity rule (56 FR 63474) presented alternative treatments but made clear the agency's desire to achieve a common conspicuity configuration. NHTSA said: ``While the agency is proposing two specific configurations of conspicuity treatment, it *␣*␣* anticipates that the final rule would specify only one pattern, and not allow alternative treatments.'' The NPRM specifically asked for comments ``on the desirability of standardizing to the maximum extent possible the treatment for all trailers,'' and it introduced for comment the possibility of exempting certain types of trailers if a standard treatment proved impractical for them. Most comments to the docket urged a conspicuity system with sufficient flexibility for universal application without the need for exceptions. The University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute (UMTRI) study (see 57 FR 58409 et seq.), completed during the comment period, concluded that a conspicuity system using the most universally applicable elements of alternative 2 of the proposed rule would meet the minimum needs for safety in terms of an unambiguous reflective image with adequate sight distance and closing speed cues. In the final rule preamble, NHTSA noted that one of the attributes of alternative 2 was that it ``promoted uniformity of appearance,'' and the agency adopted the modifications recommended by UMTRI to establish a universal treatment without the need for exceptions for difficult to treat trailers.
