FR941202-1-00016 FR941202-1-00002 (b) Content of disclosures. In addition to other disclosures required by this part, for each reverse mortgage transaction, the creditor shall provide the following disclosures in a form substantially similar to the model form found in paragraph (d) of Appendix K of this part: (1) Notice. A statement that the consumer is not obligated to complete the reverse mortgage transaction merely because the consumer has received the disclosures required by this section or has signed an application for a reverse mortgage loan. (2) Total annual loan cost rates. A good faith estimate of the projected total cost of the credit, determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, and expressed as a table of ``total annual loan cost rates,'' using that term, determined in accordance with Appendix K of this part. (3) Itemization of pertinent information. An itemization of loan terms, charges, the age of borrower and the appraised property value. (4) Explanation of table. An explanation of the table of total annual loan cost rates provided in the model form found in paragraph (d) of Appendix K of this part. (c) Projected total cost of credit. The projected total cost of credit shall reflect the following factors, as applicable: (1) Costs to consumer. All costs and charges to the consumer, including the costs of any annuity that the consumer elects or is required to purchase as part of the reverse mortgage transaction. (2) Payments to consumer. All payments to and for the benefit of the consumer, including annuity payments that the consumer will receive from an annuity that the consumer elects or is required to purchase as part of the reverse mortgage transaction. (3) Additional creditor compensation. Any shared appreciation or equity in the dwelling that the creditor is entitled by contract to receive. (4) Limitations on consumer liability. Any limitation on the consumer's liability (such as nonrecourse limits and equity conservation agreements). (5) Assumed annual appreciation rates. Each of the following assumed annual appreciation rates for the dwelling: (i) 0 percent. (ii) 4 percent. (iii) 8 percent. (6) Assumed loan period. Each of the following assumed loan periods, as provided in Appendix L of this part: (i) 2 years. (ii) The actuarial life expectancy of the youngest consumer to become obligated on the reverse mortgage transaction (as of that consumer's most recent birthday). (iii) The actuarial life expectancy specified by paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, multiplied by a factor of 1.4 and rounded to the nearest full year. 9. A new Appendix K would be added to read as follows: Appendix K to Part 226_Total Annual Loan Cost Rate Computations for Reverse Mortgage Transactions (a) Introduction. Creditors are required to disclose a series of total annual loan cost rates for each reverse mortgage transaction. This appendix contains the equations creditors must use in computing the total annual loan cost rate for various transactions, as well as instructions, explanations, and examples for various transactions. This appendix is modeled after Appendix J of this part (Annual Percentage Rates Computations for Closed-end Credit Transactions); creditors should consult Appendix J of this part for additional guidance in using the formulas for reverse mortgages. (b) Instructions and equations for the total annual loan cost rate. (1) General rule. The total annual loan cost rate shall be the nominal total annual loan cost rate determined by multiplying the unit-period rate by the number of unit-periods in a year. (2) Term of the transaction. For purposes of total loan cost disclosures, the term of a reverse mortgage transaction is assumed to begin on the first of the month in which consummation is expected to occur. If a loan cost or any portion of a loan cost is initially incurred beginning on a date later than consummation, the term of the transaction is assumed to begin on the first of the month in which that loan cost is incurred. For purposes of total loan cost disclosures, the term ends on each of the assumed loan periods specified in ยง226.33(c)(6). (3) Definitions of time intervals. (i) A period is the interval of time between advances. (ii) A common period is any period that occurs more than once in a transaction. (iii) A standard interval of time is a day, week, semimonth, month, or a multiple of a week or a month up to, but not exceeding, 1 year. (iv) All months shall be considered equal. (4) Unit-period.
