FR940314-0-00023 FR940314-0-00004 The FAA does not concur with this commenter's suggestion that this AD action is not appropriate. The accident involving the Model DC&hyph;10 was the primary reason prompting this AD and the previously-issued AD's to mandate specific maximum brake wear limits on transport category airplane. During the process of promulgating those AD's, the FAA became aware that not all operators were following the manufacturer's recommended brake wear limits. For example, in one case, three different operators of the same model of airplane were found to be observing three different maximum brake wear limits. Further, the FAA is aware that, until recently, not all manufacturers had provided brake wear limits that met the FAA criteria, e.g., landing distance predicated upon single engine-out, maximum takeoff weight, and fully worn brakes. The purpose of this AD is in no way an attempt to question the ability of U.S. operators to safely administer to brake wear limits criteria; its purpose is to establish what those brake wear limits are. Several commenters request that the proposed rule be revised to eliminate the requirement to replace the landing gear sliding member after an RTO event. One of these commenters suggests that, instead of requiring replacement, the proposed rule could require inspections of the sliding member, using procedures that are currently included in the Fokker F28 Mark 0100 Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) 05&hyph;51&hyph;01. This commenter states that similar inspection procedures exist for most other commercial aircraft, and those procedures have proven to be a safe and effective method of evaluating landing gears for the effects of high brake heat. This commenter also suggests that additional procedures could include inspection of the axles for evidence of discolored or peeling paint with cadmium plating that is blistered, wrinkled, or mottled (signs of cadmium melting and resolidifying). Cadmium melts at 610 ○F, which is very close to the tempering temperature of ultra-high strength steels; therefore, if the cadmium is not melted, it is unlikely that any heat damage has been done to the steel sliding member axle. This commenter notes that this criteria has been used for other aircraft, and this commenter plans to contact Fokker to request that this type of inspection criteria be added to the Fokker F28 Mark 0100 AMM. Further, another commenter states that, on other aircraft models in its fleet, it regularly performs a visual inspection of the pistons following an RTO to determine the amount of heat that the piston has been subjected to; the degree of discoloration of the paint on the axle and the amount of damage to the hydraulic hoses are evidence of the amount of heat. This commenter also plans to contact Fokker to request the inclusion of this inspection in the AMM. The FAA does not concur with the suggestion to revise the proposed rule, at least at this time. The FAA has queried Fokker directly about the inspection procedures suggested by these commenters; however, Fokker was not aware of any effective nondestructive inspection technique that can be used to establish whether cadmium embrittlement has taken place on the axle after an RTO. Fokker did indicate that it is currently working with the manufacturer of the brakes to devise a way to limit the exposure of the sliding member to heat from the brakes, which in turn would limit the need to replace the sliding member. Once an inspection or other procedure is developed that would preclude the necessity of replacing the sliding member, the FAA would consider further rulemaking on this issue. In the meantime, under the provisions of paragraph (d) of the final rule, the FAA would consider requests for the use of alternative methods of complying with this rule, provided sufficient data are presented to justify such requests. One commenter requests that the proposed entry in the maintenance program [as specified in paragraph (b) of the proposal] and the proposed entry in the AFM [as specified in paragraph (c) of the proposal] be revised. This commenter states that calculations have shown that only when ``flap 0'' is selected, there is a possibility to reach an energy level that can cause the axle to overheat. Therefore, those entries should include a statement that, during the RTO scenario, the flaps would have to be at 0 degrees. The commenter suggests that the wording of both entries be changed to read as follows: `` If flap 0 is selected, and if a takeoff is rejected at a speed greater than 90 percent of *␣*␣*'' The FAA concurs and has revised paragraphs (b) and (c) of the final rule accordingly. This same commenter suggests that the AFM entry proposed in paragraph (c) be reworded to include language that is more familiar to pilots, who will be the primary users of this information in the Limitations Section. Specifically, the commenter suggests that pilots would be more familiar with the term ``V 1 '' (takeoff decision speed) than with ``V MBE '' (maximum brake energy limit speed). The commenter states that use of V 1 as a reference is more appropriate than V MBE in this context, as well, since it is more conservative with respect to the axle overheat problem. Along this same line, the commenter suggests that the AFM wording be revised to indicate that ``the rejected takeoff conditions should be reported to maintenance personnel prior to the next takeoff'' and that ``further dispatch may be affected.'' The FAA concurs with all of these suggestions and has revised paragraph (c) of the final rule accordingly. Note: If a pilot were to report a rejected takeoff event to maintenance personnel and refer the V 1 speed involved, maintenance personnel can recalculate the V 1 figure to a V MBE figure by means of a graph incorporated into the AMM. This commenter also suggests that proposed paragraph (b) be revised to specify the part numbers of the main landing gears (MLG) equipped with the sliding members that need to be replaced. Adding a reference to the MLG part numbers would avoid any relationship between the currently-installed Dowty MLG's and other brands of MLG's that are expected to be certified and installed in the near future. The FAA concurs with this suggestion and has revised paragraph (b) of the final rule accordingly.
