FR940404-2-00121 FR940404-2-00081 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;33830; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;76] Self-Regulatory Organizations; National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change to Article II, Sections 10 and 11 of the Code of Procedure Relating to the Procedures of the National Business Conduct Committee March 29, 1994. On February 14, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') a proposed rule change 1 pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 2 and rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder. 3 The rule change amends Article II, sections 10 and 11 of the Code of Procedure (``Code'') to allow the National Business Conduct Committee (``NBCC'') to designate a Subcommittee to approve or reject Acceptance, Waiver, and Consents (``AWCs''), Minor Rule Violations Letters, and Offers of Settlement. 1 The NASD originally filed the proposed rule change on December 16, 1993. On February 14, 1994, the NASD filed Amendment No. 1 changing the text of the proposed rule change. 2 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 3 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1993). Notice of the proposed rule change together with its terms of substance was provided by issuance of a Commission release and by publication in the Federal Register . 4 No comments were received in response to the Commission release. This order approves the proposed rule change. 4 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33627 (Feb. 15, 1994), 59 FR 9008 (Feb. 24, 1994). I. Introduction The NBCC is composed of participating members of the first year class of the NASD Board of Governors (``Board'') plus an elected Chair and Vice-Chair from the Board's second year class. The NASD's Code applies to proceedings relating to disciplinary actions, eligibility requirements, limiting or denying access to services, and to any other proceeding the NASD deems appropriate. 5 Articles II through IV set forth the procedures concerning disciplinary actions. Sections 10 and 11 of Articles II are entitled ``Acceptance, Waiver and Consent, Minor Rule Violations, and Summary Complaint Procedures'' and ``Settlement Procedure'' respectively. 5 NASD Manual, Code of Procedure, Art. I, Sec. 1(a), (CCH) ¶3001. The members of the NBCC are sent a weekly package for review on proposed AWCs, Minor Rule Violations Letters, and Offers of Settlement. The NBCC also reviews, on a weekly basis, all disciplinary decisions of the District Business Conduct Committees and the Market Surveillance Committee. All matters are first reviewed by the Chair and Vice-Chair of the NBCC and then reviewed by the other members of the NBCC along with the recommendations of the Chair and Vice-Chair. II. Description of the Rule Change The NASD has determined that the weekly package to the NBCC requires a substantial commitment of time of NBCC members and that the review by all NBCC members of all the foregoing matters is unnecessary and unduly burdensome. In order to reduce the amount of materials which must be read by NBCC members, the NASD is proposing to allow the NBCC to designate a Subcommittee composed of members of the NBCC to review AWCs, Minor Rule Violations Letters, and Offers of Settlement in all instances other than matters that are outside the NASD Sanction Guidelines 6 or where the designated Subcommittee, in its discretion, otherwise believes full NBCC review is appropriate. 6 The NASD Sanction Guidelines were published in May 1993 and sent to all NASD members. See NASD Regulatory & Compliance ALERT, Volume 7, No. 2 (June 1993). The NASD is also proposing to amend Article II, section 11(e) of the Code to allow acceptances and rejections of Offers of Settlement to be made by a Subcommittee designated by the NBCC as an alternative to full NBCC review. The NASD is also proposing to delete the phrase ``by a majority vote'' from Article II, section 11(e) of the Code. The NASD considers the phrase ``by a majority vote'' to be confusing since a majority vote is always required by an NASD review body acting pursuant to the Code. Section 10 sets forth the circumstances under which a District Business Conduct Committee, Market Surveillance Committee or an Extended Hearing Committee (collectively referred to as the ``Committee'') may impose disciplinary penalties prior to issuance of a complaint. 7 7 Id. at Art. II, Sec. 10, (CCH) ¶3030. The procedures under subsection 10(a) provide that an NASD member may submit to the Committee a letter accepting a finding of a violation, waiving all rights of appeal, and consenting to the imposition of sanctions. If the committee finds the letter acceptable, it submits it to the NBCC. As currently drafted, this subsection provides that the terms of the letter shall become final and constitute the complaint, answer, and decision in the matter ``[i]f the letter is accepted by the NBCC.'' The rule change provides that the NBCC can designate a Subcommittee to perform the function of reviewing and either accepting or rejecting the terms of the letter. Although not expressly provided for in the NASD's proposal, the NASD has represented that it intends that, initially, the Subcommittee designated by the NBCC will consist of the NBCC Committee Chair and Vice-Chair, but that the NBCC may modify the composition of the Subcommittee in the future. Similarly, the NASD's rule change provides that the NBCC can establish a Subcommittee for the purposes of reviewing and either accepting or rejecting letters submitted by members concerning minor rule violations or settlements of complaints. III. Discussion The Commission finds that the rule change is consistent with the requirements of sections 15A(b) (2), (7) and (8) of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the NASD and, therefore, has determined to approve it. Section 15A(b)(2) requires the NASD to be organized and have the capacity to enforce compliance by its members of the requirements under the Act, rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the Act, and the rules of the NASD. Sections 15A(b) (7) and (8) require that the NASD's rules provide for appropriate disciplining and for fair disciplinary procedures. The rule change enhances the NASD's disciplinary procedures with respect to AWCs, Minor Rule Violations Letters, and Offers of Settlement. The rule change will facilitate the review of these matters by providing the NBCC with more efficient procedures. No longer will each NBCC be required to review every letter submitted to the NBCC. Thus, the NBCC will be able to expedite review of these letters. 8 8 The Commission further notes that submission of a letter and a rejection of the terms of that letter do not diminish the due process rights of the member provided under the Code. Indeed, if the letter is rejected, the NASD is prohibited from considering the contents of the letter in subsequent action. NASD Manual, Code of Procedure, Art. II, Secs. 10(a), 10(b)(3) and 11(i), (CCH) ¶¶3030 and 3031. IV. Conclusion In conclusion, for the reasons stated above, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act. It is therefore ordered , pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change, SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;76 be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7977 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
