FR941102-0-00013 FR941102-0-00004 The proposal's cross-reference of Regulation D increased the number of purchasers permitted in a nonpublic offering over the number allowed under the former part 16. Former part 16, as interpreted by the OCC, permitted sales to only 15 sophisticated purchasers (and an unlimited number of accredited investors), unless the seller received OCC permission to increase the number of purchasers. The proposal permitted sales to 35 sophisticated purchasers and an unlimited number of accredited investors, or to any number of sophisticated purchasers subject to a limitation on the aggregate offering price. The proposal required the filing of a notice of sales no later than 15 days after the first sale of securities in accordance with SEC Rule 503 of Regulation D. Under the former part 16, nonpublic offering notices had to be filed 20 days prior to the time any security was offered or sold. This proposed change gave banks added flexibility in the timing of sales of securities. Under the proposal, securities subject to the limitations on resale of Regulation D must be sold pursuant to SEC Rule 144 or 144A, another exemption from registration under the Securities Act, or in accordance with the part 16 registration and prospectus requirements. The former part 16 did not permit any securities sold in a nonpublic offering to be resold for two years. The proposed change in resale limitations would improve the marketability of bank securities. The OCC received two comments on this section of the proposal. One commenter supported the cross-reference of Regulation D. The other commenter believed that by including the notice requirement in the nonpublic offering section, the OCC was making the filing of a notice a condition to the availability of the nonpublic offering exemption. The commenter stated that while the SEC does provide for the filing of a notice, it is not a condition of any of the exemptions in Regulation D. The final rule adopts this section as proposed with certain clarifying changes. The final rule indicates more clearly that although the filing of a notice is required, failure to file a notice does not result in the loss of the nonpublic offering exemption. Thus, the notice is not a condition of any of the exemptions in Regulation D. The final rule also clarifies that offers and sales made in reliance on Regulation D must only be made to sophisticated purchasers. Small Issues (Section 16.8) The proposal did not cross-reference the SEC's Regulation A (17 CFR 230.251 through 230.264), which permits the unregistered, public offering of securities under specified conditions. The OCC requested comment as to whether it should cross-reference Regulation A and received two comments in response. Both commenters believed that the OCC should cross-reference Regulation A. In light of these comments, the OCC has decided to cross-reference Regulation A in the final rule. Given the criteria for use of the rule, the OCC does not believe its use reduces purchaser safeguards. Moreover, the OCC believes that the Regulation A small issues exemption from registration should be available to banks, as it is to other issuers, to prevent imposing unnecessary burdens on banks in connection with small securities issuances. In order to use the Regulation A exemption, an issuer's offering documents must be filed with and reviewed by the OCC. The final rule states that filers should consult the SEC's Securities Act Industry Guide 3_Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies (17 CFR 229.801(c) and 231) for guidance on the appropriate disclosures to be included in the offering document. The Guide 3 disclosures consist of information that potential purchasers of bank securities need in order to evaluate their investments. Form and Content (Section 16.15) The proposal required all registration statements filed with the OCC to be on the form for registration that the bank would use were it required to register the securities under the Securities Act. Which form a bank uses depends, among other things, on whether the bank is subject to the registration and reporting requirements of section 12 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78 l and 78o(d)) and on the amount of the offering. Several commenters suggested that the OCC clarify whether a national bank may use the SEC's Form S&hyph;3 (Form for registration under the Securities Act of securities of certain issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions) in connection with the offer and sale of its securities if its parent company meets the requirements set forth in Instruction I.C. to Form S&hyph;3 and the other requirements set forth in Instruction I.C. are met. The final rule permits national banks to use Form S&hyph;3 in such situations. Pursuant to Instruction I.C. to the SEC's Form S&hyph;3, if the parent of a registrant meets the registration requirements for the use of Form S&hyph;3, the registrant may use Form S&hyph;3 for offers and sales of nonconvertible debt or nonconvertible preferred stock provided the registrant is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the parent and the securities being issued by the registrant are investment grade securities (or are fully guaranteed by the qualifying parent as to principal and interest).
