FR940203-2-00035 FR940203-2-00017 6. Enforcement: In some cases, applicants might proceed with the project upon receipt of the provisional permit. The provisional permit is not a valid permit. In such cases, the Corps has a discretionary enforcement action to consider and should proceed as the DE determines to be appropriate. This occurs on occasion during the standard permit transmittal process. Since the Corps is not changing the normal process of sending unsigned permits to the applicant for signature, there should not be an increase in occurrence of such unauthorized activities. 7. Modification: a. In most cases the Section 401 Water Quality Certification, including conditions, and/or CZM consistency concurrence, including conditions, will be consistent with the provisional permit. In such cases, the DE will simply sign the final permit enclose the 401 water quality certification and/or CZM consistency concurrence with the final permit (i.e., the signed provisional permit). b. In a few cases such State approval may necessitate modifications to the Corps preliminary permit decision. Such modifications will be processed in accordance with 33 CFR 325.7. (1) When the modifications are minor and the DE agrees to such modifications, then a supplement to the provisional decision document may be prepared, as appropriate, and the permit issued with such modifications. (This should usually be done by enclosing the State 401 Water Quality Certification and/or CZM consistency concurrence to the permit, but in a few cases may require a revision to the permit document itself.) (2) When the modification results in substantial change or measurable increase in adverse impacts or the Corps does not initially agree with the change, then the modification will be processed and counted as a separate permit action for reporting purposes. This may require a new public notice or additional coordination with appropriate Federal and/or state agencies. The provisional decision document will be supplemented or may be completely rewritten, as necessary. 8. Denial: If the State denies the Section 401 Water Quality Certification and/or the State nonconcurs with the applicant's CZM consistency determination, then the Corps permit is denied without prejudice. 9. This guidance expires 31 December 1998 unless sooner revised or rescinded. For the Director of Civil Works. 3 Encls John P. Elmore, Chief, Operations, Construction and Readiness Division, Directorate of Civil Works. Sample Provisional Permit Transmittal Letter Dear XXX : We have completed our review of your permit application identified as [File No., appl. name, etc.] for the following proposed work: near/in/at XXXXXXXXXX .
