FR940407-0-00004 FR940407-0-00001 One comment in opposition to this termination was received from a dairy farmer who supplies the New York-New Jersey marketing area. This farmer expressed the view that the Louisville payment plan is still effective in reducing the variability of milk production even though the Louisville plan differential levels are too low to be as meaningful as they were in earlier years when the differential level represented a greater percentage of the price of milk. The farmer also expressed the view that withholding money from a producer's milk check in the spring months when cash is needed for meeting spring planting costs was not particularly burdensome. The ``Louisville'' seasonal incentive payment plan has been in effect in the New England and New York-New Jersey orders since the late 1960's when there was significant variability between milk production in the spring and fall months. Market statistics reveal that this variability was as much as 30 percent when the plans were first implemented in the orders, and there was considerable institutional and economic pressure to reduce this seasonality of production because of the high costs of marketing seasonal surpluses of milk. It is reasonable to conclude from a review of current-day statistics that the plans have played a role in reducing this variability, as commented upon by the producer in opposition to the termination action. However, the seasonality of milk production has not changed much since 1980, and there are certainly a number of other reasons for this in addition to the ``small'' Louisville differentials relative to the per hundredweight price of milk from the 1960's and 1970's versus today. Without question, it is also reasonable to attribute, in part, the narrowing of production seasonality to advances in production practices, including improvement in feeding programs, breeding and other management practices. One of the most important consideration in this termination action is the fact that the plans have not been operational for the last three years and thus have had no impact on the seasonality of milk production. The prior suspension actions, as well as this request to terminate the payment plans, were supported by a significant number of producers who were concerned about their prices being reduced any more than what would normally occur because of seasonally lower prices in the spring. The seasonal variability in the basic formula price for milk (the M&hyph;W price) in today's marketplace already provides an incentive for producers to make their own individual production decisions in response to the seasonal price changes. Since the payment plans have not been operational or effective, they should be terminated. Therefore, the seasonal incentive payment plans of the two markets are hereby terminated. It is hereby found and determined that thirty days' notice of the effective date hereof is impractical, unnecessary and contrary to the public interest in that: (a) The termination is necessary to reflect current marketing conditions and to assure orderly marketing conditions in the marketing area; (b) This termination does not require of persons affected substantial or extensive preparation prior to the effective date; and (c) Notice of proposed rulemaking was given interested parties and they were afforded opportunity to file written data, views or arguments concerning this suspension. Therefore, good cause exists for making this order effective upon publication in the Federal Register . List of Subjects in 7 CFR Parts 1001 and 1002 Milk marketing orders. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the following provisions in title 7, parts 1001 and 1002, are amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR parts 1001 and 1002 continues to read as follows: Authority: Secs. 1&hyph;19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. PART 1001_MILK IN THE NEW ENGLAND MARKETING AREA ยง1001.62 [Amended] 2. In ยง1001.62, paragraphs (c) and (d) are removed and reserved. PART 1002_MILK IN THE NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY MARKETING AREA ยง1002.61 [Amended] 3. In ยง1002.61, paragraphs (d) and (e) are removed and reserved. Dated: April 4, 1994. Patricia Jensen, Acting Assistant Secretary, Marketing and Inspection Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8409 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
