FR940527-1-00088 FR940527-1-00014 •For sole community hospitals, 90 percent; •For urban hospitals with at least 100 beds that have a disproportionate share patient percentage of at least 20.2 percent or that received more than 30 percent of its net inpatient care revenues from State or local governments for indigent care, 80 percent; •For all other hospitals, 70 percent of the hospital's reasonable inpatient capital-related costs. The current regulations also provide that total estimated payments under the exceptions process in a year may not exceed 10 percent of total estimated capital prospective payments (exclusive of hold-harmless payments for old capital) for the same fiscal year. As we stated in the August 30, 1991 final rule, we will revise the minimum payment percentages during any subsequent transition year, if necessary, to ensure that exceptions payments do not exceed the 10 percent limit. It has not yet been necessary to reduce the original minimum payment percentages to meet the 10 percent limit. In the final rule for the prospective payment system for capital-related costs, we stated that we would carefully monitor the impact of the capital prospective payment system in order to determine whether ``some type of permanent exceptions process is necessary and the circumstances under which additional payments would be made (56 FR 43409).'' Since the publication of the final rule for the capital prospective payment system, several commenters have urged us to provide special protection for hospitals that are undertaking major renovation or replacement of aging facilities during the decade of the transition. These commenters have pointed out that, unlike hospitals that undertook major renovation or replacement during the 1980s, many hospitals that undertake capital replacement or renovation projects during the transition do not qualify for the protection for old capital or obligated capital during the transition. In addition, unlike hospitals that will undertake major capital replacement or renovation in the decade after the transition period, such hospitals have not had an opportunity to accrue capital prospective payments to fund the projects. We are aware of a number of major projects, scheduled for completion later in the transition, that could therefore not be included as old or obligated capital, and that involve major replacement or renovation of aging facilities. In the design of the capital prospective payment system, we have made every effort to consider the circumstances of hospitals for whom the transition to prospective payment poses special difficulties. We agree with the commenters that hospitals that need to undertake major renovation or replacement projects during the transition face special difficulties merely because of the timing of their projects. We do not believe that the Medicare program should guarantee to underwrite every major program of replacement or renovation of capital assets. However, under certain circumstances we believe that it is fair to provide special protection, through the exceptions process, for hospitals that find themselves in the circumstances cited. In addition to the exceptions categories identified above, we are therefore proposing at §412.348 to provide special protection for some hospitals that are undertaking major projects to renovate or replace aging plant during the transition period. This special protection, which will provide a 70 percent minimum payment level for up to ten years beyond the transition period, will be available only to the following classes of hospitals: •Sole community hospitals that have a current ratio less than or equal to of 1.75 in the exception year; •Urban hospitals with at least 100 beds that either have disproportionate share percentages of at least 20.2 percent or receive at least 30 percent of their revenue from State or local funds for indigent care, and that have a current ratio less than or equal to 1.75 in the exception year; and •Hospitals with a combined inpatient Medicare and Medicaid utilization of at least 70 percent. In addition, the hospital must meet an age of asset test and, if applicable, receive approval for the project from a State or local planning authority. If planning approval is not required, an urban hospital must demonstrate either that it is in a metropolitan statistical area (MSA) that does not have an overall average occupancy rate less than 80 percent or that its capacity is no more than 80 percent of its prior capacity (in terms of bed size). We believe that this exception should apply only to hospitals that have previously been identified for special protection under the Medicare program (that is, sole community hospitals or large urban hospitals that serve disproportionate shares of indigent patients), or that have heavy utilization by beneficiaries of the Federal health programs. The average hospital utilization by Medicaid beneficiaries is approximately 10 percent. Hospitals with 60 percent Medicare utilization can reasonably claim high Medicare utilization rates. We have therefore determined that, aside from certain sole community hospitals and large urban disproportionate share hospitals, this special exception should be restricted to hospitals with combined Medicare and Medicaid utilization of at least 70 percent. We are also requiring that sole community hospitals and large urban disproportionate share hospitals must have current ratios of less than or equal to 1.75 in order to be eligible for this special exception. We do not believe that hospitals that do not have high Medicare and Medicaid utilization should be eligible for this special exception unless they are financially vulnerable. The current ratio is perhaps the most widely used measure of hospital liquidity. It is defined as the number of dollars held in current assets per dollar of current liabilities. Thus, higher values reflect a stronger short-term financial condition. A current ratio of 2.0 or better is a common hospital target for financial performance. We therefore believe that a current ratio of less than or equal to 1.75 is a sufficient indication of financial stress to qualify for special protection under the exceptions policy. The current ratio can be determined from information available on the Medicare cost report (HCFA 2552&hyph;92, Worksheet G, Lines 11 and 43).
