FR940516-1-00039 FR940516-1-00001 (b) No commodity trading advisor may use a disclosure document dated more than nine months prior to the date of its use. (c)(1) If the commodity trading advisor knows or should know that the disclosure document is materially inaccurate or incomplete in any respect, it must correct that defect and must distribute the correction to: (i) All existing clients in the trading program within 21 calendar days of the date upon which the trading advisor first knows or has reason to know of the defect; and (ii) Each previously solicited prospective client for the trading program prior to entering into an agreement to direct or to guide such prospective client's commodity interest account pursuant to the program. The trading advisor may furnish the correction by way of an amended document, a sticker on the document, or other similar means. (2) The trading advisor may not use the document until such correction is made. (d)(1) The commodity trading advisor must file with the Commission two copies of the disclosure document for each trading program that it offers or that it intends to offer not less than 21 calendar days prior to the date the trading advisor first intends to deliver the document to a prospective client in the trading program. (2) The commodity trading advisor must file with the Commission two copies of all subsequent amendments to the disclosure document for each trading program that it offers or that it intends to offer within 21 calendar days of the date upon which the trading advisor first knows or has reason to know of the defect requiring the amendment. PART 30_FOREIGN FUTURES AND FOREIGN OPTIONS TRANSACTIONS 13. The authority citation for part 30 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 4, 6, 6c, and 12a. 14. Section 30.6 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) to read as follows: §30.6 Disclosure. * * * * * (b) Commodity pool operators and commodity trading advisors. (1) No commodity pool operator registered or required to be registered under this part, or exempt from registration pursuant to §30.5 of this part, may, directly or indirectly, solicit, accept or receive funds, securities or other property from a prospective participant in a foreign pool that it operates or that it intends to operate or, in the case of a commodity trading advisor, no commodity trading advisor registered or required to be registered under this part, or exempt from registration pursuant to §30.5 of this part, may solicit or enter into an agreement with a prospective client to direct or to guide the client's foreign commodity interest trading by means of a systematic program that recommends specific transactions, unless the commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor, at or before the time it engages in such activities, first provides each prospective participant or client with the Risk Disclosure Statement set forth in §4.24(b) in the case of a commodity pool operator or §4.33(b) in the case of a commodity trading advisor. (2) The disclosure statement required to be provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be given as a separate document or, if part of the disclosure document required to be furnished customers or potential customers pursuant to §4.21 or §4.31 of this chapter, must be prominently disclosed immediately following any disclosures required to appear on the cover page of the disclosure document as provided by the Commission or any applicable federal or state securities laws and regulations. * * * * * PART 150_LIMITS ON POSITIONS 15. The authority citation for part 150 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 6a, 6c and 12a(5) (1988). 16. Section 150.3 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (a)(4)(i)(D) to read as follows: §150.3 Exemptions. (a) *␣*␣* (4) *␣*␣* (i) *␣*␣* (D) Solicit funds for such trading by separate disclosure documents that meet the standards of §4.24 or §4.33 of this chapter, as applicable, where such disclosure documents are required under part 4 of this chapter. * * * * * Issued in Washington, DC, on May 5, 1994, by the Commission. Jean A. Webb, Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11380 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6351&hyph;01&hyph;P
