FR940722-0-00142 FR940722-0-00019 (d) Unjust Enrichment. (1) If a licensee that utilizes a bidding credit under this section seeks to assign or transfer control of its license to an entity not meeting the eligibility standards for bidding credits or seeks to make any other change in ownership that would result in the licensee no longer qualifying for bidding credits under this section, the licensee must seek Commission approval and reimburse the government for the amount of the bidding credit as a condition of the approval of such assignment, transfer or other ownership change. (2) If a licensee that utilizes a bidding credit under this section seeks to assign or transfer control of its license to an entity meeting the eligibility standards for lower bidding credit or seeks to make any other change in ownership that would result in the licensee qualifying for a lower bidding credit under this section, the licensee must seek Commission approval and reimburse the government for the difference between the amount of the bidding credit obtained by the licensee and the bidding credit for which the assignee, transferee or licensee is eligible under this section as a condition of the approval of such assignment, transfer or other ownership change. §24.713 Tax certificates. (a) Any non-controlling initial investor in a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women and who provides ``start-up'' financing, which allows such business to acquire a broadband PCS license(s), and any non-controlling investor who purchases an interest in a broadband PCS license held by a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women within the first year after license issuance, may, upon the sale or such investment or interest, request from the Commission a tax certificate. Note: For purposes of this subsection, non-controlling investor means any person who is not part of the control group of a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women as defined in §24.720(k). (b) Any broadband PCS licensee who assigns or transfer control of its license to a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women may request that the Commission issue the licensee a tax certificate. Any licensee that obtain a broadband PCS license through the benefit of a tax certificates under this subsection shall not assign or transfer control of its license within one year of its license grant date, unless such assignee or transferee qualifies as a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women, which shall not assign or transfer control of the license within one year of the grant date of the assignment or transfer. (c) Any licensee in the Domestic Public Cellular Radio Telecommunications Service who assigns or transfer control of its cellular license(s) to a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women may request that the Commission issue the licensee a tax certificate. Such tax certificates will only be issued if the principal purpose of the assignment or transfer of control is to allow the cellular licensee to become eligible for a broadband PCS license(s) beyond the limitations imposed on the cellular licensee by §24.204. Any licensee that obtains a cellular license through the benefit of a tax certificate under this paragraph shall not assign or transfer control of its license within one year of its license grant date, unless such assignee or transferee qualifies as a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women, which shall not assign or transfer control of the license within one year of the grant date of the assignment or transfer. §24.714 Eligibility for partitioned licenses (a) Notwithstanding §24.202, an applicant that is a rural telephone company, as defined in §24.720(e), may be granted a broadband PCS license that is geographically partitioned from a separately licensed MTA or BTA, so long as the MTA or BTA applicant or licensee has voluntarily agreed (in writing) to partition a portion of the license to the rural telephone company. (b) If partitioned licenses are being applied for in conjunction with a license(s) to be awarded through competitive bidding procedures_ (1) The applicable procedures for filing short-form applications and for submitting upfront payments and down payments contained in this part and part 1 of this Chapter shall be followed by the applicant, who must disclose as part of its short-form application all parties to agreement(s) with or among rural telephone companies to partition the license pursuant to this section, if won at auction ( see 47 CFR §1.2105(a)(2)(viii)); (2) Each rural telephone company that is a party to an agreement to partition the license shall file a long-form application for its respective, mutually agreed-upon geographic area together with the application for the remainder of the MTA or BTA filed by the auction winner. (c) If the partitioned license is being applied for as a partial assignment of the MTA or BTA license following grant of the initial license, request for authorization for partial assignment of a license shall be made pursuant to §24.839. (d) Each application for a partitioned area (long-form initial application or partial assignment application) shall contain a partitioning plan that must propose to establish a partitioned area to be licensed that meets the following criteria: (1) Conforms to established geopolitical boundaries (such as county lines); (2) Includes the wireline service area of the rural telephone company applicant; and (3) Is reasonably related to the rural telephone company's wireline service area. Note: A partitioned service area will be presumed to be reasonably related to the rural telephone company's wireline service area if the partitioned service area contains no more than twice the population overlap between the rural telephone company's wireline service area and the partitioned area. (e) Each licensee in each partitioned area will be responsible for meeting the construction requirements in its area ( see §24.203). §24.720 Definitions. (a) Scope. The definitions in this section apply to §§24.709-24.715, unless otherwise specified in those sections. (b) Small Business; Consortium of Small Businesses. (1) A small business is an entity that (i) Together with its affiliates has average annual gross revenues that are not more than $40 million for the preceding three calendar years; (ii) Has no attributable investor or affiliate that has a personal net worth of $40 million or more;
