FR940617-0-00232 FR940617-0-00026 §89.611&hyph;96 Exemptions and exclusions. (a) Individuals, as well as ICIs, are eligible for importing nonroad engines into the United States under the provisions of this section, unless otherwise specified. (b) Notwithstanding other requirements of this subpart, a nonroad engine entitled to one of the temporary exemptions of this paragraph may be conditionally admitted into the United States if prior written approval for the conditional admission is obtained from the Administrator. Conditional admission is to be under bond. The Administrator may request that the U.S. Customs Service require a specific bond amount to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Act and this subpart. A written request for approval from the Administrator is to contain the identification required in §89.604&hyph;96(a) (except for §89.604&hyph;96(a)(5)) and information that demonstrates that the importer is entitled to the exemption. Noncompliance with provisions of this section may result in the forfeiture of the total amount of the bond or exportation of the nonroad engine. The following temporary exemptions are permitted by this paragraph: (1) Exemption for repairs or alterations. Upon written approval by EPA, an owner of nonroad engines may conditionally import under bond such nonroad engines solely for purpose of repair(s) or alteration(s). The nonroad engines may not be operated in the United States other than for the sole purpose of repair or alteration. They may not be sold or leased in the United States and are to be exported upon completion of the repair(s) or alteration(s). (2) Testing exemption. A test nonroad engine may be conditionally imported by a person subject to the requirements of §89.905. A test nonroad engine may be operated in the United States provided that the operation is an integral part of the test. This exemption is limited to a period not exceeding one year from the date of importation unless a request is made by the appropriate importer concerning the nonroad engine in accordance with §89.905(f) for a subsequent one-year period. (3) Precertification exemption. A prototype nonroad engine for use in applying to EPA for certification pursuant to this subpart may be conditionally imported subject to applicable provisions of §89.906 and the following requirements: (i) No more than one prototype nonroad engine for each engine family for which an importer is seeking certification is to be imported. (ii) The granting of precertification exemptions by the Administrator is discretionary. Normally, no more than three outstanding precertification exemptions are allowed for each importer. No precertification exemption is allowed if the importer requesting the exemption is in noncompliance with any requirement of this subpart until the noncompliance is corrected. (iii) Unless a certificate of conformity is issued for the prototype nonroad engine and the nonroad engine is finally admitted pursuant to the requirements of §89.605 within 180 days from the date of entry, the total amount of the bond is to be forfeited or the nonroad engine exported unless an extension is granted by the Administrator. A request for an extension is to be in writing and received by the Administrator prior to the date that the precertification exemption expires. (iv) Such precertification nonroad engine may not be operated in the United States other than for the sole purpose of the precertification exemption. (4) Display exemptions. (i) A nonroad engine intended solely for display may be conditionally imported subject to the requirements of §89.907. (ii) A display nonroad engine may be imported by any person for purposes related to a business or the public interest. Such purposes do not include collections normally inaccessible or unavailable to the public on a daily basis, display of a nonroad engine at a dealership, private use, or other purpose that the Administrator determines is not appropriate for display exemptions. A display nonroad engine may not be sold in the United States and may not be operated in the United States except for the operation incident and necessary to the display purpose. (iii) A temporary display exemption is granted for 12 months or for the duration of the display purpose, whichever is shorter. Two extensions of up to 12 months each are available upon approval by the Administrator. In no circumstances, however, may the total period of exemption exceed 36 months. The U.S. Customs Service bonds a temporary display exemption.
