FR941020-1-00042 FR941020-1-00012 Currently there are no residences in the area where ground-water contamination has been observed. There are no residential drinking water wells located directly downgradient of the Site. Most residential drinking water wells are located upgradient of the Site (south of the Site). Groundwater sampling of monitoring wells located along the southeastern edge of the Site revealed no contamination, indicating no contaminant migration in this direction from the Site. In September 1992, EPA issued a Record of Decision (ROD) for the Site in which the Agency selected ``No Action.'' EPA concluded that the Site poses a risk to human health only in the event that contaminated groundwater existing within certain areas of the Site is consumed. No consumption of this groundwater is occurring at this time and none is expected to occur in the future. Surface water sampling in the nearby streams indicates that the contaminant levels are protective of aquatic life. EPA concluded that the No-Action remedy is protective of human health and the environment and that further remedial action under CERCLA is not warranted. The Commonwealth of Virginia concurred with this remedy selection. The Suffolk City Landfill ceased receiving wastes in 1985, and final closure is pending. In accordance with the Virginia Solid Waste Management Regulations, the owner/operator (City of Suffolk) must implement a groundwater monitoring program to collect ground- water samples that are representative of conditions in aquifers beneath the Site. EPA will use these ground water sample results to monitor the protectiveness of the No Action remedy. The City of Suffolk has submitted a monitoring plan, which is still being reviewed by EPA. Sampling results indicating that there is no offsite migration of contaminants, the low level risk associated with the on-site contaminants, and the monitoring requirements which can identify any future need for groundwater remediation are major factors leading to EPA's decision to delete this Site from the NPL. As set forth in the ROD, EPA will conduct five-year reviews in accordance with section 121(c) of CERCLA, 42 U.S.C. 9621(c), to assure continued protection of human health and the environment. Dated: September 1, 1994. W.T. Wisniewski, Acting Regional Administrator, Region III. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26022 Filed 10&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
