FR940105-0-00070 FR940105-0-00014 Buy American Act_North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act_Balance of Payments Program Certificate (Jan 1994) (a) The offeror hereby certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (b) of this provision, is a domestic end product (as defined in the clause entitled ``Buy American Act_North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Implementation Act_Balance of Payments Program'') and that components of unknown origin have been considered to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. (b) Excluded End Products: ␣ 1Line item No. 1Country of origin ␣ l ␣ l 1 (List as necessary) 0 (c) Offers will be evaluated by giving certain preferences to domestic end products or NAFTA country end products over other end products. In order to obtain these preferences in the evaluation of each excluded end product listed in paragraph (b) of this provision, offerors must identify and certify below those excluded end products that are NAFTA country end products. Products that are not identified and certified below will not be deemed NAFTA country end products. Offerors must certify by inserting the applicable line item numbers in the following: (1) The offeror certifies that the following supplies qualify as ``NAFTA country end products'' as that term is defined in the clause entitled ``Buy American Act_North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act_Balance of Payments Program:'' (Insert line item numbers) (d) Offers will be evaluated in accordance with FAR part 25. (End of provision) 52.225&hyph;21 Buy American Act_North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act_Balance of Payments Program. As prescribed in 25.408(a)(4), insert the following clause: Buy American Act_North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act_Balance of Payments Program (Jan 1994) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause_ Components means those articles, materials, and supplies incorporated directly into the end products. Domestic end product means (1) an unmanufactured end product mined or produced in the United States, or (2) an end product manufactured in the United States, if the cost of its components mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds 50 percent of the cost of all its components. A component shall also be considered to have been mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States (regardless of its source in fact) if the end product in which it is incorporated is manufactured in the United States and the component is of a class or kind (i) determined by the Government, to be not mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available commercial quantities of a satisfactory quality, or (ii) to which the agency head concerned has determined that it would be inconsistent with the public interest to apply the restrictions of the Buy American Act. End products means those articles, materials, and supplies to be acquired under this contract for public use. Foreign end product means an end product other than a domestic end product. North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) country means Canada or Mexico. NAFTA country end product means an article that (1) is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a NAFTA country, or (2) in the case of an article which consists in whole or in part of materials from another country or instrumentality, has been substantially transformed in a NAFTA country into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was transformed. The term includes services (except transportation services) incidental to its supply; provided, that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the product itself. It does not include service contracts as such. (b) This clause implements the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10), the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;182, 107 Stat. 2057), and the Balance of Payments Program by providing a preference for domestic end products over foreign end products, except for certain foreign end products which meet the requirements for classification as NAFTA country end products. (c) The Contracting Officer has determined that the NAFTA applies to this acquisition. Unless otherwise specified, the Act applies to all items in the schedule. The Contractor agrees to deliver under this contract only domestic end products unless, in its offer, it specifies delivery of foreign end products in the provision entitled ``Buy American Act_North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act_Balance of Payments Program Certificate.'' An offer certifying that a NAFTA country end product will be supplied requires the Contractor to supply a NAFTA country end product or, at the Contractor's option, a domestic end product. (d) If the contract contains the clause at 52.225&hyph;17, Buy American Act_Supplies under European Community Agreement, the Contractor may deliver EC country end products notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c). (e) Offers will be evaluated in accordance with the policies and procedures of subpart 25.4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (End of clause) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;177 Filed 1&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;34&hyph;M
