FR941130-2-00099 FR941130-2-00064 Availability of the License Application Review Plan for a Geologic Repository for Spent Nuclear Fuel and High-Level Radioactive Waste_Draft Review Plan AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is announcing the availability of NUREG&hyph;1323, ``The License Application Review Plan for a Geologic Repository for Spent Nuclear Fuel and High-Level Radioactive Waste_Draft Review Plan.'' ADDRESSES: Copies of NUREG&hyph;1323 can be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;7082. Copies are also available from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. A copy of NUREG&hyph;1323 is available for public inspection and/or copying at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street (Lower Level), N.W., Washington, DC 20555&hyph;0001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Anne E. Garcia, High-Level Waste and Uranium Recovery Projects Branch, Division of Waste Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 11545 Rockville Pike, MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 415&hyph;6631. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The License Application Review Plan (LARP) provides guidance to the NRC staff who will review the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE's) license application to construct a mined geologic repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive waste at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. The LARP is intended to ensure the quality and uniformity of the staff reviews and establishes the appropriate review priorities, and presents a well-defined base from which to evaluate proposed changes in the scope and requirements of staff reviews. Because it is a public document, it will also make available to DOE and other interested parties information on the staff's review process so that they may better understand the review strategies, procedures, and acceptance criteria that the staff will use. In developing the LARP at this time, there are numerous benefits to be realized by the NRC staff. First, the LARP will help structure and coordinate the staff's efforts to develop a well-integrated review capability supported by the staff's independent technical assessment capability and the results of NRC-sponsored research. Second, identifying technical issues most important to geologic repository performance will help focus and prioritize the prelicense application reviews, independent technical assessment capabilities, and research needed by the staff. Third, the regulatory and technical basis for the staff's pre-license application reviews and guidance will be improved due to the focus on regulatory and technical issues. The LARP is divided into three parts. Part A contains the License Application Review Strategy, which gives general guidance to the staff in conducting its license application reviews. Part B contains eight individual review plans, to be used by the staff to review general information in the license application. Part C contains 89 individual review plans, distributed among ten chapters, which the staff will use to review the Safety Analysis Report, the principal part of the license application in which DOE provides the information needed to demonstrate compliance with the technical requirements of 10 CFR Part 60. The organization of the individual review plans in Parts B and C is consistent with the organization of the license application as specified in the draft regulatory guide ``Format and Content for the License Application for the High-Level Waste Repository.'' Finally, each individual review plan has a standard format consisting of the following seven sections: (1) Applicable [10 CFR Part 60] Regulatory Requirements; (2) Review Strategy; (3) Review Procedures and Acceptance Criteria; (4) Implementation; (5) Example Evaluation Findings; and (6) References. This draft version, designated Revision 0, represents the staff's initial efforts in developing the LARP. Beginning with this version, the staff anticipates issuing a revision to the draft LARP each year through 2000, culminating with the issuance of the LARP in 2001. Each revision of the draft LARP will contain the work completed by the staff during that particular year. Revision 0 and subsequent revisions of the draft LARP are preliminary documents and, as such, are subject to change. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 14th day of November 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Joseph J. Holonich, Chief, High-Level Waste and Uranium Recovery Projects Branch, Division of Waste Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29490 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
