FR940304-1-00099 FR940304-1-00014 The Florida State Energy Office (FSEO) suggested that the Department consider classifying room air conditioners according to their load characteristics. (FSEO, No. 42 at 5, 6). The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that regional standards could increase the product's cost by denying manufacturers the economy of large production runs and augment distribution problems by isolating inventories by region. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 22&hyph;25). The Department assumes that the Florida State Energy Office comment concerns regional standards. The Department believes the program requires the setting of a national standard and is proposing therefore only a national standard for room air conditioners. The Natural Resources Defense Council and the Florida State Energy Office proposed that DOE establish procedures that take into account the integration of room air conditioners and water heaters (heat recovery units). (Natural Resources Defense Council No. 13 at 29; FSEO No. 42 at 2,3). Establishing standards and developing test procedures for appliances which serve two types of loads simultaneously is a very complex problem. The Department is in the process of developing standards and test procedures for combined central air conditioners and water heaters. However, because of the difficulty of running water lines to a remote room air conditioner location and the inherent heat losses from the hot water line, a room air conditioner/water heater configuration does not seem particularly appropriate. At this time, DOE will not establish a standard for room air conditioner/water heater systems. The Natural Resources Defense Council, the Florida State Energy Office and the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy stated that DOE should consider the cost of peak power in evaluating the cost effectiveness of room air conditioner standards. (Natural Resources Defense Council No. 13 at 18; Florida State Energy Office No. 42 at 5,6; American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy No. 6 at 7). The price of electricity used for room air conditioners is the projected 1996 average residential electricity price from DOE Annual Energy Outlook 1991. Analysis of electricity price by end-use from data in the DOE/EIA 1987 Residential Energy Consumption Survey indicates that the average electricity price for residential air conditioning was the same as the national average residential electricity price (in other words, the end-use price multiplier is 1.00). Cost effectiveness to the consumer, e.g., life cycle cost, payback and cost of conserved energy, is evaluated according to the actual charges to the consumer. The Fedders Corporation urged DOE to establish a minimum energy efficiency ratio for window air conditioners of 10.0, stating that this should be done to keep the industry competitive on a global basis. The Fedders Corporation also stated that existing technology clearly can support this minimum efficiency at small cost to manufacturers. (Fedders, No. 91 at 1). The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers responded to the Fedders Corporation's comment stating that the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers was unclear as to which classes the Fedders Corporation was referring, and urging DOE to maintain and evaluate separate classes of room air conditioners. Furthermore, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that the Fedders Corporation cannot accurately judge the technological and economic impacts of such a minimum energy efficiency ratio on other manufacturers. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 92 at 1). The Department notes both comments and has analyzed each proposed class of room air conditioners separately, using all available cost and performance data. The results presented in today's notice as proposed minimum energy efficiency ratio's for room air conditioners range from 9.3 to 11.1, depending on size and configuration. 2. Water Heaters Classes. There was considerable discussion about water heater product classes. Many comments came from gas utilities. The American Gas Association urged DOE to adopt a source-based energy analysis and to recognize the importance of efficiency of the total energy delivery cycle. (American Gas Association, No. 23 at 3.)
