FR940516-2-00123 FR940516-2-00084 6. Enactment of an environmental review process. Establish an environmental review process to ensure that proposed development within the airport noise exposure area is compatible or that appropriate measures are undertaken to achieve compatibility. Implementation Measures 1. Letter to Airmen. A Letter to Airmen would be an appropriate mechanism for the FAA to use in communicating ATC-related noise abatement measures to pilots. 2. Noise Abatement Bulletin. A Noise Abatement Bulletin would be an appropriate mechanism to communicate the noise abatement program to pilots. 3. Distribution of Materials. The airport should provide copies of the Letter to Airmen and the Noise Abatement Bulletin to the military and airlines for distribution to pilots and to FBO's. 4. Provision for Revision of Noise Exposure Maps and Noise Compatibility Program. The NCP calls for revision to the NCP and to the NEM's. 5. Continuation of the NCP Advisory Committee as a Noise Abatement Committee. It is recommended that the airport continue the advisory committees as a noise abatement committee. These determinations are set forth in detail in a Record of Approval endorsed by the Administrator on April 1, 1994. B. The FAA also has completed its review of the revised noise exposure maps and related descriptions submitted by Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport Authority. The specific maps under consideration are Figure 5&hyph;1, ``Short-Term (1992) Noise Abatement Contours with Existing Off-Airport Land Use,'' and Figure 5&hyph;2, ``Long-Term, (1997) Noise Abatement Contours (1500' Runway Extension and North Flow Preferential Runway Use), with Existing Off-Airport Land Use.'' in the submission. The FAA has determined that these maps for Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport are in compliance with applicable requirements. This determination was effective on April 1, 1994. FAA's determination on an airport operator's noise exposure maps is limited to a finding that the maps were developed in accordance with the procedures contained in Appendix A of FAR part 150. Such determination does not constitute approval of the applicant's data, information, or plans. If questions arise concerning the precise relationship of specific properties to noise exposure contours depicted on a noise exposure map submitted under section 103 of the Act, it should be noted that the FAA is not involved in any way in determining the relative locations of specific properties with regard to the depicted noise contours, or in interpreting the noise exposure maps to resolve questions concerning, for example, which properties should be covered by the provisions of section 107 of the Act. These functions are inseparable from the ultimate land use control and planning responsibilities of local government. These local responsibilities are not changed in any way under part 150 or through FAA's review of noise exposure maps. Therefore, the responsibility for the detailed overlaying of noise exposure contours onto the maps depicting properties on the surface rests exclusively with the airport operator that submitted those maps, or with those public agencies and planning agencies with which consultation is required under section 103 of the Act. The FAA has relied on the certification by the airport operator, under ยง150.21 of FAR part 150, that the statutorily required consultation has been accomplished. Copies of the noise exposure maps, and of the FAA's evaluation of the maps, and copies of the Record of Approval and other evaluation materials and documents which comprised the submittal to the FAA are available for examination at the following locations: Federal Aviation Administration, Jackson Airports District Office, 120 North Hangar Drive, suite B, Jackson, Mississippi 39208&hyph;2306 Mr. Bruce Frallic, Executive Director, Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport Authority, 14035&hyph;L Airport Road, Gulfport, Mississippi 39501. Questions on either of these FAA determinations may be directed to the individual named above under the heading FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. Issued in Southern Region, Atlanta, Georgia, May 4, 1994. Samuel F. Austin, Manager, Atlanta Airports District Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11852 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
