FR940325-2-00135 FR940325-2-00057 (E) Maintain a record of recipients to whom the Final Judgment has been distributed and from whom the certifications obtained, as required by Section V(D). VI Certification (A) Within 75 days after the entry of this Final Judgment, each defendant shall certify to the plaintiff whether it has distributed this Final Judgment and the notification in accordance with Section V above. (B) For each year of the term of this Final Judgment, each defendant shall file with the plaintiff, on or before the anniversary date of entry of this Final Judgment, a statement as to the fact and manner of its compliance with the provisions of Section V above. (C) If at any time a defendant's Antitrust Compliance Officer learns of any violation of Section IV of this Final Judgment, that defendant shall immediately notify the plaintiff and forthwith take appropriate action to terminate or modify the activity so as to comply with this Final Judgment. VII Inspection (A) To determine or secure compliance with this Final Judgment, and subject to any legally recognized privilege, duly authorized representatives of the Department of Justice shall, upon written request of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division, and on reasonable notice to any defendant, be permitted: (1) Access during that defendant's administrative office hours to inspect and copy all records and documents in its possession or control relating to any matters contained in this Final Judgment; and (2) to interview that defendant's trustees, officers, employees, and agents concerning such matters. The interviews shall be subject to the defendant's and individual's reasonable convenience and without restraint or interference from the defendant. Counsel for the defendant or counsel for the individual interviewed may be present at the interview. (B) Upon the written request of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division, a defendant shall submit such written reports, under oath if requested, relating to any of the matters contained in this Final Judgment as may be reasonably requested, provided that the preparation of such report will not unduly burden the defendant or disrupt defendant's operations. (C) No information or documents obtained by the means provided in this Section VII shall be divulged by the plaintiff to any person other than a duly authorized representative of the Executive Branch of the United States, except in the course of legal proceedings to which the United States is a party, or for the purpose of securing compliance with this Final Judgment, or as otherwise required by law. VIII Term This Final Judgment shall expire five (5) years from the date of entry. IX Opportunity to Modify (A) If, subsequent to the entry of this Final Judgment, a stipulated final judgment in this matter incorporating different items is filed with respect to another hospital defendant, or if this Final Judgment or a subsequently filed stipulated final judgment with respect to a hospital defendant in this matter is modified to include different terms, any hospital defendant, in its sole discretion, may move this Court to substitute such different terms. (B) Any hospital defendant may move the Court to apply this Final Judgment in lieu of any other stipulated final judgment in this matter, for any other hospital that hospital defendant, or its parent, acquires. In addition, any hospital defendant shall move this Court to apply this Final Judgment to any other hospital that it or its parent acquires against which a complaint in this matter is outstanding, in full settlement of the pending litigation. Either Motion must be made within thirty (30) days of the acquisition. (C) The plaintiff will support any motion made in accordance with this Section. X Public Interest Entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest. Dated: United States District Judge.
