FR940826-2-00089 FR940826-2-00055 V Procedures Available For Modification Of The Proposed Final Judgment As provided by the APPA, any person believing that the proposed Final Judgment should be modified may submit written comments within the sixty (60) day period from the date of publication in the Federal Register to Richard Liebeskind, Assistant Chief, Communications and Finance Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 555 Fourth Street, NW., Room 8104, Washington, DC 20001. These comments, and the Department's responses, will be filed with the Court and published in the Federal Register . All comments will be given due consideration by the Department of Justice, which remains free to withdraw its consent at any time prior to final entry. The proposed Final Judgment provides that the Court retains jurisdiction over these actions, and any party may apply to the Court for any order necessary or appropriate for their modification, interpretation or enforcement. VI Alternatives To The Proposed Final Judgment As an alternative to the proposed Final Judgment, the United States considered litigation to seek an injunction to prevent the proposed merger between AT&T and McCaw. The United States rejected that alternative because the relief in the proposed Final Judgment should prevent the possible occurrence of conduct the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition in the relevant geographic markets for cellular service, wireless infrastructure equipment and interexchange service to cellular customers. The equal access provisions imposed by the proposed Final Judgment will open McCaw's cellular systems to competition among interexchange carriers. Because the United States believes that the proposed Final Judgment adequately protects against possible anticompetitive effects that might flow from the proposed merger, seeking to enjoin the merger could only serve to prevent the achievement of economic efficiencies and other potential procompetitive effects that might result from the merger of AT&T and McCaw. VII Standard For Review Under The Tunney Act For Proposed Final Judgment The APPA requires that proposed consent judgments in antitrust cases brought by the United States are subject to a sixty-day comment period, after which the court shall determine whether entry of the proposed final judgment ``is in the public interest.'' In making that determination, the court may consider_ (1) The competitive impact of such judgment, including termination of alleged violations, provisions for enforcement and modification, duration or relief sought, anticipated effects of alternative remedies actually considered, and any other considerations bearing upon the adequacy of such judgment; (2) The impact of entry of such judgment upon the public generally and individuals alleging specific injury from the violations set forth in the complaint including consideration of the public benefit, if any, to be derived from a determination of the issues at trial.
