FR940803-1-00073 FR940803-1-00014 The Act and implementing regulations found at 50 CFR 17.21 for endangered species, and 17.21 and 17.31 for threatened species set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all endangered and threatened wildlife. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal for any person subject to jurisdiction of the United States to take (includes harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, or collect; or attempt any of these), import or export, ship in interstate commerce in the course of commercial activity, or sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce any listed species. It also is illegal to possess, sell, deliver, carry, transport, or ship any such wildlife that has been taken illegally. Certain exceptions apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies. Permits may be issued to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving endangered or threatened wildlife species under certain circumstances. Regulations governing permits are at 50 CFR 17.22, 17.23, and 17.32. Such permits are available for scientific purposes, to enhance the propagation or survival of the species, and/or for incidental take in connection with otherwise lawful activities. For threatened species, there are also permits for zoological exhibition, educational purposes, or special purposes consistent with the purpose of the Act. In some instances, permits may be issued for a specified time to relieve undue economic hardship that would be suffered if such relief were not available. However, since none of the species in this proposal are currently in active trade, no such permits are expected. Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from these proposals will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning these proposed rules are hereby solicited. Comments particularly are sought concerning: (1) Biological, commercial trade, or other relevant data concerning any threat (or lack thereof) to the species; (2) The location of any additional populations of the species and the reasons why any habitat should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act; (3) Additional information concerning the range, distribution, and population size of the species; and (4) Current or planned activities in the subject areas and their possible impacts on the species. Final promulgation of the regulations on these species will take into consideration the comments and any additional information received by the Service, and such communication may lead to final regulations that differ from this proposal. The Act provides for a public hearing on this proposal, if requested. Requests must be received within 45 days of the date of publication of this proposal. Such requests must be made in writing and should be addressed to the Field Supervisor (see ADDRESSES section). National Environmental Policy Act The Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that an Environmental Assessment, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). References Cited A complete list of all references cited herein, as well as others, is available upon request from the Field Supervisor (see ADDRESSES section). Author The primary author of this proposed rule is Robert S. Butler, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Jacksonville Field Office, 6620 Southpoint Drive South, Suite 310, Jacksonville, Florida 32216 (904/232&hyph;2580). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Transportation.
