FR941021-0-00048 FR941021-0-00006 Internal Revenue Service 26 CFR Part 301 [TD 8568] RIN 1545&hyph;AN46 Property Exempt From Levy AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Final regulations. SUMMARY: This document contains final regulations regarding property exempt from levy. These regulations reflect changes made by the Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988 (TAMRA) and other public laws to section 6334 concerning the determination of property exempt from levy. The regulations affect taxpayers whose wages, salary, or other income are the subject of a levy by the Internal Revenue Service. DATES: These regulations are effective October 21, 1994. These regulations apply to levies made on or after July 1, 1989. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jerome D. Sekula, 202&hyph;622&hyph;3640 (not a toll-free call). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background This document contains final regulations amending the Procedure and Administration Regulations (26 CFR part 301) under section 6334 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code). The regulations reflect the amendment of section 6334 by sections 1015(o) and 6236(c) of the Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988, Public Law. 100&hyph;647, as well as the Tax Reform Act of 1986, Public Law 99&hyph;514, the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, Public Law 97&hyph;248, and the Tax Reform Act of 1976, Public Law 94&hyph;455, which had not previously been reflected in the regulations. On May 27, 1992, a notice of proposed rulemaking relating to property exempt from levy was published in the Federal Register (57 FR 22189). Written comments responding to this notice were received. No public hearing was requested or held. After consideration of all the comments, the proposed regulations under section 6334 are adopted as revised by this Treasury decision. Explanation of Revisions and Summary of Comments One commentator suggested that the final regulations provide that all retirement plans be exempt from levy, not only those plans enumerated in section 6334 of the Code. This suggestion is not adopted. Congress has specifically provided that certain property is exempt from levy. In fact, section 6334(c) provides that no property is exempt from levy other than property specifically enumerated in the Code. The proposed regulations provide that where an individual is paid or receives wages, salary, or other income on a one- time basis, the exempt amount is computed as if the taxpayer had been paid for the one-week period ending on the day of payment. One commentator raised questions concerning the application of this ``one time basis'' rule where an individual was paid on a recurrent, but irregular, basis. Another commentator questioned whether the proposed rule is a correct interpretation of section 6334(d)(3). This commentator argued that under section 6334(d)(3) the exemption amount should be calculated using the total time period over which the wages, salary, or other income was earned. The proposed regulations have been revised to address the concerns of these commentators. Under the final regulations, when taxpayers are paid on a one-time basis or are paid on a recurrent, but irregular, basis which does not comport with an established calendar period regularly used by the employer or other person being levied upon, taxpayers are entitled to the exempt amount for each week to which the payment received is attributable. One commentator raised a concern regarding levies that span more than one calendar year where the standard deduction or the amount of the personal exemption changes by operation of law (such as by indexing or otherwise). Under the proposed regulations, the exempt amount remains the same in the second year. The commentator stated that this could cause hardship for employers with automated payroll systems because those employers might have to maintain separate, manual accounts for those employees who had been levied upon in a preceding year. The commentator suggested that employers should be required to calculate and use the new exempt amount when a change in the standard deduction amount or personal exemption amount occurs by operation of law. While the suggested change might be beneficial to some employers, the Service and Treasury are concerned that it could result in a hardship to other employers (particulary smaller employers) who would be required to reexamine the statement of each employee who files for exemption and recompute a new exempt amount each time a change in the law occurs. In order to accommodate these conflicting concerns, under the final regulations a taxpayer may submit a new verified statement to his or her employer to claim a new exempt amount based on law changes effective in the year in which the claim is filed. This permits a taxpayer to claim an additional exempt amount but avoids burdening businesses with the requirement to reexamine the statement of each employee who files for exemption and automatically recompute a new exempt amount based on law changes alone. However, employers who wish to use the new exempt amount can request that their employees submit new verified statements in order to recompute new exempt amounts based on the changes in the law.
