FR940503-0-00014 FR940503-0-00003 Based on the reasons described above, the OTS has determined to amend its conversion regulations to limit merger conversions to supervisory cases. As noted earlier, merger conversions may serve a useful purpose in those cases where a savings association is unable to convert on a stand alone basis because of its weak financial condition. While eliminating the authority for nonsupervisory merger conversions in the interim final rule, the OTS is soliciting comment as to whether merger conversions involving healthy savings associations should be permitted in the future, and if so, under what circumstances. In particular, the OTS is interested in receiving comments on how merger conversions could be structured to avoid the problems discussed above, including the problems associated with valuation issues. H. Extension of the Conversion Public Comment Period Section 563b.4(b)(1) requires a conversion applicant to publish, in writing, a notice of the filing of an application. Pursuant to the rule, written comments, including objections to the plan of conversion and materials supporting the objections, from any member of the applicant or aggrieved person will be considered by the OTS if filed within ten business days after the date of this notice. Failure to provide the written comments within the ten day period may preclude the pursuit of any administrative or judicial remedies. Depositors of converting associations and community groups have become increasingly interested in expressing their views on proposed conversions, usually through the public comment process. In this regard, the current ten day comment period may not be sufficient time for interested parties to review and comment on a detailed conversion application. Thus, the OTS is revising ยง563b.4(b)(1) to conform the public comment period in the conversion regulations with the longer twenty calendar day public comment period provided under the acquisition of control regulations. 18 The revision also would permit the OTS, in its discretion and upon written request, to extend the twenty day comment period for an additional twenty days. The OTS believes that this revision will give interested parties a more meaningful opportunity to express their views on a proposed conversion transaction. In so doing, the OTS does not believe this requirement will impose an undue burden, since most converting associations undertake holding company conversions, i.e., where a holding company is being formed in the transaction, and are subject to the time periods under the acquisition of control regulations. 18 12 CFR part 574. I. Submission of Business Plans for All Conversion Transactions The OTS conversion regulations do not require business plans in standard mutual to stock conversion transactions. The OTS acquisition of control regulations, however, do require a consolidated business plan conforming to the requirements set by the Regional Director to be included in holding company conversions. 19 Because most converting associations also form a holding company at the time of the conversion, most converting associations currently file a business plan. 19 12 CFR 574.6(a)(1)(ix). The OTS believes that all converting associations should be required to demonstrate how they will prudently deploy and utilize the conversion proceeds. Therefore, the exhibits portion of the conversion application form, Form AC, is being amended to require a new Exhibit 8, a consolidated business plan subject to approval by the Regional Director. Also, in response to the OTS's experience that a number of associations have recently submitted business plans that do not adequately address the deployment of conversion proceeds, the new Exhibit 8 includes a requirement that each converting association provide, as part of the business plan submitted with the application for conversion, a detailed discussion of how the capital acquired in the conversion will be utilized. If the plan is to be treated confidentially, the applicant should follow the procedures set forth at ยง563b.4(c). J. Revision to Post-Conversion Stock Repurchase Rules The capital distributions regulation 20 and ยง563b.3(g)(3) of the conversion regulations provide that a well capitalized converted association can repurchase its capital stock, within certain limits and restrictions, by filing with the Regional Director an open-market stock repurchase program for no more than 5% of the association's outstanding capital stock during a six month period. This provision is in essence a safe harbor, provided an institution is well capitalized. 21 Section 563b.3(g)(3) also provides that OTS may object to proposed repurchases fitting within the safe harbor if the repurchases would adversely affect the financial condition of the thrift. 22 Provided the safe harbor is met, a converted association can, under current rules, buy back up to 30% of the stock sold in the conversion within three years of conversion. 20 12 CFR 563.134. 21 12 CFR 563.134(b). 22 12 CFR 563b.3(g)(3)(iii)(A). The agency's experience has been that many associations begin substantial buyback programs immediately following their conversions. While OTS believes that stock repurchase programs may serve valid business purposes, e.g ., maintaining the value of a converting institution's stock in an active trading market, the OTS has concerns that substantial buyback programs begun immediately after conversion may not have a valid business purpose. In addition, repurchases begun immediately after conversion raise substantial issues regarding whether conversion stock has been appropriately valued.
