FR940112-2-00146 FR940112-2-00100 (a) Reasonableness of the budget, both in income and expenses. (b) Strength of commitment of the proposer's cost share. (c) Effectiveness of management plans for control of the budget. (d) Appropriateness of matching contributions. (e) Plan for maintaining the program after the cooperative agreement has expired. 6. Management (10 points): Applicants should specify plans for proper organization, staffing, and management of the implementation process. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Appropriateness and authority of the governing or managing organization to conduct the proposed inter-state or multi-state activities. (b) Qualifications of the project team and its leadership to conduct the proposed activity. (c) Soundness of staffing plans, including recruitment, selection, training, and continuing professional development. (d) Appropriateness of the organizational approach for carrying out the proposed activity. (e) Evidence of significant involvement and support by private industry. Selection Procedures The Director of NIST will appoint an impartial evaluation panel to review and evaluate all qualified proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria and values set forth in this notice. From the qualified proposals a group of finalists will be selected based on this review. This review process should take approximately 30 days. The Director of NIST, or her designee, shall select awardees based on the rank order of total evaluation scores, geographic distribution, and the availability of funds. Eligibility Eligible applicants for these projects will be state and local governments, representing either themselves or a consortium of states, and appropriate private or public non-profit organizations, operating on behalf of a consortium of states or as a representative of states. Applicants will be able to propose providing services directly or arranging for the provision of any or all of the proposed services by a second party. At least one state represented in the partnership or consortium must be characterized by relatively sparse distribution of industry or as having lower industrial densities. Financial Information A matching contribution from each applicant will be required. NIST may provide financial support up to 50% of the total budget for the project, however, the federal share may not exceed $250,000. The applicant's share of the budget may include dollar contributions from state, county, industrial or other non-federal sources and in-kind contributions necessary and reasonable for proper accomplishment of project objectives. Additional Requirements Federal Policies and Procedures Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all Federal laws and Federal and DOC policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards.
