FR940606-2-00085 FR940606-2-00058 The same Exchange rules which are applicable to the trading of full-value Index LEAPS on the Indexes will be applicable to the trading of reduced-value Index LEAPS on the Indexes. For example, both full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS may expire from 12 to 36 months from the date of issuance, and there may be up to six expiration months beyond one year to expiration. Moreover, full-value or reduced-value Index LEAPS on either Index may be issued at six month intervals and new strike prices will either be near or bracketing the current value of each Index. Strike price interval, bid/ask differential, and continuity rules will not apply to the trading of the full-value or reduced-value Index LEAPS on the Indexes until their time to expiration is less than 12 months. 13 Lastly, Index LEAPS series on each Index may be added when the value of the underlying Index increases or decreases by ten to fifteen percent. 14 13 Id . 14 Id . F. Position and Exercise Limits, Margin Requirements, and Trading Halts Position limits for the options (including Index LEAPS) on the Growth and Value Indexes will be set at no more than 125,000 contracts on the same side of the market, provided that no more than 75,000 of such contracts are in series in the nearest expiration month, and further provided that options positions in the Indexes will be aggregated. 15 Exercise limits will be set at the same level as position limits. 16 For purposes of calculating applicable position and exercise limits, positions in reduced-value options on the Growth and Value Indexes will be aggregated with each other and with positions in the full-value Index options. For these purposes, ten reduced-value contracts will equal one full-value contract for purposes of aggregating these positions. Also, CBOE hedge exemption provisions will apply to options and Index LEAPS on both Indexes. 17 15 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 16 See CBOE Rule 24.5. 17 See CBOE Rule 24.4(a); Interpretation .01 to Rule 24.4; and Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. Exchange rules applicable to options on the Growth and Value Indexes will be identical to the rules applicable to other broad-based index options for purposes of trading rotations, halts, and suspensions, 18 and margin treatment. 19 18 See CBOE Rule 24.7. 19 See CBOE Rule 24.11. G. Surveillance The Exchange will use the same surveillance procedures currently utilized for each of the Exchange's other index options to monitor trading in Index options and Index LEAPS on the Growth and Value Indexes. These procedures include complete access to trading activity in the underlying securities. H. Disclaimer The CBOE has agreed with S&P to revise the disclaimer of liability on behalf of S&P that is currently in the Exchange's rules so that it covers Barra as well as S&P, and the growth Index and Value Index. The disclaimer would provide that S&P, Barra, and all of their affiliates do not make any warranties as to the results obtained from the Growth and Value Indexes, any opening, intra-day or closing value therefore, any related data, or any errors or delays in calculating or disseminating the value of either Index, in connection with the trading of option contracts based on the Indexes. 20 20 See CBOE Rule 24.14. III. Commission Findings and Conclusions The Commission has reviewed the proposal to list and trade options and full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS on the Growth and Value Indexes. As discussed below, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange. In particular, the Indexes are broad-based, the proposed options are designed to reduce the potential for manipulation, and the proposal to list and trade options and Index LEAPS on the Growth and Value Indexes is consistent with the CBOE's obligation to promote investor protection. 21 21 The CBOE is a member of the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG''), which was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, January 29, 1990. The members of the ISG are: the Amex; the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.; the CBOE; the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.; the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Because of potential opportunities for trading abuses involving stock index futures, stock options, and the underlying stock and the need for greater sharing of surveillance information for these potential intermarket trading abuses, the major stock index futures exchanges ( e.g. , the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade) joined the ISG as affiliate members in 1990. The Commission understands that the ISG Agreement, as amended, covers investigations and inquiries regarding trading activity in options on the Indexes and component securities of the Indexes.
