FR940105-2-00087 FR940105-2-00041 17. The applicant explains that the Contribution Obligation will be in effect when the Stock is sold in the future. According to the applicant, if the Stock is sold at a loss, any transaction costs would be accounted for by the Contribution Obligation which would require Tenneco to contribute an amount equal to the number of shares sold, multiplied by the difference between the realized net price and the Lowest Price (see paragraph 5 in the Notice of Proposed Exemption). If the Stock is sold at a gain, the GEBT would bear the transaction costs. The applicant represents that it is customary for pension plans to bear such transaction costs in similar circumstances. Only one of the interested persons who commented on the proposed exemption requested a public hearing, although several others indicated that they wished to be notified if a hearing was scheduled. The Department has considered the concerns expressed by the commentators and the applicant's written responses addressing such concerns, and, on the basis of the materials provided, has determined not to hold a public hearing. Furthermore, after giving full consideration to the entire record, including the written comments and the responses thereto, the Department has decided to grant the exemption. Finally, the applicant has informed the Department that it intends to enter into the transaction on December 29, 1993, and requests that the exemption be made effective as of that date. The Department concurs with this suggested modification. For a more complete statement of the facts and representations supporting the Department's decision to grant this exemption refer to the Notice of Proposed Exemption published on November 15, 1993, at 58 FR 60217. EFFECTIVE DATE: This exemption is effective December 29, 1993. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Virginia J. Miller of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8971. (This is not a toll-free number.) Lakeshore Foods Corp. Retirement Savings Plan (the Plan) Located in Michigan City, Indiana [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;2; Exemption Application No. D&hyph;9441] Exemption The restrictions of sections 406(a), 406(b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1)(A) of through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to (1) past and proposed interest-free loans to the Plan (the Loans) by Lakeshore Foods Corporation, the sponsor of the Plan, with respect to guaranteed investment contracts number C90816 and number C91096 (the GICs) issued by Inter-American Insurance Company of Illinois (Inter-American); and (2) the Plan's potential repayment of the Loans (the Repayments); provided that the following conditions are satisfied: (A) No interest and/or expenses are paid by the Plan; (B) The Loans are made to reimburse the Plan for amounts invested with Inter-American under the terms of the GICs; (C) The Repayments are restricted to cash proceeds paid to the Plan (the GIC Proceeds) by Inter-American and/or any other responsible third party with respect to the GICs, and no other Plan assets are used to make the Repayments;
