FR940711-2-00181 FR940711-2-00073 IV. Corrections to Deficient Applications To be eligible for processing, an application must be received by the appropriate HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office no later than the date and time specified in Section II of this NOFA. The HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office will initially screen all applications and notify HAs of technical deficiencies by letter. If an application has technical deficiencies, the HA will have 14 calendar days from the date of the issuance of written notification to submit the missing or corrected information to the HUD State or Area Office and/or Native American Programs Office. Curable technical deficiencies relate only to items that do not improve the substantive quality of the application relative to the rating factors. All HAs must submit corrections within 14 calendar days from the date of HUD's letter notifying the applicant of any such deficiency. Information received after 3 p.m. local time (i.e., the time in the appropriate HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office), of the fourteenth calendar day of the correction period will not be accepted and the application will be rejected as incomplete. All HAs are encouraged to review the initial screening checklist provided in Section III of this notice. The checklist identifies all technical requirements needed for application processing. An HA application that does not comply with the requirements of 24 CFR 882.204(a) or 887.55(b) and this notice, including the drug-free workplace certification and the anti-lobbying certification/disclosure requirements, after the expiration of the 14-day cure period will be rejected from processing. V. Other Matters A. Environmental Impact A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment has been made in accordance with the Department's regulations at 24 CFR Part 50, which implement section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332). The Finding is available for public inspection between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. weekdays in the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of General Counsel, Department of Housing and Urban Development, room 10276, 451 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, D.C. 20410. B. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies contained in this notice will not have substantial direct effects on states or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the federal government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. As a result, the notice is not subject to review under the Order. This notice is a funding notice and does not substantially alter the established roles of the Department, the States, and local governments, including HAs. C. Impact on the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that this notice does not have potential for significant impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being within the meaning of the Executive Order and, thus, is not subject to review under the Order. This is a funding notice and does not alter program requirements concerning family eligibility. D. Section 102 of the HUD Reform Act: Documentation and Public Access Requirements. HUD Responsibilities HUD will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in its quarterly Federal Register notice of all recipients of HUD assistance awarded on a competitive basis. (See 24 CFR 12.14(a) and 12.16(b), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these requirements.) E. Section 103 of the HUD Reform Act HUD's regulation implementing section 103 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3537a) (Reform Act) was published on May 13, 1991 (56 FR 22088), and became effective on June 12, 1991. That regulation, codified as 24 CFR part 4, applies to the funding competition announced today. The requirements of the rule continue to apply until the announcement of the selection of successful applicants. HUD employees involved in the review of applications and in the making of funding decisions are restrained by part 4 from providing advance information to any person (other than an authorized employee of HUD) concerning funding decisions, or from otherwise giving any applicant an unfair competitive advantage. Persons who apply for assistance in this competition should confine their inquiries to the subject areas permitted under 24 CFR part 4. Applicants who have questions should contact the HUD Office of Ethics (202) 708&hyph;3815 (TDD/Voice). (This is not a toll-free number.) The Office of Ethics can provide information of a general nature to HUD employees, as well. However, a HUD employee who has specific program questions, such as whether particular subject matter can be discussed with persons outside the Department, should contact his or her HUD State or Area Office Counsel, or Headquarters counsel for the program to which the question pertains. F. Prohibition Against Lobbying Activities The use of funds awarded under this NOFA is subject to the disclosure requirements and prohibitions of section 319 of the Department of Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (31 U.S.C. 1352) (the ``Byrd Amendment'') and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 87. These authorities prohibit recipients of Federal contracts, grants, or loans from using appropriated funds for lobbying the Executive or Legislative Branches of the Federal Government in connection with specific contract, grant, or loan. The prohibition also covers the awarding of contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans unless the recipient has made an acceptable certification regarding lobbying. Under 24 CFR part 87, applicants, recipients, and subrecipients of assistance exceeding $100,000 must certify that no Federal funds have been or will be spent on lobbying activities in connection with the assistance. IHAs established by an Indian tribe as a result of the exercise of the tribe's sovereign power are excluded from coverage of the Byrd Amendment, but IHAs established under State law are not excluded from the statute's coverage. G. Section 112 of the Reform Act Section 112 of the HUD Reform Act added a new section 13 to the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3537b). Section 13 contains two provisions dealing with efforts to influence HUD's decisions with respect to financial assistance. The first imposes disclosure requirements on those who are typically involved in these efforts_those who pay others to influence the award of assistance or the taking of a management action by the Department and those who are paid to provide the influence. The second restricts the payment of fees to those who are paid to influence the award of HUD assistance, if the fees are tied to the number of housing units received or are based on the amount of assistance received, or if they are contingent upon the receipt of assistance.
