FR940812-0-00074 FR940812-0-00019 (i) Procurement by noncompetitive proposals may be used only when the award of a contract is infeasible under small purchase procedures, sealed bids or competitive proposals and one of the following circumstances applies: (A) The item is available only from a single source; (B) The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not permit a delay resulting from competitive solicitation; (C) The awarding agency authorizes noncompetitive proposals; or (D) After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined inadequate. (ii) Cost analysis, i.e., verifying the proposed cost data, the projections of the data, and the evaluation of the specific elements of costs and profit, is required. (iii) Grantees and subgrantees may be required to submit the proposed procurement to the awarding agency for pre-award review in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. (e) Contracting with small and minority firms, women's business enterprise and labor surplus area firms. (1) The grantee and subgrantee will take all necessary affirmative steps to assure that minority firms, women's business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms are used when possible. (2) Affirmative steps shall include: (i) Placing qualified small and minority businesses and women's business enterprises on solicitation lists; (ii) Assuring that small and minority businesses, and women's business enterprises are solicited whenever they are potential sources; (iii) Dividing total requirements, when economically feasible, into smaller tasks or quantities to permit maximum participation by small and minority business, and women's business enterprises; (iv) Establishing delivery schedules, where the requirement permits, which encourage participation by small and minority business, and women's business enterprises; (v) Using the services and assistance of the Small Business Administration, and the Minority Business Development Agency of the Department of Commerce; and (vi) Requiring the prime contractor, if subcontracts are to be let, to take the affirmative steps listed in paragraphs (e)(2) (i) through (v) of this section. (f) Contract cost and price. (1) Grantees and subgrantees must perform a cost or price analysis in connection with every procurement action including contract modifications. The method and degree of analysis is dependent on the facts surrounding the particular procurement situation, but as a starting point, grantees must make independent estimates before receiving bids or proposals. A cost analysis must be performed when the offeror is required to submit the elements of his estimated cost, e.g., under professional, consulting, and architectural engineering services contracts. A cost analysis will be necessary when adequate price competition is lacking, and for sole source procurements, including contract modifications or change orders, unless price reasonableness can be established on the basis of a catalog or market price of a commercial product sold in substantial quantities to the general public or based on prices set by law or regulation. A price analysis will be used in all other instances to determine the reasonableness of the proposed contract price. (2) Grantees and subgrantees will negotiate profit as a separate element of the price for each contract in which there is no price competition and in all cases where cost analysis is performed. To establish a fair and reasonable profit, consideration will be given to the complexity of the work to be performed, the risk borne by the contractor, the contractor's investment, the amount of subcontracting, the quality of its record of past performance, and industry profit rates in the surrounding geographical area for similar work. (3) Costs or prices based on estimated costs for contracts under grants will be allowable only to the extent that costs incurred or cost estimates included in negotiated prices are consistent with Federal cost principles (see ยง2541.220). Grantees may reference their own cost principles that comply with the applicable Federal cost principles. (4) The cost plus a percentage of cost and percentage of construction cost methods of contracting shall not be used. (g) Awarding agency review. (1) Grantees and subgrantees must make available, upon request of the awarding agency, technical specifications on proposed procurements where the awarding agency believes such review is needed to ensure that the item and/or service specified is the one being proposed for purchase. This review generally will take place prior to the time the specification is incorporated into a solicitation document. However, if the grantee or subgrantee desires to have the review accomplished after a solicitation has been developed, the awarding agency may still review the specifications, with such review usually limited to the technical aspects of the proposed purchase. (2) Grantees and subgrantees must on request make available for awarding agency pre-award review procurement documents, such as requests for proposals or invitations for bids, independent cost estimates, etc., when_ (i) A grantee's or subgrantee's procurement procedures or operation fails to comply with the procurement standards in this section; or (ii) The procurement is expected to exceed $25,000 and is to be awarded without competition or only one bid or offer is received in response to a solicitation; or (iii) The procurement, which is expected to exceed $25,000, specifies a ``brand name'' product; or (iv) The proposed award over $25,000 is to be awarded to other than the apparent low bidder under a sealed bid procurement; or (v) A proposed contract modification changes the scope of a contract or increases the contract amount by more than $25,000.
