FR940830-2-00119 FR940830-2-00057 July 11, 1994. By Telecopy and Courier Richard Rosen, Esq., Chief, Communications and Finance Section, Room 8104, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, 555 Fourth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001. Richard Liebeskind, Esq., Assistant Chief, Communications and Finance Section, Room 8104, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, 555 Fourth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001. Re: Comments of Money Station, Inc. on Proposed Final Judgment in United States v. Electronic Payment Services, Inc., Civ. No. 94&hyph;208, D. Del. Gentlemen: Money Station, Inc. (Money Station) submits this comment pursuant to 15 U.S.C. Sections 16(b), (d), on the proposed Final Judgment in United States vs. Electronic Payment Services, Inc. published on May 12, 1994, at 59 Fed. Reg. 24711 et seq. According to the Competitive Impact Statement published along with the proposed Final Judgment, Electronic Payment Services, Inc. (EPS) has maintained a ``tying arrangement that is per se unlawful'' by foreclosing independent third-party ATM processors (id. at 24718) as ``has maintained a monopoly in regional ATM network access'' ( id. ) in numerous states, including ``substantial portions of the state of Ohio'' ( id ). The proposed Final Judgment is intended to advance the public interest in both a direct and an indirect way. The intended direct benefit is to increase competition in the market for ATM processing services by eliminating the tying arrangement. The intended indirect benefit is to increase competition in the market for regional ATM access by making it possible for banks to join multiple ATM networks through third-party ATM processors. Money Station operates an ATM network principally located in Ohio, but which also has participants located in Kentucky, Indiana and West Virginia (where EPS is also alleged to have monopoly power) with ATM machines that bear the Money Station trademark and are linked to the Money Station network. Money Station represents exactly the kind of potential and actual competition that the Government looks to as a means of making the market for regional ATM access more competitive in the geographic areas where MAC is currently the ubiquitous network with market power. Consequently, Money Station has reviewed the proposed Final Judgment carefully. Money Station agrees with the Government that elimination of the tying arrangement, if effectively implemented, will open up competition for ATM processing services. Money Station, however, has far less confidence that competition in ATM processing services can overcome the ``collective action program,'' referred to in the Competitive Impact Statement, in the market for regional ATM access. ( Id. at 24720.) There are genuine economic costs associated with joining more than one regional network ( e.g., card issuance costs, signage costs). Unless multiple banks act simultaneously to join one or more competing networks in addition to the ubiquitous network, no benefits can accrue to the individual bank that joins one or more such competing networks. In other words, no bank will incur the costs to join network B in addition to the ubiquitous network A unless network B provides sufficient ATMs and cards that the bank's transaction volume flowing through network B generates enough income (or savings) to justify the costs associated with joining network B. That transaction volume depends on the actions of other banks. This ``collective action'' problem is exacerbated if the ubiquitous network with market power is able to establish any disincentives (whether technical or economic) against joining other networks. Nevertheless, Money Station recognizes that elimination of the tying arrangement challenged in the complaint in this case, if effectively implemented, does open up competition for ATM processing services and is thus in the public interest. Money Station further recognizes that elimination of the tying arrangement, again if effectively implemented, is a necessary first step, even if not a totally sufficient step, in opening up the market for regional ATM access and so, again, is in the public interest. Money Station therefore supports the proposed Final Judgment as a general matter. To ensure, however, the effectiveness of the proposed Final Judgment, Money Station recommends that several issues be addressed before the proposed Final Judgment is approved.
