FR940721-2-00171 FR940721-2-00086 •Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit proposals addressing environmental regulatory enhancement and Native American languages preservation and enhancement under the issue-specific competitive areas described in this announcement. •For purposes of this announcement, ANA is using the Bureau of Indian Affairs' list of federally recognized Indian Tribes which includes nonprofit Alaska Native community entities or tribal governing bodies (IRA or traditional councils). •The Administration for Native Americans will accept only one application, per competitive area, from any one applicant. If an eligible applicant sends in two applications for the same competitive area, the one with the earlier postmark will be accepted for review unless the applicant withdraws the earlier application. •An application from a federally recognized Tribe, Alaska Native Village or Native American organization must be from the governing body of the Tribe or organization. •Under each competitive area, ANA will only accept one application which serves or impacts a reservation. If a Tribe chooses not to submit an application under a specific competitive area, it may support another applicant's project (e.g., a tribal organization) which serves or impacts the reservation. In this case, the applicant must include a tribal resolution which clearly demonstrates the Tribe's support of the project and the Tribe's understanding that the other applicant's project supplants the Tribe's authority to submit an application under that specific competitive area for the duration of the approved grant period. •The application's Form 424 must be signed by the applicant's representative authorized to act with full authority on behalf of the applicant. •The Administration for Native Americans recommends that the pages of the application be numbered sequentially and that a table of contents be provided. Simple tabbing of the sections of the application is also helpful to the reviewers. •Two copies of the application plus the original are required. •The Cover Page (included in the Kit) should be the first page of an application, followed by the one-page abstract. •The Approach page (Section B of the ANA Program Narrative) for each Objective Work Plan proposed should be of sufficient detail to become a monthly staff guide for project responsibilities if the applicant is funded. •The applicant should specify the entire project period length on the first page of the Form 424, Block 13, not the length of the first budget period. Should the application's contents propose one length of project period and the Form 424 specify a conflicting length of project period, ANA will consider the project period specified on the Form 424 as governing. •Line 15a of the 424 must specify the Federal funds requested for the first Budget Period, not the entire project period. •If a profit-making venture is being proposed, profits must be reinvested in the business in order to decrease or eliminate ANA's future participation. Such revenue must be reported as general program income. A decision will be made at the time of grant award regarding appropriate use of program income. (See 45 CFR Part 74 and Part 92.) •Applicants may propose a 17 month project period. However, the project period for the first year of a multi-year project may only be 12 months. •Applicants proposing multi-year projects must fully describe each year's project objectives and activities. Separate Objective Work Plans (OWPs) must be presented for each project year and a separate itemized budget of the Federal and non-Federal costs of the project for each budget period must be included. •Applicants for multi-year projects must justify the entire time-frame of the project (i.e., why the project needs funding for more than one year) and clearly describe the results to be achieved for each objective by the end of each budget period of the total project period. •The Administration for Native Americans will critically evaluate applications in which the acquisition of major capital equipment (i.e., oil rigs, agricultural equipment, etc.) is a major component of the Federal share of the budget. During negotiation, such expenditures may be deleted from the budget of an otherwise approved application, if not fully justified by the applicant and not deemed appropriate to the needs of the project by ANA. 3. Projects or Activities That Generally Will Not Meet the Purposes of This Announcement •Projects in which a grantee would provide training and/or technical assistance (T/TA) to other tribes or Native American organizations which are otherwise eligible to apply to ANA (``third party T/TA''). However, the purchase of T/TA by a grantee for its own use or for its members' use (as in the case of a consortium), where T/TA is necessary to carry out project objectives, is acceptable. In addition, T/TA is an allowable activity for environmental regulatory enhancement projects submitted under Competitive Area 3, and Native American languages projects submitted under Competitive Area 4. •Projects that request funds for feasibility studies, business plans, marketing plans or written materials, such as manuals, that are not an essential part of the applicant's long-range development plan. As an objective of a larger project, business plans are allowable. However, ANA is not interested in funding ``wish lists'' of business possibilities. ANA expects written evidence of the solid investment of time and consideration on the part of the applicant with regard to the development of business plans. Business plans should be developed based on market analysis and feasibility studies regarding the potential success to the business prior to the submission of the application. •The support of on-going social service delivery programs or the expansion, or continuation, of existing social service delivery programs. •Core administration functions, or other activities, which essentially support only the applicant's on-going administrative functions. However, under Competitive Area 2, ANA will consider funding core administrative capacity building projects at the village government level if the village does not have governing systems in place. •Project goals which are not responsive to one or more of the funding competitive areas.
