FR940919-0-00112 FR940919-0-00016 The basic approach involves the following steps (which are elaborated upon in the RIA background document, which has been placed in the docket for today's rule). (1) The Agency employed waste concentration data from the TC Survey to represent waste concentrations. (2) EPA calculated the mean concentration of each constituent at each facility, weighted across the volume of all TC wastes managed at that facility. (3) EPA calculated the risk that would be posed by consumption of leachate, for both cancer and non-cancer effects, at each facility. (4) EPA developed a set of dilution/attenuation factors (DAF) to represent the effect of fate and transport processes in a homogeneous ground-water system. For each facility, the Agency divided the risk posed by the consumption of leachate by the DAF (expressed as a probability distribution) to yield the risk posed by predicted concentrations in water from hypothetical exposure wells. (5) EPA then summed the predicted risks across all facilities to develop an estimate of the distribution of individual risk at facilities managing untreated TC wastes. In addition, the Agency simulated the post-regulatory scenario, and summed the predicted risks across facilities, and developed the incremental risk reduction attributable to today's rule. (6) EPA subsequently developed an estimate of the potential incremental population risk using 1990 population estimates around each site. The Agency used standard assumptions for body weight (70 kg) and water intake (2 liters per day) for 9 years. v. Human Health Risk Reduction_Air Pathway Constituents contained in TC waste, soil, and debris may be emitted to air through volatilization and dust entrainment. Reducing the concentrations of TC constituents through the treatment standards set in today's rule reduces the potential for air emissions, and the risks posed by those air emissions. The goal of the air pathway risk analysis was to characterize baseline (pre-LDR) risk and the reduction in baseline risk resulting from regulatory requirements in today's rule. The Agency's basic approach for the air pathway risk analysis involves the following steps (which are elaborated upon in the RIA background document, which has been placed in the docket for today's rule). (1) EPA used bulk waste concentration data from the TC Survey to represent waste concentrations. (2) the Agency calculated the mean concentration of each constituent at each facility, weighted across the volume of all TC wastes managed at that facility. (3) EPA calculated the unit area managing TC wastes. (4) EPA estimated emissions due to volatilization and dust entrainment for each constituent at each facility. (5) The Agency evaluated the atmospheric transport for each constituent. EPA then estimated exposure concentrations at several downwind points corresponding to potential exposure locations. The Agency employed standard high-end assumptions of body weight (70 kg) and 70-year lifetime. (6) The Agency calculated individual cancer risk and non-cancer risk across the facilities, using the modeled exposure assumptions. (7) EPA calculated population risk for exposed populations. (8) The Agency then simulated the risk under the regulatory requirements in today's rule, and determined the incremental risk reduction. 2. Results Section a. Volume Results The Agency has estimated the volumes affected by today's rule. A total of 295,000 tons per year of organic TC wastes (D018&hyph;D043) are affected by today's rule; this volume includes 167,000 tons per year of nonwastewaters, 94,000 tons per year of hazardous soil, and 34,000 tons per year of hazardous debris. The volume estimates used in the capacity analysis differ, as described above, from those estimates employed in the regulatory analysis. See the regulatory analysis background document for a more detailed discussion of these differences. In addition, there are 30 tons per year of Chlorotoluene wastes affected by today's rule. The Agency also estimates that 9,760 tons per year of K069 waste will be affected as a result of the hazardous waste recycling exemption. b. Cost Results Exhibit XVI&hyph;1 summarizes the results of the cost analysis for today's final rule. In total, today's final rule would have an incremental annual cost of between $194 and $219 million. The lower bound cost estimate represents the effects of waste minimization compliance cost savings. In addition, there is a potential cost savings associated with the UTS standards and the hazardous waste recycling exemption of $2.1 million per year.
