FR940620-1-00033 FR940620-1-00007 On June 7, 1998 Congress amended 46 U.S.C. app. §316 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;329) to require towing vessels to be documented with a coastwise or Great Lakes endorsement, as appropriate. On November 4, 1992, Congress amended 46 U.S.C. app. §292 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;587) to require vessels of at least five net tons engaged in dredging in the navigable waters of the United States to be documented with a coastwise endorsement. Neither of these statutory requirements were included in the revision of Part 67. In order to state those requirements and to clarify the endorsement requirements for vessels employed in towing or dredging, the regulations need to be amended. This rulemaking proposes that amendment. Discussion of Proposed Amendments The Coast Guard proposes to revise paragraphs (a) and (b) of §67.19, which respectively describe a coastwide and Great Lakes endorsement, by adding the words ``, dredging, towing,'' in paragraph (a), and adding the words ``, towing in the Great Lakes,'' in paragraph (b). The revision to paragraph (a) reflects the requirement expressed in 46 U.S.C. app. §292 that vessels engaged in dredging in the navigable waters of the United States be documented with a coastwise endorsement. The revision to paragraph (b) reflects the requirement expressed in 46 U.S.C. app. §316 that vessels engaged in towing, other than in circumstances of distress, in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States be documented with an appropriate coastwide or Great Lakes endorsement. The Coast Guard proposes to revise several sections regarding citizenship requirements for vessel documentation. These revisions would reorder and set out the citizenship requirements for a partnership in a separate section; describe the citizenship requirements for a trust in detail to specify the requirements for each endorsement; set out the citizenship requirements for an association or joint venture in a separate section; and reorder the citizenship requirements for a corporation. None of the current citizenship requirements for these entities would be changed by the revisions. The proposed revision to §67.35 would set out the citizenship requirements for a partnership in a separate section and in a more logical order. Currently, §67.35 sets out the citizenship requirements for a partnership, association, or joint venture together. The partnership is frequently used as a vessel-owning business entity for documentation purposes and has citizenship requirements quite different from those of an association or joint venture. On the other hand, the citizenship requirements for an association or joint venture as a vessel-owning business entity for documentation purposes are the same. Setting forth the citizenship requirements for a partnership in a separate section would present them in a more appropriate format. None of the current citizenship requirements for a partnership would be changed. Section 67.37, which sets forth the citizenship requirements for trust arrangements as vessel-owning entities, would be redesignated as §67.36. In addition, the citizenship requirements for trust arrangements would be described in detail, like those for corporations and partnerships, to specify the requirements for the relevant endorsements. Paragraph (a) of proposed §67.36 would set forth the general requirements for a registry or recreational endorsement that each trustee and each beneficiary with an enforceable interest in the trust be citizens. This paragraph would simply restate the current regulatory requirements for trusts found in §67.37. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of proposed §67.36 would set forth the citizenship requirements for a fishery endorsement and a coastwise or Great Lakes endorsement, respectively. These requirements would reflect the statutory citizenship requirements for these endorsements applicable to any business entity owning a documented vessel. The owner citizenship requirements for a coastwise or Great Lakes endorsement may be found in §2 of the Shipping act, 1916 (46 U.S.C. app. §802) and 46 U.S.C. 12107, respectively, and the owner citizenship requirements for a fishery endorsement may be found in 46 U.S.C. 12108. The proposed regulatory requirements would reflect the Coast Guard's policy in enforcement of the statutory requirements. None of the current citizenship requirements for trusts would be changed.
