FR940707-2-00113 FR940707-2-00051 3. Establish an operational plan to include, but not be limited to: a. Achievement of goals. b. Identification of the target population and appropriate tobacco control strategies. c. Establishment of tobacco control as a high organizational priority and promotion of tobacco control initiatives, especially those directed at minorities, youth, women, and blue collar and/or agricultural workers. d. Facilitation of organizational policies and initiatives, within affiliates and/or other organizations serving target populations, aimed at decreasing tobacco use at the national, State, and local levels. e. Acquisition of technical advice, training, and assistance by: voluntary health agencies (such as the American Cancer Society, the American Lung Association, and the American Heart Association) and tobacco control organizations (such as Americans for NonSmokers Rights, Doctors Ought To Care, Stop Teenage Addiction To Tobacco, and the Advocacy Institute). f. Mobilization of existing national, State, and local alliances, networks, coalitions, and support systems to support initiatives. g. Participation in the CDC's Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) sponsored national tobacco control campaigns. h. Provision of strategic support to State and local affiliates. i. Development of procedures for the evaluation of performance in achieving goals and objectives. 4. Disseminate programmatic information to CDC and other interested recipients through appropriate methods, including: a. Identifying and submitting pertinent programmatic information for incorporation into an appropriate computerized database of health information and health promotion resources. b. Sharing information on electronic bulletin boards, such as SCARCNet. 5. Collaborate with CDC and other appropriate agencies in planning and participating in an annual conference, and two 2-day workshops in Atlanta, Georgia, for no more than two individuals. B. CDC Activities 1. Provide and periodically update information related to the purposes or activities of this program announcement. 2. Coordinate with national, State, and local health agencies and other relevant organizations in planning and conducting national strategies designed to strengthen programs for preventing tobacco use among youth, protecting nonsmokers, and creating a supportive environment for those who wish to quit tobacco use. 3. Provide programmatic consultation and guidance related to program planning, implementation, and evaluation; assessment of program objectives; and dissemination of successful strategies, experiences, and evaluation reports. 4. Plan meetings of national, State, and local partners, including training meetings, to address issues and program activities related to improving tobacco control programs. 5. Assist in the evaluation of program activities.
