FR940303-1-00028 FR940303-1-00008 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Public Health Service RIN 0905&hyph;AE13 42 CFR Part 57 Grants for Construction of Teaching Facilities, Educational Improvements, Scholarships, and Student Loans; Grants for Faculty Training Projects in Geriatric Medicine and Dentistry AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration, PHS, HHS. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This proposed regulation would revise the regulations governing the program for Grants for Faculty Training Projects in Geriatric Medicine and Dentistry authorized by section 777(b) of the Public Health Service Act (the Act), to implement amendments made by the Health Professions Extension Amendments of 1992 by: (1) Adding a definition for the term ``Geriatric psychiatry'' to implement the statutory requirement for the expansion of project support to include the training of physicians who plan to teach geriatric psychiatry; (2) adding a definition for the term ``Relevant advanced training or experience'' to implement the statutory requirement for dentists who are awarded a 2-year internal medicine or family medicine fellowship (Dentists must have completed postdoctoral dental training, including postdoctoral dental education programs or who have ``relevant advanced training or experience''.); and (3) removing a section in the regulations regarding the period of time for appointments to fellowships to allow for less restrictive requirements for those individuals who may benefit from further fellowship or retraining experience in a life time. Additionally, technical and ministerial revisions are being made to conform the existing regulations with the amendments made by the statute. DATES: As discussed below, comments are invited. To be considered, comments must be received by April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to Fitzhugh Mullan, M.D., Director, Bureau of Health Professions (BHPr), Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), room 8&hyph;05, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. All comments received will be available for public inspection and copying at the Office of Program Development, BHPr, room 8A&hyph;55, Parklawn Building, at the above address weekdays (Federal holidays excepted) between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Neil H. Sampson, Director, Division of Associated, Dental and Public Health Professions, Bureau of Health Professions, HRSA, room 8&hyph;101, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857; telephone: (301) 443&hyph;6853. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposed rule amends the existing regulations for Grants for Faculty Training Projects in Geriatric Medicine and Dentistry, authorized under section 777(b) of the Public Health Service Act (the Act) (42 U.S.C. 294o). The Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;408) amended and renumbered former section 789(b) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 295g&hyph;9(b)) to section 777(b). Section 777(b) of the Act, as amended, authorizes the Secretary to make grants to and enter into contracts with accredited schools of medicine, schools of osteopathic medicine, teaching hospitals, and graduate medical education programs, for the purpose of providing support (including traineeships and fellowships) for geriatric training projects to train physicians and dentists who plan to teach geriatric medicine, geriatric dentistry, or geriatric psychiatry. programs supported by these grants emphasize the principles of primary care as demonstrated through continuity, ambulatory, preventive, and psychosocial aspects of the practice of geriatric medicine, dentistry, and psychiatry.
