FR940822-2-00086 FR940822-2-00058 During the 1980s, over $150 billion of public limited partnership interests were sold to U.S. investors. 13 Sources have estimated that 11 million investors have purchased limited partnership interests, of which approximately eight million are small investors, with an average investment of about $10,000. 14 Limited partnership interests typically are risky and illiquid, due to the lack of an active trading market for such interests. 13 S. Rep. No. 121, 103d Cong., 1st Sess. 4 (1993) (``Senate Report'') citing testimony of James R. Doty, General Counsel, Commission, ``Concerning Limited Partnership Roll-Ups,'' before the Subcommittee on Energy and Agricultural Taxation, Committee on Finance, United States Senate, July 16, 1991, at 3. 14Senate Report, Supra No. 13, at 3. A. Structure of A Limited Partnership In the typical publicly-offered limited partnership, a sponsoring organization solicits funds from investors to use in the purchase of real estate, oil and gas facilities, high technology research, or other enterprises. The sponsor usually serves as the general partner and is required to manage the assets and fulfill any obligations to the investors imposed under the terms of the partnership agreement. The investors are the limited partners. A partnership agreement typically will provide for limited partners to receive periodic payments during the term of their investment, a return of their principal, and a specified return or profit and a portion of any additional proceeds upon the liquidation of the partnership assets. B. Reasons to Invest in a Limited Partnership Investors purchased limited partnerships for several reasons. Perhaps most important, in the case of real estate partnerships prior to the 1986 amendments to the Internal Revenue Code (''1986 Tax Act''), limited partnership investors enjoyed significant tax benefits. 15 Limited partnerships permitted small investors to participate in commercial and multi-family real estate, oil and gas facilities, and other investments previously limited to institutional or other large investors. 16 Investors in limited partnerships were promised that they would realize a return on their investment within a finite period of time. Investors also were promised that sponsors would not realize any return on partnership assets until investors received their share of the profits. 15 Id. at 5. 16 Id. C. Advantages for partnership sponsors Sponsors have a financial incentive to organize limited partnerships for at least two reasons. First, the sponsor/general partner expects to realize a profit on any appreciation of the assets after the limited partners receive their share. Second, the sponsor/general partner derives income on an on-going basis for the management services provided in maintaining and operating the property. The general partner also may receive up-front fees for organizing the limited partnership. D. Recent partnership performance In the late 1980s, the financial climate for limited partnership deteriorated dramatically. Several factors contributed to limited partnerships' poor performance. The 1986 Tax Act took away any tax benefit for limited partnership investors. Real estate and oil and gas markets also declined precipitously. This, together with a series of other circumstances, caused many general partners to face a decreasing revenue base and a growing number of financial problems. 17 Since January 1, 1985, the number of limited partnership offerings filed with the Commission has decreased substantially each year, from a high of 428 in 1985 to a low of 39 in 1991. 18 Interests in limited partnerships investing in real estate lost some or all of their economic value due to the dramatic decline in real estate values during the late 1980s. 17 Id. 18 In 1992, 50 new limited partnership offerings were filed with the Commission. H.R. Rep. No. 21, 103d Cong., 1st Sess. 10(1993) (''1993 house Report''). Several consequences flowed from the deteriorating climate for limited partnerships. Many general partners stopped raising new capital altogether. Sales of assets from existing partnerships exceeded any new capital raised, thereby eroding assets under management and significantly reducing general partner management fees. 19 Some general partners responded to their predicament by changing the original partnership agreements and restructuring the limited partnerships by proposing to reorganize or, in many cases, ``roll up'' existing limited partnership interests into new, publicly-traded securities. 19 Senate Report, supra n. 12, at 5. E. Rollups From January 1, 1985 to June 30, 1994, approximately 82 limited partnership rollup transactions involving two or more entities were registered with the Commission. These rollups have involved over 1,900 separate limited partnerships with an estimated aggregate value well over seven billion dollars. 1. Rollup structure A typical ``rollup'' will combine several non-traded individual limited partnerships into a single new entity that publicly trades on a national securities exchange or on Nasdaq/NM. This entity generally is an infinite life vehicle which is designed continually to reinvest proceeds from asset sales, unlike the provisions limited partnerships, which are investments with a limited or finite term that, at some point in time, distribute proceeds, if any, to investors. A rollup also can involve the reorganization of a single partnership into a new entity. 2. Benefits of rollups In some cases, reorganizing non-traded public limited partnerships that have lost substantial value and creating a new publicly-traded, infinite life vehicle can enhance the value of the investments of the limited partners. 20 For example, the new entity may offer investors liquidity previously unavailable, create economies of scale and reduce administrative costs to improve performance, and create broader diversification of assets which will improve investment safety. 20 Id. at 6. 3. Criticism of rollup Critics have said that the vast majority of limited partnership rollups result in the newly-traded security immediately falling to a discount to its net asset value, as cash flow from the stronger partnerships is used to support losses from the weaker partnerships. 21 They further argue that ongoing asset management fees and expenses assessed by the general partners offset, and in fact may exceed, the promised reduced administrative costs. 22 As a result, the limited partners' equity is substantially diluted. One industry witness testified before Congress that, in the large rollup transactions, limited partners have realized, on average, a drop of 45 percent from the exchange value on the first day of trading in their newly issued rollup securities. 23 Congressional testimony also disclosed estimates that these limited partners when taken as a whole have lost approximately $2 billion in equity, while rollup sponsors have earned over $250 million in fees. 24 By one estimate, when compared to original exchange values, investors involved in public limited partnership rollups have experience a decline of approximately 70 percent in limited partner equity. 25 21 Id. 22 Id. 23 Liquidity Fund, ``Roll-up Performance: Comparison of Exchange Value and Closing Prices, 1st Day, 90 Days, 120 days, Current Market Price,'' in ``Limited Partnership Reorganizations, or `Roll-ups','' Hearing before the Securities Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, February 27, 1991, S. Hrg. 102&hyph;77, page 29. 24 Senate Report, supra n. 12 at 6&hyph;7. 25 Id. at 7. While investor complaints have been sparked by the enormous declines in the value of the rollup security compared with the ``exchange value'' stated in the prospectus, rollup sponsors have argued that the stated exchange value is not intended to be the trading price of the security, and thus, such comparisons tend to overstate the magnitude of investor losses. 26 However, rollup disclosure documents generally have proven to be almost incomprehensible and it is likely that sponors did not clearly disclose to investors that the stated exchange value is not intended to be the trading price of the security. 27 26 Id. 27 See 1993 House Report, supra n. 18, at 12: Congressinonal testimony revealed at least three other forms of abuses in connection with rollup transactions. First, financially sound partnerships are merged with partnerships that are experiencing financial difficulty, thereby diluting the interest of the limited partners of the sound partnerships. 28 Second, some general partners have modified the original partnership's fee structure in order to give much larger equity interests or fees to themselves, to the detriment of the limited partners. 29 Finally, when the unattractive terms of the new rolled up security become apparent, the market further discounts the newly traded security, pushing its price even lower. 28 Senate Report, supra n. 13, at 7. 29 Id. F. The Rollup Reform Act The seriousness of the problem with rollup disclosure documents was underscored by Commission Chairman Richard Breeden when he stated in testimony before the Senate Banking Committee in the Spring of 1991 that, ``I have taken a look at some of the documents filed with us in these roll-up transactions and I would like to meet the person who can understand all of the disclosures in some of those documents.'' The Committee notes that a disclosure document which the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission has difficulty understanding is likely to prove daunting in complexity to the average small investor in a limited partnership.
