FR940719-2-00009 FR940719-2-00003 Article VII_SUBROGATION is amended by adding the following new paragraph at the end thereof: We may not proceed against You in a subrogation action where the loss was caused by Your nonintentional acts. Additionally, We may not subrogate to Your rights to proceed against another person if that person is insured by Us for the same loss, if the loss was caused by the nonintentional acts of the person against whom subrogation is sought. This provision shall not prevent Us from allocating losses internally to the at-fault insured for purposes of underwriting, agency, and claims information. Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is deleted in its entirety and the following new Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is substituted in lieu thereof: Article XIII_Suit Against US You cannot bring suit against Us unless You have complied with all of the Policy provisions. If You do enter suit against Us, You must do so within twenty-four (24) months of the occurrence causing loss or damage. All other terms and conditions of the Policy and all other endorsements to the Policy remain unchanged. Missouri Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance laws of the State of Missouri, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. How this endorsement affects your coverage: Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is deleted in its entirety and the following new Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is substituted in lieu thereof: Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US You cannot bring suit against Us unless You have complied with all of the Policy provisions. If You do enter suit against Us, You must do so within ten (10) years of the occurrence causing loss or damage. All other terms and conditions of the Policy and any endorsements to the Policy remain unchanged. Montana Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance laws of the State of Montana, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy or any other endorsement to the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. How this endorsement affects your coverage: Under Paragraph ``A'' of the ``Indemnity Payment'' section of the Policy, and for all specific Crop Endorsements to the Policy, in calculating the indemnity payable to You for any loss to any Crop, the following shall apply: A. The ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' for each Crop shall mean the average derived by totaling the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for such Crop for each full active trading day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, such immediately preceding consecutive full active trading days from the previous month(s) as are necessary will be added to the applicable months' trading days until 15 full active trading days are available to determine the Average Daily Settlement Price. A full active trading day for determining the Average Settlement Price for any Crop is any trading day on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market during which more than 50 wheat futures contracts are traded. In the event that trading on the Chicago Board of Trade futures market for any such Crop is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, such immediately preceding consecutive full active trading days from the previous month(s) as are necessary will be added to the applicable months' trading days until 15 full active trading days are available to determine the Average Daily Settlement Price. B. To the extent that the provisions already contained in the Policy or in any of the specific Crop Endorsements are inconsistent with the provisions of Paragraph ``A'' above, the provisions of Paragraph ``A'' above shall supersede and take precedence over such inconsistent provisions. All other terms and conditions of the Policy and all other endorsements to the Policy remain unchanged.
