FR940328-2-00013 FR940328-2-00008 This expectation is confirmed by the second type of evidence I considered, that from completed office moves of WSFO Washington (from Camp Springs, MD to Sterling, VA); WSFO Philadelphia (from Philadelphia, PA to Mount Holly, NJ); and WSFO Ann Arbor (from Ann Arbor, MI to White Lake, MI), included as attachment H. The primary mechanism for determining whether any degradation of service resulted from these moves is evidence of user dissatisfaction in products and services after the move. I believe that, in each case, there has been adequate opportunity for such dissatisfaction to surface if it existed and each MIC reports a successful move with no indication of such dissatisfaction. I recognize that no single move constitutes a perfect model for the present relocation but, after reviewing these moves as a body, I find adequate evidence that no degradation of service will result. For example, the Ann Arbor WSFO did not contain a service unit as does San Francisco, but the other two offices do contain such units and were moved without degrading the services provided by such units. Therefore, based of my review of this evidence and in my professional judgment, I find that the relocation will not result in a degradation in services to the northern and central California service area. 7. A memorandum assigning the liaison officer for the San Francisco Bay Area service area is included as attachment I. I note that WSFO San Francisco is not located on an airport and is not the only field office in California, so that those special criteria involving an air safety appraisal and an evaluation to in-state users required under PL 102&hyph;567 are not applicable to this proposed relocation certification. [If, after the MIC considers comments raised during the comment period, he continues to recommend certification, the final memorandum will address appropriate comments either here or in an attachment.] I, Thomas D. Potter, Director, Western Region, endorse this proposed relocation certification. Thomas D. Potter Date I, Elbert W. Friday, Jr., Assistant Administrator for Weather Services, endorse this proposed relocation certification. Elbert W. Friday, Jr. Date
