FR940406-2-00029 FR940406-2-00014 Minority Business Development Agency Business Development Center Applications: Anaheim, CA AGENCY: Minority Business Development Agency, Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In accordance with Executive Order 11625 and 15 U.S.C. 1512, the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) is soliciting competitive applications under its Minority Business Development Center (MBDC) Program. The total cost of performance for the first budget period (12 months) from August 1, 1994 to July 31, 1995, is estimated at $388,898. The application must include a minimum cost-share of 15% of the total project cost through non-Federal contributions. Cost-sharing contributions may be in the form of cash contributions, clients fees, in-kind contributions or combinations thereof. The MBDC will operate in the Anaheim, California Geographic Service Area. The funding instrument for this project will be a cooperative agreement. Competition is open to individuals, non-profit and for-profit organizations, state and local governments, American Indian tribes and educational institutions. The MBDC program provides business development services to the minority business community to help establish and maintain viable minority businesses. To this end, MBDA funds organizations to identify and coordinate public and private sector resources on behalf of minority individuals and firms; to offer a full range of management and technical assistance to minority entrepreneurs; and to serve as a conduit of information and assistance regarding minority business. Applications will be evaluated on the following criteria: The experience and capabilities of the firm and its staff in addressing the needs of the business community in general and, specifically, the special needs of minority businesses, individuals and organizations (50 points); the resources available to the firm in providing business development services (10 points); the firm's approach (techniques and methodologies) to performing the work requirements included in the application (20 points); and the firm's estimated cost for providing such assistance (20 points). An application must receive at least 70% of the points assigned to each evaluation criteria category to be considered programmatically acceptable and responsive. Those applications determined to be acceptable and responsive will then be evaluated by the Director of MBDA. Final award selections shall be based on the number of points received, the demonstrated responsibility of the applicant, and the determination of those most likely to further the purpose of the MBDA program. Negative audit findings and recommendations and unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for award. The applicant with the highest point score will not necessarily receive the award.
