FR941013-0-00025 FR941013-0-00009 (B) Develop formulae that allow less energies for well insulated housing as well as additional energies for housing with high solar gain. This could be done on a plus or minus percentage basis. An energy audit would be helpful in establishing the anticipated energy use of each unit. (C) Collect energy use data from a variety of unit types, family types, and samples of several existing housing units in the specified zone. This data could be used as the basis for a fixed allowance for cooling purposes during the zone area's cooling season. The other fourteen commenters recommended Option 3 because they found the benefit in reduced paperwork and administrative burden outweighs the benefit of an adjustment for temperature variations. As one stated, ``Although theoretically, it appears prudent to adjust the utility consumption figures for weather conditions, practically, it is very difficult to do so with any degree of reliability.'' Another commenter summed up the benefits of Option 3 in one sentence, ``It would simplify the system, allow timely post year adjustments and would average out over time.'' In response to this level of agreement, the Department is adopting the third option and dropping all heating and cooling degree day adjustments. This approach will greatly simplify the PFS. The rolling base used to estimate utility consumption in the PFS will reflect the HA's recent history of utility consumption including the impact of local heating and cooling requirements. This rule will eliminate the need to separately track the consumption of each meter used to supply heating or air conditioning. This will reduce paperwork and the administrative burden on the Department and the Housing Agencies. It will eliminate the need to wait for publication of the degree day factors before adjustments can be made. This three month delay also affects the ability to develop ratings under the Public Housing Management Assessment Program (PHMAP). On the negative side, HAs will get only a 50 percent adjustment for consumption, without further adjustment to reflect weather conditions. Assuming that weather averages out over time, there will be no long term penalty or bonus. IV. Timing of Implementation By law, the PFS regulation remains in effect for the duration of a HA's fiscal year without change. The revisions of this rule will affect a particular HA's year end adjustments to its fiscal year beginning in Calendar Year 1995. HAs will apply heating degree day adjustments to their fiscal years which began during FFY 1994 and end in 12/94, 3/95, 6/95, and 9/95. The first years that will not be adjusted will be fiscal years ending 12/95, 3/96, 6/96, and 9/96. V. Findings and Certifications A. Environmental Review A Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) with respect to the environment was made on the proposed rule in accordance with HUD regulations in 24 CFR Part 50 which implements Section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4332. That Finding is available for public inspection during regular business hours in the Office of the General Counsel, Rules Docket Clerk, at the above address. Since the provisions of this final rule were anticipated as an option stated in the proposed rule, that FONSI remains valid. B. Regulatory Review This rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review. Any changes made to the rule as a result of that review are clearly identified in the docket file, which is available for public inspection in the office of the Department's Rules Docket Clerk, room 10276, 451 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC. C. Impact on Small Entities The Secretary, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this rule before publication and by approving it certifies that this rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rule may result in changes in the level of operating subsidy eligibility for certain public housing agencies, but we have no reason to believe that it would have disproportionate effect on small HAs. D. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies contained in this rule would not have federalism implications and, thus, are not subject to review under the Order. The rule refines an established formula under which HUD calculates operating subsidies for low-income housing developments, but contains no requirement for explicit action by local officials and will not interfere with State or local governmental functions. E. Impact on the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family , has determined that this rule would not have potential significant impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being, and, thus, is not subject to review under the Order.
