FR940713-2-00146 FR940713-2-00086 UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION Sentencing Guidelines for United States Courts AGENCY: United States Sentencing Commission. ACTION: Notice of priority areas for Commission research and amendment study. Request for public comment. SUMMARY: As part of its continuing analysis of sentencing issues, including the operation of the federal sentencing guidelines, the Commission has identified certain priorities as the principal focus of its work in the coming year and, in some cases, beyond. Following the practice of past years, the Commission invites comment on the identified priorities (including the scope and manner of study, particular problem areas and possible solutions, and any other matters relevant to an identified priority). The Commission also invites comment on any other aspect of guideline application that it should address during the coming year. DATES: Public comment should be received not later than August 31, 1994, to be considered by the Commission in shaping its work during the next amendment cycle. ADDRESSES: Send comment to: United States Sentencing Commission, One Columbus Circle, NE., Suite 2&hyph;500, South Lobby, Washington, DC 20002&hyph;8002, Attention: Public Information_Priorities Comment. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael Courlander, Public Information Specialist, Telephone: (202) 273&hyph;4590. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The United States Sentencing Commission, an independent commission in the judicial branch of the United States Government, is empowered under 28 U.S.C. 994(a) to promulgate sentencing guidelines and policy statements for federal sentencing courts. The statute further directs the Commission to review and revise promulgated guidelines periodically and authorizes it to submit guideline amendments to the Congress not later than the first day of May each year. See 28 U.S.C. 994(o), (p). As in previous years, by this announcement the Commission begins the amendment cycle by soliciting formal and informal comment regarding certain areas upon which the Commission expects to concentrate its attention during the coming year. This notice provides interested persons with an early opportunity to inform the Commission of legal, operational, or policy concerns within the identified areas relating to the guidelines and to suggest specific solutions and alternative approaches. In late 1994 or early 1995, the Commission expects to publish in the Federal Register a formal notice of proposed amendments and amendment issues and will invite comment on those proposals. Following are the priority areas for amendment study, research, or other planned actions identified by the Commission. Where possible, a general timeframe for the initiative is indicated. These timeframes should be considered subject to change as the Commission deems necessary. •Implementation of the 1994 crime bill directives_Implementation of the crime bill (expected to be finalized by Congress in the summer of 1994) will be the Commission's most time-sensitive project. A substantial number of provisions in the bill can be expected to require Commission attention, some involving proposed guideline amendments and others entailing study, e.g., a study of crack and powder cocaine. The Commission expects these implementation efforts to be its top priority, with an anticipated completion date of December 1, 1994, or as directed by the statute. •Comprehensive review and revision of the drug offense guidelines_Based on Commission discussion of amendments, continuing issues in the courts, and debate on the 1994 crime bill, it is clear that the sentences of drug offenders, who represent nearly 50 percent of defendants in federal courts, remain a major issue of concern. In particular, the appropriate weight to assign to drug quantity in relation to other factors, such as role and violence, remains a critical issue for Commission investigation in the upcoming amendment cycle. •Symposium on organizational guidelines_At Commission direction, a staff working group is creating an agenda for a symposium/workshop on organizational guidelines. The completed agenda with proposed program participants will be submitted to the Commission at its September meeting. •Implementation of the new ASSYST and Automated Order of Judgment in a Criminal Case computer programs_These programs will reach the field implementation stage in the coming year. Field testing of the Automated Order of Judgment in a Criminal Case began in June 1994. An updated version of ASSYST (a computer program to help users apply the guidelines) will be ready for field distribution in October 1994. •Real offense conduct data collection_The 1994 Annual Report will include information from the Commission's newly developed real offense conduct module now undergoing final testing and development.
