FR940505-1-00053 FR940505-1-00012 b. Description of plan. On November 12, 1993, the SCAQMD adopted its Rate-of-Progress Plan, following reasonable notice and public hearing. CARB submitted the Rate-of-Progress plan as a proposed SIP revision on November 15, 1993. The submitted plan shows a 1990 base year emissions inventory of 1683 tons per day of reactive organic compounds (ROC), an adjusted 1990 inventory of 1450 tons per day (after subtracting FMVCP and RVP reductions of 233), resulting in a 1996 target emissions reductions of 217.5 tons per day. After credit for fully adopted State and local measures and taking into account growth in emissions through 1996, the plan achieves almost all of the reductions needed to meet the target. The plan addresses the small remaining shortfall by commitments to adopt 9 SCAQMD measures in 1994, one SCAQMD measure in 1995, and one CARB measure: the enhanced I/M program. Even after applying an 80 percent rule effectiveness discount (in accordance with EPA's policy), the proposed SCAMQD measures alone would eliminate the shortfall, without the need to count credits assigned to the enhanced I/M program. Under section 110(k)(4) of the Act, EPA has the authority to conditionally approve the South Coast plan based upon the State's commitment to adopt these measures. However, EPA's current policy does not allow approval of rate-of-progress plans if they depend upon commitments to adopt measures in order to meet the 15 percent reduction requirement. See Memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, EPA Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation, ``Guidance on Issues Related to 15 Percent Rate-of-Progress Plans,'' August 23, 1993. As a result, EPA intends not to take action to approve the South Coast Rate-of-Progress Plan at this time. c. Conditional approval of commitments. As discussed above, EPA policy does not allow approval of 15 Percent Rate-of-Progress Plans based on committal measures. In accordance with this policy, EPA does not propose to assign credit to the SCAQMD committal measures and approve the progress plan until all measures are submitted in fully enforceable form. However, commitments that strengthen the existing SIP can be approved, although without assignment of emission reduction credit. EPA proposes to conditionally approve the SCAQMD commitments to adopt the measures listed below, as strengthening the SIP. EPA has evaluated the commitments to adopt measures and finds that those commitments to adopt rules before 1996 are eligible for conditional approval under section 110(k)(4). EPA cannot propose to conditionally approve commitments to adopt measures with 1996 or later adoption dates because the SCAQMD's commitment may extend beyond one year from the date of the final conditional approval action (see pages 2&hyph;4 and 6&hyph;2 of the plan, and the SCAQMD Resolution of Adoption). (1) Commitments to adopt measures to contribute emission reductions in the period 1990&hyph;1996. The SCAQMD has committed to adopt fully enforceably controls in 1994 for the following measures: P&hyph;B&hyph;7, Further Control of Emissions from Bulk Terminals; P&hyph;C&hyph;1, Further Emission Reductions from Rubber Products Manufacturing; A&hyph;B&hyph;2, Control of Emissions from Gasoline Transfer: Phase II Improvements; A&hyph;B&hyph;3, Control of Emissions from Pleasure Boat Fueling Operations; A&hyph;B&hyph;5, Further Control of Emissions from Gasoline Dispensing Facilities; A&hyph;B&hyph;6, Control of Emissions from Utility Engine Refueling Operations; A&hyph;B&hyph;9, Control of Emissions from Active Draining of Liquid Products; A&hyph;C&hyph;2, Control of Emissions from Commercial Charbroiling; A&hyph;C&hyph;4, Control of Emissions from Deep-Fat Frying. The SCAQMD committal measure scheduled for adoption in 1995 is A&hyph;F&hyph;1, Installation of Best Available Retrofit Control Technology on Miscellaneous Sources. All of the measures are listed in Table 4&hyph;1 of the plan, along with the identification of the date for full implementation, the implementing agency, and the 1996 ROC emissions reductions with and without the 80 percent rule effectiveness discount. Appendix A of the plan provides further details on each of the measures, including descriptions of the regulatory history, the proposed method of control, and the calculation of emissions reductions and cost effectiveness.
