FR941006-1-00089 FR941006-1-00015 (8) If the candidate wishes to claim a larger compliance exemption under paragraph (c)(6) of this section for costs associated with computer services, the candidate shall establish allocation percentages for each computer function that is considered necessary, in whole or in part, to ensure compliance with 2 U.S.C. 431 et seq. and 26 U.S.C. 9001 et seq. The allocation shall be based on a reasonable estimate of the costs associated with each computer function, such as the costs for data entry services performed by other than committee personnel and processing time. The candidate shall keep detailed records to support such calculations. The records shall indicate which computer functions are considered compliance-related and shall reflect which costs are associated with each computer function. (9) The candidate shall keep and maintain a separate record of disbursements made to defray exempt legal and accounting costs under paragraphs (c)(6) and (7) of this section and shall report such disbursements in accordance with 11 CFR Part 104 and 11 CFR 9006.1. (10) The Commission's Financial Control and Compliance Manual for General Election Candidates Receiving Public Funding contains some accepted alternative allocation methods for determining the amount of salaries and overhead expenditures that may be considered exempt compliance costs or exempt fundraising costs. 4. Section 9003.5 would be revised to read as follows: ยง9003.5 Documentation of disbursements. (a) Burden of proof. Each candidate shall have the burden of proving the disbursements made by the candidate or his or her authorized committee(s) or persons authorized to make expenditures on behalf of the candidate or authorized committee(s) are qualified campaign expenses as defined in 11 CFR 9002.11. The candidate and his or her authorized committee(s) shall obtain and furnish to the Commission on request any evidence regarding qualified campaign expenses made by the candidate, his or her authorized committees and agents or persons authorized to make expenditures on behalf of the candidate or committee(s) as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. (b) Documentation required. (1) For disbursements in excess of $200 to a payee, the candidate shall present a canceled check negotiated by the payee that states the purpose of the disbursement and either: (i) A receipted bill from the payee that states the purpose of the disbursement; or (ii) If such a receipt is not available, (A) One of the following documents generated by the payee: a bill, invoice, or voucher that states the purpose of the disbursement; or (B) Where the documents specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section are not available, a voucher or contemporaneous memorandum from the candidate or the committee that states the purpose of the disbursement; or (iii) Where the supporting documentation required in paragraphs (b)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section is not available, the candidate or committee may present collateral evidence to document the qualified campaign expense. Such collateral evidence may include, but is not limited to: (A) Evidence demonstrating that the expenditure is part of an identifiable program or project which is otherwise sufficiently documented such as a disbursement which is one of a number of documented disbursements relating to a campaign mailing or to the operation of a campaign office; and (B) Evidence that the disbursement is covered by a pre-established written campaign committee policy, such as a daily travel expense policy.
