FR940407-0-00071 FR940407-0-00014 BACT and LAER. Both the PSD program and the nonattainment NSR program contain technology-based emission limitations that are source specific. The Act expressly requires that these emissions limitations (i.e., BACT in the case of PSD and LAER in the case of NSR) be met by the proposed major new source or major modification itself as a condition of permit issuance. Consequently, neither of these requirements can be met through emissions trading. Regarding BACT, section 165(a) of the Act provides that no major new source or major modification may be constructed in a PSD area unless the requirements in section 165(a)(1)-(8) are met. Section 165(a)(1) specifies that among these requirements is ``a permit *␣*␣* setting forth emission limitations for such facility which conform to the requirements of this part.'' Section 165(a)(3)(C) further specifies that the proposed facility must demonstrate that emissions from the facility will not exceed any applicable emission standard under the Act. 6 The applicable emissions limitations are those provided in section 165(a)(4), which provides that the proposed facility must ``be subject to the best available control technology for each pollutant subject to regulation under this Act emitted from, or which results from, such facility.'' 7 6 Section 302(k) of the Act defines the terms ``emission limitation'' and ``emission standard'' interchangeably. 7 Section 169(3) in turn defines BACT as ``an emission limitation based on the maximum degree of reduction of each pollutant subject to regulation under this Act emitted from or which results from any major emitting facility, which the permitting authority, on a case-by-case basis, taking into account energy, environmental, and economic impacts and other costs, determines is achievable for such facility.'' The Act sets forth a similar statutory scheme with respect to LAER. Section 173(a) provides that the permit program applicable to major new sources or major modifications, which is required to be included in part D SIP's under section 172(b)(5), 8 shall provide that permits to construct and operate may be issued only if the requirements set forth in section 173(a)(1)-(5) are met. Among these enumerated requirements is section 173(a)(2), which specifies that ``the proposed source is required to comply with the lowest achievable emission rate.'' 9 8 Section 173(a) incorrectly refers to the ``permit program required by section 172(b)(6).'' Section 172(b)(6) was renumbered as section 172(b)(5) by the 1990 Amendments. Apparently, this change was not picked up by the drafters of revised section 173. 9 Section 171(3) defines LAER as ``that rate of emissions which reflects'' either ``the most stringent emission limitation which is contained in (any SIP) for such class or category of source,'' or ``the most stringent emission limitation which is achieved in practice by such class or category of source, whichever is more stringent.'' The statutory provisions addressing both BACT and LAER clearly require the permitting authority to set, and the source owner to comply with, the applicable technology-based emission limitation. There is no provision in the statute for lawfully complying with BACT or LAER through obtaining emissions reductions at other sources that would result in an equivalent reduction of emissions or ambient concentrations. Inspection and Maintenance Programs. The I/M provisions of the Act require a vehicle I/M program that meets specified performance standards. The requirements of the I/M provisions cannot be met by obtaining ERC's from sources other than vehicles, or from vehicles through means other than I/M of the vehicle. An EIP may not substitute entirely for an enhanced or basic periodic vehicle I/M program. This view is based on the provisions of the Act that set forth requirements for a basic I/M program, as well as certain provisions relating to enhanced I/M programs. Sections 182(a)(2)(B)(i) (I/M ``fix-ups'' for O 3 nonattainment areas classified marginal and higher), 182(b)(4) (I/M ``catch-ups'' for O 3 nonattainment areas classified moderate and higher), and 187(a)(4) (I/M ``fix-up'' requirement for CO nonattainment areas classified moderate and higher) each require a SIP revision that includes provisions for a ``vehicle inspection and maintenance program'' that meets a specified performance standard. The provision for an enhanced I/M program for CO nonattainment areas classified as moderate and with a design value higher than 12.7 ppm, or classified as serious, requires the SIP to include provisions for ``an enhanced vehicle inspection and maintenance program as required in section 182(c)(3) (concerning serious O 3 nonattainment areas)'' (section 187(a)(6)). This provision confirms that the required I/M program is in fact a vehicle I/M program. The primary provision for an enhanced I/M program for O 3 nonattainment areas classified as serious or higher does not include a comparable ``inspection and maintenance'' phrase (i.e., requires the SIP ``to provide for an enhanced program to reduce hydrocarbon emissions and nitrogen oxides (NO X ) emissions from in-use motor vehicles''), but it further includes specific requirements for various types of testing, inspections, etc., that make clear that the program must obtain reductions from vehicle I/M (section 182(c)(3)). Nevertheless, both the basic I/M program and the enhanced I/M program requirements authorize a substantial degree of flexibility in program design. The Act directs the EPA to require a specific amount of emissions reductions, but also authorizes the State to design the program in a manner that meets the EPA established performance standard through different means. The EPA's final rule on I/M programs describes the EPA's performance standards and the ways that States can meet those standards (57 FR 52950&hyph;53014). In so doing, the State can take advantage of economic efficiencies (e.g., have a better test on more older cars to get greater performance, in exchange for some relaxation in another element). In addition, States could address mal-maintenance in the vehicle fleet in part by including an old car scrappage program as an element of the overall package used to meet the performance standard. However, the SIP must include a program obtaining the required reductions through vehicle inspections.
