FR940803-1-00017 FR940803-1-00004 1. General. Stepped-rate accounts are those accounts in which two or more dividend rates (known at the time the account is opened) will take effect in succeeding periods. 2. Example. An example of a stepped-rate account is a one-year term share certificate account in which a 5.00% dividend rate is paid for the first six months, and 5.50% for the second six months. (x) Term share account 1. Relation to Regulation D. Regulation D permits, in limited circumstances, the withdrawal of funds without penalty during the first six days after a ``time deposit'' is opened. (See 12 CFR §204.2(c)(1)(i).) Withdrawals without penalty from a term share account made in accordance with Regulation D do not disqualify the account from being a term share account for purposes of this regulation, such as withdrawals upon the death of the member, or within a ``grace period'' for automatically renewable term share accounts. 2. Club accounts. Club accounts, including Christmas club, holiday club, and vacation club accounts may be either term share or regular share accounts, depending on the terms of the account. a. Term share club accounts. i. General. A club account may be a term share account if it has the following characteristics: It has a maturity of at least seven days, and During the first six days a member either May not make withdrawals, or If the member is allowed to make early withdrawals during the first six days or there is an early withdrawal penalty equal to the loss of seven days' dividends. A club account can be a term share account without a stated maturity date if members may not withdraw funds until a certain date or if withdrawal occurs, an early withdrawal penalty is incurred. ii. Examples. The following are examples of term share club accounts: An account for which the credit union will distribute the funds on a certain date and withdrawals prior to that date are either not permitted during the first six days after the account is opened or there is an early withdrawal penalty equal to the amount of dividends earned on the account during the first seven days (e.g., a credit union offers an account to which the member makes regular, periodic additions through October, with the funds distributed November 1. If the member withdraws funds before November 1, an early withdrawal penalty is incurred, making the account a term share account). An account for which the credit union will distribute the funds on a certain date and withdrawals are permitted, but the funds withdrawn are transferred to another account and dividends on the amount withdrawn earn at the second account's rate, not the club account's rate (e.g., a credit union offers an account earning dividends at a 5.00% rate to which a member makes regular, periodic additions, funds in the account are distributed November 1. Prior to the November 1 distribution date, the member withdraws funds which are transferred to a regular share account earning dividends at a 3.00% rate. This rate decrease acts as a penalty, making the account a term share account). b. Regular share club accounts. Accounts may be considered regular share accounts if such accounts do not have an early withdrawal penalty and permit withdrawals within the first seven days after the account is opened. (y) Tiered-rate account 1. General. Tiered-rate accounts are those accounts in which two or more dividend rates are paid on the account and are determined by reference to a specified balance. Tiered-rate accounts are of two types: Tiering Method A and Tiering Method B. In Tiering Method A accounts, the credit union pays the applicable tiered dividends rate on the entire amount in the account. This method is also known as the ``hybrid'' or ``plateau'' tiered-rate account. In Tiering Method B accounts, the credit union does not pay the applicable tiered dividends rate on the entire amount in the account, but only on the portion of the share account balance that falls within each specified tier. This method is also known as the ``pure'' or ``split-rate'' tiered-rate account. (See commentary to Appendix A, §I, D.) 2. Example. An example of a tiered-rate account is one in which a credit union pays a 5.00% dividend rate on balances below $1,000, and 5.50% on balances $1,000 and above. 3. Term share accounts. Term share accounts that pay different rates based solely on the amount of the initial share and deposit are not tiered-rate accounts. 4. Minimum balance accounts. If dividends are not paid on amounts below a specified balance level, then the account has a minimum balance requirement (required to be disclosed under §707.4(b)(3)(i)), but the account does not constitute a tiered-rate account. A zero rate (0%) cannot constitute a tier. Minimum balance accounts are single rate accounts with a minimum balance requirement. (z) Variable-rate account 1. General. Includes all accounts in which the credit union does not contract to give at least 30 days advance written notice of decreases in the dividend rate. An account meets this definition whether the rate change is determined by reference to an index, by use of a formula, or merely at the discretion of the credit union's board of directors. A term share certificate of deposit that permits one or more rate adjustments prior to maturity at the member's option, such as a rate relock option, is a variable-rate account. 2. Differences between fixed-rate and variable-rate accounts. All accounts must either be fixed-rate or variable-rate accounts. Classifying an account as variable-rate affects credit unions three ways: Additional account disclosures are required (§707.4(b)(1)(ii)); Rate decreases are exempted from change-in-terms requirements (§707.5(a)(2)(i)); and Advertising notice required (§707.8(c)(1)). Fixed-rate accounts require a contract term obligating the credit union to a 30-day advance, written notice to members before decreasing the dividend rate on the account. Term changes and rate decreases cannot take effect until 30 days after such fixed-rate change in terms notices are mailed or delivered to members (§707.5(a)). Section 707.3_General disclosure requirements. (a) Form 1. General. All required disclosures, e.g., account disclosures, change-in-terms notices, term share maturity notices, statement disclosures and advertising disclosures, must be made clearly and conspicuously, in a form the member may retain. Disclosures need be made only as applicable, e.g., disclosures for a non-dividend-bearing account would not include disclosure of annual percentage yield, dividend rate, or other disclosures pertaining to dividend calculations. 2. Design requirements. Disclosures must be presented in a format that allows members and potential members to readily understand the terms of their account. Disclosures may be made: In any order In combination with other disclosures or account terms
