FR941206-1-00074 FR941206-1-00007 If the permitting authority and owner or operator agree that there are solutions, the owner or operator must develop a plan to reduce usage of the pollutant to the extent feasible. The plan must address the approach to be used to reduce usage, provide a timetable for implementing the plan, and include a schedule for submitting notifications of progress. If, after November 1998, the affected source uses a VHAP of potential concern for which a baseline level has not been established, then the baseline level will be equivalent to the de minimis level, based on 70 year exposure levels and data provided in the proposed rulemaking pursuant to section 112(g), for that pollutant. Table 5 of the proposed rule, ยง63.803(d), includes a list of all VHAP of potential concern. If the affected source's use of the VHAP of potential concern exceeds the de minimis level, then the affected source must record the reasons for the exceedance and follow the same procedures as those used when an exceedance of the baseline level occurs for those VHAP listed in Table 4. The de minimis rates for the HAP of potential concern are based on the principles involved and some of the supporting data used for the proposed rule pursuant to section 112(g). These principles are given in detail in Documentation of De Minimis Emission Rates_Proposed 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart B Background Document, EPA&hyph;453/R&hyph;93&hyph;035 (this document is available on EPA's Technology Transfer Network) and are briefly described here. For the proposed section 112(g) rulemaking, the basis for the de minimis levels is the use of information that is available to determine (1) an exposure level which results in a one-per-million cancer risk level, or (2) an exposure level which constitutes an ``ample margin of safety'' level for noncancer effects. The risk management decisions to use these two criteria to determine de minimis emission rates are fundamental assumptions in the determination of de minimis levels for the section 112(g) rulemaking. Note that the de minimis levels do not take into account any additive effects which may result from exposure to multiple pollutants. For pollutants where insufficient dose-response information is available to determine the exposure level associated with either a one-per-million cancer risk or an ``ample margin of safety'' for noncancer effects, the proposed rule contains default values which reflect risk management decisions for establishing the de minimis rates. An important risk management decision for establishing de minimis levels under section 112(g) was to ``cap'' de minimis emission rates at 10.0 tons per year. For example, if an exposure level associated with a one-per-million cancer risk results in a de minimis level greater than 10.0 tons, the de minimis level, by virtue of the cap, is 10.0 tons. The EPA believes that it would be difficult to support the designation of a ``trivial'' level of emissions of an air pollutant that is considered ``major'' by the guiding legislation. The risk management process for establishing de minimis values for the proposed rule for section 112(g) gave consideration to the interim nature of section 112(g) requirements. For carcinogens with available unit risk estimates, the duration of exposure used to set de minimis emission rates of such pollutants is the same as the estimated period the section 112(g) rulemaking will be in effect before those provisions are augmented by the section 112(j) provision. At that time, sources will be subject to case-by-case MACT determinations or the national MACT standards will have been promulgated for those sources. Because the wood furniture MACT standard was not intended to be interim in nature, it is important to note that the specific de minimis rates listed in section 112(g) are not intended to be used directly by the wood furniture MACT standard. Consequently, the rates need to be adjusted to take into account a lifetime duration of exposure. This adjustment would affect the de minimis levels for pollutants identified as nonthreshold for which unit risk estimates are available. Some industry members of the committee recommended that EPA request comments on the adjustment of the proposed section 112(g) de minimis values from 7-year exposure to 70-year exposure values. Therefore, the EPA is requesting comment on this issue.
