FR941017-1-00010 FR941017-1-00001 Regulatory Guide 4.7 does provide effective separation from population centers of various sizes. Under this guide, a population center of about 25,000 or more residents should be no closer than 4 miles (6.4 km) from a reactor because a density of 500 persons per square mile within this distance would yield a total population of about 25,000 persons. Similarly, a city of 100,000 or more residents should be no closer than about 10 miles (16 km); a city of 500,000 or more persons should be no closer than about 20 miles (32 km), and a city of 1,000,000 or more persons should be no closer than about 30 miles (50 km) from the reactor. The Commission has examined these guidelines with regard to the Safety Goal. The Safety Goal quantitative health objective in regard to latent cancer fatality states that, within a distance of ten miles (16 km) from the reactor, the risk to the population of latent cancer fatality from nuclear power plant operation, including accidents, should not exceed one''tenth of one percent of the likelihood of latent cancer fatalities from all other causes. In addition to the risks of latent cancer fatalities, the Commission has also investigated the likelihood and extent of land contamination arising from the release of long lived radioactive species, such as cesium-137, in the event of a severe reactor accident. The results of these analyses indicate that the latent cancer fatality quantitative health objective noted above is met for current plant designs. From analysis done in support of this proposed change in regulation, the likelihood of permanent relocation of people located more than about 20 miles (50 km) from the reactor as a result of land contamination from a severe accident is very low. Therefore, the Commission concludes that the current NRC staff guidance in Regulatory Guide 4.7 provide a means of locating reactors away from population centers, including ``major'' population centers, depending upon their size, that would limit societal consequences significantly, in the event of a severe accident. The Commission finds that granting of the petitioner's request to specify population criteria out to 40 miles would not substantially reduce the risks to the public. As noted, the Commission also believes that a higher population density site could be found to be acceptable, compared to a lower population density site, provided there were safety, environmental or economic advantages to the higher population site. Granting of the petitioner's request would neglect this possibility and would make population density the sole criterion of site acceptability. For these reasons, the Commission has decided not to adopt the proposal by Free Environment, Incorporated. The Commission also notes that future population growth around a nuclear power plant site, as in other areas of the region, is expected but cannot be predicted with great accuracy, particularly in the long-term. Since higher population density sites are not unacceptable, per se, the Commission does not intend to consider license conditions or restrictions upon an operating reactor solely upon the basis that the population density around it may reach or exceed levels that were not expected at the time of site approval. Finally, the Commission wishes to emphasize that population considerations as well as other siting requirements apply only for the initial siting for new plants and will not be used in evaluating applications for the renewal of existing nuclear power plant licenses. Change to 10 CFR Part 50 The proposed change to 10 CFR part 50 would relocate from 10 CFR Part 100 the dose requirements for each applicant at specified distances. Because these requirements affect reactor design rather than siting, they are more appropriately located in 10 CFR part 50. These requirements would apply to future applicants for a construction permit, design certification, or an operating license. The Commission will consider after further experience in the review of certified designs whether more specific requirements need to be developed regarding revised accident source terms and severe accident insights. B. Seismic and Earthquake Engineering Criteria The following major changes in the proposed revision to Appendix A, ``Seismic and Geologic Siting Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants,'' to part 100, are associated with the proposed seismic and earthquake engineering criteria rule making. These changes reflect new information and research results, and incorporate the intentions of this regulatory action as defined in Section III of this proposed rule including comments from the public on the first proposed revision of the regulations. A specific document explaining the NRC staff's disposition of pertinent comments will be prepared coincident with the final rulemaking. 1. Separate Siting From Design
