FR940506-2-00018 FR940506-2-00007 Production of Industrial Power Belts In its final report during the injury investigation in 1989, the ITC determined that there are four main stages in the manufacturing of industrial power transmission belts: (1) Parts manufacturing, (2) Assembling or building, (3) Curing or vulcanizing, and (4) Finishing and packaging (see Industrial Belts from Japan, USITC Pub. 2194 (1989) (ITC Report) at 6 and 7). In addition, the ITC Report describes the three main components of most industrial power belts: (1) A tensile member (a textile, fiberglass, or steel cord, yarn, or fabric), which adds strength to withstand the tension imposed in transmitting power; (2) The base material (usually synthetic rubber, such as neoprene or plastics), which forms the bulk of the belt and encloses the tensile member, and is referred to as the undercord and the overcord; and (3) Adhesion material or gum, which bonds all the components together (USITC Pub. 2194 at a&hyph;2). As discussed above, Brecoflex either sells the German belts as imported, or performs secondary operations on the belts in preparation for sale. We determine that these secondary operations listed above do not add to the material composition of the belts or fundamentally alter the essential nature of the merchandise as imported. Specifically, the merchandise as imported already incorporates the three main components of industrial belts as described in the ITC Report. Furthermore, the belting stock as imported has already undergone, before arrival in the United States, the first three stages of the belt manufacturing process as described in the ITC Report. As Brecoflex indicated in its request for a circumvention inquiry, the major cost in producing timing belts is incurred in production of the belt stock from which the finished belts are made. As Brecoflex itself explained, completion of a finished belt from belt stock requires merely slitting to width, cutting to length, and possibly die cutting to length and welding. According to Brecoflex, these operations_the same secondary operations that Brecoflex performs in its U.S. facility_involve some skilled labor but little in the way of machinery or capital investment. Thus, as indicated in its submissions, Brecoflex performs only secondary operations in its U.S. facility, all of which fall within the fourth stage of the belt manufacturing process as described in the ITC Report, i.e., finishing and packaging. Brecoflex also markets and services the imported roll stock it sells in the United States. Based on the above analysis and the information submitted by Brecoflex, the Department determines that Brecoflex is not a domestic producer of industrial belts and, therefore, is not an interested party within the meaning of 19 CFR 353.2(k)(3) entitled to file a request for a circumvention inquiry. As such, the Department determines that Brecoflex does not have standing to file a request for a circumvention inquiry against Mectrol. Conclusion Because Brecoflex Corporation is not a producer of industrial power belts in the United States and, therefore, does not have standing under 19 CFR 353.2(k) to file a request for a circumvention inquiry with regard to the antidumping duty order on industrial belts and components and parts thereof, whether cured or uncured, from Japan, the Department hereby terminates this circumvention inquiry. Dated: April 27, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10986 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
