FR940106-0-00111 FR940106-0-00021 Subpart E_Enforcement of H&hyph;1A Attestations XXX .400 Enforcement authority of Administrator, Wage and Hour Division. (a) The Administrator shall perform all the Secretary's investigative and enforcement functions under 8 U.S.C. 1182(m) and subparts D and E of this part. (b) The Administrator, either pursuant to a complaint or otherwise, shall conduct such investigations as may be appropriate and, in connection therewith, enter and inspect such places and such records (and make transcriptions thereof), question such persons and gather such information as deemed necessary by the Administrator to determine compliance regarding the matters to which a health care facility has attested under section 212(m) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(m)) and subparts D and E of this part. (c) A facility being investigated shall make available to the Administrator such records, information, persons, and places as the Administrator deems appropriate to copy, transcribe, question, or inspect. No facility shall interfere with any official of the Department of Labor performing an investigation, inspection or law enforcement function pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1182(m) or subparts D or E of this part. In the event of such interference, the Administrator may deem the interference to be a violation and take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate. ( Note: Federal criminal statutes prohibit certain interference with a Federal officer in the performance of official duties. 18 U.S.C. 111 and 1114.) (d) A facility subject to subparts D and E of this part shall at all times cooperate in administrative and enforcement proceedings. No facility shall intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, or in any manner discriminate against any person because such person has: (1) Filed a complaint or appeal under or related to section 212(m) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(m)) or subpart D or E of this part; (2) Testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under or related to section 212(m) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(m)) or subpart D or E of this part; (3) Exercised or asserted on behalf of himself/herself or others any right or protection afforded by section 212(m) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(m)) or subpart D or E of this part. (4) Consulted with an employee of a legal assistance program or an attorney on matters related to the Act or to subparts D or E of this part or any other DOL regulation promulgated pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1182(m). In the event of such intimidation or restraint as are described in paragraph (d)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, the Administrator may deem the conduct to be a violation and take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate. (e) A facility subject to subpart D and E of this part shall maintain a separate file containing its attestation and required documentation, and shall make that file or copies thereof available to interested parties, as required by ยง XXX .350(b). In the event of a facility's failure to maintain the file, to provide access, or to provide copies, the Administrator may deem the conduct to be a violation and take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate. (f) No health care facility shall seek to have an H&hyph;1A nurse, or any other nurse similarly employed by the employer, or any other employee waive rights conferred under the Act or under subpart D or E of this part. In the event of such waiver, the Administrator may deem the conduct to be a violation and take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate. Any agreement by an employee purporting to waive or modify any rights inuring to said person under the Act or subpart D or E of this part may be void as contrary to public policy, except that a waiver or modification of rights or obligations hereunder in favor of the Secretary shall be valid for purposes of enforcement of the provisions of the Act or subpart D and E of this part. This prohibition of waivers does not prevent agreements to settle litigation among private parties.
