FR940816-2-00078 FR940816-2-00059 (D) Timing of Grant Awards EDI applications will be evaluated concurrently with requests for Section 108 guarantee commitments or for the approval of amendments to previously approved Section 108 applications that will be enhanced by the EDI assistance. (See II.B. of this NOFA.) (E) Limitations on Grant Amounts HUD expects to approve EDI grant amounts with respect to any application generally in the range of 7 to 15 percent of the related Section 108 guaranteed loan. In certain instances HUD may award more than 15 percent of the related Section 108 loan. Applicants, however, cannot request grants exceeding 15 percent. In the case of requested amendments, the EDI assistance will be determined on the increased amount of Section 108 loan guarantee assistance. HUD reserves the right to determine a maximum amount of any EDI award per project and to modify requests, accordingly. (F) Eligibility to Apply for Grant Assistance Any public entity eligible to apply for loan guarantee assistance pursuant to §570.702 may apply for grant assistance under Section 108(q). Eligible applicants are entitlement units of general local government and nonentitlement units of general local government eligible to receive loan guarantees under §570.702. (G) Eligible Activities EDI grant funds may be used for: (1) Activities listed at §570.703, provided such activities are carried out as part of an economic development project. (2) Payment of costs of private financial guaranty insurance policies, letters of credit, or other credit enhancements for the notes or other obligations guaranteed by HUD pursuant to Section 108, provided such notes or obligations are used to finance an economic development project. Such enhancements shall be specified in the contract required by §570.705(b)(1), and shall be satisfactory in form and substance to HUD for security purposes. II. The Application Process Public entities seeking EDI assistance must make a specific request for that assistance, in accordance with this NOFA. The EDI application shall be accompanied by a request for a Section 108 loan guarantee commitment, as further described in Section II.B. of this NOFA below. Application guidelines for the Section 108 program are found at §570.704. (A) Timing of Submission Applications for EDI assistance shall be received at HUD Headquarters at the address listed above at ``Addresses'' by September 16, 1994 by 4:30 p.m. Eastern Daylight time. HUD will not accept applications which are submitted to HUD via facsimile (FAX) transmission. (B) Submission Requirements The EDI application shall be accompanied by a request for loan guarantee assistance under Section 108. The request for Section 108 loan guarantee can be either: (1) A formal application for Section 108 loan guarantee, including the documents listed at §570.704(b); (2) A description, not to exceed three (3) pages, of a Section 108 loan guarantee application to be submitted within one month of a notice of EDI selection (EDI awards will be conditioned on approval of actual Section 108 loan commitments). This description must be sufficient to support the basic eligibility of the proposed project or activities for Section 108 assistance; (3) A copy of a Section 108 loan guarantee application which was approved after the date of this NOFA; or (4) A request for a Section 108 loan guarantee amendment (analogous to subparagraph (1) or (2) above) which proposes to increase the amount of a previously approved application. However, a Section 108 loan guarantee application approved before the date of this NOFA is not eligible for EDI awards. In addition, the public entity shall submit for EDI grant assistance the following: (i) SF 424, Application for Federal Assistance. (ii) The certification regarding lobbying required under 24 CFR part 87 (Appendix A). (iii) A narrative statement describing the activities that will be carried out with the EDI grant funds and explaining how the use of EDI grant funds meets the criteria in paragraph II.(C) below. The narrative statement shall not exceed one 8.5 ’ ’ by 11 ’ ’ page for the description of the activities to be carried out with the EDI grant funds and one page for each of the listed selection criteria. (C) Selection Criteria All applications will be considered for selection based on the following criteria that demonstrate the quality of the proposed project, and the applicant's creativity, capacity and commitment to maximize the use of the EDI funds, in accordance with the purposes of the Act. (1) Distress_(up to 20 points). The level of distress in the immediate community to be served and/or the jurisdiction applying for assistance. This may include factors indicative of distress such as poverty, income, unemployment, drug use, homelessness and other indicators of distress. (2) Extent of need for assistance_(up to 15 points). This may include factors such as: (i) Projects costs and financial requirements. (ii) The amount of any debt service or operating reserve accounts to be established in connection with the economic development project. (iii) The reasonableness of the costs of any credit enhancement paid with EDI grant funds. (iv) The amount of program income (if any) to be received each year during the repayment period for the guaranteed loan. (v) Interest rates on those loans to third parties (other than subrecipients) (either as an absolute rate or as a plus/minus spread to the Section 108 rate). (vi) Underwriting guidelines used (or expected to be used) in determining project feasibility (vii) Other relevant information (3) The extent to which the proposed activities effectively support important National interests_(up to 15 points). These activities include: (i) The provision of jobs for low- and moderate-income individuals with special consideration for participants in any of the following programs: Jobs Training Partnership Act (JTPA), Jobs Opportunities for Basic Skills (JOBS), or Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC); (ii) The provision of jobs for participants in Unemployment Insurance programs; (iii) The provision of jobs for residents of Public and Indian Housing or other assisted housing units; (iv) The provision of jobs for homeless persons; (v) The provision of jobs that provide clear opportunities for promotion for low- and moderate-income individuals, such as through the provision of training; (vi) The establishment, stabilization, or expansion of microenterprises that employ low- and moderate-income individuals; (vii) The stabilization or revitalization of a neighborhood that is predominantly low and moderate income; (viii) The provision of assistance to a community development financial institution whose service area is predominantly low and moderate income; (ix) The provision of assistance to a neighborhood-based nonprofit organization serving a neighborhood that is predominantly low and moderate income;
