FR940318-0-00021 FR940318-0-00004 List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 567 Capital, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations. Accordingly, the Office of Thrift Supervision hereby amends part 567, subchapter D, chapter V, title 12, Code of Federal Regulations as set forth below: SUBCHAPTER D_REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS PART 567_CAPITAL 1. The authority citation for part 567 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1462, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1828 (note). 2. Section 567.1 is amended by revising paragraph (v) to read as follows: §567.1 Definitions. * * * * * (v) Qualifying multifamily mortgage loan. (1) The term qualifying multifamily mortgage loan means a loan secured by a first lien on multifamily residential properties consisting of 5 or more dwelling units, provided that: (i) The amortization of principal and interest occurs over a period of not more than 30 years; (ii) The original minimum maturity for repayment of principal on the loan is not less than seven years; (iii) When considering the loan for placement in a lower risk-weight category, all principal and interest payments have been made on a timely basis in accordance with its terms for the preceding year; (iv) The loan is performing and not 90 days or more past due; (v) The loan is made by the savings association in accordance with prudent underwriting standards; and (vi) If the interest rate on the loan does not change over the term of the loan: (A) The current loan balance amount does not exceed 80 percent of the value of the property securing the loan; and (B) For the property's most recent fiscal year, the ratio of annual net operating income generated by the property (before payment of any debt service on the loan) to annual debt service on the loan is not less than 120 percent, or in the case of cooperative or other not-for-profit housing projects, the property generates sufficient cash flows to provide comparable protection to the institution; or (vii) If the interest rate on the loan changes over the term of the loan: (A) The current loan balance amount does not exceed 75 percent of the value of the property securing the loan; and (B) For the property's most recent fiscal year, the ratio of annual net operating income generated by the property (before payment of any debt service on the loan) to annual debt service on the loan is not less than 115 percent, or in the case of cooperative or other not-for-profit housing projects, the property generates sufficient cash flows to provide comparable protection to the institution. (2) The term qualifying multifamily mortgage loan also includes a multifamily mortgage loan that on March 18, 1994 was a first mortgage loan on an existing property consisting of 5&hyph;36 dwelling units with an initial loan-to-value ratio of not more than 80% where an average annual occupancy rate of 80% or more of total units had existed for at least one year, and continues to meet these criteria. (3) For purposes of paragraphs (v)(1) (vi) to (vii) of this section, the term value of the property means, at origination of a loan to purchase a multifamily property: the lower of the purchase price or the amount of the initial appraisal, or if appropriate, the initial evaluation. In cases not involving purchase of a multifamily loan, the value of the property is determined by the most current appraisal, or if appropriate, the most current evaluation. (4) In cases where a borrower refinances a loan on an existing property, as an alternative to paragraphs (v)(1) (iii) and (vi) to (vii) of this section: (i) All principal and interest payments on the loan being refinanced have been made on a timely basis in accordance with the terms of that loan for the preceding year; and (ii) The net income on the property for the preceding year would support timely principal and interest payments on the new loan in accordance with the applicable debt service requirement. * * * * * 3. Section 567.6 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(C) effective on March 18, 1994 through September 29, 1994, to read as follows: §567.6 Risk-based capital credit risk-weight categories. (a) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (iii) *␣*␣* (C) Non-high-quality mortgage-related securities secured by or representing an interest in qualifying mortgage loans and qualifying multifamily mortgage loans, except for those with residual characteristics or stripped mortgage-related securities. If the security is backed by qualifying multifamily mortgage loans, the institution must receive timely payments of principal and interest in accordance with the terms of the security. Payments will generally be considered timely if they are not 30 days or more past due. * * * * *
