FR940303-2-00117 FR940303-2-00067 After his conviction and as part of his probation, Respondent was enrolled in a drug rehabilitation program and was subjected to random urinalysis from November 1991 until December 1992. None of these random tests revealed drug use. Respondent's probation officer testified that she would recommend discontinuing drug testing for Respondent because he had met the criterion of six months of negative drug tests. In December 1991, the Board investigator received a letter from a medical consultant for the Medical Board, advising that Respondent's case should be referred to the Office of the Attorney General for administrative action against Respondent's medical license. The consultant further stated that he considered Respondent's rehabilitative attempts insufficient to overcome his more than 20 year addiction to drugs. On April 1, 1992, the Medical Board filed an accusation against Respondent, and a supplement thereto was filed on May 26, 1992. The accusation alleged that Respondent was subject to disciplinary action for using, possessing and distributing cocaine. At present, no further action has been taken by the Board. At the hearing in this matter, physicians who have supervised Respondent testified on Respondent's behalf. They testified to Respondent's professionalism and exemplary abilities. Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 824(a)(2), the Administrator may revoke a DEA Certificate of Registration if the registrant has been convicted of a felony relating to controlled substances. Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(f) and 824(a)(4) the Administrator may revoke a registration and deny any application for such registration, if he determines that the continued registration would be inconsistent with the public interest. Section 823(f) requires that the following factors be considered: ``(1) The recommendation of the appropriate State licensing board or professional disciplinary authority. (2) The applicant's experience in dispensing controlled substances. (3) The applicant's conviction record under Federal or State laws relating to the distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances. (4) Compliance with applicable State, Federal, or local laws relating to controlled substances. (5) Such other conduct which may threaten the public health and safety.'' It is well established that these factors are to be considered in the disjunctive, i.e., the Administrator may properly rely on any one or a combination of the factors and give each factor the weight he deems appropriate. See Henry J. Schwarz, Jr., M.D., Docket No. 88&hyph;42, 54 FR 16422 (1989).
