FR940930-0-00081 FR940930-0-00016 III. Discussion of Public Comments We received 42 timely items of correspondence in response to the December 31, 1990 interim final rule. The comments were from professional organizations, State governments, hospitals, consumer organizations, suppliers of mammography equipment, and individual practitioners. Of these 42 items, 30 of them dealt exclusively with the quality standards described in 42 CFR part 494, subpart B, and only 12 of them offered any comments on the other provisions of the interim regulations relating to the payment, coverage frequency, and other provisions. Since we are deleting the quality standards in subpart B and are replacing them with a cross-reference to the applicable FDA requirements, as discussed in section IV. of this preamble, it is no longer necessary to respond in this rule to the comments that were received on those standards. The other comments and our responses to those comments, however, are discussed below. A. Payment Limitations Comment: One commenter suggested that the allocation between the professional and technical components for the screening mammogram should be the same as for a diagnostic mammogram. Response: In the interim final rule (55 FR 53512), we used the same allocation between the two components of a screening mammogram that we had in place under the Medicare radiologist fee schedule for diagnostic mammograms because it was the best information we had available at the time and because of the lack of a persuasive argument that there should be different allocations for the two types of mammograms. In this final rule, we are changing the apportionment between the professional component and the technical component, effective for services furnished beginning January 1, 1995, to reflect the relationship between the relative value units established for a diagnostic bilateral mammogram under the fee schedule for physicians' services for the year in question. We will not include the percentages for the professional component and the technical component in this final rule because the specificity requires a time-consuming rulemaking process when we modify the apportionment. We will announce the apportionment of the payment limits between the two components for 1995, and each year thereafter, at the same time as we announce the statutory payment limit in effect for that year. At this time, we anticipate that the apportionment of the payment limit in 1995 will be 32 percent professional component and 68 percent technical component. Comment: One commenter objected to the discussion in the preamble of the interim final rule (55 FR 53513) of the difficulty rural hospitals have in furnishing the technical component of a screening mammogram within the payment limit because the rural hospitals may have a low volume of services. The commenter believed that, if a hospital and a radiologist entered into an agreement stating that the radiologist would accept a lower amount for the interpretation than Medicare would pay the radiologist directly for the interpretation, the agreement would constitute a ``kickback'' of a portion of the radiologist's fee to the hospital.
