FR941128-0-00017 FR941128-0-00005 4. Part 346 is amended by adding a new subpart D to read as follows: Subpart D_Applications Seeking Approval for Insured State Branches To Conduct Activities Not Permissible for Federal Branches §346.101 Applications. (a) Scope. A foreign bank operating an insured state branch which desires to engage in or continue to engage in any type of activity that is not permissible for a federal branch, pursuant to the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 21 et seq. ) or any other federal statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, or order or interpretation issued in writing by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or which is rendered impermissible due to a subsequent change in statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, written order or interpretation, or decision of a court of competent jurisdiction (each an impermissible activity), shall file a written application for permission to conduct such activity with the FDIC pursuant to this section. An applicant may submit to the FDIC a copy of its application to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board of Governors), provided that such application contains the information described in paragraph (d) of this section. (b) Exceptions. A foreign bank operating an insured state branch which would otherwise be required to submit an application pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will not be required to submit such an application if the activity it desires to engage in or continue to engage in has been determined by the FDIC not to present a significant risk to the affected deposit insurance fund pursuant to 12 CFR Part 362, ``Activities and Investments of Insured State Banks''. (c) Agency activities. A foreign bank operating an insured state branch which would otherwise be required to submit an application pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will not be required to submit such an application if it desires to engage in or continue to engage in an activity conducted as agent which would be a permissible agency activity for a state-chartered bank located in the state in which the state-licensed insured branch of the foreign bank is located and is also permissible for a state-licensed branch of a foreign bank located in that state; provided, however, that the agency activity must be permissible pursuant to any other applicable federal law or regulation. (d) Content of application. An application submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be in letter form and shall contain the following information: (1) A brief description of the activity, including the manner in which it will be conducted and an estimate of the expected dollar volume associated with the activity; (2) An analysis of the impact of the proposed activity on the condition of the United States operations of the foreign bank in general and of the branch in particular, including a copy, if available, of any feasibility study, management plan, financial projections, business plan, or similar document concerning the conduct of the activity; (3) A resolution by the applicant's board of directors or, if a resolution is not required pursuant to the applicant's organizational documents, evidence of approval by senior management authorizing the conduct of such activity and the filing of this application; (4) A statement by the applicant of whether or not it is in compliance with §§346.19 and 346.20, Pledge of Assets and Asset Maintenance, respectively;
