FR940513-0-00156 FR940513-0-00034 Most of the comments that recommended the same disclosures for all lamp types, including general service fluorescent lamps, did so on the basis that purchasers could thereby have enough information to choose among lamps that will most economically meet their lighting needs. 211 Some specifically opposed limiting the disclosure for these lamps to an encircled ``E,'' most contending that this disclosure alone would not provide purchasers with sufficient information to compare competing lamps. 212 Some recommended additional disclosures, such as the effect of different ballasts on lamp operation or color/temperature disclosures. 213 Several favored the inclusion of operating cost information. 214 211 See, e.g. , MN DPS, GG&hyph;9, 1&hyph;2. 212 See MO DNR, GG&hyph;10, 1; US EPA, GG&hyph;17, 2; WA SEO, GG&hyph;18, 3. 213 See LBL, GG&hyph;7, 1 (the effect of different ballasts); OR DOE, GG&hyph;13, 5&hyph;7 (operating temperature and color temperature); WA SEO, GG&hyph;18, 3 (color rendering index and correlated color temperature). 214 See, e.g. , ACEEE, GG&hyph;1, 1; LBL, GG&hyph;7, 1; MO DNR, GG&hyph;10, 1. The comments that recommended limiting disclosure requirements for general service fluorescent lamps to an encircled ``E'' on packages and in catalogs gave several reasons for their position. A principal reason was that the EPA 92 minimum efficiency standards will eliminate all but a few general service fluorescent lamps that are very similar in their energy efficiency characteristics. Those remaining on the market would not necessarily be interchangeable because such lamps are part of a lamp/ballast/fixture system . Accordingly, comparative disclosures for products that are not interchangeable are not necessary. NEMA said that disclosure of lumens per watt for general service fluorescent lamps would not provide a meaningful basis for comparison because lumens-per-watt measurements will not vary significantly among comparable products after the EPA 92 standards take effect. NEMA contended that, after the energy efficiency standards take effect, remaining models of general service fluorescent lamps will differ in light output (for a given nominal wattage) by a very small percentage, if placed in the same lighting system. Only the color of light emitted due to different phosphors would vary, resulting in slight variations in measurements of light output. 215 215 NEMA, G&hyph;3, 14&hyph;16 (``Once the system is set, replacement lamps are picked to match the old lamps and cannot be purchased to increase lamp or system efficiency.''), 25&hyph;26, (Tr.), 321, (Supp.), G&hyph;10, 29&hyph;30. In its initial comment, LRC agreed with NEMA's position, 216 adding later in the Workshop that these lamps are a small part of the residential consumer market, and that any additional savings realized after the efficiency standards went into effect would be minor and would not justify labeling requirements. 217 GE stated that, because consumers do not consider replacing A-line bulbs with general service fluorescent lamps or A-line table lamps with overhead general service fluorescent lamp fixtures, labels disclosing the elements proposed in the NPR by the Commission would be useless on general service fluorescent lamps that meet the efficiency standards. 218 Osram concurred with NEMA's position: 216 LRC, GG&hyph;15, 3. 217 LRC (Tr.), 318. 218 GE, G&hyph;2, 2, 3 (``Labels mandated by the Commission should only be required on products that are interchangeable and should only contain information that facilitates comparisons among those products.''), 6 (contending that lumens, lumens per watt and other energy cost information of the type suggested by the Commission will not encourage energy efficient choices and that such disclosures could mislead consumers by suggesting that (1) fluorescent lamp performance is not dependent on ballasts and fixtures and (2) that all fluorescent lamp types are interchangeable). See GE's detailed explanation of the system-oriented nature of these lamps and how they will be affected by the EPA 92 minimum efficiency standards at Tr., 321&hyph;24 (the chart to which GE refers is found as Exhibit ``G'' to NEMA's supplemental comment (NEMA (Supp.), G&hyph;10, Exhibit ``G.'')). As explained at the Public Workshop, fluorescent lamps are one component of a system whose wattage, light output, and efficiency variations are wide, dependent on the ballast and fixture used, and on the ambient temperature. EPCA removes a number of fluorescent lamps from the marketplace, leaving within interchangeable types a smaller range of efficiency available to the consumer. Of the types that remain, choice is typically by color, either to match the remainder of an installation, or to accord with a consumers preference. Any choice will result in exactly the same energy consumption, since that is controlled by the system. 219 219 Osram (Supp.), G&hyph;11, 4. ACEEE and LBL disagreed with the contention that choice among general service fluorescent lamps of different efficiencies will be eliminated by the EPA 92 minimum efficiency standards. LBL said that there was some interchangeability that could result in a 13% increase in efficacy. 220 It was not clear, however, how often the lamp substitutions described in the comment take place in actual practice. 220 ACEEE (Supp.), GG&hyph;21, 2 (``There are also significant differences between general service fluorescent lamp products meeting the EPAct efficiency standards. For example, 32 watt T8 general service fluorescent lamps have an efficacy of about 91 lumens per watt, approximately 10% better than the 82 lumens per watt of 34 watt T12 cool white lamps.''); LBL (Supp.), GG&hyph;21, 3 (``While these lamps are already regulated under the Energy Policy Act of 1992, there is a range of efficacy available even within each ballast type. While it is true that efficacy varies within a small range for T&hyph;12 lamps, T&hyph;10 lamps, which substitute for T&hyph;12s, have about 13 percent higher lamp efficacy than 34 W T&hyph;12s. It is possible that future technology developments will provide other options that widen the range of efficacy.'') The Commission finds that general service fluorescent lamps are unique among the products considered in this proceeding because they are a separate part of an integrated lighting system consisting of a lamp, an appropriate ballast, and a fixture, or luminaire, in which the lamp and ballast are installed. On balance, the Commission finds that the preponderance of evidence on the record has established that, because these lamps are part of a system, they are not interchangeable with other types of lamps, and are not readily interchangeable with other general service fluorescent lamps that do not match with the ballast and/or the luminaire in the system of which they are a part. Consequently, after the standards become effective, from an energy efficiency point of view, there will not be a meaningful choice among competing products that will fill the purchaser's lighting needs. The Commission concludes, therefore, that a requirement to disclose the basic elements (and/or a supplemental disclosure) on general service fluorescent lamp package labels will not assist purchasers of these products as contemplated by EPA 92.
