FR941221-2-00115 FR941221-2-00078 Wednesday December 21, 1994 Part IV Department of Education Special Studies Program; Notice of Final Priorities and Inviting Applications for New Awards for Fiscal Year 1995 Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 244␣/␣Wednesday, December 21, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Special Studies Program AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of final priorities. SUMMARY: The Secretary announces final priorities for the Special Studies program. The Secretary may use these priorities in Fiscal Year 1995 and subsequent years. The Secretary takes this action to focus Federal assistance on identified needs to improve outcomes for children with disabilities. The final priorities are intended to ensure wide and effective use of program funds. EFFECTIVE DATE: These priorities take effect on January 20, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The name, address, and telephone number of the person at the Department to contact for information on each specific priority is listed under that priority. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Special Studies Program, authorized by section 618 of Part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), as amended, supports studies to evaluate the impact of the IDEA, including efforts to provide a free appropriate public education and early intervention services to infants, toddlers, children and youth with disabilities. The results of these studies must be included in the annual report submitted to the Congress by the Department. Section 618 also authorizes the Secretary to provide technical assistance to participating State agencies in the implementation of the study design, analysis, and reporting procedures. On August 1, 1994, the Secretary published a notice of proposed priorities for this program in the Federal Register (59 FR 39236&hyph;39237). These final priorities support the National Education Goals by improving understanding of how to enable children and youth with disabilities to reach higher levels of academic achievement. The publication of these priorities does not preclude the Secretary from proposing additional priorities, nor does it limit the Secretary to funding only these priorities, subject to meeting applicable rulemaking requirements. Funding of particular projects depends on the availability of funds, and the quality of the applications received. Further, FY 1995 priorities could be affected by enactment of legislation reauthorizing these programs. Note : This notice of final priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under these competitions is published in a separate notice in this issue of the Federal Register .
