FR941003-0-00041 FR941003-0-00013 13. Proposed §314.50(j)(4)(i) contained a typographical error. As originally drafted, the provision interpreted ``new clinical investigations'' as a certification that, to the best of the applicant's knowledge, the clinical investigations included in the application ``meet the definitions of `new' and `clinical investigations' set forth in §314.108(a).'' Proposed section 314.108(a), however, only defined ``new clinical investigation.'' The agency has corrected §314.50(j)(4)(i) to refer to ``new clinical investigation.'' The agency has also replaced the reference to ``the clinical investigations'' with ``each of the clinical investigations.'' This change is intended to clarify that each clinical investigation, as opposed to some clinical investigations, must meet the definition of a ``new clinical investigation'' in §314.108. The agency has also made a minor grammatical change to §314.50(j)(4) to simplify its sentence structure. 14. Proposed §314.50(j)(4)(ii) interpreted the phrase ``essential to approval'' as: A list of all published studies or publicly available reports of clinical investigations known to the applicant through a literature search that are relevant to the conditions for which the applicant is seeking approval, a certification that the applicant has thoroughly searched the scientific literature and, to the best of the applicant's knowledge, the list is complete and accurate and, in the applicant's opinion, such published studies or publicly available reports do not provide a sufficient basis for the approval of the conditions for which the applicant is seeking approval without reference to the new clinical investigation(s) in the application, and an explanation as to why the studies or reports are insufficient. Three comments would revise proposed §314.50(j)(4)(ii) to have FDA declare whether a study is ``essential to approval'' before the applicant begins the study or at the applicant's request. Another comment would consider the agency's rejection of a suitability petition or ANDA as conclusive evidence that studies are ``essential to approval.'' As stated elsewhere in this final rule, determining whether a study is essential for approval before a firm submits an application or even begins the study is not always feasible. Research goals and objectives often change during clinical investigations. Moreover, as stated in the preamble to the proposed rule, one cannot determine what studies will be essential to approval of an application by a review of protocols without knowing what drugs have been approved and what is in the published literature at the time the application is approved. If published reports of investigations, other than those conducted or sponsored by the applicant, are sufficient to approve a drug product, no additional studies would be essential to approval of that drug product as of the date of approval, and no exclusivity would be granted (see 54 FR 28872 at 28900 and 28901). Thus, it is far more practical for FDA to decide whether a study is essential for approval at the time the application is approved. FDA also believes that, if a pivotal study that could form the basis for approval were published by someone other than the applicant after submission but before approval of the application, there would be no exclusivity. The agency also declines to treat its rejection of a suitability petition or ANDA as conclusive evidence that studies are ``essential to approval.'' FDA may refuse to approve a suitability petition or ANDA for a variety of reasons. For example, under 21 CFR 314.93(e)(1)(ii), the agency may not approve a suitability petition that seeks to change an active ingredient if the drug product that is the subject of the petition is not a combination drug. Under 21 CFR 314.127(a), the agency may refuse to approve an ANDA if the methods used in, or the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, processing, and packing of the drug product are inadequate to ensure and preserve its identity, strength, quality, and purity. Thus, the agency's refusal to approve a suitability petition or ANDA does not necessarily mean that studies conducted or sponsored by the applicant are ``essential to approval.'' 15. One comment also interpreted the terms ``scientific literature'' in proposed §314.50(j)(4)(ii) as literature existing at the time the application was submitted. FDA agrees that §314.50(j)(4)(ii) only requires applicants to provide a list of all published studies or publicly available reports of clinical investigations known to the applicant at the time the applicant submits the application. B. Section 314.52_Notice of Certification of Invalidity or Noninfringement of a Patent Proposed §314.52 described the process whereby an applicant would provide notice of certification of invalidity or noninfringement of a patent. Proposed §314.52(a) would have required applicants to provide notice to each patent owner that is the subject of the certification and the holder of the approved application. Proposed §314.52(b) instructed applicants to provide notice after receipt of a letter from FDA stating that the application has been filed. Proposed §314.52(c)(6) specified the content of a notice, including a ``detailed statement of the factual and legal basis of the applicant's opinion that the patent is not valid or will not be infringed.'' Proposed §314.52(d) would have required an applicant who amended its application to contain a patent certification to provide notice of certification of invalidity or noninfringement of a patent. Proposed §314.52(e) would have required applicants to document receipt of notice.
