FR940603-2-00169 FR940603-2-00092 _Identify and select professional, civic and business organizations to disseminate the video through their local, state and regional affiliations; _Identify and select public and cable television networks to air and disseminate copies of the videotape for local, regional, and national viewing; _Develop and implement a strategy for disseminating the video to selected organizations; _Develop a plan to publicize the project and the product nationally through print and electronic media; _Create articles on the requirements of the ADA for publication in media appropriate to target audience; _Develop a plan to evaluate the effectiveness of the project and how the proposed evaluation criteria will indicate to what degree the project succeeded in meeting its stated objectives and reaching the targeted audience; _Develop a plan to disseminate the results of the project. Other Meritorious Projects. The Department also seeks grant applications involving other meritorious projects that offer innovative methods of providing ADA Technical Assistance to entities and individuals with rights and responsibilities under the ADA and professionals who provide services to these groups and may assist them in understanding and complying with the ADA. Only those projects with a clear statement of need and of national scope or significance will be considered. Other Meritorious Projects shall include the following major components: _Statement of need. Applicants should indicate why their project is needed and how they have determined that the issues or topics they intend to address are, in fact, the issues or topics that will best serve the needs of the population for whom the project has been designed. Some populations, for example, may need to be made aware of the ADA and be provided with basic information, while others may be familiar with the basic legal requirements, but need information on how to translate the legal standards into concrete, practical solutions for achieving compliance. Others may need in-depth education on specific aspects of the law; _Description of the target audience by describing such factors as geographic scope, type of population (type of business, type of governmental unit, type of disability, type of professional service offered), or other relevant characteristics. Applicants should also state explicitly the number of people expected to be served in the course of the project's activities; _Specify how the project will reach all parts of the targeted audience, including racial and ethnic minority communities; _Provide a statement of goals and objectives of the project. Applicants should describe in concrete terms what is to be accomplished during the project period. The anticipated impact on voluntary compliance efforts should also be clearly articulated; _Develop a plan to disseminate the materials or results of the project nationwide; _Work with and through established organizations, where possible, to reach the largest segment of the population possible; _Utilize existing Federally-approved materials to the maximum extent possible; _Develop a plan to evaluate the effectiveness of the project and how the proposed evaluation criteria will indicate to what degree the project succeeded in meeting its stated objectives and reaching the targeted audience. Selection Criteria Applicants will be evaluated in each of the following four selection criteria areas for a total of 100 points: Project Strategy and Plan of Action (50 Points) Applicants must demonstrate a thorough understanding of the grant proposal priority, including the background, intended audience and intended approach. Applicants applying under the Other Meritorious Project category must demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of the target audience and their specific needs. Project goals and expected outcomes should be clearly articulated. Clarity, quality, and appropriateness of the plans, methodologies, and procedures to achieve the goals listed in the application will be carefully considered. Plan of action must be sound and well-reasoned, with evidence of the ability to implement plan immediately and complete the project in a timely manner. Applicants must demonstrate the ability to produce and/or disseminate information and materials within the period of performance. Project strategy must include a clear plan for objectively evaluating the effectiveness of the project, as described in the General Requirements for Grant Recipients section of this solicitation.
