FR941017-2-00063 FR941017-2-00046 Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of Revised Recovery Action Plan for the Recovery Implementation Program for Endangered Fish Species in the Upper Colorado River Basin AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability of the revised Recovery Implementation Program Recovery Action Plan (RIPRAP) dated September 8, 1994. The RIPRAP identifies specific actions and timeframes currently believed to be necessary to recover the endangered fish in the most expeditious manner possible in the Upper Colorado River Basin (Upper Basin). The REPRAP serves as a measure of accomplishment so that the Recovery Implementation Program for Endangered Fish Species in the Upper Colorado River Basin (Recovery Program) can continue to serve as the reasonable and prudent alternative to avoid the likelihood of jeopardy to the continued existence of the endangered fish for projects undergoing section 7 consultations. A final rule designating critical habitat for the endangered fish was published on March 24, 1994 (59 FR 13374). The Recovery Program also is intended to serve as the reasonable and prudent alternative to avoid the likely destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. Modifications were made to the RIPRAP so that the Recovery Program can fulfill that intent. A notice of availability of the draft modifications to the RIPRAP was published in 59 FR 31620, June 20, 1994. Public comment was considered and the modifications were finalized by the Service in coordination with the Recovery Program's Management and Implementation committees. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to receive a copy of the revised RIPRAP may contact the Assistant Regional Director_Ecological Services, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, P.O. Box 25486, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colorado 80225; FAX 303/236&hyph;0027. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. John Hamill (see ADDRESSES above), at telephone 303/236&hyph;2985. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Four native fish species that inhabit the Colorado River Basin are federally listed as endangered: the Colorado squawfish ( Ptychocheilus lucius ), humpback chub ( Gila cypha ), bonytail ( Gila elegans ), and razorback sucker ( Xyrauchen texanus ). Each was once abundant in the Upper Basin; however, they have declined in numbers and now are threatened with extinction from their natural habitat due to direct loss of habitat, changes in water flow and temperature regimes, blockage of migration routes, and interactions with introduced (nonnative) fish species. In 1988, the Governors of Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Administrator of the Western Area Power Administration entered into a cooperative agreement to implement the Recovery Program. The purpose of the Recovery Program is to recover the four endangered fish in the Upper Basin while providing for future water development to proceed in compliance with the Endangered Species Act, Interstate Compacts, and State law. The Upper Basin is defined as the Colorado River drainage upstream of Lake Powell, with the exception of the San Juan River drainage. The Recovery Program includes procedures for section 7 consultations. In 1992, the Service raised an issue with Recovery Program participants as to whether progress toward recovery of the fish has been sufficient to allow for continued issuance of favorable biological opinions. Discussions among Recovery Program participants resulted in an agreement, finalized on October 15, 1993, that clarified how section 7 consultations would be conducted in the Upper Basin on depletion impacts related to new projects and impacts associated with historic projects (existing projects requiring a new Federal action), with the exception of the discharge by historic projects of pollutants such as trace elements, heavy metals, and pesticides. The RIPRAP was developed by Recovery Program participants in support of the section 7 agreement using the best information available and the recovery goals established for the four endangered fish species. It identifies specific actions and timeframes currently believed to be required to recover the endangered fish in the most expeditious manner possible in the Upper Basin. The RIPRAP serves as a measure of accomplishment so that the Recovery Program can continue to serve as the reasonable and prudent alternative to avoid the likelihood of jeopardy to the continued existence of the endangered fish for projects undergoing section 7 consultation. The Recovery Program also is intended to serve as the reasonable and prudent alternative which avoids the likely destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. The modifications in the revised RIPRAP are designed to fulfill such intent. The modifications were not extensive and are primarily intended to provide further definition to actions already identified in the RIPRAP and to provide increased certainty that the Recovery Program can continue to serve as the reasonable and prudent alternative for projects subject to section 7 consultation. National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) A programmatic Environmental Assessment was completed on the Recovery Program in November 1987. The Environmental Assessment provides an analysis and assessment of the impacts to the environment from Recovery Program implementation. The October 1993 Agreement and RIPRAP, including the modifications, identify in more detail how the Recovery Program will be carried out. Appropriate site-specific NEPA compliance will be conducted on specific actions identified in the RIPRAP. Author This notice was prepared by John Hamill, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, P.O. Box 25486, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colorado 80225. Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ). Dated: October 6, 1994. Terry T. Terrell, Acting Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25580 Filed 10&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
