FR941110-0-00226 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We do not believe that the current survey materials are subject to the notice and comment procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act. As a result of OBRA '87, the Medicare and Medicaid law and regulations now contain comprehensive, detailed criteria for assessing the quality of care provided to Medicare and Medicaid residents, as well as the standards and methodology for determining deficiencies. The survey forms, procedures and guidelines merely enable surveyors to certify whether facilities are, in fact, complying with these binding statutory and regulatory requirements. These materials do not, in any way, add to or change these requirements and thus cannot be characterized as ``substantive'' rules; rather, they are a mixture of ``interpretive rules,'' ``general statements of policy,'' and ``rules of agency procedure'' within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(A) which excludes such rules from the notice and comment requirements. Comment: In the course of reviewing comments, it became apparent that many commenters associated the use of scope and severity scales to determine deficiencies with results that do not depend on using scope and severity scales in this way. Many commenters were concerned that surveyors would not investigate extenuating circumstances surrounding violations of requirements unless they were required to use scope and severity scales for determining deficiencies. Response: This is not the case. The surveyor guidelines provide surveyors with a consistent structure to evaluate situations and analyze information prior to making compliance decisions. One such evaluation that surveyors are directed to make under certain requirements is the assessment of a facility's responsibility for a certain situation. For example, survey guidelines list situations where pressure sores may be unavoidable and aid surveyors in determining whether a resident's pressure sore was preventable or not. This type of guidance is provided for many of the resident-centered requirements. In addition, surveyor training courses stress ways to arrive at consistent and accurate conclusions as to facility responsibility. Comment: A number of commenters requested that we require surveyors to consider, when identifying deficiencies, whether or not the facility identified a violation before the survey and attempted to correct it. Response: We believe that it would be inappropriate to ignore a failure to prevent a negative outcome, but the regulation does allow the competence that the facility demonstrated by identifying and addressing the deficiency on its own initiative to be considered when enforcement action is selected. Comment: Certain commenters asked that we direct surveyors to determine whether a negative outcome is the result of a resident's refusal of treatment, which is a resident's right. Response: Whenever there appears to be a conflict between a resident's right and the resident's health or safety, we do direct the surveyor in the guidance to surveyors to determine if the facility attempted to accommodate both the exercise of the resident's right and the resident's health, including exploration of care alternatives through a thorough planning process in which the resident may participate. Comment: An additional factor that commenters believed surveyors should take into consideration when determining deficiencies is whether the noncompliance occurred because the facility was following a physician's orders. Response: We cannot allow this to be considered in the deficiency determination. The facility is accountable for providing to the resident the medical services to which he or she is entitled as a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary, and it is the facility's responsibility to ensure that the services provided by physicians will satisfy the facility's obligations under the Act and regulations. The statute specifically contemplates a relationship between a facility and either the Secretary or the State in which the facility, in exchange for certification and payments for the care of program beneficiaries, commits to provide care in a manner consistent with statutory requirements. A facility cannot excuse itself from this obligation by deferring responsibility to an individual (the physician) with whom neither the State nor the Secretary has any statutory relationship for the purpose of maintaining compliance with facility health and safety standards. Comment: Many commenters were also very concerned that we correlate the stringency of the enforcement action with the seriousness of the deficiency. Response: It is not necessary to use scope and severity scales when determining deficiencies to ensure this result. We establish criteria for determining remedies in ยง488.408, Selection of remedies, and we link infractions with specific categories of remedial action. Under this scheme, a facility with a single deficiency that caused no harm is not treated the same as a facility with on-going, widespread problems that threaten resident lives. Comment: Certain commenters requested that we give facilities with a good history of patient care the opportunity to correct occasional isolated problems before the end of the survey so as to avoid deficiency citations for these problems.
