FR940722-0-00079 FR940722-0-00018 Comment: Several commenters expressed concern about the requirement that each State implement a program of RD&T activities for planning, design, construction, and maintenance of highways, public transportation, and intermodal transportation systems. The concerns were that the budgets for the smaller States are not sufficient to support activities in all of these areas; the FHWA is requiring the States to set up separate groups of funding for highway, transit, and intermodal research; and the term ``program of RD&T activities'' is not defined. Response: The ISTEA allows the use of FHWA planning and research funds for RD&T activities noted in §420.207. The regulation reflects the types of activities that may be conducted, but does not mandate that particular types be conducted. Each State is to develop a program that addresses its highest priority transportation research needs. The priorities will vary from State to State depending on such factors as the size of the State, its population, and the size and number of urban areas. This regulation does not establish separate groups of funds for highway, transit, or intermodal research. Comment: One commenter stated that the conditions for grant approval appear to require more paperwork than currently required. Response: Initially, for some States, it may require additional effort to document the State's RD&T management process. Once the management process has been documented and approved by the FHWA the amount of paperwork between the State and the FHWA should be reduced substantially. Paperwork on individual RD&T activities essentially will be eliminated. Comment: One commenter was concerned that without additional explanation each FHWA Division Office would have a different interpretation of the requirement that a State have procedures to determine the effectiveness of its RD&T program. Response: Guidelines for implementing subpart B are being developed. These guidelines will expand on the requirements in §420.207. As a minimum, a State should develop a follow-up procedure to determine if the RD&T results have been incorporated into the State's standard plans, specifications, practices, or procedures. A more detailed process could involve benefit/cost ratios or other effectiveness measures. Comment: One commenter stated that to list individual studies in the work program reduced the State's ability to be responsive to research needs as they arise during the year. According to the commenter this will cause a delay in the start of new research by having to wait for the next program approval or for approval of an amended program. Response: A listing of individual studies in the work program is necessary for the FHWA Division Office to determine if the items are eligible for FHWA planning and research funds. Addition or deletion of individual studies is a programmatic change that requires prior FHWA approval. Such prior approval may be waived by the FHWA division office; however, the total FHWA planning and research funds authorized for the work program cannot be exceeded without FHWA prior authorization. It is anticipated that once a State has demonstrated that it has an adequate RD&T management process that meets the requirements of this rule, the FHWA Division Office would consider a request for waiver of prior approval of programmatic changes in the work program. Section-by-Section Analysis Section 420.201␣Purpose and Applicability This section states the purpose of subpart B. It indicates that the requirements are applicable to RD&T activities performed by the States and their subrecipients with FHWA planning and research funds. It references the provisions of subpart A. This section is unchanged from that proposed in the NPRM. Section 420.203␣Definitions This section includes the definitions in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) and subpart A and provides additional definitions for terms used in this subpart. Several commenters stated that the definition of ``peer review'' in the NPRM could be misinterpreted to require participation of representatives of specific organizations listed in the definition and that the definition should be revised to clearly state what is intended. The definition has been revised to indicate that a ``peer review'' is a review of a State's RD&T program conducted by persons who are knowledgeable in RD&T management and operation and to clarify that the peer review team may include, and is not limited to, representatives of another State, the FHWA, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, the Transportation Research Board, universities, or the private sector. Commenters suggested that definitions of the terms ``RD&T activity'' and ``intermodal RD&T'' be included to provide an indication of individual or categories of activities that are included in these terms that are used in other sections of the rule.
