FR941104-2-00116 FR941104-2-00066 In the event that JCP&L Capital is required by applicable tax laws to withhold or deduct certain amounts in connection with distributions or other payments, JCP&L Capital may also have the obligation, if the Preferred Securities are not redeemed or Subordinated Debentures are not distributed to the holders, to ``gross up'' such payments so that the holders of the Preferred Securities will receive the same payment after such withholding or deduction as they would have received if no such withholding or deduction were required. In the latter event, JCP&L's obligations under the Subordinated Debentures and the Guarantees would also cover any such ``gross up'' obligations. JCP&L expects to apply the net proceeds from the sale of Subordinated Debentures to JCP&L Capital, to the repayment of outstanding short-term debt, for construction purposes, and for other general corporate purposes, including the redemption of outstanding senior securities pursuant to their optional redemption provisions. JCP&L represents that it will not so redeem such outstanding securities unless the estimated present value savings derived from the difference between interest or dividend payments on a new issue of comparable securities and those securities refunded is on an after-tax basis greater than the estimated present value of all redemption, tendering and issuing costs, assuming an appropriate discount rate. Such discount rate will be based on meeting JCP&L's long-term capital structure goals, with appropriate adjustments for income taxes. JCP&L will not use any of the net proceeds from the sale of Subordinated Debentures to acquire, either directly or indirectly, any interest in any exempt wholesale generators (``EWG'') or foreign utility companies (``FUCO''), as those terms are defined in Sections 32 and 33 of the Act, respectively. New England Electric System (70&hyph;8497) New England Electric System (``NEES''), 25 Research Drive, Westborough, Massachusetts 01582, a registered holding company, has filed a declaration under Section 12(b) of the Act and Rule 45 thereunder. By orders dated December 11, 1992 and June 18, 1993 (HCAR Nos. 25701 and 25832, respectively), NEES was granted the authority to make capital contributions to its wholly owned electric-utility subsidiaries through December 31, 1994. NEES now proposes to make, from time to time from January 1, 1995 through December 31, 1996, one or more capital contributions to New England Power Company (``NEP''), Massachusetts Electric Company (``Mass. Electric''), The Narragansett Electric Company (``Narragansett''), and Granite State Electric Company (``Granite''), each a wholly owned electric-utility subsidiary of NEES. Such capital contributions shall not exceed an aggregate of $50 million each for NEP, Mass. Electric and Narragansett, and $3 million for Granite. NEP, Mass. Electric, Narragansett and Granite will credit their capital contributions to ``Other Paid-In Capital,'' and NEES will record such capital contributions as ``Investments in Subsidiaries, Consolidated.'' NEES will obtain the funds for such capital contributions from dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, repayment of notes from subsidiaries or through short-term borrowings. NEP, Mass, Electric, Narragansett and Granite will apply the funds received from the capital contributions toward the cost of, or the reimbursement of the treasury for, or the payment of short-term borrowings incurred for, retirement of outstanding general and refunding and first mortgage bonds and preferred stock, capitalizable additions and improvements to plant and property or other corporate purposes. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27384 Filed 11&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
