FR940711-2-00111 FR940711-2-00049 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Employment and Training Administration Job Training Partnership Act; Title II&hyph;A, Title II&hyph;C, Title III, and Section 204(d) Performance Standards for Program Years (PY) 1994 and 1995 AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of performance standards for PY 1994&hyph;95. SUMMARY: The Department of Labor is announcing performance standards for Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) Title II&hyph;A (Adult Training), Title II&hyph;C (Youth Training), Title III (Dislocated Workers Training), and section 204 (Older Workers Training) for Program Years (PY) 1994&hyph;95 (July 1, 1994&hyph;June 30, 1996). The proposed issuance appended to this notice contains revised performance standards levels and implementation instructions to conform the Title II performance management system with the Job Training Reform Amendments of 1992. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Steven Aaronson, Chief, Adult and Youth Standards Unit, Telephone (202) 219&hyph;5487, extension 107 (this is not a toll-free number). PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT: Information collection related to this regulation has been approved previously by the Office of Management and Budget, No. 1205&hyph;0321. No further information collections or other paperwork requirements of the public are needed. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under section 106 of the amended Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA), the Secretary of Labor is required to set performance standards for programs serving: (1) adults and youth under Title II&hyph;A and Title II&hyph;C; (2) dislocated workers under Title III; and (3) older workers under section 204(d). The Job Training Reform Amendments of 1992 (Amendments) also introduced significant changes in the way job training programs are designed and operated at the local levels. These statutory changes, combined with recent legislative and administrative initiatives to promote high-quality, results-driven, customer-oriented services throughout the Federal Government, are not only reshaping the way JTPA delivers its services, but also how to measure its effectiveness. National job training objectives have remained unchanged since 1990 and focus on enhancing the long-term employability and economic self-sufficiency of those most at risk of becoming or remaining unemployed. Current measures of the program's progress in achieving these objectives relate directly to near-term employment and earnings levels of adult program completers and levels of employment and skill enhancements of youth program completers. These outcomes do not, by themselves, measure the quality of the services received or the extent to which the program is able to improve upon participants' prior employment, earnings and welfare dependency. For this reason, the Department will be undertaking a comprehensive review of its performance standards over the next year to examine alternative program measures and more cost efficient ways of assessing the program's long-term effects on its graduates. Ongoing surveys of JTPA's customers will also provide invaluable feedback on how helpful JTPA services are to its users, what other services are needed but not provided by the program, and the extent to which good outcomes are related to levels of customer satisfaction. Finally, the Employment and Training Administration will initiate a nationwide JTPA Report Card that will highlight programs showing the greatest returns on their human resource investments in terms of obtaining high-quality employment for those participants most at-risk of failure. Outcome measures for Title II&hyph;A and C will be retained until this performance standards review is completed. Numerical levels for these core standards have been updated to reflect the most recent JTPA program experience.
