FR940217-2-00059 FR940217-2-00031 Special Concerns The MCHB places special emphasis on improving service delivery to children from culturally identifiable populations who have been disproportionately affected by barriers to accessible care. This means that EMSC projects are expected to serve and appropriately involve in project activities members of ethnoculturally distinct groups, unless there are compelling programmatic or other justifications for not doing so. The MCHB's intent is to ensure that project outcomes are of benefit to culturally distinct populations and to ensure that the broadest possible representation of culturally distinct and historically underrepresented groups is supported through programs and projects sponsored by the MCHB. This same special emphasis applies to improving service delivery to children with special health care needs. Project Review and Funding The Department will review applications in the preceding funding categories as competing applications and will fund those which, in the Department's view, are consistent with the statutory purpose of the program, with particular attention to children from culturally distinct populations and children with special health care needs; and that best meet the purposes of the EMSC program and address achievement of applicable Healthy People 2000 objectives related to emergency medical services and trauma systems. Review Criteria The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria: •For Category (1) State Planning Grants _Evidence of the State's commitment to improve pediatric emergency care services and to continue with EMSC program implementation. _The adequacy of the applicant's proposed method to identify problems and conduct a needs assessment. _Evidence of the applicant's understanding of obstacles to EMSC activity in the past, and the completeness of proposed strategies to overcome these obstacles. _The adequacy of the applicant's proposed planning process for improving EMSC. _The soundness of the methods the applicant will use to: (1) Recruit, select and assemble appropriate participants, including minorities, with demonstrated expertise and experience in EMS; trauma systems; child health issues; and emergency care for children; and (2) obtain input from potential consumers of a State EMSC plan. _Reasonableness of the proposed budget, soundness of the arrangements for fiscal management, effectiveness of use of personnel, and likelihood of project completion within the proposed grant period. •For Categories (2) and (3) State Systems and Targeted Issues Grants _The adequacy of the applicant's understanding of the problem of pediatric trauma and critical illness in the grant locale, including the special problems of (a) children with special health care needs (CSHCN) and their families; and (b) minority children and families (including Native Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Alaska Natives). _The appropriateness of project objectives and outcomes in relation to the specific nature of the problems identified by the applicant. _In relation to the state of the art, the soundness, appropriateness, comprehensiveness, cost effectiveness, and responsiveness of the proposed methodology for achieving project goals and outcome objectives.
