FR940406-2-00116 FR940406-2-00068 [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;445 and 50&hyph;446] Texas Utilities Electric Co.; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an exemption from the requirements of 10 CFR 50.71(e)(3)(i) to Texas Utilities Electric Company (the licensee) for the Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, located in Somervell County, Texas. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action Section 50.71(e)(3)(i) of title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations requires the licensees of nuclear power reactors to submit an Updated Final Safety Analysis Report (UFSAR). The UFSAR is defined as ``a revision of the original FSAR [Final Safety Analysis Report] containing those original pages that are still applicable plus new replacement pages.'' By letter dated October 14, 1993, the licensee requested an exemption from 10 CFR 50.71(e) that would eliminate the requirement to resubmit those original pages of the FSAR that are still applicable when submitting the UFSAR. The licensee has maintained the FSAR current since the original FSAR submittal in 1978 to the present by issuing amendments to the FSAR, which contain new replacement pages, approximately every three months. The licensee has committed to maintain the FSAR using this process until the issuance of the UFSAR. The final amendment to the FSAR, containing only replacement pages, would convert the FSAR to the UFSAR. The amendment to convert the FSAR to the UFSAR would be submitted by February 2, 1995. The Need for the Proposed Action Section 50.71(e) requires that licensee submit, within two years of receiving an operating license, a UFSAR that contains the original FSAR pages that are still applicable and new replacement pages. The purpose of this requirement is to assure that the Final Safety Analysis Report is updated to contain the latest material developed. The Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station FSAR is approximately 7,500 to 8,000 pages of text and tables, and 1,500 to 2,000 sheets of figures. As the licensee has maintained the FSAR current by frequent amendments, the vast majority of this material does not require revision and the number of new replacement pages associated with the UFSAR submittal would be relatively small. Thus, the CPSES FSAR meets the intent of 10 CFR 50.71(e) for issuance of the UFSAR because it contains the latest material developed. Therefore, an exemption is warranted since the licensee has maintained the FSAR in a manner that is consistent with the underlying purpose of issuing the UFSAR in accordance with 10 CFR 50.71(e). Environmental Impact of the Proposed Action The proposed exemption affects only the size of the UFSAR submittal and does not affect the risk of facility accidents. Thus, post-accident radiological releases will not differ from those determined previously, and the proposed exemption does not otherwise affect facility radiological effluents, or any significant occupational exposures. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed exemption does not affect plant nonradiological effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no measurable radiological or nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed exemption. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed exemption, any alternatives either will have no environmental impact or will have a greater environmental impact. The principal alternative to the exemption would be to require that the licensee submit the original FSAR pages that are still applicable with the UFSAR replacement pages. Such an action would not enhance the protection of the environment. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not considered previously in the Final Environmental Statement for Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station, Units 1 and 2, dated September 1981, and Supplement dated October 1989. Agencies and Persons Contacted The NRC staff reviewed the licensee's request. The staff consulted with the State of Texas regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. On the basis of the environmental assessment, we conclude that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For further details with respect to the proposed action, see the licensee's letter dated October 14, 1993, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555 and at the University of Texas at Arlington Library, Government Publications/Maps, 701 South Cooper, P.O. Box 19297, Arlington, Texas 76019. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 30th day of March 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Lawrence E. Kokajko, Acting Director, Project Directorate IV&hyph;2, Division of Reactor Projects III/IV/V, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8182 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
