FR941206-0-00180 FR941206-0-00019 (iii) A process that removes or destroys the organics contained in the hazardous waste to a level such that the actual organic mass removal rate (MR) for the process is greater than the required organic mass removal rate (RMR) established for the process. The required organic mass removal rate and the actual organic mass removal rate for the process shall be determined using the procedures specified in §264.1083(b) of this subpart. (iv) A biological process that destroys or degrades the organics contained in the hazardous waste, such that either of the following conditions is met: (A) The organic reduction efficiency (R) for the process is equal to or greater than 95 percent, and the organic biodegradation efficiency (R bio ) for the process is equal to or greater than 95 percent. The organic reduction efficiency and the organic biodegradation efficiency for the process shall be determined in accordance with the procedures specified in §264.1083(b) of this subpart. (B) The total actual organic mass biodegradation rate (MR bio ) for all hazardous waste treated by the process is equal to or greater than the required organic mass removal rate (RMR). The required organic mass removal rate and the actual organic mass biodegradation rate for the process shall be determined using the procedures specified in §264.1083(b) of this subpart. (v) A process that removes or destroys the organics contained in the hazardous waste and meets all of the following conditions: (A) All of the materials entering the process are hazardous wastes. (B) From the point of waste origination through the point where the hazardous waste enters the process, the hazardous waste is continuously managed in waste management units which use air emission controls in accordance with the standards specified in §§264.1084 through 264.1087 of this subpart, as applicable to the waste management unit. (C) The average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment is less than the lowest average VO concentration at the point of waste origination determined for each of the individual hazardous waste streams entering the process or 100 ppmw, whichever value is lower. The average VO concentration of each individual hazardous waste stream at the point of waste origination shall be determined using the procedure specified in §264.1083(a) of this subpart. The average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment shall be determined using the procedure specified in §264.1083(b) of this subpart. (vi) A hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has either: (A) Been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270, and designs and operates the unit in accordance with the requirements of subpart O of this part; or (B) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O. (vii) A boiler or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator has either: (A) Been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270, and designs and operates the unit in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, or (B) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H. (d) When a process is used for the purpose of treating a hazardous waste to meet one of the sets of conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(v) of this section, each material removed from or exiting the process that is not a hazardous waste but has an average VO concentration equal to or greater than 100 ppmw shall be managed in a waste management unit in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. (e) The Regional Administrator may at any time perform or request that the owner or operator perform a waste determination for a hazardous waste managed in a tank, surface impoundment, or container exempted from using air emission controls under the provisions of this section as follows: (1) The waste determination for average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination shall be performed using direct measurement in accordance with the applicable requirements of §264.1083(a) of this subpart. The waste determination for a hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment shall be performed in accordance with the applicable requirements of §264.1083(b) of this subpart. (2) In a case when the owner or operator is requested to perform the waste determination, the Regional Administrator may elect to have an authorized representative observe the collection of the hazardous waste samples used for the analysis. (3) In a case when the results of the waste determination performed or requested by the Regional Administrator do not agree with the results of a waste determination performed by the owner or operator using knowledge of the waste, then the results of the waste determination performed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be used to establish compliance with the requirements of this subpart. (4) In a case when the owner or operator has used an averaging period greater than 1 hour for determining the average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination, the Regional Administrator may elect to establish compliance with this subpart by performing or requesting that the owner or operator perform a waste determination using direct measurement based on waste samples collected within a 1-hour period as follows: (i) The average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste origination shall be determined by direct measurement in accordance with the requirements of §264.1083(a) of this subpart. (ii) Results of the waste determination performed or requested by the Regional Administrator showing that the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste origination is equal to or greater than 100 ppmw shall constitute noncompliance with this subpart except in a case as provided for in paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section. (iii) For the case when the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste origination previously has been determined by the owner or operator using an averaging period greater than 1 hour to be less than 100 ppmw but because of normal operating process variations the VO concentration of the hazardous waste determined by direct measurement for any given 1-hour period may be equal to or greater than 100 ppmw, information that was used by the owner or operator to determine the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste (e.g., test results, measurements, calculations, and other documentation) and recorded in the facility records in accordance with the requirements of §264.1083(a) and §264.1089 of this subpart shall be considered by the Regional Administrator together with the results of the waste determination performed or requested by the Regional Administrator in establishing compliance with this subpart. §264.1083 Waste determination procedures. (a) Waste determination procedure for average volatile organic (VO) concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination. (1) An owner or operator shall determine the average VO concentration at the point of waste origination for each hazardous waste placed in waste management units exempted under the provisions of §264.1082(c)(1) of this subpart from using air emission controls in accordance with standards specified in §264.1084 through §264.1087 of this subpart, as applicable to the waste management unit.
