FR940524-1-00053 FR940524-1-00010 §84.72 Breathing tubes; minimum requirements. Flexible breathing tubes used in conjunction with breathing apparatus shall be designed and constructed to prevent: (a) Restriction of free head movement; (b) Disturbance of the fit of facepieces and mouthpieces; (c) Interference with the wearer's activities; and (d) Shutoff of airflow due to kinking, or from chin or arm pressure. §84.73 Harnesses; installation and construction; minimum requirements. (a) Each apparatus shall, where necessary, be equipped with a suitable harness designed and constructed to hold the components of the apparatus in position against the wearer's body. (b) Harnesses shall be designed and constructed to permit easy removal and replacement of apparatus parts and, where applicable, provide for holding a full facepiece in the ready position when not in use. §84.74 Apparatus containers; minimum requirements. (a) Apparatus may be equipped with a substantial, durable container bearing markings which show the applicant's name, the type and commercial designation of the respirator it contains, and all appropriate approval labels. (b) Containers supplied by the applicant for carrying or storing self-contained breathing apparatus will be inspected, examined, and tested as components of the respirator for which approval is sought. (c) Containers for self-contained breathing apparatus shall be designed and constructed to permit easy removal of the apparatus. §84.75 Half-mask facepieces, full facepieces, mouthpieces; fit; minimum requirements. (a) Half-mask facepieces and full facepieces shall be designed and constructed to fit persons with various facial shapes and sizes, either: (1) By providing more than one facepiece size; or (2) By providing one facepiece size which will fit varying facial shapes and sizes. (b) Full facepieces shall provide for the optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses which shall not reduce the respiratory protective qualities of the apparatus. (c) Apparatus with mouthpieces shall be equipped with noseclips which are securely attached to the mouthpiece or apparatus and provide an airtight seal. (d) Facepieces shall be designed to prevent eyepiece, spectacle, and lens fogging. §84.76 Facepieces; eyepieces; minimum requirements. (a) Facepieces shall be designed and constructed to provide adequate vision which is not distorted by the eyepiece. (b) All eyepieces shall be designed and constructed to meet the impact and penetration requirements specified in Federal Specification, Mask, Air Line, and Respirator, Air Filtering, Industrial, GGG&hyph;M&hyph;125d, October 11, 1965. This Federal Specification is available from the Government Printing Office or the General Services Administration.
