FR941222-1-00079 FR941222-1-00008 Reduce the Likelihood and Severity of Accidents An important component of the Subtitle C system for both generators and permitted treatment, storage and disposal facilities is the need to establish waste analysis plans, contingency plans, emergency procedures, inspection programs, construction quality assurance and personnel training programs. In addition, permitted facilities also must have in place inspection programs and location standards. The costs of these programs have been included in the cost analysis, but the benefits are difficult to quantify. These Subtitle C programs may reduce risk to workers and nearby populations by reducing the chance of contaminant releases, accidental exposures, and catastrophic failures. In the event that accidents occur, these Subtitle C provisions increase the likelihood of quick action and ensure protection of human health and the environment. There are other programs that require similar planning ( e.g., OSHA, Section 112(r) of the Clean Air Act) and indirectly affect hazardous waste handling; RCRA regulatory provisions deal directly with accident prevention standards associated with the handling of hazardous wastes. Promote Facility-Wide Remedial Programs Those facilities that choose to obtain Part B permits for the treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes will have the responsibility of ensuring that adequate corrective action programs are in place to control releases from all solid waste management units. The cost analysis included an evaluation of the cost of facility-wide corrective action while the risk assessment focused only on the risks associated with hazardous waste management units. Although difficult to quantify, there are risk-reduction benefits associated with the cleanup of releases from the solid waste management units in addition to those benefits associated with the handling of listed waste. Financial Assurance To Insure Protective Closure of Waste Management Units Permitted facilities are required to support financial mechanisms which ensure that adequate funds are available to close hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal units in a manner that ensures long-term protection of human health and the environment. The costs of those financial assurance requirements have been included in the cost analysis; however, the benefits are difficult to quantify. Financial assurance has the benefit of insuring that owners and operators of hazardous waste facilities have sufficient financial resources to close their facilities in an environmentally-protective manner. Increase Public Participation and Improve Information Availability The Subtitle C system has the benefit of providing the information needed to empower local communities and waste managers, those most affected by and able to improve substandard waste management practices. The public participation provisions of the Subtitle C system ensure that information is provided to stakeholders regarding the risks to human health and the environment of a new or expanding waste management facility. Biennial reporting, required of all large quantity generators of hazardous waste, allows for more informed waste management decisions and capacity management. Finally, the manifest system, which is used to track the movement of wastes, ensures protective handling of hazardous wastes as they move in commerce. IX. Executive Order 12866 Executive Order 12866 requires that regulatory agencies determine whether a new regulation constitutes a significant regulatory action. A significant regulatory action is defined as an action likely to result in a rule that may: •Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or state, local, or tribal governments or communities; •Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; •Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or •Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. EPA estimated the costs of the proposed listings and evaluated the other factors above to determine if this proposed rule making would be a major regulation as defined by the Executive Order. Today's proposed rule is estimated to have an annualized incremental cost of less than $19 million. Based on EPA's analysis of the other factors, today's proposed rule is considered a significant regulatory action because of the novel policy issues contained herein. As a significant regulatory action, it has been submitted to and reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. X. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) of 1980 requires Federal agencies to consider ``small entities'' throughout the regulatory process. Section 603 of the RFA requires an initial screening analysis to be performed to determine whether small entities will be affected by the regulation. If affected small entities are identified, regulatory alternatives that mitigate the potential impacts must be considered. Small entities as described in the Act are only those ``businesses, organizations and governmental jurisdictions subject to regulation.''
