FR940524-2-00128 FR940524-2-00067 V. Rating Panels A. Rating Panels 1. General The Rating Panel(s) shall ensure that all category 4 applications have been properly determined to be threshold-approvable. The Rating Panel(s) shall compile data furnished by Field Offices for category 4 (other) applications, and rate each application based on Field Office analyses, comments, and recommendations. A list of rated applications shall be forwarded to Headquarters, with copies of Field Office reviews and recommendations, and justifications for Rating Panel rankings. Headquarters shall not modify ratings of category 4 (``other'') applications unless a gross error has occurred. Examples of ``gross errors'' include, but are not limited to, errors in calculating the vacancy rate in the proposed community, or assigning points for development/management experience based on a PHMAP score that was successfully appealed, or simple errors of arithmetic. Changes in ratings shall be fully documented, and a copy of the memorandum authorizing the change (and the basis thereof) shall be sent to the Rating Panel and to the Field Office for inclusion in the file and be made available for public inspection. Category 4 applications shall be approved within Areas, to the extent fair share funds are assigned, as follows: 2. ``Tight Market'' Determination Headquarters will separate ``other'' applications (category 4) on the basis of ``tight rental housing market'' and Rating Panel ratings and Headquarters rankings, and approve them (in the following order) to the extent fair share funds are assigned to their respective Area: a. Applications within the same Area in tight rental housing markets which receive 80 or more rating points; b. All other applications in the same Area, in rank order, depending on ``metropolitan'' or ``non-metropolitan'' funding available. B. Reservation of Funds Funds will be reserved in an amount equal to the total development cost limit for the number, structure type, and size of units being approved, ``trended'' to take into consideration the anticipated cost of construction at the time the construction/rehabilitation contract is expected to be executed; acquisition reservations will be trended to take into account anticipated cost variations between fund reservation and Date of Full Availability (DOFA). The trend shall be calculated by multiplying the project total development cost limit by 6 percent (1.06), rounded to the nearest $50. No amendment funds will be available for these projects in the future. C. Partial Funding Partial funding of highly ranked ``other'' applications within an Area may occur (so long as such projects are determined viable and the PHA has indicated willingness to accept fewer units) to facilitate the funding in rank order of additional applications for highly ranked projects. VI. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements_All Programs A. Submission Requirements PHAs may use the following application checklist, which enumerates the submission requirements of section III of this NOFA. 1. Cover letter. 2. Form HUD 52470, Application for Public Housing Development; 3. Evidence of legal eligibility (if not previously evidenced) with a current General Certificate (HUD 9009); 4. Evidence that the number of units in management, in development, and being requested in this application are covered by Cooperation Agreements (HUD 52481) and any other State/local requirements have been met; 5. HUD 52471, PHA Resolution in Support of Public Housing; 6. HUD 52472, Local Governing Body Resolution, if front-end funds are being requested by the PHA. (Note: If front-end funds are requested, the HUD 52471 must be appropriately modified. See section III.A.6. of this NOFA); 7. PHA statement identifying its funding preferences if more than one application is being submitted for category 4 (see section II.B of NOFA). ( Note, however, that no more than one application per locality may be filed under category 4.); 8. PHA statement whether it will accept fewer ``other'' units than applied for (category 4); 9. HUD 50070, PHA Certification for a Drug-Free Workplace; 10. HUD&hyph;50071, Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans and Cooperative Agreements; 11. Form SF&hyph;LLL, Byrd Amendment Disclosure and Certification Regarding Lobbying, only if the applicant determines it is applicable; 12. Form HUD 2880, Disclosure of Government Assistance and Identity of Interested Parties; 13. Section 5(j) certification appropriate to the category of application; 14. Evidence of inadequate housing supply (i.e., a ``tight'' rental housing market), for category 4 (``Other'') units; 15. Evidence (such as waiting list information or PHA vacancy rate data) of need and market for the units requested for category 4 applications; 16. Section 6(h) cost comparison justification, if new construction is requested; 17. FSS program certification; 18. Replacement housing exhibits, if applicable (see section III.C). 19. (Optional) For ``other'' applications, documentation to address the rating factors (see section IV.E.). B. Application Packets Forms comprising the application package may be obtained from the HUD Field Office.
