FR940304-1-00174 FR940304-1-00014 The small firms that sell niche products such as heat pump water heaters usually find that these markets have higher margins. As a result, it is possible that small firms would have an easier time passing through increased variable costs that result from standards, and thus may be more positively affected than large firms by standards. However, this prediction should be tempered by the observation that if standards are technologically difficult to meet, they may hurt selected smaller firms the most since, as noted above, smaller firms typically have less sophisticated research and development capabilities. Thirdly, the direct heating equipment industry must be considered. This industry, too, is characterized by economies of scale in production, with larger firms having average costs that are lower than those of smaller firms. Here, too, there has been continuing consolidation over the past several decades. The same points raised above about the implications of consolidation and competitiveness among water heater firms pertain to manufacturers of direct heating equipment as well. Next, the mobile home furnace industry will be addressed. In this industry, two firms supply all the gas-fired mobile home furnaces. Since discussions with industry sources revealed that the market shares of the two firms are approximately 50 percent each, the Department believes that neither is a small firm on which standards could have a significant adverse impact. The characterization of the kitchen ranges and oven industry (including microwave ovens) is similar to those industries previously discussed. This industry, too, displays economies of scale in production and increasing consolidation as the larger firms have been acquiring smaller ones for the past few decades. Since many, if not most, of the energy conservation standards can be achieved without significant retooling of plant and equipment, it is probable that such standards will not have significant adverse impacts on the small firms. The pool heater industry, too, is characterized by economies of scale in production, with the consequent price advantage that large firms have over smaller ones. This industry, though, is already highly concentrated, and apparently never had a large number of firms. Most of the firms manufacture gas-fired pool heaters as an adjunct to other larger lines of business, e.g., boilers, pool and swimming equipment, etc. It appears that there are no real niche markets. Nevertheless, since the proposed standards are generally not considered to be technologically difficult to meet, and since the forecasts are that all standard levels are profitable, the Department does not expect significant adverse impacts on small firms. Another industry that shares the characterization of larger firms having cost advantages over smaller ones, i.e., that displays economies of scale, is the fluorescent lamp ballast industry. Here, too, there has been continuing consolidation over time, and presently, three firms produce 90 percent of the market. Many (if not most) of the standard levels considered do not require significant retooling of plant and equipment. In fact, much of the industry is currently retooling in anticipation of future growth, which is due in part to demand motivated by demand-side management programs of electric utility companies. These factors, combined with the estimates that profitability will be higher at all standard levels, imply that there will probably not be significant adverse impacts on small firms. Lastly, the impact of energy conservation standards on the television set industry is discussed. This industry also has undergone significant consolidation over the past few decades. Presently, as with most of the other industries discussed above, the larger firms have cost advantages over the smaller ones. Zenith is the only domestic television set manufacturer located in the U.S., and it has 13 percent of the market. Therefore, there really cannot be any adverse small firm impacts since, domestically, there is only one firm, and it is not small. In view of the foregoing, the Department has determined and hereby certifies pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act that today's action will not have a ``significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.'' In conclusion, for each of these eight industries, the Department finds that the standard levels proposed in today's Proposed Rule will not ``have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities,'' and it is not necessary to prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis. VI. Public Comment Procedures a. Participation in Rulemaking The Department encourages the maximum level of public participation possible in this rulemaking. Individual consumers, representatives of consumer groups, manufacturers, associations, States or other governmental entities, utilities, retailers, distributors, manufacturers, and others are urged to submit written statements on the proposal. The Department also encourages interested persons to participate in the public hearing to be held in Washington, DC, at the time and place indicated at the beginning of this notice.
