FR941128-2-00090 FR941128-2-00047 6. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's rules, the Commission may, without further notice to the proposed respondent, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following Order in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public with respect thereto. When so entered, the Order shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The Order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to Order to proposed respondent's address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondent waives any right it may have to any other manner of service. The compliant may be used in construing the terms of the Order, and no agreement, understanding, representation or interpretation not contained in the Order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the Order. 7. Proposed respondent has read the draft of compliant and order contemplated hereby. Proposed respondent understands that once the Order has been issued, it will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that it has fully complied with the Order. Proposed respondent further understands that it may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the Order after it becomes final. Order I It is ordered, That the following definitions shall apply herein: A. ``Respondent'' or ``Lilly'' means Eli Lilly and Company, its predecessors, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, partnerships, joint ventures, successors and assigns, and all directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives of the foregoing. B. ``McKesson'' means McKesson Corporation, its predecessors, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, partnerships, joint ventures, successors and assigns, and all directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives of the foregoing. C. ``PCS'' means PCS Health Systems, Inc., its predecessors, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, partnerships, joint ventures, successors and assigns, and all directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives of the foregoing. D. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission. E. ``Formulary'' means a listing, by therapeutic category, of branded and generic ambulatory drug products that are approved for use by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (``FDA''), and which is made available to pharmacies, physicians, third-party payors, or other persons involved in the healthcare industry, to guide in the prescribing or dispensing of pharmaceuticals. An ``Open Formulary'' is a formulary that allows the inclusion of any ambulatory prescription drug product approved by the FDA for use in the United States, which the P&T Committee (defined below) determines is appropriate for inclusion in such formulary. For purposes of this Order, an Open Formulary may provide truthful information stating or indicating the relative costs or benefits of drugs on the formulary. F. ``Pharmacy Benefit Management Services'' or ``PBM Services'' means services provided by a pharmacy benefits manager, such as formulary services, negotiation of rebates or discounts from pharmaceutical manufacturers, prescription claims processing, and drug utilization review. G. ``Formulary Services'' means the provision, development, establishment, management or maintenance of a formulary by a pharmacy benefits manager. For purposes of this Order, ``management'' of a formulary includes the negotiation and administration of rebate or discount agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers for drugs included on a formulary. H. ``Lilly Non-Public Information'' means information not in the public domain that is provided to Lilly in its capacity as a pharmaceutical manufacturer by a supplier of PBM Services and that concerns bids, proposals, contracts, prices, rebates, discounts, or other terms or conditions of sale of any person other than PCS. I. ``PCS Non-Public Information'' means information not in the public domain that is provided to PCS in its capacity as a supplier of PBM Services by a manufacturer or seller of prescription drug products and that concerns bids, proposals, contracts, prices, rebates, discounts, or other terms or conditions of sale of any person other than Lilly. J. ``Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee'' or ``P&T Committee'' means a group of healthcare professionals, such as doctors, pharmacists, and pharmacologists, appointed for the purpose of evaluating prescription drug products for inclusion on a formulary. II It is ordered, That: A. Within thirty (30) days from the date this Order becomes final, Lilly shall cause PCS to maintain an Open Formulary. As of the date this Order becomes final, the PCS ``Clinical Formulary and Prescribing Guidelines 1994&hyph;1995,'' a copy of which is attached hereto as Appendix A, on file at the Commission, shall be deemed an Open Formulary that complies with this Paragraph II.A. B. Within thirty (30) days from the date this Order becomes final, Lilly shall cause PCS to appoint an independent P&T Committee with the authority and responsibility to maintain the Open Formulary required by Paragraph II.A above. Such P&T Committee shall make all decisions concerning the inclusion of drugs on such Open Formulary, the exclusion of drugs from such Open Formulary, and the clinical and therapeutic advice and evaluation concerning drugs on such Open Formulary, and shall operate according to the following provisions:
