FR940128-2-00145 FR940128-2-00093 _Link comprehensive systems of care with HIV/AIDS clinical research trials resulting in increased access for currently under represented populations of children, youth, women, and their families. Funding Categories Two categories of projects will be funded in FY 1994. Applications which do not fall within these program categories will not be considered. The first category of grants, the HIV Demonstration Projects for Children, Adolescents, and Families, continues development of comprehensive care demonstrations, including efforts to develop innovative models that foster collaboration between clinical research institutions and family-centered primary/community-based medical and social service programs for children, youth, women and their families. Projects will focus on local capacity-building, making maximum use of all available public and private resources for reaching and providing health care and supportive services to the target population. Projects should strengthen the infrastructure for the comprehensive system of care by broadening the coalition of agencies, providers, community organizations and families participating in services planning, coordination, and financing. These include other appropriate Federal, State, and local programs serving children with special health care needs under Title V Maternal and Child Health programs, hemophilia treatment centers, Ryan White Title I, II and III programs, providers funded by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSHA) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and other programs serving the target population (e.g., Medicaid, developmental disabilities, special education) and providers, payers, organizations, and support groups in the private sector with a similar focus. Preference for funding in this category will be given to the competing renewal of currently funded Pediatric/Family AIDS Demonstration projects serving children, youth, women, and families infected with or affected by the HIV infection which demonstrate an established model of a comprehensive and coordinated system of care that is culturally-competent, family-centered, and community-based. This means that these projects will be funded ahead of new groups of applications in this category. The second category of funding will be used to initiate the development of comprehensive care systems for HIV affected children, adolescents and families in cities or states where there is no currently funded pediatric health care demonstration project nor well organized care system for the target population and where there are barriers to access to care and clinical research trials. Applicants for funding in this category will be supported for initial planning activities to develop their infrastructure for comprehensive care with the ultimate goal of a mature demonstration of family-centered, community-based coordinated care described in Category (1). Availability of Funds Approximately $22.0 million is available for the HIV Demonstration Program for Children, Adolescents, and Families, of which approximately $10.3 million will be available for competing renewals and new competitive grants. The following is an approximation of funds available and the number of grants anticipated to be awarded in each category: _Category (1)_$10.0 million, up to 20 grants. _Category (2)_$.3 million, up to 4 grants. Individual grants are not expected to exceed $75,000 per year. For Category (1), project periods are three years. For Category (2), project periods are from one to two years, depending upon the proposed scope of work. Special Concerns HIV Demonstration Program for Children, Adolescents, and Families grantees supported by HRSA should coordinate their projects with other Federal, State, and local programs concerned with AIDS and/or serving the target population of children, youth, women and families affected by or at risk for HIV/AIDS, particularly Title V Maternal and Child Health programs and other Ryan White programs.
