FR940228-0-00022 FR940228-0-00002 (2) Harvest of the unit; (3) Final adjustment of a loss on the unit; (4) September 25 following planting in Alaska, or October 31 of the calendar year in which the crop is normally harvested in all other states; or (5) Abandonment of the crop on the unit. 8. Causes of Loss In addition to the provisions under section 12 (Causes of Loss) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy, any loss covered by this policy must occur within the insurance period. The specific causes of loss for small grains are: (a) Adverse weather conditions; (b) Fire; (c) Insects, but not damage allowed because of insufficient or improper application of pest control measures; (d) Plant disease, but not damage allowed because of insufficient or improper application of disease control measures; (e) Wildlife; (f) Earthquake; (g) Volcanic eruption; or (h) Failure of the irrigation water supply. 9. Replanting Payments (a) A replant payment for wheat only is allowed as follows: (1) You comply with all requirements regarding replanting payments contained under section 13 (Replanting Payment) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy and in any winter coverage endorsement for which you are eligible and which you have elected; (2) The wheat must be damaged by an insurable cause of loss to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage; (3) The acreage must have been initially planted to spring wheat in those counties with only a spring final planting date; (4) The damage must occur after the fall final planting date in those counties where both a fall and spring final planting date are designated; (5) Replanting must take place not later than 25 days after the spring final planting date; and (6) The replant wheat must be seeded at a rate that is normal for initially planted wheat (if new seed is planted at a reduced seeding rate into a partially damaged stand of wheat, the acreage will not be eligible for a replanting payment). (b) No replanting payment will be made for acreage initially planted to winter wheat in any county for which the Special Provisions contain only a fall final planting date. (c) In accordance with subsection 13.(c) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), the maximum amount of the replanting payment per acre will be the lesser of 20 percent (20%) of the production guarantee or 3 bushels, multiplied by your price election multiplied by your share. (d) When wheat is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable for an original planting, the liability for the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will not be reduced. 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss In addition to your duties under section 14 of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), if you initially discover damage to any insured crop within 15 days of, or during harvest, you must leave representative samples of the unharvested crop for our inspection. The samples must be at least 10 feet wide and the entire length of each field in the unit, and must not be harvested or destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after harvest of the balance of the unit is completed. 11. Settlement of Claim (a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide records of production that are acceptable to us for any: (1) Optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable records of production were not provided; or for any
