FR941116-0-00161 FR941116-0-00022 (f) A producer shall refund to CCC any amounts representing payments that exceed the payments determined by CCC to have been earned under the program authorized by this part. A late payment charge may be assessed in accordance with the provisions of part 1403 of this title. Part 1403 of this chapter shall be applicable to all unearned payments. (g) Whenever two or more individuals or entities are considered to be one person in accordance with the maximum payment limitation regulations found at parts 1497 and 1498 of this chapter, the controlled substance regulations found at part 796 of this title, or affiliated persons in accordance with the highly erodible land and wetland conservation regulations found at part 12 of this title: (1) Any payment issued to one such individual or entity in accordance with this part shall be considered a payment to all such individuals and entities; and (2) Each individual or entity shall be jointly and severally liable for refunding the amounts of any unearned payments or overpayments in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section and for paying any liquidated damages applicable under the CCC&hyph;477. (h) If a person, as determined under part 1497 of this title, is: (1) A member of a partnership or joint venture that receives payments; and (2) Has received total payments in excess of the payment limitation for the crop year, then the partnership or joint venture and the members thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for the amount of the overpayment. (i) If a producer who signs a CCC&hyph;477 is subsequently determined by the county committee to have become deceased, missing, or incompetent, the CCC&hyph;477 shall be terminated and any person actions with respect to the producer's interest shall comply with the succession in interest provisions set forth in §1413.51. §1413.102 Advance payments. (a) In order to receive an advance deficiency or diversion payment authorized for a crop: (1) The operator and other producers on a farm must: (i) Enter into an agreement with CCC to participate in the ARP and land diversion program, if applicable; and (ii) Request the advance payment during the program enrollment period. (2) The producers on the farm must not have been determined to be out of compliance with any of the requirements of the CCC&hyph;477 or the program at the time of payment. (3) Each producer must be in compliance with the program payment limitation provisions set forth at parts 1497 and 1498 of this chapter; the controlled substance provisions at part 796 of this title; and the highly erodible land and wetland conservation provisions at part 12 of this title. (b) Advance deficiency payments will be made for crops as announced by the Secretary and shall be computed using the intended acreages of the crop furnished by the operator during the enrollment period. The announcement will specify the rates, manner, and time of payment. (c)(1) The provisions of §1413.101 (a) and (b) are applicable to the amounts of any advance diversion or deficiency payments which are not earned by the producer. However, no late payment charge shall be assessed with respect to producers who have otherwise complied with the requirements of the program for the crop but have failed to refund to CCC the amount of the advance deficiency payments before the end of the marketing year for the crop when the final deficiency payment rate determined under §1413.104(a) is zero or is less than the advance deficiency payment rate. (2) In addition to the provisions of §1413.101 (a) and (b), interest shall be charged on the amount of the advance payment if a producer obtains an advance deficiency or land diversion payment, or both, for a crop on a farm but does not comply with the requirements for any ARP or land diversion program required for the crop on the farm for the year. Interest shall be computed from the date of issuance of the payment to the earlier of the date such payment is refunded or the date of the first demand letter. The rate of interest shall be the rate of interest in effect for CCC commodity loans on the date of the issuance of the payment.
