FR940919-2-00186 FR940919-2-00081 15. We seek comment on the relationship between competition and universal service. Will competition help make new advanced telecommunications services more readily available across the nation and thereby reduce the need for universal service regulation? Some argue that the universal service rationale is based on the premise that the market alone cannot uniformly guarantee provision of telecommunications and services. They believe that depending on the market to provide advanced services may seriously impede access by important segments of society to those services, particularly if the offerings are not commercially viable in certain areas. 18 Consumer and civil rights groups, in particular, raise the specter of ``electronic redlining,'' in which low income and minority neighborhoods are ``systematically underrepresented'' in the deployment of advanced services, as has been alleged with respect to various local telephone companies' video dialtone networks. 19 18 Raymond Lawton, Associate Director of The National Regulatory Research Institute, pointed out in his testimony at the Indianapolis field hearings that in an unregulated market, services are provided to rural/residential/low income service recipients last because service to them is often more expensive and they are most often unable to pay. See Lawton Comments, p. 2. 19 See Center for Media Education, Consumer Federation of America, et al. , ``Information Superhighway'' Could Bypass Low Income and Minority Communities , (released May 23, 1994) and associated petitions filed with the FCC on the same date. Under the FCC's ``video dialtone'' rules, a local telephone company can construct, operate, and maintain a transport facility within its local service area, leasing channel capacity to unaffiliated programmers on a common carrier basis. See Telephone Company-Cable Television Cross-Ownership Rules, Sections 63.54&hyph;63.58 , Second Report and Order, Recommendation to Congress, and Second Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 7 FCC Rcd 5781 (1992). 16. To what extent is ``electronic redlining'' occurring or likely to occur, i.e. , the calculated exclusion of a geographic area from deployment of advanced telecommunications capabilities or services on the basis of income, ethnicity, race, or disability? What weight should be assigned to those arguments that identify economic reasons for serving certain areas on a less timely basis than others? 17. Various proposals address the concern that a marketplace-driven definition of universal service may not bring comparable services to all segments of the population or to all areas of the country at the same rate. One proposal, for example, is for government to require firms to provide services to community centers, such as schools and libraries, at the same time that such services are first provided to businesses and residences. The proponents of this approach claim that focusing on providing service to such centralized points within a community, as a transitional mechanism, could make desirable services more widely available without incurring the risks and costs of mandating universal provision of uneconomical or unwanted services. 20 We request comment on this approach. In particular, do such public institutions have the facilities, funds, and hours of operation to afford individuals, especially the young, a full and fair opportunity to explore the highways of the Information Age? If not, what mechanisms could be explored for providing such resources? 20 See, e.g. , Comments of Carlos Atencio, Chairman, New Mexico Educational Technology Coordination Council at the Los Alamos National Laboratories, New Mexico Hearing (Dec. 16, 1993).
