FR940721-2-00042 FR940721-2-00029 B. 5 A Day Evaluation Approximately $290,000 is available to fund approximately 4 awards. It is expected that the average award will be $75,000, ranging from $60,000 to $90,000. Awards will be considered only for applicants who have an established, clearly defined, and evaluable long range 5 A Day for Better Health project in a specific community channel (e.g., supermarkets, schools, churches, food assistance programs, worksites, health clinics, media, etc.). It is expected that the awards will begin on or about September 30, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of one year. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Awards under this announcement will not be sufficient to fully support an applicant's proposed activities, but are meant to be used in conjunction with other resources_whether direct funding or in-kind contributions_that the applicant may have available. Purpose The awards will support State efforts to develop and evaluate nutrition intervention programs. Emphasis will be placed on supporting activities of partnerships to carry out interventions and/or evaluations designed to increase the consumption of fruits and vegetables, to decrease fat intake, and/or to increase physical activity while improving diet. Program Requirements A. Nutrition Intervention Assistance Promote programmatic activities to achieve Healthy People 2000 dietary objectives that relate to increased consumption of fruits and vegetables, reduced intake of fat, and/or improving diet while increasing physical activity. Applicants should propose specific and discrete activities, but applicants are given latitude in deciding which specific activities to propose. Activities proposed by applicants might include but are not limited to the following: 1. Assist a Statewide or community-wide coalition to implement a 5 A Day for Better Health project by using effective public and private partnerships. 2. Implement an intervention to promote physical activity and improved diet among a defined low-income population. 3. Evaluate a health communication campaign. (Such campaigns could be broad-based, could target specific populations, or could support specific programs, such as Project LEAN or 5 A Day for Better Health.) 4. Integrate a nutrition education component into an existing State chronic disease program (e.g., diabetes, cancer, and heart disease prevention programs) or into appropriate services of a managed care provider. B. 5 A Day Evaluation An evaluation of a 5 A Day intervention in a specific community channel. Applicants should propose a plan for an evaluation of a clearly defined, long range effort in a specific community channel. Evaluation Criteria Applications for the Nutrition Intervention Assistance and the 5 A Day Evaluation components will be allocated 100 points each and will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: A. Nutrition Intervention Assistance 1. Background The degree to which the applicant succinctly describes the problems to be addressed and current activities for resolving them. (10 points) 2. Objectives The degree to which objectives are realistic, time-phased, measurable, and specific. (20 points)
