FR941012-2-00177 FR941012-2-00116 A comprehensive Title IV training needs assessment for professionals and non-profit organizations who deal with missing and exploited children and their families is needed. The training needs assessment should be updated regularly to assure that OJJDP is apprised of emerging training needs in the field. OJJDP grantees should be asked to develop training and technical assistance materials on effective practices that are developed during the course of their projects. OJJDP should hold periodic meetings of Title IV grantees to promote information sharing and to assist OJJDP in developing new methods that can be shared with other communities. Goal 3: Provide Assistance to Communities OJJDP should provide assistance to communities committed to implementing effective approaches to address the problem of missing and exploited children and their families. This assistance would take the form of site visits, training, assessment reports, publications, teleconferences, and other means of delivering technical assistance. Strategies Develop and implement a marketing plan for providing technical assistance and training to specific audiences. This marketing plan should first identify a pool of communities interested in making use of services supported by Title IV. The marketing plan would be based on an analysis of the location of various types of child victimization related to Title IV as well as past community interest in Title IV issues. OJJDP would then develop materials and methods for marketing technical assistance and training to these communities. Fix responsibility within OJJDP for coordinating the delivery of technical assistance under Title IV. The Director of the Missing Children's Program should be responsible for directly managing the delivery of technical assistance and training funded through Title IV. This work will include keeping central records of all requests for information, training, and technical assistance as well as taking primary responsibility for assuring that those services are of the highest possible quality.
