FR941220-0-00004 FR941220-0-00001 Commenters generally opposed the addition of a clarifying phrase providing that products be separately available ``at competitive prices,'' with four in favor and seven opposed. The purpose of this clarification was to prevent evasion of the separate availability and discounting requirements. Such an evasion could occur by establishing the price of a product so far above its package price that customers would effectively be required to purchase the package in order to obtain the product. The effect would be the same as an explicit conditioning of the availability of the product, as described above. Commenters expressed concern about the difficulties of determining what constitutes a competitive price, particularly in products that are unusual or unique. Because of these concerns, the Board has not adopted this clarification but will continue to interpret ``separately available'' to mean available at a price that would generally attract customers and therefore leaves customers desiring a product a meaningful choice between purchasing the product alone or through a package. Commenters did not object to the Board's retained authority to revoke an exception that is resulting in anti-competitive practices or the Board's ability to halt such practices at an individual institution. The Board has retained such authority in the final rule. Additional Relief Requested by the Commenters Several commenters suggested that the Board grant additional relief from the tying restrictions of section 106 and Regulation Y. In particular, nine commenters recommended that the Board completely repeal the extension of section 106 to bank holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries. Commenters also suggested that the Board extend the proposed amendment to allow a nonbank subsidiary of a bank holding company to offer a discount on a product or service to a customer who purchases a product or service from a bank affiliate. Seven commenters recommended revisions to the regulatory traditional bank product exception recently adopted by the Board. 4 The commenters requested that the Board extend the regulatory traditional bank product exception beyond cases where only traditional bank products are part of the package. These commenters noted that the statutory traditional bank product exception permits a bank to tie any product (not just a traditional bank product) to a traditional bank product, and suggested that the same exception should apply to ties between affiliates. Finally, several commenters requested that the Board clarify the treatment of operating subsidiaries of banks under section 106 and further expand the definition of traditional bank products. 4 See 12 CFR 225.7(b)(1). Section 106 contains an explicit exception (the ``statutory traditional bank product exception'') that permits a bank to tie any product or service to a loan, discount, deposit, or trust service (a traditional bank product) offered by that bank. The regulatory traditional bank product exception partially extends the statutory traditional bank product exception by permitting a bank or any of its affiliates to vary the consideration for a traditional bank product on condition that the customer obtain another traditional bank product from an affiliate. In other words, a bank may offer a customer a discount on one product ( e.g., a deposit account) if the customer obtains another product ( e.g., a loan) from an affiliate, so long as both products are traditional bank products. The Board continues to analyze all of these issues and will consider these proposals, and others, after the recent amendments have been implemented. Paperwork Reduction Act No collections of information pursuant to section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ) are contained in the proposed rule. Regulatory Flexibility Act It is hereby certified that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities that would be subject to the regulation. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 225 Administrative practice and procedure, Banks, banking, Federal Reserve System, Holding companies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Board amends 12 CFR Part 225 as set forth below: PART 225_BANK HOLDING COMPANIES AND CHANGE IN BANK CONTROL (REGULATION Y) 1. The authority citation for 12 CFR part 225 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(13), 1818, 1831i, 1831p&hyph;1, 1843(c)(8), 1844(b), 1972(l), 3106, 3108, 3310, 3331&hyph;3351, 3907, and 3909. 2. In §225.7, a new paragraph (b)(3) is added and paragraph (c)(2) is revised to read as follows: §225.7 Tying restrictions. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (3) Discounts on tie-in arrangements not involving banks. A bank holding company or any nonbank subsidiary thereof may vary the consideration for any extension of credit, lease or sale of property of any kind, or service, on the condition or requirement that the customer obtain some additional credit, property, or service from itself or a nonbank affiliate. (c) *␣*␣* (2) Any exception granted pursuant to this section shall terminate upon a finding by the Board that the arrangement is resulting in anti-competitive practices. The eligibility of a bank holding company or bank or nonbank subsidiary thereof to operate under any exception granted pursuant to this section shall terminate upon a finding by the Board that its exercise of this authority is resulting in anti-competitive practices. * * * * * By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, December 14, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31186 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
