FR940621-2-00097 FR940621-2-00060 Policy Statement on Alternative Dispute Resolution Within OPM The Administrative Dispute Resolution Act, Public Law 101&hyph;552, encourages Federal agencies to use alternative dispute resolution (ADR) methods whenever possible. ADR proceedings offer constructive approaches for resolving disputes, while avoiding the expense and delay of formal adversarial and judicial proceedings. ADR methods encompass a range of approaches, including mediation, minitrials, fact finding, and arbitration, among others. OPM is committed to the concepts of cooperative, interest-based problem solving, which are basic to ADR approaches. OPM officials should examine those areas in which disputes routinely arise as a result of ongoing OPM program and administrative activities. OPM organizations should then select and tailor ADR approaches to these specific functional and program areas. The type, nature, and number of disputes will influence the selection and implementation of an ADR process suitable for that particular organizational setting. The Associate Director for Administration has been designated as the Agency Dispute Resolution (ADR) Specialist. The Agency Dispute Resolution Specialist can provide information on resources and training to assist offices to design and implement an ADR process for their particular category of disputes. ADR approaches are not meant to supersede collective bargaining agreements or other statutory, regulatory, or contractual dispute resolution procedures. ADR processes are intended to supplement rather than replace existing formal procedures. Participation in an ADR process is voluntary for all parties to a dispute including OPM and a decision to use ADR calls for informed judgement. ADR methods are not suitable for all types of disputes and may not be appropriate in those cases where: •A precedent-setting decision is needed, •An important policy question is involved, •The decision would have a significant effect on non-parties to the dispute, or •A full public record of the proceeding is important. Absent these conditions, it should be presumed to be in OPM's best interest to participate in an ADR process if other parties to the dispute also agree. Senior officials should review non-participation decisions to assure that appropriate reasons exist to offset the expected benefits and cost savings which accrue to the Agency through participation. Consensual methods of dispute resolution represent a new and effective approach to conflict management. ADR approaches also promote communication and understanding between the disputants by emphasizing the common interest all parties have in a fair, speedy and cost effective solution. By avoiding the time and cost associated with formal adversarial proceedings, ADR allows OPM to redirect and focus more resources on productive activities. Office of Personnel Management. James B. King, Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14923 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M
