FR940425-2-00083 FR940425-2-00055 Social Security Administration Privacy Act of 1974; Computer Matching Programs AGENCY: Social Security Administration, HHS. ACTION: Publication of Notice of Computer Matching Programs to comply with Public Law (Pub. L.) 100&hyph;503, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988. SUMMARY: We are publishing a notice of an internal computer matching program that SSA will conduct that is subject to the requirements of Public Law 100&hyph;503. The purpose of this publication is to meet the publication requirements of Public Law 100&hyph;503. DATES: We will file a report of the subject SSA matching program with the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget. The matching program will be effective as indicated below. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may comment on this notice by writing to the Associate Commissioner for Program and Integrity Reviews, 860 Altmeyer Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235. All comments received will be available for public inspection at this address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Associate Commissioner for Program and Integrity Reviews at the address above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. General Public Law 100&hyph;503, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, amended the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) by adding certain protections for individuals applying for and receiving Federal benefits. Section 7201 of Pub. L. 101&hyph;508, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Amendments of 1990, further amended the Privacy Act regarding protections for such individuals. The Privacy Act, as amended, regulates the use of computer matching by Federal agencies when records in a system of records are matched with other Federal, State, local government, and (in certain limited circumstances) internal agency records. It requires Federal agencies involved in computer matching programs to: (1) Negotiate written agreements with the other agency, agencies, or internal agency components participating in the match; (2) Notify applicants and beneficiaries that their records are subject to matching; (3) Verify match findings before reducing, suspending, terminating, or denying an individual's benefits or payments; (4) Furnish detailed reports about matching programs to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget, and (5) Establish a Data Integrity Board that must approve match agreements. B. SSA Computer Matches Subject to Public Law 100&hyph;503 We have taken action to ensure that all of SSA's computer matching programs comply with the requirements of the Privacy Act, as amended. Below is a brief description followed by a detailed notice of a match that SSA will be conducting as of February 1994 or later. SSA Matching Between the Deputy Commissioner for Operations, Office of Central Records Operations (DCO, OCRO) and the Deputy Commissioner for Human Resources, Office of Personnel (DCHR, OPE). Purpose: To establish the conditions under which OCRO agrees to the matching of names and Social Security Numbers (SSN) of its employees to the Master Earnings File (MEF). The MEF is a file housing all the earnings and earnings history for workers and self employed individuals. The output from this match (changes and postings to the MEF credited to the employee's SSN) will be used to verify legitimate postings, adjustments and permissible self employment occupations as outlined in the Code of Conduct and other personnel regulations. The veracity of the changes or postings will be verified before SSA takes any adverse action with respect to an individual as a result of the matching program. This matching activity supplements other existing data integrity/computer security operations to minimize instances where violations are not detected, and to ensure the accuracy of SSA's earnings records. Dated: April 6, 1994. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security.
