FR940503-2-00137 FR940503-2-00091 Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of establishment of FAR/JAR Harmonization Working Group for Propeller-Driven Small Airplanes. SUMMARY: Notice is given of the establishment of a FAR/JAR Harmonization Working Group for Propeller-Driven Small Airplanes for the FAA Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC). This notice informs the public of the activities of the ARAC on noise certification issues. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Paul R. Dykeman, Assistant Executive Director for Noise Certification, Deputy Director, Office of Environment and Energy (AEE&hyph;2), 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, Telephone: (202) 267&hyph;3577; FAX: (202) 267&hyph;5594. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) established an Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC) (56 FR 2190, January 22, 1991; and 58 FR 9230, February 19, 1993). One area of the ARAC deals with noise certification issues. These issues involve the harmonization of part 36 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 36) with Joint Aviation Requirements (JAR) part 36, their associated guidance material including equivalent procedures, and the interpretation of the regulations. The FAR/JAR Harmonization Working Group for Propeller-Driven Small Airplanes will forward recommendations to the ARAC, which will determine whether to forward them to the FAA. Specifically, the FAR/JAR Harmonization Working Group for Propeller-Driven Small Airplanes is charged with reviewing the applicable provisions of subparts A and F, and appendices F and G of the 14 CFR part 36 and harmonizing them with the corresponding applicable provisions of JAR 36. ARAC should consider the current international standards and recommended practices, as issued under the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Annex 16, Volume 1, and its associated Technical Manual, as the basis for development of these harmonization proposals. ARAC should also consider recommending a process whereby subsequent ICAO Annex 16 changes are properly incorporated into JAR and FAR 36. If the ARAC determines that Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM), an Advisory Circular (AC), or both would be appropriate, those documents are to be submitted, in the format prescribed, to the FAA. The Working Group should make recommendations to the ARAC in the following manner. Reports (a) Recommend a work plan for completion of the task and subtasks, including the rationale supporting the plan, for consideration at the meeting of the ARAC to consider noise certification issues held following publication of this notice; (b) Give a detailed conceptual presentation on the proposed recommendation to the ARAC before proceeding with the work stated in item (c) below; (c) If considered appropriate, develop NPRM(s) proposing the revised rules for aircraft noise certification, a supporting economic and other required analyses, advisory and guidance material, and any other collateral documents the Working Group determines to be needed. Present these recommendations to the ARAC for further consideration and disposition; and (d) Give a status report on the task at each meeting of the ARAC held to consider noise certification issues. The FAR/JAR Harmonization Working Group for Propeller-Driven Small Airplanes will be comprised of experts from those organizations having an interest in the tasks assigned. A Working Group member need not necessarily be a representative of one of the organizations of the ARAC. Individuals who have expertise in the subject matter and wish to become a member of the Working Group should write the person listed under the caption, FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT , expressing that desire, describing their interest in the task, and the expertise they would bring to the working group. The request will be reviewed by the ARAC Assistant Chair for Noise Certification and the Chair of the Working Group, and the individual will be advised if the request can be granted. The Secretary of Transportation has determined that the formation and use of the ARAC are necessary and in the public interest, in connection with the performance of duties of the FAA. Meetings of the ARAC to consider noise certification issues will be open to the public, except as authorized by section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Meetings of the FAR/JAR Harmonization Working Group for Propeller-Driven Small Airplanes will not be open to the public, except to the extent that individuals with an interest and expertise are selected to participate. No public announcement of Working Group meetings will be made. Issued in Washington, DC, on April 25, 1994. Paul R. Dykeman, Assistant Executive Director for Noise Certification, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10574 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
