FR941220-0-00012 FR941220-0-00005 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Care Financing Administration 42 CFR Parts 409, 413, 418 and 484 [BPD&hyph;469&hyph;F] RIN 0938&hyph;AD78 Medicare Program; Medicare Coverage of Home Health Services, Medicare Conditions of Participation, and Home Health Aide Supervision AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), HHS. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This regulation specifies home health aide supervision and duty requirements applicable to all home health agencies (HHAs) and hospices that furnish home health aide services under the Medicare program. It also specifies limitations and exclusions applicable to home health services covered under Medicare. The purpose of this regulation is to clarify Medicare home health policy and to promote consistent administration of the home health benefit. EFFECTIVE DATE: These regulations are effective on February 21, 1995. ADDRESSES: For comments that relate to information collection requirements, mail a copy of comments to: Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Room 10235, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503, Attn: Allison Herron Eydt, HCFA Desk Officer. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John J. Thomas, (410) 966&hyph;4623. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Home health services are furnished to the elderly and disabled under the Hospital Insurance (Part A) and Supplemental Medical Insurance (Part B) benefits of the Medicare program. These services generally must be furnished by a home health agency (HHA) that participates in the Medicare program, be provided on a visiting basis in the beneficiary's home and include the following: •Part-time or intermittent nursing care furnished by or under the supervision of a registered nurse. •Physical, occupational, or speech therapy. •Medical social services under the direction of a physician. •Part-time or intermittent home health aide services. •Medical supplies (other than drugs and biologicals) and durable medical equipment. •Services of interns and residents if the HHA is owned by or affiliated with a hospital that has an approved medical education program. The exception to the requirement that services be furnished in the home includes those services that require the kinds of equipment that cannot be brought to the home and are provided under arrangement with an HHA in a hospital, skilled nursing facility, or rehabilitation agency. In order for any home health services to be covered under Medicare, specific requirements contained in the Social Security Act (the Act) must be met. Section 1861(m) of the Act requires that the services be furnished under a plan of care established and periodically reviewed by a physician. Sections 1814(a)(2)(C) and 1835(a)(2)(A) of the Act provide requirements for coverage under Part A and Part B, respectively. Both sections require that a physician certify that the beneficiary is: Under a physician's care; under a plan of care established and periodically reviewed by a physician; confined to the home; and is in need of skilled nursing care on an intermittent basis, physical therapy or speech pathology services, or has a continued need for occupational therapy when eligibility for home health services has been established because of a prior need for intermittent skilled nursing care, speech pathology services, or physical therapy in the current or prior certification period.
