FR940106-2-00092 FR940106-2-00047 Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of Draft Recovery Plans for the Key Largo Woodrat, Key Largo Cotton Mouse, Gulf Sturgeon, Two Hernando County Plants, and Four Apalachicola Plants for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of four draft recovery plans for the following species: The Key Largo woodrat ( Neotoma floridana smalli ) and cotton mouse ( Peromyscus gossypinus allapaticola ), Gulf sturgeon ( Acipenser oxyrinchus desotoi ) two Hernando County plants ( Campanula robinsiae, Justicia cooleyi ), and four Apalachicola plants ( Euphorbia telephioides, Macbridea alba, Pinguicula ionantha, Scutellaria floridana ). The Key Largo woodrat and Key Largo cotton mouse are restricted to the north half of Key Largo, Monroe County, Florida. The Gulf sturgeon occurs in most major rivers from the Mississippi River to the Suwannee River, and marine waters of the central and eastern Gulf of Mexico and Florida Bay. The two Hernando County plants occur in the hilly countryside north of Tampa. The four Apalachicola plants occur in the pinelands and wetlands in Liberty, Franklin, Gulf, and Bay Counties in the Florida panhandle. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on these draft plans. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plans must be received on or before March 7, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plans for the Key Largo woodrat and cotton mouse, two Hernando County plants, or the four Apalachicola plants may obtain a copy by contacting David J. Wesley, Field Supervisor, Jacksonville Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 6620 Southpoint Drive, South, suite 310, Jacksonville, Florida 32216 (Telephone: 904&hyph;232&hyph;2580, FAX 904&hyph;232&hyph;2404). Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan for the Gulf sturgeon may obtain a copy by contacting Ms. Gail A. Carmody, Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1612 June Avenue, Panama City, Florida 32244 (Telephone: 904&hyph;768&hyph;0552, FAX 904&hyph;763&hyph;2177). Written comments and materials regarding these plans should be addressed to the appropriate above individual. Comments and material received are available upon request for public inspection, by appointment, and during normal business hours at the above addresses. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For information on the Key Largo woodrat and cotton mouse recovery plan, contact Linda Finger at the Jacksonville, Florida, address. For information on the two Hernando County Plants and the four Apalachicola plants recovery plan, contact David L. Martin at the Jacksonville, Florida address. For information on the Gulf sturgeon recovery plan, contact Lorna Patrick at the Panama City, Florida address.
