FR940418-1-00018 FR940418-1-00004 (8) N 2 = number of other passengers. (9) N 1 + N 2 = total number of passengers the ship is permitted to carry as indicated in the ship's passenger certificate. (b) For vessels eligible for transitional relief measures, the existing Panama Canal Net Tonnage as specified on the certificate issued by Panama Canal Commission will become the PC/UMS Net Tonnage. In such case, the formula for determining PC/UMS Net Tonnage is: PC/UMS Net Tonnage = Panama Canal Net Tonnage. §135.14 Change of PC/UMS net tonnage. (a) Vessels whose PC/UMS Net Tonnage is determined in accordance with section §135.13(a) will have a new PC/UMS Net Tonnage issued if ``V'' changes. (b) A vessel whose PC/UMS Net Tonnage is determined in accordance with §135.13(b) will retain that tonnage until the vessel undergoes a significant structural change as defined in §135.14(c). In the event of a significant structural change, the vessel's PC/UMS Net Tonnage will be determined in accordance with §135.13(a). (c) For the purposes of paragraph (b), significant structural change means an actual change of at least 10 percent in the total volume of the vessel. Vessels without comparative ITC 69 total volumes, or other suitable sources of total volume comparison, will have a fair and equitable volume comparison made by the Commission to determine if a significant structural change has occurred. §135.15 Calculation of volumes. (a) All volumes included in the calculation of PC/UMS net tonnage shall be measured, irrespective of the fitting of insulation or the like, to the inner side of the shell or structural boundary plating in ships constructed of metal, and to the outer surface of the shell or to the inner side of structural boundary surfaces in ships constructed of any other material. (b) Volumes of appendages shall be included in the total volume. (c) Volumes of spaces open to the sea may be excluded from the total volume. §135.16 Measurement and calculation. (a) All measurements used in the calculation of volumes shall be taken to the nearest centimeter or one-twentieth of a foot. (b) The volumes shall be calculated by generally accepted methods for the space concerned and with an accuracy acceptable to the Commission. (c) The calculation shall be sufficiently detailed to permit easy checking. Subpart C_Warships, Dredges and Floating Drydocks §135.21 Warships, dredges and floating drydocks to present documents stating displacement tonnage. All warships, floating drydocks, and dredges shall present documents stating accurately the tonnage of displacement at each possible mean draft. The term ``warship'' means any vessel of government ownership that is being employed by its owners for military or naval purposes and shall include armed coast guard vessels and vessels devoted to naval training purposes, but shall not include naval auxiliary vessels such as tankers, ammunition ships, refrigerator ships, repair ships, tenders or vessels used to transport general military supplies. §135.22 Tolls on warships, dredges and floating drydocks levied on actual displacement. The toll on warships, dredges, and floating drydocks shall be based upon their tonnage of actual displacement at the time of their application for passage through the Canal. The actual displacement of these vessels shall be determined in a manner acceptable to the Commission and shall be expressed in tons of 2240 pounds. Should any of these vessels not have on board documents from which the displacement can be determined, Commission officials may use any practicable method to determine the displacement tonnage for assessment of tolls.
