FR941110-1-00068 FR941110-1-00011 (2) to create a new category of essential-use allowances, and (3) to create destruction and transformation credits (similar to the previous process for granting additional production allowances when substances produced or imported with expended allowances are transformed or destroyed). The following paragraphs describe the allowance requirements for a variety of production and importation scenarios under the current Allowance Program. In addition, the paragraphs describe the administrative changes being proposed by EPA to facilitate the phaseout of all class I ozone-depleting substances effective January 1, 1996, (except for methyl bromide) and the special production and importation scenarios proposed for the post-phaseout period. 1. Post-Phaseout Requirements for Transformation and Destruction of Controlled Substances The current regulation distinguishes between two categories of controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed. The two categories are: (1) controlled substances that were produced or imported explicitly for uses that result in transformation or destruction, and (2) controlled substances that were produced or imported with the intention of putting the substance to an ``emissive use.'' EPA proposes adding the definition of emissive use to the current regulation, such that emissive use would be those uses of controlled substances that do not result in the transformation or destruction of the substance. Examples of emissive uses would be the incorporation of controlled substances into a refrigerator or an air conditioner (for a car, household or building), or the use of a controlled substance as a solvent to clean machine parts or circuit boards. The current program assumes that when a controlled substance is produced or imported for other than transformation or destruction it is intended for an emissive use. When the controlled substance is produced or imported for an intended emissive use, the producer or importer must expend allowances under the current program. Whether or not the controlled substance is actually incorporated into an emissive use is not as important as the fact that it was intended for an emissive use. If the controlled substance is intended for an emissive use at the time of production or importation, the person producing or importing the substance is required to expend allowances. However, the expenditure of allowances is not sufficient to define emissive use. For example, a controlled substance recovered from an air conditioner, refrigerator or dehumidifier manufactured before the current program became effective (July 1989) would not have been produced with expended allowances. In the following discussion, EPA proposes changes to the requirements for controlled substances that are produced explicitly for transformation and destruction, and to the requirements for controlled substances that are produced for intended emissive uses and then subsequently transformed or destroyed. The requirements differ according to the intended purpose of the controlled substance during production. a. Production or importation of controlled substances explicitly for uses that result in domestic transformation or destruction. The current regulation does not require a person to expend allowances if they are explicitly producing or importing a controlled substance for a use that will result in the transformation or destruction of that substance in the United States. In other words, allowances do not need to be expended at the time of production or importation as long as the producer or importer has certification that the controlled substance will be transformed or destroyed by themselves, by a second-party, or by a third-party. As long as the producer or importer has such certification that the substance will be transformed or destroyed domestically, there is no need to expend allowances for the production or importation of the substance. To confirm the future transformation or destruction of the controlled substance, the current regulation requires the second- or third-party person, who will transform or destroy the substance, to submit a transformation certification or destruction verification to the producer or exporter.
