FR940317-2-00100 FR940317-2-00065 Regulatory Reform Project AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Small Business Administration (SBA) and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) within the Office of Management and Budget have commenced a project to identify, recommend and help implement specific reforms of the regulatory process in order to ease the impact of government regulations on small businesses. Six Federal agencies are participating in the initial phase of the project: The Department of Labor, the Department of Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Food and Drug Administration. The project will begin with a Small Business Forum on Regulatory Reform to be held on March 17, 1994 in Washington, DC. This Forum will consist of a panel of senior representatives from the six agencies, chaired by Erskine B. Bowles, Administrator of the SBA, and Sally Katzen, Administrator of OIRA. They will listen to oral presentations from several members of the small business community and from SBA's Acting Chief Counsel for Advocacy. They also will be reviewing written statements submitted by other business owners who were unable to present their remarks to the Forum panel in person. The Forum will be followed by an examination of the cumulative impact of regulations on five designated industries, representatives from various Federal regulatory agencies, with specific direction from those agencies participating on the Forum panel. By this Notice, SBA and OIRA announce that they are seeking written comments from interested members of the public to assist in successful completion of this project. These written comments will be considered by the five industry working groups in preparing reports to be presented at a second Small Business Forum, to be held in late June 1994. DATES: Written comments must be received by May 2, 1994. The second Forum will be held in late June 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be mailed to Doris Freedman, Acting Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Doris Freedman, 202/205&hyph;6533. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order 12866, issued on September 30, 1993, announces a government-wide commitment to regulatory reform and meaningful public participation in the regulatory process and directs the development of ``streamlined regulatory approaches for small businesses and other entities.'' To this end, SBA and OIRA have initiated a project to bring together representatives of six Federal agencies for the purpose of identifying burdens imposed by present regulatory procedures and the means by which the regulatory process can be altered to facilitate participation by small businesses. Initially, the regulatory impact on small business of six Federal agencies will be examined: The Department of Labor, the Department of Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Food and Drug Administration. The burden of compliance with each agency's regulations will be evaluated in terms of their individual and cumulative impact on small businesses in five discrete industry groups: (1) Processing of food and related products; (2) trucking and transportation; (3) restaurants; (4) environmental recycling and waste disposal; and (5) chemicals and metals. A working group will be established for each of the five industry groups, composed of representatives from the six participating agencies, as well as representatives from SBA, OIRA and other Federal agencies. Each working group will meet over a ten-week period and will solicit the input and meaningful participation of small business owners, small business trade associations, State and local governments, and other interested parties, via oral presentations and written comments received during the initial 45 days of the ten-week period. Each working group will prepare a report with specific recommendations for improvements in the regulatory process and in any specific regulations which appear to affect the particular industry in an unduly burdensome way. Extensive public participation is essential to this evaluative process. This participation will occur at the public Forum on March 17, 1994, and the second Forum in June of 1994. Each Forum will hear from representatives selected from various sectors of the small business community and will be attended by senior representatives from the six participating agencies. These agencies have stated publicly their commitment to working with each other and with members of the small business community toward the goal of regulatory reform.
