FR940505-1-00388 FR940505-1-00012 (A) The owner of any MSW landfill subject to the requirements of this section shall demonstrate compliance with this section no later than July 1, 1997. (4) Exemptions. (i) This section shall not apply to sites that have received only hazardous waste. (ii) The provisions of paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section shall not apply to control devices for which a construction permit was issued by the applicable air pollution control district or air quality management district before March 1, 1995, provided that the control device has a NMOC destruction/treatment efficiency of at least 90% by weight or reduces the NMOC concentration at the outlet of the control device to 30 ppm or less measured as methane corrected to 3% oxygen, and annual source testing for NO X , CO and NMOC is performed simultaneously using the procedures in paragraphs (g)(6)(iv) and (vi) of this section. (5) Reporting and Recordkeeping. The following reporting requirements shall each apply independently: (i) Each owner of an MSW landfill having a maximum design capacity greater than 100,000 megagrams (Mg) (111,000 tons) shall submit an initial design capacity report to EPA. (A) The initial design capacity report shall contain the following information: ( 1 ) A map or plot of the landfill, providing the size and location of the landfill, and identifying all areas where refuse may be landfilled according to the provisions of the state or county permit; ( 2 ) The maximum design capacity of the landfill. Where the maximum design capacity is specified in the state or county construction or Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) permit, a copy of the permit specifying the maximum design capacity may be submitted. If the maximum design capacity of the landfill is not specified in the permit, the maximum design capacity must be calculated using good engineering principles. The calculations must be provided, along with such parameters as depth of refuse, refuse acceptance rate, and compaction practices. The state, county, or EPA may request other reasonable information as may be necessary to verify the maximum design capacity of the landfill. (B) An amended design capacity report must be submitted to EPA providing notification of any increase in the size of the landfill, whether the increase results from an increase in the permitted area or depth of the landfill, a change in the operating procedures, or any other means which results in an increase in the maximum design capacity of the landfill. The amended design capacity report must be submitted within 90 days of the issuance of an amended construction or operating permit, or the actual use of additional land, or the change in operating procedures which will result in an increase in maximum design capacity, whichever comes first. (ii) Each owner who installs a gas collection system and/or control system described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, shall perform an initial performance test as described in ยง60.8. The initial performance test report shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (A) A diagram of the collection system showing vertical extraction well spacing, including the locations of any areas excluded from collection and the proposed sites for the future addition of wells; (B) The documentation of the presence of asbestos for each area from which collection wells have been excluded based on the presence of asbestos; (C) The sum of the gas generation rates for all areas from which collection wells have been excluded based on the presence of nondegradable materials and the calculations of the gas generation rate for each excluded area; and (D) The provisions for increasing gas mover capacity with increased gas generation rate, if the present gas mover is inadequate to move the maximum flowrate expected over the life of the landfill. (iii) Each owner of a controlled landfill shall, within 48 hours, report to EPA by telephone any malfunction, shutdown, or other event causing a reduction in the gas collection rate. (iv) If any portion of the gas collection system is shut down which results in a gas collection flowrate of less than 80% of the target volume for longer than 24 hours due to scheduled or unscheduled maintenance activities, equipment breakdown, or any other reason, the owner shall notify EPA by telephone within 48 hours of the detection of such shutdown. A written follow-up report shall be forwarded to EPA within 15 calendar days describing the duration and reason for the shut down. (v) Each owner of a controlled landfill shall submit a closure report to EPA. For the purposes of this section, closure means that refuse is no longer being placed in the landfill, and that no additional wastes will be placed into the landfill without filing a notification of modification. EPA may request such additional information as may be reasonably necessary to verify that permanent closure has taken place. (vi) Each owner of a controlled landfill shall submit an equipment removal report to EPA prior to removal or cessation of operation of the control equipment. (A) The equipment removal report shall contain the following items: ( 1 ) A copy of the closure report submitted in accordance with paragraph (g)(5)(v) of this section; ( 2 ) A copy of the initial performance test report demonstrating that the 15-year minimum control period has expired; and ( 3 ) Dated copies of the three successive NMOC emission rate reports demonstrating that the landfill is no longer emitting above the level of the standard. (B) EPA may request such additional information as may be reasonably necessary to verify that all of the conditions for removal have been met. (vii) The following records shall be maintained in written form at the MSW landfill for a period of five years from the date of each entry and shall be made available to EPA upon request: (A) Records of the gas collection flowrate, in SCFM, and the oxygen concentration, for each time that baseline conditions are established. (B) Records of continuous measurements (at least hourly records or a chart record) of the total gas collection flowrate, in SCFM, including notes describing the reasons for down-time.
