FR940317-1-00086 FR940317-1-00013 (a) The appeal will be examined by the settlement authority who last acted on the claim or his or her successor, to determine if the appeal complies with the requirements of this regulation. The settlement authority will also examine the claims investigative file and decide whether additional investigation is required; ensure that all allegations or evidence presented by the claimant, agent, or attorney are documented in the file; and ensure that all pertinent evidence is included in the file. If the claimant states that he or she appeals, but does not submit supporting materials within the 180 day appeal period, the appeal will be treated as being on the record as it existed at the time of denial or final offer. Unless action under paragraph (b) of this section is taken, the claim and complete investigative file, including any additional investigation required, and a tort claims memorandum will be forwarded to the appropriate appellate authority for necessary action on the appeal. (b) If the evidence in the file, including information submitted by the claimant with the appeal and any necessary additional investigation, indicates the appeal should be granted, in whole or in part, the settlement authority who last acted on the claim or his or her successor will attempt to settle the claim. If a settlement cannot be reached, the appeal will be forwarded in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. (c) As to an appeal that requires action by TJAG, TAJAG, or the Secretary of the Army or designee, the Commander, USARCS may take the action in paragraph (b) of this section or forward the claim together with a recommendation for action. All matters submitted by the claimant will be forwarded and considered. (d) Since an appeal under this chapter is not an adversary proceeding, no form of hearing is authorized. A request by the claimant for access to documentary evidence in the claims file to be used in considering the appeal should be granted unless access is not permitted by law or regulation. (e) If the appeal authority upholds a final offer or authorizes an award on appeal from a denial of a claim, the notice of the appellate authority's action will inform the claimant that they must accept the award within 180 days of the date of mailing of the notice of the appellate authority's action or the award will be withdrawn, the claim will be deemed denied and the file will be closed without further recourse. ยง536.65 Cross-servicing of claims. (a) Single-service claims responsibility. Per DODD 5515.8, the DOD has assigned single-service responsibility to the various military departments for the settlement of claims in specified countries. (b) Claims settlement procedures. Per DODD 5515.3, the DOD has directed that where a single Service has been assigned a country or area claims responsibility, that Service will settle claims cognizable under 10 U.S.C. 2733 in accordance with the departmental regulations of that Service. ยง536.66 Attorney fees. In the settlement of any claim pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2733 and this chapter, attorney fees will not exceed 20 percent of the final cost to the United States of the award. On structured settlements, the cash payment due immediately upon final approved must be sufficient to allow payment of attorneys fees equal to 20% of the total cost of the settlement. ยง536.67 Payment of costs, settlements, and judgments related to certain medical malpractice claims. (a) General. Costs, settlements, or judgments cognizable under 10 U.S.C. 1089(f) for personal injury or death caused by any physician, dentist, nurse, pharmacist, paramedical, or other supporting personnel (including medical and dental technicians, nurse assistants, therapists, and Red Cross volunteers meeting the criteria in AR 40&hyph;3, paragraph 2&hyph;42) of DA will be paid provided_ (1) The alleged negligent or wrongful actions or omissions arose in performance of medical, dental or related health care functions (including clinical studies and investigations) within the scope of employment; (2) Such personnel furnish prompt notification and delivery of all process served or received and other documents, information, and assistance as requested; and cooperate in the defense of the action on its merits. (b) Requests for indemnification. All requests for indemnification under this paragraph should be forwarded to the Commander, USARCS, for action using procedures contained in this chapter. (See DODD 6000.6.) ยง536.68 Payment of costs, settlements, and judgments related to certain legal malpractice claims. (a) General. Costs, settlements, and judgments cognizable under 10 U.S.C. 1054(f) for damages for injury of loss of property caused by any attorney, paralegal, or other member of a legal staff within DA will be paid provided that_ (1) The alleged negligent or wrongful actions or omissions arose in connection with providing legal services while acting within the scope of duties or employment, (2) Such personnel furnish prompt notification and delivery of all process served or received, and other documents, information, and assistance as requested; and cooperate in the defense of the action on the merits.
