FR940725-0-00103 FR940725-0-00013 Response: Ventilators will not be covered under this benefit. Section 1902(e)(9) of the Act, as added by section 9408 of OBRA '86, provides for respiratory therapy services, not equipment, to be provided to ventilator-dependent individuals as an optional service. The statute and accompanying conference committee report (H. Rept. No. 1012, 99th Cong., 2d Sess. 413&hyph;414 (1986)) do not suggest that equipment required in the home (such as ventilators, needed to sustain the recipient's health and welfare) would be included. Such equipment is supplied by the State as a home health benefit under §440.70(b)(3), that mandates the provision of medical supplies, equipment, and appliances suitable for use in the home. In addition, States that pay for the optional prosthetic devices benefit may cover ventilators as a prosthetic device that supports a weak or deformed portion of the body under §440.120(c)(3). Comment: Another commenter asked us to define a recipient's home. Response: A recipient's home is a place of residence other than a hospital, NF, ICF/MR, or other institution as defined at §435.1009. We have revised §440.185 to specify that a recipient's home does not include these facilities. Comment: Two commenters suggested that more medical direction be required in decisions regarding the provision of respiratory therapy at home. One commenter proposed the use of medically sound criteria to determine eligibility and the other commenter recommended that more physician oversight and involvement in the direction of care be required. Response: We agree with the commenters concerning the need for greater medical direction for individuals in need of respiratory care services. We have added §440.185(a)(6) to require the direction of a physician who is familiar with the technical and medical components of home ventilator support and who has determined that in-home care is safe and feasible. Comment: One commenter stated that the regulations implementing the option to provide respiratory care services are too restrictive and limited as a Medicaid State plan option because respiratory care services would be limited to individuals who (1) need at least 6 hours of ventilator support for life support, (2) depend on ventilator support for at least 30 consecutive days and (3) require respiratory care as an inpatient. Response: Our proposed regulations closely followed the statutory language and the only restrictions we imposed were those contained in the statute. In response to comments, we are now adding the requirement that a recipient receive respiratory care services under the direction of a physician who is familiar with the technical and medical components of home ventilator support and who has determined that in-home care is safe and feasible. Comment: One commenter was concerned that the payment rate for in-home respiratory therapy would not be adequate. Response: Under the Medicaid program, the State establishes the payment rate within broad Federal guidelines. We believe it would be inappropriate to dictate a special payment procedure for this service. Comment: One commenter requested that HCFA specifically refer to ``respiratory therapy technician'' as approved provider of respiratory care services to effectively recognize another level of skilled respiratory care practitioner. Response: Section 9408(a) of OBRA '86 does not anticipate or require that we specify which practitioners or technicians are accepted by the States as providers. In the proposed rule (53 FR 19957 and 19960), we designated a broad and inclusive category ``other health care professional trained in respiratory therapy (as determined by the State)'' in the preamble and in §440.185 of the regulation text. This ``other'' category could include the respiratory therapy technician as well as other types of skilled practitioners to the degree that they are recognized under State law. B. Provisions of the Final Rule We are adopting the proposed regulations under §440.185 and §440.250(o) as final rules with the following modifications: •We have added §440.185(a)(6) to require that (1) an individual who receives home respiratory care must receive these services under the care of a physician who is familiar with the technical and medical components of home ventilator support, and (2) that this physician must determine medically that in-home care is safe and feasible for the recipient. •We have revised §440.185(b) to specify the facilities that are not considered to be a recipient's home.
