FR940512-2-00164 FR940512-2-00078 G. Availability of Funds l. Basic Center Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth 2. Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth 3. Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth 4. Training and Technical Assistance Grants H. Duration of Projects I. Maximum Federal Share and Grantee Share of the Project Part II: Evaluation Criteria Part III: Priority Areas A. Basic Center Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth B. Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth C. Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth D. Training and Technical Assistance Grants Part IV: Application Process A. Assistance to Prospective Grantees B. Application Requirements C. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 D. Notification Under Executive Order 12372 E. Availability of Forms and Other Materials F. Application Consideration Part V: Application Assembly and Submission Part VI: Appendices A. Basic Center Program Performance Standards B. National Runaway Switchboard C. National Clearinghouse on Runaway and Homeless Youth D. Runaway and Homeless Youth Continuation Grantees l. Basic Center Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth 2. Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth 3. Drug Abuse Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth E. Basic Center Program Allocations by State F. Administration for Children and Families Regional Office Youth Contacts G. Training and Technical Assistance Providers H. State Single Points of Contact I. Forms and Instructions Part I. General Information A. Background on Runaway and Homeless Youth The Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB), within the Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF), administers programs that support services to an adolescent population of approximately 1.3 million runaway and homeless youth. Many of these youth have left home to escape abusive situations, or because their parents could not provide them with the basic needs of food, shelter and a safe supportive environment. Many live on the streets. While living on the streets or away from home without parental supervision, these youth are highly vulnerable. They may become victims of street violence, or may be exploited by dealers of illegal drugs. Usually lacking marketable skills, they may be drawn into shoplifting, prostitution, and dealing drugs in order to earn money for food, clothing, and other daily expenses. Without a fixed address or regular place to sleep, they often drop out of school, forfeiting their opportunities to learn and to become independent, self-sufficient, contributing members of society. As street people, they may try to survive with little or no contact with medical professionals, the result being that their health problems may go untreated and may worsen. Without the support of family, schools, and other community institutions, they may not acquire the personal values and work skills that will enable them to enter or advance in the world of work at other than the most minimal levels. Finally, as street people, they may create substantial law enforcement problems, endangering both themselves and the communities in which they are located. All these problems, real and potential, call for a nationwide, community-based program to address the needs of runaway and homeless youth. B. Legislative Authority Grants for the Basic Center Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth are authorized by Part A of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (RHY Act), 42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq. The RHY Act was enacted as Title III of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93&hyph;415), and amended by the Juvenile Justice Amendments of 1977 (Pub. L. 95&hyph;115), the Juvenile Justice Amendments of 1980 (Pub. L.96&hyph;509), the Juvenile Justice Amendments of 1984 (Pub. L. 98&hyph;473), the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;690), and the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act Amendments of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;586). Grants for the Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth are authorized under Part B of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act. Part B was established in 1988 as part of Public Law 100&hyph;690. Grants for the Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth are authorized under section 3511 of Public Law 100&hyph;690, the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (Anti-Drug Abuse Act), which established the Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth, as amended by Public Law 102&hyph;132.
