FR940912-2-00077 FR940912-2-00056 7. The trustee shall serve, without bond or other security, at the cost and expense of Roche, on such reasonable and customary terms and conditions as the Commission or a court may set. The trustee shall have the authority to employ, at the cost and expense of Roche, such consultants, accountants, attorneys, investment bankers, business brokers, appraisers, and other representatives and assistants as are necessary to carry out the trustee's duties and responsibilities. The trustee shall account for all monies derived from the divestiture and all expenses incurred. After approval by the Commission and, in the case of a court-appointed trustee, by the court, of the account of the trustee, including fees for his or her services, all remaining monies shall be paid at the direction of Roche, and the trustee's power shall be terminated. The trustee's compensation shall be based at least in significant part on a commission arrangement contingent on the trustee's divesting the Syva Business. 8. Roche shall indemnify the trustee and hold the trustee harmless against any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, or expenses arising out of, or in connection with, the performance of the trustee's duties, including all reasonable fees of counsel and other expenses incurred in connection with the preparation for, or defense of any claim, whether or not resulting in any liability, except to the extent that such liabilities, losses, damages, claims, or expenses result from misfeasance, gross negligence, willful or wanton acts, or bad faith by the trustee. 9. If the trustee ceases to act or fails to act diligently, a substitute trustee shall be appointed in the same manner as provided in Paragraph III of this order. 10. The Commission or, in the case of a court-appointed trustee, the court, may on its own initiative or at the request of the trustee issue such additional orders or directions as may be necessary or appropriate to accomplish the divestiture required by this order. 11. The trustee shall have no obligation or authority to operate or maintain the Syva Business. 12. The trustee shall report in writing to Roche and the Commission every sixty (60) days concerning the trustee's efforts to accomplish divestiture. IV It is further ordered that Respondents shall comply with all terms of the Agreement to Hold Separate, attached to this order and made a part hereof as Appendix I. The Agreement to Hold Separate shall continue in effect until Roche has divested all of the Syva Business as required by this order. V It is further ordered that, for a period of ten (10) years form the date this order becomes final, Roche shall not, without the prior approval of the Commission, directly or indirectly, through subsidiaries, partnerships, or otherwise: (a) acquire more than 1% of the stock, share capital, equity or other interest in any concern, corporate or non-corporate, engaged in at the time of such acquisition, or within the two years preceding such acquisition engaged in, the manufacture or production of drugs of abuse reagent products in the United States; or (b) acquire any assets used or previously used (and still suitable for use) in the manufacture and production of drugs of abuse reagent products in the United States to which sales of $3 million or more of drugs of abuse reagent products were attributable in the year preceding such acquisition. Provided, however, that this Paragraph V shall not apply to the acquisition of products or services acquired in the ordinary course of business or to any acquisition of a non-exclusive license to any United States patents or other form of intellectual property (excluding assets of the Syva Business).
