FR941107-2-00087 FR941107-2-00041 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5096&hyph;6] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before December 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information, or to obtain a copy of the ICR contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Research and Development Title: Application for Reference or Equivalent Method Determination (OMB Control No. 2080&hyph;0005; EPA ICR No. 0559.05). Abstract: This ICR is an extension of an existing information collection to support the establishment of, or modification to, reference or equivalent method determinations for candidate air monitoring methods. Under the Clean Air Act (CAA), as set forth at 40 CFR part 53, entities seeking to have an ambient air pollutant monitoring method designated by the EPA as a reference or equivalent method must conduct required tests of the candidate method and must apply to EPA by submitting test results and other information. The information is necessary to determine whether specific methods intended for air pollution monitoring are adequate for determining attainment or non-attainment with the National Ambient Air Quality Standards established under the CAA, as set forth at 40 CFR part 50. Applicants must provide EPA with information that includes: (1) Identification and detailed method description; (2) comprehensive operation or instruction manuals that include procedures for field use of method; (3) test data, records and calculations to support performance specifications; (4) a statement that the method has been evaluated in accordance with required procedures; (5) a description of their quality assurance program; and (6) identification of confidential or proprietary information. Applicants must maintain records for seven years on the names and ultimate purchasers of methods sold as designated reference or equivalent methods. Upon receiving the application, EPA will publish a Notice of Receipt in the Federal Register , and technically evaluate the information in order to approve or disapprove of the application. EPA may request auxiliary tests or additional information as necessary to assist in making a determination of the application. Upon determination, EPA will publish a Notice of Determination in the Federal Register and add the method to a list provided to EPA regions and the public. Burden Statement: Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 150 hours per response, with an average of 434 hours per response for new methods and 20 hours per response for modifications to methods, including time for reviewing regulations, searching existing information sources, completing and reviewing the collection of information, and submitting the information to the EPA. Public recordkeeping burden is estimated to average 5 hours per recordkeeper, including time to store and maintain records. Respondents: Applicants for reference or equivalent method determinations. Estimated Number of Respondents: 9 reporters, 20 recordkeepers. Frequency of Collection: On occasion. Estimated Number of Responses per Respondent: 1. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 1522 hours. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2316), 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. and Timothy Hunt, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503. Dated: October 28, 1994. Paul Lapsley, Director, Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27543 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
