FR941212-0-00032 FR941212-0-00014 *␣*␣* Protect the shipper by requiring that a rate filed in a tariff be available to all shippers of like transportation characteristics *␣*␣*. The notion of protecting small shippers vis-a-vis larger shipper *␣*␣* is also widespread. Small shippers focus on this particular notion of common carriage, and are concerned that larger shippers will get rates and/or services that they will not be able to get. *␣*␣* Support for [Tariff Filing and Enforcement] also came from certain shippers and shippers' associations who use the filed rate as a benchmark when negotiating service contracts. Since part of the benefit to a shipper of signing a service contract is obtaining a discount from the prevailing tariff rate, knowing the rate in advance provides an effective starting point. Shippers' associations state that they also use the tariff rate as an indicator of the benefit of a collectively negotiated service contract. Shippers' associations say they may also use the tariff to discover the value of alternative service options for their members. Since tariffs identify both the rates and the conditions of service, the information is available to the association to tailor the contract to the varying needs of its members. JCG Comments at 13&hyph;14, quoting The Advisory Commission on Conferences in Ocean Shipping Report, at 117&hyph;118 (April 1992). JCG argues further that since the initiation, implementation, and, to a larger extent, oversight and enforcement of tariff and ET filing requirements were, and are, done for the benefit of shippers and consignees, it must be concluded that such benefits are ``independent.'' Similarly, Lykes questions whether the 29 cents of the 34 cent tariff filing fee covering the cost of staff review is actually for the benefit of the filers. Lykes argues that ATFI was initially proposed as being for the benefit of the shipper, and that there is an ``independent'' rather than ``incidental'' public benefit from tariff and ET filings, and that fully 50 percent of the benefits of tariff and ET filings are for the public. JCG and Lykes recommend a 50 percent reduction in any fee to be charged to a carrier or conference, arguing that at least half of the benefit of the Commission's services can be attributed to shippers. JCG further suggests that, since Commission services also benefit the general public, 50 percent may be too high a percentage to charge filers. The Japan Conferences contend that no more than one-third of the Commission's tariff and ET filing processing costs should be borne by the carrier industry. These comments, urging that tariff and ET filing confer public benefits that are ``independent'' rather than ``incidental,'' have merit. In Electronics Industries, the court observed that if an agency engages in further activity beyond that which is required to ensure statutory compliance, in order to satisfy some ``independent'' public interest, the charges for these additional efforts could not be included in fees assessed to private applicants. Some elements of the Commission's tariff filing program go beyond those that are necessary to ensure compliance with statutory tariff filing requirements, 9 and instead are designed to confer a benefit on the shipping public. Specifically, the requirement in 46 CFR 514.15(a) that carriers file algorithms with their tariffs facilitates shipper calculation of total applicable freight charges. 9 Section 8 of the 1984 Act, 46 U.S.C. app. 1707; section 502 of P.L. 102&hyph;582, 46 U.S.C. app. 1707a.
