FR940712-2-00058 FR940712-2-00042 5. Organizations participating in the program must have agreements with their affiliates, chapters, or other minority organizations that each organization must have a governing body or board whose membership is composed of more than 50% racial or ethnic minority group members who are representative of the population to be served. Availability of Funds A minimum of $100,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund one award. Additional funds are expected. It is expected that the award will begin on or about September 30, 1994, for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 5 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Purpose The principal purpose of the cooperative agreement is to assist an NMO or RMO to establish the following three components: a Health Program Unit, a Speakers Bureau, and a National Health Network. This will allow the awardee to use these components for the following: Health Program Unit: The awardee will implement preventive strategies to improve the health of African-Americans by targeting the seven leading causes of excess deaths in this population. The Health Program Unit will also develop and implement strategies to improve the utilization of community health resources by African-Americans. Speakers Bureau: The awardee will organize a National Speakers Bureau of health professionals and other professionals to provide oral presentations on salient health promotion and disease prevention topics relating to African-Americans at national, State, and local meetings. Other organizations will have ready access to the Speakers Bureau to assist in improving disease prevention and health promotion activities in their areas. National Health Network: The awardee will assist minority organizations to: (1) Expand their internal and external organizational networks, and (2) facilitate the dissemination of health promotion and disease prevention information to African-Americans. This network will use the communication systems that already exist in the community to assist in reaching the target audience. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient will be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities), and CDC will be responsible for the activities under B. (CDC Activities). A. Recipient Activities 1. The Health Program Unit a. Communicate science-based health promotion and disease prevention strategies developed with CDC throughout African-American communities to improve the environment and personal health behaviors of those living in these communities. b. Assess ongoing health related activities in various communities to determine if African-Americans are involved, and to determine if the activities are appropriate for the target audience (i.e., immunization, STD/HIV prevention). c. Focus on the seven leading causes of deaths in African-American populations, and help design health promotion and disease prevention materials relevant to the populations served. d. Improve the utilization of the community health resources by African-Americans. e. Develop and disseminate audio-visual and written health promotion material for the target population. f. Develop quality of life measures for community members through a consensus building process (e.g., oral health, mental health). Inform the target group about health promotion and disease prevention activities related to the seven leading causes of deaths among African-Americans that were found in the community.
