FR940228-1-00140 FR940228-1-00010 (C) For free-standing institutions that merge to form a new, consolidated institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable fiscal year and the combined number of students who default during the applicable fiscal years from all of the institutions that are merging. This cohort default rate applies to the new consolidated institution. (D) For a location of one institution that becomes a location of another institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable fiscal year and the number of students who default during the applicable fiscal years from both of the institutions in their entirety, not limited solely to the respective locations. (2) Fiscal year means the period from and including October 1 of a calendar year through and including September 30 of the following calendar year. (i) Federal SLS Program participation. An institution loses its participation in the Federal SLS Program if the Secretary determines that the institution's cohort default rate for the most recent fiscal year for which that rate is available is equal to or greater than 30 percent. However, the institution's loss of participation does not apply to a student who is not an undergraduate student or who has received a Federal SLS loan previously for enrollment in the same educational program at the institution (except that previous receipt of a Federal SLS loan shall not qualify a student for a Federal SLS loan with respect to an extension of the duration of that educational program that was effected on or after November 8, 1989). (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1082, 1085, 1094, 1099c) 12. Section 668.22 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.22 Institutional refunds and repayments. (a) General. (1) An institution shall have a fair and equitable refund policy under which the institution makes a refund of unearned tuition, fees, room and board, and other charges to a student who received Title IV, HEA program assistance, or whose parent received a Federal PLUS loan on behalf of the student if the student_ (i) Does not register for the period of enrollment for which the student was charged; or (ii) Withdraws, drops out, is expelled from the institution or otherwise fails to complete the program on or after his or her first day of class of the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (2) The institution shall provide a clear and conspicuous written statement containing its refund policy, including the allocation of refunds and repayments to sources of aid, together with examples of the application of this policy, to a prospective student prior to the earlier of the student's enrollment or the execution of the student's enrollment agreement. The institution shall make its policy known to currently enrolled students. The institution shall include in its statement the procedures that a student must follow to obtain a refund, but the institution shall return the portion of a refund allocable to the Title IV, HEA programs in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section whether the student follows those procedures or not. If the institution changes its refund policy, the institution shall ensure that all students are made aware of the new policy. (3) The institution shall publish the costs of required supplies and equipment and shall substantiate to the Secretary upon request that the costs are reasonably related to the cost of providing the supplies and equipment to students. (b) Fair and equitable refund policy. (1) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, an institution's refund policy is fair and equitable if the policy provides for a refund of at least the larger of the amount provided under_ (i) The requirements of applicable State law; (ii) The specific refund standards established by the institution's nationally recognized accrediting agency if those standards are approved by the Secretary; (iii) The pro rata refund calculation described in paragraph (c) of this section, for any student attending the institution for the first time whose withdrawal date is on or before the 60 percent point in time in the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged; or (iv) For purposes of determining a refund when the pro rata refund calculation under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section does not apply, and no standards for refund calculations exist under paragraph (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section, the larger of_ (A) The specific refund standards contained in Appendix A to this part; or (B) The institution's refund policy. (2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, ``the 60 percent point in time in the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged'' is_ (i) In the case of an educational program that is measured in credit hours, the point in calendar time when 60 percent of the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section, has elapsed; and (ii) In the case of an educational program that is measured in clock hours, the point in time when the student completes 60 percent of the clock hours scheduled for the period of enrollment for which the student is charged as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
