FR941110-0-00045 FR941110-0-00016 Payments for civil money penalties would be due 15 days after_ •Compliance is verified, if a hearing decision upholding the imposition of the penalty had been rendered before compliance had been verified, or the 60-day period for requesting a hearing has expired and the facility has not requested a hearing or has waived its right to a hearing; •A hearing decision upholding the imposition of the penalty if compliance was achieved before the hearing decision; or •The effective date of termination if compliance has not been achieved by that time. Currently, §431.153 (Evidentiary hearing) does not specify the number of days a facility has to request a hearing. We proposed amending §431.153 to add a new paragraph (b) which specifies that a NF or ICF/MR must file a request for hearing within 60 days of receipt of the notice of denial, termination, nonrenewal, or imposition of a civil money penalty or other remedies. Consistent with the way other civil money penalties are recovered, as provided in section 1128A(f) of the Act, we proposed that the amount of any penalty, when determined, may be deducted from any sum then or later owing by HCFA or the State to the facility against whom the penalty has been assessed. Interest would be assessed on the unpaid balance of the penalty beginning on the due date. We proposed that the rate of interest to be assessed on the unpaid balance would be negotiable and for that reason might vary on a case by case basis. Funds collected by HCFA or the State as a result of a civil money penalty would be returned to the Medicare Trust Fund or to the State, respectively. Civil money penalties collected from dually participating facilities would be returned to the Medicare Trust Fund and the State in proportion commensurate with the relative proportions of the number of Medicare and Medicaid beds actually in use at the facility at the time the facility receives notice of the imposition of the civil money penalty. Under section 1919(h)(2)(A)(ii) of the Act, funds collected by a Medicaid State agency must be put into a common fund to be applied to the protection of the health or property of residents of any NF that the State or HCFA finds deficient, including payment for the cost of relocating residents to other facilities, maintenance of operation of a facility pending correction of deficiencies or closure, and reimbursement of residents for personal funds lost. Oversight of the collection and use of funds will be addressed through HCFA's State agency evaluation program now in place.
