FR940803-1-00014 FR940803-1-00004 5. Waiver or reduction of a fee or absorption of expenses. Bonuses do not include value received by members through the waiver or reduction of fees for credit union-related services (even if the fees waived exceed $10), such as the following: Waiving a safe deposit box rental fee for one year for members who open a new account Waiving fees for travelers checks for members Nondiscriminatorily waiving all fees for a particular class of members, such as seniors or minors Discounts on interest rates charged for loans at the credit union Rebates of loan interest already paid by a member Discounts on application fees charged for loans at the credit union 6. Non-dividend membership benefits. Such benefits are not bonuses because they are sporadic in nature, often difficult to value, and providing non-dividend membership benefits is a long-standing unique credit union practice. (See commentary to ยง707.2(r) for examples of such benefits.) (g) Credit union. 1. General. Includes credit unions in the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands, and U.S. territories. Applies to credit unions whether or not the accounts in the credit union are federally, state, or privately insured, or uninsured. (h) Daily balance method. 1. General. One of the two required methods (the average daily balance is the other) of determining the balance upon which dividends must be paid. The daily balance method requires the application of a daily periodic rate to the full amount of principal in the account each day. (i) Dividend and dividends. 1. General. Member savings placed in share accounts are equity investments, and the returns earned on these accounts are dividends. Federal credit unions may only offer dividend-bearing and non-dividend-bearing share accounts. State-chartered credit unions may offer both share and deposit accounts if permitted by state law. Dividends exclude the payment of a bonus or other consideration worth $10 or less given during a year, the waiver or reduction of a fee, the absorption of expenses, non-dividend membership benefits, and extraordinary dividends. 2. Procedure. Dividends may be viewed as a portion of the available current and undivided earnings of the credit union which is set apart, after required transfers to reserves, by valid act of the board of directors, for distribution among the members. As a matter of legal procedure, members are not entitled to dividends until the following steps are completed: (1) the board of the credit union develops a nondiscriminatory dividend policy, by establishing dividend periods, dividend credit determination dates, dividend distribution dates, any associated penalties (if applicable), and the method of dividend computation for each type of share account; (2) the provision for required transfers to reserves are made; (3) sufficient and available prior and/or current earnings are available at the end of the dividend period; (4) the board formally makes a dividend declaration in accordance with the credit union's dividend policy; and (5) dividends must be paid to members by a credit to the appropriate share account, payment by share draft or by a combination of the two methods. 3. When available. Legally, it is the declaration of the dividend itself which creates the dividend and the member has no right to receive a dividend until it is so declared. The decision of when to declare dividends lies within the official discretion of each credit union's board of directors and cannot be abrogated by contract. An agreement to pay dividends on a share account is interpreted not as an obligation to pay the stipulated dividends absolutely and unconditionally, but as an undertaking to pay them out of the earnings when sufficiently accumulated from which dividends in general are properly payable. ``Prospective rates'' are rates set in good faith in advance of the close of a dividend period, that may be altered if sufficient funds are not available, or in the event of a superseding event, such as a significant fluctuation in market rates, natural disaster or emergency that alters the assumptions under which the ``prospective rates'' were made. ``Prospective rates'' may also be referred to as ``projected rates'' or similar wording, but not as ``estimated rates.'' (See commentary to ยง707.3(b)(2), prohibiting use of estimates). 4. Referencing. Except where specifically stated otherwise, use of the term ``share'' in part 707, as in ``share account,'' also refers to ``deposit,'' as in ``deposit account,'' where appropriate (for interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing deposit accounts at some state-chartered credit unions). (j) Dividend declaration date.
