FR941116-1-00018 FR941116-1-00004 Appendix A to Part 627._Annual Federal-Aid Value Engineering (VE) Summary Report [Report only Federal-aid funded projects_State: XXXXX Fiscal year: XXXXX ] 1␣ 1␣ 1. Total dollars invested in VE Studies by the SHA this fiscal year (include in-house costs only, such as, VE coordinator and staff salaries; study costs; salary, travel and incidental costs for persons making studies). $ XXXX M 2. Total dollars paid to VE contractors for performing VE Studies this fiscal year (include such costs as VE staff salaries for monitoring contractor and VE study costs). $ XXXX M 3. Total dollars invested in VE Training by the SHA this fiscal year (include in-house costs for VE coordinator and staff salaries for organizing and monitoring; NHI training costs; salary, travel and incidental costs for persons attending training). $ XXXX M 4. Total dollars paid to VE contractors for VE Training used the SHA this fiscal year (include training costs; salary, travel, and incidental costs for persons attending training). $ XXXX M 5. Total number of individuals trained in VE during this fiscal year. Over 8 hours FHWA XXX State XXX Other XXX Under 8 hours FHWA XXX State XXX Other XXX Project Development and Design Phase 6. Total number of VE studies completed this fiscal year. XXXX ␣ a. Total number of VE recommendations made. XXXX ␣ b. Total number of VE recommendation approved. XXXX ␣ 7. Total estimated construction cost of all the projects before the VE studies were performed. $ XXXX M a. Total dollar value of the VE recommendations made. $ XXXX M b. Total dollar value of the VE recommendations approved for implementation. $ XXXX M 8. Total estimated construction cost of all the projects after the VE studies were performed and the VE recommendations were approved for implementation. $ XXXX M Project Construction Phase (Value Engineering Change Proposals) 9. Total number of VECP received this fiscal year. XXXX ␣ 10. Total value of VECP received this fiscal year. $ XXXX M 11. Total number of VECP approved this fiscal year. XXXX ␣ 12. Total value of VECP approved this fiscal year. $ XXXX M 13. Total amount of VECP approved savings provided to contractors. $ XXXX M Life-Cycle Cost Savings 14. Total estimated value of life-cycle (cost avoidance) cost savings for approved VE and VECP recommendations this fiscal year. $ XXXX M [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28290 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;P
