FR940404-2-00194 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the 30th Session of the Technical Committee, 33rd Session of the Administrative and Legal Committee, 47th Session of the Consultative Committee, and the 27th Session of the Council of the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants (UPOV), Geneva, October 25&hyph;29, 1993 30th Session of the Technical Committee_October 25&hyph;26, 1993 Representative Alan A. Atchley, Plant Variety Protection Office, Agricultural Marketing Service, Science Division, Department of Agriculture 33rd Session of the Administrative and Legal Committee_October 27, 1993 Representative Lee J. Schroeder, Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce Adviser Alan A. Atchley, Plant Variety Protection Office, Agricultural Marketing Service, Science Division, Department of Agriculture Private Sector Adviser Michael Roth, Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc., Des Moines, Iowa 47th Session of the Consultative Committee_October 28, 1993 Representative Lee J. Schroeder, Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce Adviser Alan A. Atchley, Plant Variety Protection Office, Agricultural Marketing Service, Science Division, Department of Agriculture 27th Session of the Council_October 29, 1993 Representative Lee J. Schroeder, Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce Adviser Alan A. Atchley, Plant Variety Protection Office, Agricultural Marketing Service, Science Division, Department of Agriculture Private Sector Adviser Michael Roth, Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc., Des Moines, Iowa United States Delegation to the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Ports Management, First Session, Standing Committee on Developing Services Sectors, Trade and Development Board, United Nations Conference for Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Geneva, October 25&hyph;29, 1993 Representative Steven Schlaijker, Economic Counselor, United States Mission, Geneva Advisers Robert Konrath, Economic Officer, United States Mission, Geneva Joyce Rabens, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Geneva Private Sector Adviser Lilliam C. Liburdi, Director, Port Department, The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, New York, New York United States Delegation to the Second Annual Meeting of the North Pacific Marine Science Organization (PICES), Seattle, October 25&hyph;30, 1993 Representatives Vera Alexander, Dean, School of Fisheries and Ocean Sciences, University of Alaska, Fairbanks, Alaska William Aron, Director, Alaska Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, Seattle, Washington Advisers John Hunter, Chief, Coastal Fisheries Resource Division, Southwest Fisheries Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, La Jolla, California Alec D. MacCall, Director, Tiburon Laboratory, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, Tiburon, California James E. Overland, Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, Seattle, Washington William L. Sullivan, Jr., Office of Ocean Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental Scientific Affairs, Department of State Usha Varanasi, Director, Environmental Conservation Division, Northwest Fisheries Science Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, Seattle, Washington Private Sector Advisers Douglas M. Eggers, Chief Fisheries Scientist, Division of Commercial Fisheries, Alaska Department of Fish and Game, Juneau, Alaska Michael M. Mullin, Director, Marine Life Research Group, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California Stephen C. Riser, School of Oceanography, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
