FR940831-2-00163 FR940831-2-00106 6. Miscellaneous Expenses 6.1␣Component Overview The Miscellaneous Expense component consists primarily of four unrelated groups of expenses: •medical care, •contributions (including gifts to non-family members), •personal insurance, and •savings and investments (including pensions). Runzheimer believes that certain miscellaneous expense items should not affect living-cost measures between locations. For example, Runzheimer considers charitable contributions a personal choice, so we include this expenditure as a constant amount in all locations. Based on research into all of the expenses of this component, Runzheimer also regards expenses related to personal insurance, savings and investments, and pensions as constants, for reasons discussed in section 6.2.2. To measure the miscellaneous expenses, Runzheimer constructed a pricing methodology similar to the one used in the Goods & Services component. Runzheimer selected representative items for medical care, priced them in all areas, and then computed a Miscellaneous Expense component index based on the relative importance of costed items and categories held constant. 6.2␣Miscellaneous Expense Model 6.2.1␣Expenditure Research From the 1988 CES, Runzheimer tabulated the miscellaneous expense data into logical expense groupings and then determined the appropriate item weighing. The table on the following page lists the categories that Runzheimer selected to price and their weights: Miscellaneous Expense Categories & Weights 1Categories 1Income Level 2Lower (percent) 2Middle (percent) 2Upper (percent) Medical Care 43.41 31.56 22.40 Contributions (including gifts)* 12.38 14.90 16.85 Personal Insurance & Pensions* 44.21 53.54 60.75 Totals 100.00 100.00 100.00 *Held constant. 6.2.2␣Miscellaneous Expense Methodology As stated in section 2.2, Runzheimer used the Laspeyres indexing methodology to compute the Miscellaneous Expense component index. For groups of items held constant, the model assumed a price ratio between the allowance area and the Washington, D.C., area equal to 100.00%. Runzheimer defined personal insurance and pensions as the portion of a family's budget that was targeted for long-term financial security. This is consistent with the definitions used by the CES, the results of which are used as weights in the COLA model. In the CES, money stored in a savings or investment vehicle for future expenditures (of goods and services, housing, or transportation) is accounted for in the other component weightings. In section 6.1, we noted that expenses related to personal insurance were held constant for all locations. This was based on information received from life insurance companies and OPM officials. The life insurance companies contacted indicated that policies written (and premiums charged) to persons within the United States and its territories did not vary due to location. Runzheimer's research and discussions with OPM officials also indicated that, in general, federal employees in all areas received similar or identical benefits packages_any variations were due to personal preference. Therefore, Runzheimer believed, and OPM concurred, that holding these types of expenses constant was appropriate.
