FR940826-0-00127 FR940826-0-00020 40. Our experience with the first narrowband PCS auction showed that preventing bidder identities from being revealed can be extremely difficult. In addition, if some but not all bidders know other bidders' identities, those bidders have an advantage in the quality of information available to them and in the potential ability to thwart others' bidding strategies. Concealing bidder identities may give an advantage to larger bidders that have the resources to devote to discovering other bidders' identities. 41. As we noted in the Second Report and Order, however, releasing the identities of high bidders may foster strategic manipulation, such as bidding up the prices of licenses needed by rivals, and may facilitate collusion. 79 Some auction experts argue that anonymity makes it harder to target a firm for strategic hold-up because the bidding and aggregation strategies of specific competitors cannot be easily detected. 80 Concealing bidder identities makes initiating collusive arrangements during the course of an auction more difficult because bidders will not easily be able to identify the parties against whom they are bidding, unless those parties voluntarily reveal their identities. On the other hand, concealing bidders' identities may not be critical to preventing collusion during an auction; existing antitrust laws and the FCC's collusion rules should be adequate to prevent collusive conduct. In any event, under an anonymous bidding scenario, if bidders want to collude they can simply disclose their bidder identification numbers to one another before the auction. 79 Second Report and Order at ¶158. 80 Comments of NYNEX on NPRM, attachment by Robert G. Harris and Michael L. Katz, ``A Public Interest Assessment of Spectrum Auctions for Wireless Telecommunications Services'' at 9. 42. Because of the advantages of providing more information to bidders and the difficulties involved in ensuring that bidder identities remain confidential, we will generally release the identities of bidders before each auction. However, we recognize that experts disagree on the potential for knowledge of bidders' identities to facilitate collusion and other strategic behavior. Consequently we wish to have the flexibility to conceal bidder identities if further experience shows that it would be feasible and desirable to do so. We may also wish to test the effects of releasing identities of bidders. Consequently we are reserving the option to withhold bidder identities on an auction-by-auction basis. If we decide to withhold bidder identities for a particular auction, we will announce that decision by a service-specific auction Order. We will announce by Public Notice prior to each auction whether the identities of bidders will be made public in that auction. G. Standby Queue 43. Petition. GTE states that for 10 MHz blocks in broadband PCS the Commission should adopt the ``standby queue'' bidding mechanism considered in experiments sponsored by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration and conducted at the California Institute of Technology. 81 The standby queue allows parties seeking individual licenses to coordinate their bids in order to beat a bid for a combination of licenses. GTE asserts that the standby queue would allow bidders seeking to combine smaller blocks into a larger set of frequencies, or to combine blocks on a geographic basis, to obtain information about the status of bidding that would permit them to bid rationally and efficiently. 81 GTE Petition at 13&hyph;14. 44. Discussion. The standby queue is a mechanism to be used in conjunction with combinatorial auctions. In the Fifth Report and Order we concluded that the disadvantages of combinatorial bidding were likely to outweigh the advantages for auctions of broadband PCS licenses, and we adopted simultaneous multiple round bidding as our auction methodology for broadband PCS licenses. Nevertheless, we left open the option to use combinatorial auctions if simultaneous multiple round auctions do not result in efficient aggregation of licenses, and if there are significant advances in the development of combinatorial auctions. 82 Although we have no current plans to use combinatorial auctions, if in the future we do adopt such an auction methodology we will consider the use of a standby queue mechanism. 82 Fifth Report and Order at ¶35. H. Filing Fees 45. Petition. William E. Zimsky (Zimsky) states that the rule imposing filing fees for the filing of short-form applications for auctions should be deleted. 83 Zimsky asserts that because there is no provision in 47 U.S.C. §158(g) for imposing the filing fee for the new short-form application, the Commission lacks the statutory authority to impose such a fee. Zimsky also asserts that, even if the Commission has such statutory power, to impose a filing fee on all bidders is unreasonable because the filing fee was designed to recoup the costs of fully processing the application. Since only auction winners will submit long-form applications and have their applications scrutinized, the losing bidders do not receive this service. Consequently, the Commission's proposed scheme is unconstitutional, he argues, because a user fee which is not reasonably related to, or a fair approximation of, the cost incurred by the government in providing the service for which the fee is assessed, effects a taking of applicants' property without just compensation, in violation of their fifth amendment rights. Zimsky cites Webb's Fabulous Pharmacies, Inc. v. Beckwith, 449 U.S. 155, 163 (1980); United States v. Sperry Corp., 493 U.S. 52, 60 (1989) in support of his argument. 83 See William E. Zimsky Petition. 46. Discussion. The Commission has requested express statutory authority to impose section 8 application fees for short-form applications. In the absence of such express authority, we do not currently impose fees for short-form applications. However, long-form applications in most services are subject to fees under section 8. Consequently we find Zimsky's petition to be moot, and we dismiss it. I. Waiver Requests in Short-Form Applications 47. Cable & Wireless, Inc. (CWI) asks that the Commission reconsider its rules that appear to mandate dismissal of the short-form application (Form 175) that do not certify compliance with the foreign ownership provision of Section 310 of the Communications Act, notwithstanding the filing of a request for waiver or other relief. 84 CWI asserts that the Commission should permit participation at auction where the applicant certifies to the pendency of such a waiver request. In considering the acceptance for filing of short-form applications, the Commission will accept certifications that state that a request for waiver or declaratory ruling concerning the requirements of section 310 is pending. 85 84 See petition of CWI. 85 On January 5, 1994, CWI also filed a petition seeking a declaratory ruling that the public interest warrants grant of common carrier radio license applications to U.K. citizens and/or corporations that possess ownership interests in excess of the foreign ownership benchmarks in Section 310(b)(4) of the Communications Act. We expect to address the merits of this petition in a separate Declaratory Ruling. J. Rules Prohibiting Collusion
