FR940110-2-00099 FR940110-2-00075 Instructions for Part III-Budget Information Section A_Budget Summary by Categories 1. Personnel: Show salaries to be paid to project personnel. 2. Fringe Benefits: Indicate the rate and amount of fringe benefits. 3. Travel: Indicate the amount requested for both inter- and intra-State travel of project staff. Include funds for three people to attend three developmental staff meetings in Washington, DC. 4. Equipment: Indicate the cost of non-expendable personal property that has a useful life of more than one year and a cost of $300 or more per unit ($5,000 or more if State, Local, or Tribal Government). 5. Supplies: Include the cost of consumable supplies and materials to be used during the project. 6. Contractual: Show the amount to be used for (1) procurement contracts (except those which belong on other lines such as supplies and equipment); and (2) sub-contracts. 7. Other: Indicate all direct costs not clearly covered by lines 1 through 6 above, including consultants. 8. Total, Direct Costs: Show the total for lines 1 through 7. 9. Indirect Costs: Indicate the rate and amount of indirect costs (see Note ). 10. Training/Stipend Cost: (not allowable) 11. TOTAL, Federal Funds Requested: Show total for lines 8 through 10. Note: The National Workplace Literacy Program includes a statutory requirement that Federal funds supplement, and not supplant, non-Federal funds. 34 CFR 75.563 requires programs of this type to use a restricted indirect cost rate. 34 CFR 75.564&hyph;75.568 provides the formula for determining the restricted indirect cost rate and provides definitions of terms used in the formula. A grantee other than a State or local government may use the restricted indirect cost rate or eight percent, whichever is less. Copies of part 75 of 34 CFR may be obtained from the Government Printing Office by writing to the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. Telephone: (202) 783&hyph;3238. These regulations may also be found at many local libraries. Section B_Cost Sharing Summary Indicate the actual rate and amount of cost sharing. The National Workplace Literacy Program requires that the partnership provide at least 30 percent cost sharing. The share required refers to a percentage of Total project cost, not of Federal funds. Part IV_Instructions for Budget Narrative Prepare a detailed Budget Narrative for the first year of the project that justifies, and/or clarifies the budget figures shown in sections A and B. (Please note that the National Literacy Act of 1991 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;73) amended the section of the Adult Education Act that authorizes the National Workplace Literacy Program to permit any eligible organization to use 100 percent Federal funds for administrative costs incurred in establishing a project during a start-up period. 34 CFR 472.32(b) requires that an applicant minimize the start-up period, if any, proposed for its project and that the start-up period not exceed six months.) Explain: 1. The basis used to estimate certain costs (professional personnel, consultants, travel, indirect costs) and any other cost that may appear unusual; 2. How the major cost items relate to the proposed project activities; 3. The costs of the project's evaluation component; 4. What matching occurs in each budget category; and 5. A breakdown of expenditures in the start-up period, and in the subsequent operational period. Provide estimated budget totals for the second and third years of the project. Instructions for Part V_Application Narrative Before preparing the Application Narrative, an applicant should read carefully the description of the program and the selection criteria the Secretary uses to evaluate applications. The narrative should encompass each function or activity for which funds are being requested and should_ 1. Begin with an Abstract; that is, a summary of the proposed project including a list of the members of the partnership; 2. Describe the proposed project in light of each of the selection criteria in the order in which the criteria are listed in this application package; and 3. Include any other pertinent information that might assist the Secretary in reviewing the application. The Secretary strongly requests the applicant to limit the Application Narrative to no more than 50 double-spaced, typed, 81/2 ’ ’ x 11 ’ ’ pages (on one side only), although the Secretary will consider applications of greater length. Be sure that each page of your application is numbered consecutively. Include as an appendix to the Application Narrative supporting documentation, also on 81/2 ’ ’ x 11 ’ ’ paper (e.g., letters of support, footnotes, resumes, etc.), or any other pertinent information that might assist the Secretary in reviewing the application.
