FR940317-1-00082 FR940317-1-00013 (b) Where claim must be presented. A claim must be presented to an agency or instrumentality of the DA. However, the statute of limitations is tolled if a claim is filed with another Government agency and forwarded to the DA within 6 months, or if the claimant makes inquiry of the DA concerning his or her claim within 6 months after it was filed with another agency of the Government. If a claim is received by an official of the DA who is not a claims approval or settlement authority under this chapter, the claim will be transmitted without delay to the nearest claims office or JA office for delivery to such an office. §536.54 Procedures. So far as not inconsistent with this chapter, the claims procedures set forth in subpart B will be followed. Subrogated claims will be processed as prescribed in §536.20(b). §536.55 Law applicable to liability. (a) Claims arising within the United States, and its territories, commonwealths and possessions. As to claims arising in the United States, its territories, commonwealths, and possessions, the law of the place where the act or omission occurred will be applied in determining liability and the effect of contributory negligence on the claimant's right to recover damages. However, theories of strict or absolute liability will not be applicable to claims under this subpart. (b) Claims arising within foreign countries. (1) For claims arising in a foreign country, liability of the United States will be assessed by reference to the law of the District of Columbia applicable to torts committed in and having their operative effect in the District (i.e. District of Columbia choice of law rules will not be applicable). The United States shall be liable in the same manner and to the same extent as a private individual under like circumstances, except that theories of absolute or strict liability may not be applied under this chapter. Damages will be determined under the provisions of §§536.56 through 536.59. (2) The law of the place in which the alleged negligent act occurred will be applied to determine the effect of the claimant's own negligence on the merits of the claim. Where there is no law on this issue, the MCA requires application of traditional rules of contributory negligence. (3) In traffic accident cases, questions of negligence, and the degree of the claimant's comparative negligence, will be evaluated based on the traffic and vehicle safety laws and regulations of the country in which the accident occurred, but only to the extent they are not specifically superseded or preempted by U.S. military traffic regulations. Likewise, where a claim is based on the failure to comply with some safety or regulatory standard, the standard applicable at time and in the place where the claim arose will be used, rather than any comparable standard in the District of Columbia. §536.56 Measure of damages for property claims. (a) General. The measure of damages in property claims arising in the United States or its possessions will be determined in accordance with the law of the place where the incident occurred. The measure of damages in property claims arising overseas will be determined in accordance with the law of the District of Columbia (see §536.55(a). However, punitive or exemplary damages, including damages considered punitive in nature under 28 U.S.C. 2674, and interest on any settlement are not payable. (b) Proof of damage. The information listed below (similar to that required by 28 CFR 14.4(c) (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix H)) will be submitted by a claimant to substantiate a claim. (1) Proof of ownership. (2) Detailed statement of amount claimed for each item of property. (3) Itemized receipt or estimate for all repairs. (4) Statement giving date of purchase, price and, where not economically repairable, the salvage value. (c) Appraisals. The assistance of appraisers should be used in all claims where, in the opinion of the claims officer, an appraisal is reasonably necessary and useful in effectuating administrative settlement of claims. (See §536.26 for procedures on appraisals.) §536.57 Measure of damages in injury or death claims arising in the United States or its possessions. Measure of damages in injury or death claims arising in the United States or its possessions will be assessed as follows: (a) Where an injury or an injury resulting in death arises within the United States or its possessions, the measure of damages will be determined in accordance with the law of the State or possession wherein the injury arises. However, punitive or exemplary damages, including damages considered punitive in nature under 28 U.S.C. 2674, and interest on any settlement are not payable. (b) The information listed below (similar to that required by 28 CFR 14.4(a) (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix H)) will be submitted by a claimant to substantiate a wrongful death claim: (1) Authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing date and cause of death and age of decedent. (2) Decedent's employment and occupation at time of death, including salary or earnings and duration of last employment or occupation. (3) Names, addresses, birth dates, kinship, and marital status of survivors. (4) Identification of persons dependent on decedent for support at time of death and the degree of support provided. (5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition at time of death. (6) Itemized bills or receipts for medical and burial expenses. (7) If damages for pain and suffering are claimed, a physician's statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, drugs administered, and decedent's physical condition between time of injury and time of death. (c) The information listed below (similar to that required by 28 CFR 14.4(b) (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix H)) will be submitted by a claimant to substantiate a personal injury claim:
