FR940719-0-00053 FR940719-0-00018 (1) E.O. 12336, as amended; (2) E.O. 12250; (3) E.O. 12067, as amended; (4) E.O. 11478, as amended; (5) E.O. 11141; and (6) E.O. 11063, as amended. ยง2.19 Office of Financial Management. (a) Mission. The Office of Financial Management promotes sound financial management and accountability throughout the Agency by providing financial guidance, information, and services to FEMA management, its employees, and the Agency's customers. (b) Functions. This office reports directly to the Director of FEMA regarding financial management matters and is headed by the Chief Financial Officer. The principal functions of the Office of Financial Management are: (1) Oversight of all financial management activities relating to the programs and operations of the Agency, including fund manager for all Agency funds; (2) Development, operation, and maintenance of an integrated Agency accounting and financial management system, including internal and external financial reporting; (3) Oversight of the Agency's internal control guidance and review program; (4) Direction, management, and provision of policy guidance and oversight of Agency financial management personnel, activities, and operations; (5) Preparation of the annual report described in 31 U.S.C. 902(a)(6) to the Director of FEMA and to the Office of Management and Budget; (6) Oversight of and responsibility for the formulation and execution of the Agency's budget and accounts for actual expenditures; (7) Preparation and submission of timely performance reports to the Director of FEMA and operating units; (8) Review, on a biennial basis, of the fees, royalties, rents, and other charges imposed by the Agency for services and things of value it provides, and recommendation of revision of those charges to reflect costs incurred by the Agency in providing those services and things of value. (c) Authority. The position of Chief Financial Officer was created by statute (Agency Chief Financial Officers Act, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 901&hyph;1114, 3511&hyph;3521). The Chief Financial Officer is authorized to exercise the duties and powers set forth in that statute. The Chief Financial Officer is specifically authorized to: (1) Supervise the activities and functions of the Office of the Financial Management and oversee all financial management activities relating to the programs and operations of the Agency. (2) Direct, manage, and provide policy guidance and oversight of the Agency financial management personnel, activities and operations. (3) Establish and maintain an integrated Agency accounting and financial management system, including financial reporting and internal controls, that_ (i) Complies with applicable accounting principles, standards, and requirements and standards prescribed by the Office of Management and Budget, the General Accounting Office, and the Department of the Treasury; (ii) Provides for complete, reliable and timely information, that is prepared on a uniform basis, and that is responsive to the financial management needs of the Agency; and, (iii) Complies with any other requirements applicable to such systems. (4) Prepare and submit a financial statement that conforms to the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 902 and 3515. Develop and implement the 5-year financial management plan as required by 31 U.S.C. 902(a)(5). (5) Develop the Agency's financial management plans and budgets, and review legislative proposals and other programmatic proposals to provide advice to the Director on the financial implications of such proposals.
