FR940719-2-00099 FR940719-2-00062 DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of Administration [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3771] Submission of Proposed Information Collection to OMB AGENCY: Office of Administration, HUD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The proposed information collection requirement described below has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for expedited review, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act. The Department is soliciting public comments on the subject proposal. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding this proposal. Comments must be received within seven (7) working days from the date of this notice. Comments should refer to the proposal by name and should be sent to: Joseph F. Lackey, Jr., OMB Desk Officer, Office of Management and Budget, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kay F. Weaver, Reports Management Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410, Telephone (202) 708&hyph;0050. This is not a toll-free number. Copies of the proposed forms and other available documents submitted to OMB may be obtained from Ms. Weaver. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice informs the public that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has submitted to OMB, for expedited processing, an information collection package with respect to the Moving to Opportunity for Fair Housing (MTO) demonstration. HUD is requesting a 10-day OMB review of this information collection. This demonstration is authorized under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;550, approved October 28, 1992). HUD is requesting a 10-day OMB review of this information collection. The program is described in a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) published in the Federal Register on August 16, 1993 at page 43458. HUD will provide approximately $68,500,000 in Section 8 existing housing certificates and vouchers and approximately $500,000 in counseling funds under this NOFA, to assist very low-income families with children living in public housing and Section 8 project-based units located in high-poverty areas to move to low-poverty areas. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development has designated applicant public housing agencies (PHAs) and nonprofit organizations (NPOs) from Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York to administer these funds. The NOFA describes: (1) The nature and scope of eligible activities; (2) the application process and the factors HUD used in rating and ranking all applications; (3) the selection and approval process. The information collection request is for the purpose of carrying out HUD's responsibility to provide biennial interim reports to Congress evaluating the effectiveness of the demonstration and a final report to Congress no later than September 30, 2004, describing the long-term housing, employment, and educational achievements of the families assisted under the demonstration program. The package includes a baseline participant survey to be filled out by household heads, participant tracking forms to be filled out by PHAs and NPOs, monthly labor cost forms to be filled out by PHAs and NPOs, a counseling/participant log to be filled out by NPOs, and a landlord outreach log to be filled out by NPOs. The Department has submitted the proposal for the collection of information, as described below, to OMB for review, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. chapter 35): (1) The title of the information collection proposal; (2) The office of the agency to collect the information; (3) The description of the need for the information and its proposed use; (4) The agency form number, if applicable; (5) What members of the public will be affected by the proposal; (6) How frequently information submission will be required; (7) An estimate of the total number of hours needed to prepare the information submission including numbers of respondents, frequency of response, and hours of response; (8) Whether the proposal is new or an extension, reinstatement, or revision of an information collection requirement; and (9) The names and telephone numbers of an agency official familiar with the proposal and of the OMB Desk Officer for the Department. Authority: Section 3507 of the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3507; Section 7(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Dated: April 25, 1994. Michael A. Stegman, Assistant Secretary, Office of Policy Development and Research. Submission of Proposed Information Collection to OMB Proposal: Data Collection Plan for the Moving to Opportunity for Fair Housing (MTO) Demonstration. Office: Office of Policy Development and Research. Description of the Need for the Information and its Proposed Use: This information collection is required in connection with the evaluation of the Moving to Opportunity for Fair Housing (MTO) demonstration. MTO will provide housing subsidies and counseling to help very low-income families with children currently living in public or Section 8 project-based assisted housing in high-poverty areas to lease units in low-poverty areas. Form Number: None. Respondents: Applicants for housing assistance; public housing agencies (PHAs); nonprofit organizations (NPOs). Frequency of Submission: One time only for applicants; one per month for PHAs and NPOs.
