FR941006-0-00014 FR941006-0-00004 This rule retains the provision as proposed. However, the Department would like to clarify that the proposed provision was not intended to expand the adjustment for higher cost in areas to those State agencies located within the continental United States. At this time, there is no data to support adjustments for areas within the continental United States. With regard to Puerto Rico, although it is potentially eligible for this adjustment under the new provision, it must still demonstrate that it meets the requisite requirements set forth in Section 246.16(c)(3)(i)(B). In particular, it must document that economic conditions result in higher food costs, and that it has successfully implemented voluntary cost containment measures. Adjustments for Indian Tribal Organizations (ITOs) The growth allocation for the Indian Tribal Organizations has traditionally presented problems due to inadequate data regarding eligibles. The Department knows of no data source to resolve this problem. Therefore, it proposed to give FNS the authority to oversee negotiations between one or more ITOs and the geographic State agency or agencies in which the ITO is located. FNS could, acting independently or at the request of a State agency, involve affected State agencies in an agreement on the temporary or permanent transfer of funds. Negotiations could be conducted to shift funds among these State agencies to better reflect the actual service being provided by each of the State agencies. Only a few commenters addressed this provision. The commenters were generally in favor of the provision but stressed that caution must be used in shifting funds from one State agency to another, particularly based on eligibles data that is questionable. In addition, there may be a misunderstanding that such grant adjustments will occur without input from all affected State agencies. The Department would like to clarify that any grant adjustments must be agreed upon by all State agencies involved, and by FNS. At no time would any affected State agency be left out of the negotiation process. Additionally, since the proposed rule was published, it has been brought to our attention that negotiations may need to also take place between two or more ITOs not just between ITOs and geographic State agencies. The final rule has been modified to reflect this. In all other respects, it remains as proposed. Commodity Supplemental Food Program The Commodity Supplemental Food Program's (CSFP) service to low-income women, infants and children contributes to the Administration's goal of fully funding the WIC Program by the end of fiscal year 1996. The fiscal year 1995 budget request and out year budget targets assume CSFP women, infants and children participation will equal the authorized caseload level. In those States where both CSFP and WIC operate, the current rule requires the subtraction from the WIC income eligible database of those participants (based on actual, average CSFP participation in the prior fiscal year) who are estimated as eligible for the WIC Program, but elect to receive benefits under CSFP. As CSFP is currently authorized to serve, in addition to WIC eligibles, 5 year old children and postpartum women from 6 months to 1 year postpartum, not all CSFP participants are categorically eligible for the WIC Program. Therefore, FNS assumes that one-fourth of the children and one-half of the postpartum women participating in CSFP are not eligible for the WIC Program. The balance of CSFP participants are subtracted from the WIC eligibles estimate. The Department proposed to make three changes to this deduction from the WIC eligibles database. First, it proposed to modify the method for determining the number of CSFP women, infants and children to subtract from the WIC eligibles database. It proposed to base the deduction upon the authorized caseload for CSFP women, infants and children, rather than actual participation. Second, it proposed to base the deduction on the CSFP caseload authorized at the beginning of the caseload cycle of the prior fiscal year (generally announced on December 1). Finally, it proposed that the adjustment described above for those CSFP participants who are not also categorically eligible for WIC (postpartum women from 6 months to 1 year postpartum and 5 year old children) would no longer be made. The Department believed that utilizing the total CSFP caseload level for women, infants and children, rather than actual participation, more equitably accounts for the resources provided to a State agency to serve the WIC target population under CSFP. These changes were intended to ensure that States that do not have access to CSFP were not disadvantaged in their access to WIC funds when compared with States that operate both programs.
