FR940207-2-00137 FR940207-2-00069 The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, 10 in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system. 10 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The PSE believes that the proposed rule change will not impose a burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Exchange has requested that the proposed rule change be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act. 11 11 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(2) (1988). The Commission finds the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of section 6(b)(5). 12 Specifically, the Commission finds that allowing options to trade on ADRs, among other things, gives investors a better means to hedge their positions in the ADRs, as well as enhanced market timing opportunities. 13 Further, the pricing of the ADRs underlying ADR options may become more efficient and market makers in these ADRs, by virtue of enhanced hedging opportunities, may be able to provide deeper and more liquid markets. 14 In sum, options on ADRs likely engender the same benefits to investors and the market place that exist with respect to options on common stock. 15 12 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 13 For example, if an investor wants to invest in ADRs but does not have sufficient cash available until a future date, he can purchase an ADR option now for less money and exercise the option to purchase the ADRs at a later date. 14 See e.g. Report of the Special Study of the Options Markets to the Securities and Exchange Commission, 96th Cong., 1st Sess. (Comm. Print No. 96&hyph;IFC3, December 22, 1978). 15 Pursuant to Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, the Commission must predicate approval of any new securities product upon a finding that the introduction of such new product is in the public interest. Such a finding would be difficult for a derivative instrument that served no hedging or other economic function, because any benefits that might be derived by market participants likely would be outweighed by the potential for manipulation, diminished public confidence in the integrity of the markets, and other valid regulatory concerns. The Commission also believes that it is appropriate to permit the PSE to list and trade options on ADRs given that these options will be subject to specific requirements related to the protection of investors. First, PSE rules require that the ADRs underlying these options meet the PSE's uniform options listing standards in all respects. As described above, this would include the initial and maintenance criteria. These criteria ensure, among other things, that the underlying ADRs will maintain adequate price and float to prevent the ADR options from being readily susceptible to manipulation. Second, the ADR Approval Order requires that the PSE make a reasonable inquiry to evaluate foreign securities underlying the ADR options to ensure that these securities are generally consistent with the requirements set forth in the Exchange's options listing standards. In the ADR Approval Order, the Commission recognized that in some cases, an ADR underlying an option could meet the options listing standards while the foreign security on which the ADR is based may not meet these standards in every respect. For example, in the case of ADRs overlying certain foreign securities, one ADR could represent several shares of a specific stock. For this reason, it is possible that the price of the ADR will meet exchange listing standards even though the market price of the foreign security underlying the ADR may be less than the PSE standard. The Commission believes however, that requiring the PSE to review the foreign securities underlying the ADR options to ensure that they are generally consistent with the Exchange's options listing standards, along with other market safeguards, will adequately protect investors from the possibility that these ADR options can be potentially manipulated. 16 16 For example, we would expect the Exchange to consider delisting an option on an ADR if the price and public float of the underlying security did not meet trading or size maintenance standards, or if the security underlying the ADR failed to meet other standards that raised manipulative concerns.
