FR940128-1-00054 FR940128-1-00006 Under proposed §123.28(b)(2) and (b)(3), the shellstock tag from a licensed harvester or certified processor, or the bill of lading accompanying bulk shipments, will contain the information required under proposed §1240.60(b) and thus document whether the shellfish are from an acceptable source. The proposed requirement §123.28(b) that only shellfish drawn from such acceptable sources can be processed will place a premium on properly tagged products from shellfish dealers that States or nations that participate in NSSP have certified. The agency is further proposing to require in §123.28(c) that shucked products be subject to the same requirements that apply to shellstock. FDA is doing so because the safety of shucked shellfish products, like shellstock, depends on the quality of the water where they are grown. Therefore, the same requirements are needed. FDA is further proposing to require in §123.28(d) that the processor maintain records that document that each lot of shellfish meets the tagging or labeling requirements in §123.28 (b) or (c) (see Refs. 104 and 108). The information that FDA is proposing to require to be maintained in records simply reflects these requirements. Permanent records are needed to demonstrate that processors are controlling the origin of the shellfish they process. In addition, permanent records will facilitate epidemiological investigations by allowing complete product traceability to the source of origin. The protection of shellfish consumers also requires that domestic and imported products be treated equally. While imported raw molluscan shellfish are subject to the same standards as domestic shellfish with regard to adulteration and misbranding, Federal law does not require that imported shellfish come from waters that were classified by a public health authority. This double standard is unfair to domestic processors, and both ISSC and industry representatives have urged the Federal Government to address this problem (Refs. 111 and 112). While virtually all States have chosen to reject imported shellfish that are not tagged as coming from classified waters (Ref. 113), it is known that such shellfish nonetheless enter interstate commerce (Ref. 107). Untagged imports originating from uncertified producers compromise the effectiveness of seafood safety programs (Ref. 7, p. 73) and product traceability. Therefore, FDA is proposing that all raw shellfish products either from domestic or foreign origin must comply with the requirements in part 123 and §1240.60. Thus, if §123.28(b), for example, is adopted, it will mean that only those molluscan shellfish that are harvested in a foreign country that has a program that incorporates the type of measures set out in the NSSP for approving growing waters will be appropriate for processing. Such a program will need to include measures that provide for water classification, monitoring, and other related activities if it is to ensure that the growing waters that it approves are safe, and thus that the shellfish that are drawn from such waters are not adulterated. FDA has found that the best way to establish that a foreign country's program meets this standard is through the development of an MOU between the agency and that country. Currently, such agreements exist with Australia, Canada, Chile, England, Iceland, Japan, Republic of Korea, Mexico, and New Zealand. In summary, FDA anticipates that these proposed requirements will improve the safety of raw molluscan shellfish by establishing uniform requirements for domestic and imported products and prohibiting interstate movement of shellfish that is not properly tagged to demonstrate that it came from an appropriate harvesting area. The effectiveness of State shellfish sanitation programs and the NSSP will be strengthened by the proposed mandatory tagging, labeling, and recordkeeping requirements, which will allow complete product traceability to its source of origin. Should illnesses occur, product traceability will facilitate a rapid determination of when a problem occurred and allow immediate remedial actions to restore public health controls. Also, requiring proper tagging or labeling will place a premium on State and foreign shellfish sanitation and processor certification programs.
