FR940505-1-00411 FR940505-1-00012 (A) Within 7 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 9×109 Btu/yr, apply for all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, and (B) Within 19 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 9×109 Btu/yr, commence construction of all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance within 24 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 9×109 Btu/yr. (6) Reporting, Monitoring, and Recordkeeping. (i) Reporting Requirements. Any owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (n)(3) of this section shall comply with the applicable notification and reporting requirements of §60.7, and shall also comply with the following requirements: (A) By May 15, 1995, submit to the Administrator the identification number and type of each unit subject to the section, the name and address of the plant where the unit is located, and the name and telephone number of the person responsible for demonstrating compliance with the section. For each unit identified, the following information shall be submitted to the Administrator: ( 1 ) The rated heat input capacity, hours of operation during the previous one-year period, anticipated annual operating time and annual heat input for 1995, type of fuel(s) that will be burned in the unit, and age and manufacturer of the unit. ( 2 ) Documentation of existing emissions of NO X and CO in accordance with the applicable requirements of paragraph (n)(7) of this section, a selection of the standard in paragraph (n)(3)(i) of this section with which the unit will comply, and the control method selected for achieving compliance. (B) Any owner or operator subject to the compliance schedule specified in paragraph (n)(5) (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section shall notify the Administrator in writing of the following: ( 1 ) The date construction is commenced on all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. ( 2 ) The anticipated date of initial startup of the unit after completing all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. ( 3 ) The actual date of initial startup of the unit after completing all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. (C) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (n)(5) of this section, submit to the Administrator certification that the unit is in compliance with the applicable standard in paragraph (n)(3) of this section as demonstrated through a report of the initial compliance test performed in accordance with the applicable requirements of paragraph (n)(4)(ii)(A) or (n)(7) of this section. The owner or operator shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of the compliance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. (ii) Continuous Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS) Requirements. Any owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (n)(3) of this section shall comply with the following: (A) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (n)(5) of this section, install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CEMS in accordance with the applicable requirements of Appendices B and F of 40 CFR part 60 to demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of paragraph (n)(3) of this section. The CEMS shall be installed and operational before conducting the initial compliance test required under paragraph (n)(6)(i)(C) and paragraph (n)(7) of this section. As a part of the certification requirement under paragraph (n)(6)(i)(C) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit documentation that the CEMS is in compliance with the requirements of this paragraph. (B) Each owner or operator shall submit an excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report, in accordance with the requirements of §60.7(c) and (d) and 60.13, to the Administrator within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. (iii) Recordkeeping Requirements. Any owner or operator of a unit subject to this section shall maintain all records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the section for a period of five calendar years at the plant where the subject unit is located. The records shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. The owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information for each day the unit is operated: (A) Identification and location of each unit subject to the requirements of this section. (B) Calendar date of record. (C) The number of hours the unit is operated during each day. (D) Boiler load, fuel type, actual time of startups and shutdowns, breakdown periods, and the type and duration of maintenance and repairs. (E) The results of all compliance tests. (F) The rolling 3 hour average NO X emission concentration (expressed as NO 2 corrected to 12 percent CO 2 ) measured. (G) The rolling 3 hour average CO emission concentration (corrected to 12 percent volume stack gas CO 2 ) measured. (H) Identification of time periods during which NO X and CO standards are exceeded, the reason for the exceedance, and action taken to correct the exceedance and to prevent similar future exceedances. (I) Identification of the time periods for which operating conditions and pollutant data were not obtained including reasons for not obtaining sufficient data and a description of corrective actions taken.
