FR940426-1-00030 FR940426-1-00004 E. Stabilization Alternative An alternative regulatory framework for stabilization is provided by the rules of the United Kingdom Securities and Investments Board (``SIB Rules''). 130 The SIB Rules provide a safe harbor from charges of violating U.K. antimanipulation law only to the ``stabilizing manager,'' who is analogous to the U.S. managing underwriter. The other syndicate members are neither protected nor restricted by the SIB Rules. The stabilizing manager may bid for or purchase the offered security for the purpose of ``stabilizing or maintaining the market price of the security being offered'' during the ``stabilizing period,'' which can run to the 60th day after the date of allotment made to subscribers and purchasers, potentially much longer than the period covered by Rule 10b&hyph;7. 130 Chapter III, part 10 of the SIB Rules, 2 Fin. Serv. Rep. (CCH) ¶¶184.314&hyph;184.401. The SIB Rules are more flexible than Rule 10b&hyph;7 in permitting bids and purchases to closely follow the market, moving up or down, at or below the initial stabilizing price. In addition, the bid may be raised to the last independent sale price even if that price is higher than the initial stabilizing bid. As under Rule 10b&hyph;7, however, no stabilizing price may exceed the offering price. The stabilizing manager also is permitted to overallot the offered securities to ``subscribers or purchasers'' or sell short the securities to facilitate its subsequent stabilizing purchases. Moreover, the SIB Rules permit the stabilizing manager to buy in the market to cover a syndicate short position, and to cover such short position without regard to the general price limits otherwise imposed on stabilizing transactions. Question 6.6. Is the SIB stabilizing structure, or some adaptation of that structure, a useful alternative to Rule 10b&hyph;7? What difficulties would be associated with such an approach? F. Tiered Modifications As noted in the body of the release, the manipulative incentives associated with a distribution may vary depending on the type of offering and the nature of its participants. Accordingly, in discussing these alternatives, commentators are requested to consider whether the alternatives could be tiered to address these matters. Question 6.7. Could an alternative be applied effectively to a limited class of securities? How would such a class be defined, e.g., market capitalization and trading volume of the security? Question 6.8. Could an alternative be applied effectively to a limited class of institutional investors? How would such a class be defined? Question 6.9. Could an alternative be applied effectively to a limited class of transactions? How would such a class be defined? Question 6.10. Could an alternative be applied effectively to a limited class of transactions involving a limited class of institutional investors? How would such transactions or investors be defined? G. Deregulatory Alternative Some may believe that the general antifraud and antimanipulation provisions of the federal securities laws are sufficient to deter conduct during distributions that is designed to artificially condition the market for the offered security, and the Trading Practices Rules could be rescinded. Question 6.11. Should the Trading Practices Rules be rescinded? Question 6.12. What difficulties, if any, would arise in applying the concepts identified in this release, if only the general antimanipulation provisions applied to distribution participant conduct during offerings? 131 Would there be viable methods for the Commission and its staff to provide guidance as to lawful and unlawful activity? 131 One commentator has remarked: ``Through its very precise and mechanical nature, Rule 10b&hyph;6 is a tradeoff against the possibly more pernicious risk to the issuer or underwriter of an unfocused prohibition against undefined manipulative conduct.'' Blanc, Rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7, 10b&hyph;8 and Other Anti-manipulation Considerations, contained in Securities Underwriting 298 (Bialkin & Grant eds., 1985).
