FR941110-0-00130 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: We received comments suggesting that if an allegation was found to be untrue, that accusation be expunged from the nurse aide registry. Response: An allegation of resident abuse or neglect or misappropriation of resident property that is not substantiated would not be entered on the nurse aide registry. Only a finding of resident abuse or neglect or misappropriation of resident property would be entered on the nurse aide registry. Section 483.156(c)(1)(iv) specifies the particular information that the registry must contain with regard to any finding by the State survey agency of abuse, neglect or misappropriation of property. This information includes documentation of the State's investigation (including the nature of the allegation and the evidence that led the State to conclude that the allegation was valid), the date of the hearing and its outcome (if a hearing was requested), and a statement by the individual disputing the allegation (if the individual chooses to make one). The rule also provides that this information must be included in the registry within 10 working days of the finding and must remain in the registry permanently unless the finding was made in error, the individual was found not guilty in a court of law, or the State is notified of the individual's death. Comment: We received several comments regarding the nurse aide registry. Commenters offered suggestions for the contents of the registry, its availability to the public and action taken as a result of substantiation of abuse, neglect or misappropriation of property. One commenter suggested that the report of findings provision include notifying the appropriate law enforcement authorities in those cases where a crime has been committed. Another commenter suggested that HCFA offer guidance to facilities concerning the treatment of employees who are awaiting the resolution of a complaint. Response: These specific comments fall outside the purview of this regulation on the survey, certification and enforcement of skilled nursing facilities and nursing facilities. However, a discussion of these and other related issues can be found in a final rule titled Medicare and Medicaid; Requirements for Long Term Care Facilities and Nurse Aide Training and Competency Evaluation Programs, published September 26, 1991 in the Federal Register at 56 FR 48880. Comment: Several commenters suggested that every investigation seek to identify facility practices which led to the neglect, abuse or misappropriation of resident property.
