FR940112-0-00102 FR940112-0-00022 The petition of ATA was published in the Federal Register on February 20, 1987 (52 FR 5309). The comment period closed April 20, 1987. The only comments received on the petition are those cited above. By letter dated July 6, 1993, ATA petitioned on behalf of its member airlines and similarly situated operators for an exemption from the requirement to carry burn ointment in first aid kits as required by appendix A to part 121. A summary of that petition was published in the Federal Register on August 11, 1993, and the comment period closed August 31, 1993 (58FR42752). Two comments were received. The Air Line Pilots Association supports the removal of the ointment from first aid kits and notes that this removal would facilitate maintenance by eliminating the need for purchasing, stocking, record keeping, replacing, and disposing of the ointment. The Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) agrees that the removal of the ointment from first aid kits is an appropriate action; however, the AFA also suggests that the FAA should require an equivalent amount of an antibiotic ointment in its place. AFA adds that more recent information from the American Red Cross suggests that cool water or wet cloths is the first step in treatment, but that ice is not recommended except for minor burns. The FAA's Analysis of the Petition The FAA agrees with industry practice. Serious burns can be properly treated only by professionals in a medical facility. Neither burn ointment nor cold water is, by itself, an adequate response to a major burn injury. The intent of the burn ointment requirement has always been to provide relief from minor burns caused by cigarettes or hot beverages. In the limited situation of treating minor burns aboard an aircraft, cold water is the preferred treatment. This treatment avoids the heat retentive properties of burn ointment. Moreover, if the wound requires further medical treatment, the use of ice or cold water eliminates the need to scrape the wound to remove burn ointment. Therefore, the FAA has determined that burn ointment should be deleted from the list of items required for first aid kits in parts 121, 125, and 135. Ice or cold water is carried on aircraft operated under part 121 and on aircraft with 20 or more passenger seats operated under parts 125 and 135 to which aircraft the burn ointment requirement applies. This will spare air carriers the unnecessary expense of having to maintain an unneeded item. Good Cause Justification In consideration of the fact that burn ointment is not the preferred treatment for minor burns, the requirement to carry burn ointment aboard aircraft is inappropriate. Most types of burn ointment have expiration dates, thus new ointment must be purchased, kits must be opened, the ointment replaced, kit resealed and re-installed, and a record of the action must be made. The cost of this process, with labor being far more expensive than the ointment itself, represents a significant nuisance burden for air carriers and commercial operators. ATA carriers are required to maintain over 10,000 kits. This is an unnecessary cost to the industry for which the consumer derives no benefit. It is clearly in the public interest to delete the requirement. Since this is a minor amendment in which there is not expected to be any public comment or disagreement from the medical community, the FAA finds that public notice and comment on this amendment is unnecessary. Moreover, because this amendment relieves a requirement, it should be made effective upon publication in the Federal Register. Interested persons, however, are invited to submit such comments as they may desire regarding this amendment. Correspondence should identify the docket number and be submitted in duplicate to the address provided above. All communications received on or before the close of the comment period will be considered by the Administrator, and this amendment may be changed in light of comments received. All comments will be available for public review, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the rules docket. Trade Impact Statement The FAA finds that this amendment will have no impact on international trade. Economic Assessment Because the amendment imposes no cost to operators, the only impact of this amendment is expected to be that carriers will experience some cost savings. Accordingly, the FAA has determined that the impact of this amendment is so minimal that a full regulatory evaluation is not warranted. Federalism Implications The regulation adopted herein would not have substantial direct effects on the states, on the relationship between the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this regulation would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of the Federalism Assessment. Paperwork Reduction This final rule is expected to produce a minor reduction in the record keeping requirements under parts 121, 125, and 135. The paperwork estimation for those parts will be revised accordingly.
