FR940920-1-00047 FR940920-1-00007 c. Nitrogen Oxides Control Technologies. During combustion, NO X are formed through oxidation of fuel-bound nitrogen (N 2 ) contained in MSW, and fixation and oxidation of atmospheric N 2 . Emissions of NO X can be controlled using SNCR add-on control technology that reduces NO X to N 2 without the use of catalysts. Techniques include Thermal DeNO X TM , which injects ammonia into the combustor as a reducing agent; the NO X OUT TM process, which injects urea with chemical additives; and a two-stage urea/methanol injection process. A discussion of SNCR NO X control was presented in the December 20, 1989 proposal preamble for the 1991 NSPS for new MWC's (54 FR 52251). The use of SNCR at MWC's results in NO X emission reductions of about 45 percent. There are some concerns about the applicability of SNCR to modular MWC's. The SNCR technology has never been applied to modular MWC's, and several factors may complicate the use of SNCR and may reduce its performance level. First, many modular units are batch fed in cycles of about 6 to 12 minutes per charge (due to small combustor size), which may cause frequent temperature fluctuations. When the temperature fluctuates above the required injection temperature window, the reducing reagent is oxidized to NO X , and NO X emissions can increase. When the temperature drops below the required range, unreacted ammonia (NH 3 ) emissions can occur. In addition, the varying moisture and nonhomogeneous nature of the waste burned can also result in temperature fluctuations in a small unit. With certain modifications, it may be possible to accommodate SNCR at new modular units; however, the NO X reduction performance of an SNCR system on a modular unit will probably be lower than that for a combustor with more stable operating temperatures, as occurs at large MWC's. The EPA requests comment on the applicability of SNCR and other NO X control techniques to MWC's at small plants. The EPA requests that comments address the cost, technical performance, and reliability of application of SNCR or other NO X control techniques specifically to modular starved-air MWC's and modular excess-air MWC's. Based on the comments and information received, the EPA will reconsider requiring NO X control on MWC's at small plants. The amount of NO X formed varies by combustor type. Three types of MWC's, mass burn/rotary combustors, fluidized-bed combustors, and modular/excess-air combustors, are considered ``low NO X '' combustors. Available data show that these types of MWC's consistently show NO X levels below 150 ppmv without the use of SNCR. 2. MACT Floor and MACT Requirements of the Act The NSPS promulgated under subpart Ea on February 11, 1991 is based on BDT. Section 129 requires that the NSPS promulgated under subpart Ea be reviewed and revised based on MACT. Congress established a minimum floor for the standards. For new sources, the standard may be no less stringent than ``the emission control that is achieved in practice by the best controlled similar unit.'' This is often referred to as the ``MACT floor'' for new sources. To establish the emission control level achieved by the best controlled similar unit, the EPA reviewed available MWC emissions test data associated with all types of combustors and all types of emission control technologies that are currently being used to control emissions of SO 2 , HCl, PM, Pb, Cd, Hg, dioxins/furans, and NO X . The EPA identified the best controlled unit and reviewed the performance of its associated control technology. The EPA has concluded that the control technology used by the best controlled unit is applicable to all types of combustors (with one exception, as noted below) and achieves the same level of performance on all combustor types. Thus, there is no need to subcategorize performance to different classes of similar MWC units. The EPA determined that the best controlled MWC (i.e., the basis for the MACT floor) would be an MWC equipped with an SD/FF and SNCR (large MWC plants only). Based on test data from MWC's equipped with SD/FF and SNCR (large plants only) control systems, the EPA established the MACT floor as the emission control level for each pollutant achieved in practice by the best controlled MWC unit. The MACT floor defines the minimum level of emission control that may be considered to be MACT, regardless of cost or other considerations. However, in requiring control beyond the MACT floor when determining MACT, the EPA must determine the maximum emission reduction achievable for new MWC units taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reduction and any non-air-quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements. Therefore, the level of control that represents MACT may be more stringent than the MACT floor. The following section presents the EPA's rationale for establishing the MACT floor and MACT for MWC's. 3. MACT Floor and MACT This section summarizes the MACT floor and presents the EPA's rationale for establishing MACT for each pollutant for MWC's at both small and large MWC plants. In establishing the MACT floor and MACT for each pollutant for small and large plants, the EPA used principally the data base created for establishing the NSPS for MWC's proposed in 1989 and promulgated in 1991 under subpart Ea. For a few pollutants in this proposal, the EPA utilized more recent test data to supplement the 1989 data base. Because most of the test data used for this proposal are more than 4 years old, and in consideration of the fact that most MWC's retest at least once per year, the EPA requests submittal of the most recent MWC emissions test data. Additionally, the EPA requests comment on which MWC emissions test data would be the most appropriate basis for judging the performance of SD/FF's in establishing the MACT floor and MACT for new MWC's. For example, should the EPA consider test data for only the most recently-built MWC's (e.g., units that have begun operation since 1990), or should consideration be made of all operational MWC's, independent of unit age? Also, if the EPA has multiple emission tests for a given MWC over its operating history (which is common), should the EPA utilize the data from all of the emission tests performed for the unit or from only the most recent emission test, in determining the performance of the unit? The EPA also requests comment on suggestions of analytical methods to use for analysis of the data (e.g., analytical methods that could be used to address emissions variability, including methods for analyzing variable data collected over multiple years for one MWC and methods of adjusting the emissions data to account for variability). The appropriate treatment of variability will be related to the format chosen for the standards (see discussion of alternative formats below). Based on the new data submitted and on the final choice of which test data and what analytical methods to use, the EPA may promulgate final emission limits that are more or less stringent than those proposed today. a. Summary of the MACT floor. This proposal determines the MACT floor for new units based on performance of the best control technology. Under the proposal, emission control level achieved in practice by an MWC equipped with the best emission control technology (i.e., an SD/FF and SNCR (large MWC plants only)) represents the MACT floor for each pollutant (see table 4).
