FR940812-2-00190 FR940812-2-00068 2.b.3␣Calculation of Projected MSLB Leakage Once the projected EOC voltage distribution is determined, the leakage for the postulated MSLB is calculated utilizing the EOC voltage distribution and the use of two models: (1) The probability of leakage model and (2) the conditional leak rate model. As previously discussed in Section 2.b, Monte Carlo techniques are an acceptable approach for accounting for the uncertainties implicit in these models. These models are discussed below. 2.b3(1)␣Probability of Leakage as a Function of Voltage The Probability of leakage (POL) model should utilize the log-logistic functional form. This model should explicitly account for parameter uncertainty of the POL functional fit of the data (i.e., ``model fit'' uncertainty). The supporting data sets for 2.2 cm (7/8-inch) diameter and 1.9 cm (3/4-inch) diameter tubing should include all applicable data consistent with the industry recommendations in References 1 and 2, respectively, with certain exceptions. Namely, data excluded under criteria 2a and 2b in References 1 and 2 should not be excluded pending staff review and approval of these criteria. 2.b.3(2)␣Conditional Leakage Rate under MSLB Conditions The conditional leak rate model should incorporate a linear regression fit to the log of the leak rate data, for 2.2 cm (7/8-inch) and 1.9 cm (3/4-inch) diameter tubing respectively, as a function of the log of the bobbin voltage and should account for both data scatter and parameter uncertainty of the linear regression fit. Use of this approach is subject to demonstrating that the linear regression fit is valid at the 5% level with a ``p-value'' test. If this condition is not satisfied, the linear regression fit should be assumed to have zero slope (i.e., the linear regression fit should be assumed to be constant with voltage). The supporting data sets for 2.2 cm (7/8-inch) diameter and 1.9 cm (3/4-inch) diameter tubing should include all applicable data consistent with the industry recommendations in References 1 and 2, respectively, with certain exceptions. Specifically, data excluded under criteria 2a, 2b, 3a, 3b, and 3c in References 1 and 2 should not be excluded pending staff review and approval of these criteria. In addition, an MSLB leak rate of 2496 liters/hour should be utilized for the data point obtained from V.C. Summer tube R28C41 pending staff review and approval of the revised leakage estimate for this tube described in Reference 2. 2.b.4␣Calculation of Offsite and Control Room Doses For the MSLB leak rate calculated above, offsite and control room doses should be calculated utilizing currently accepted licensing basis assumptions. Licensees should note that Enclosure 2 of this generic letter provides example TS pages for reducing reactor coolant system specific iodine activity limits. Reactor coolant system iodine activities may be reduced to .35 microcuries per gram does equivalent I&hyph;131. Licensees wishing to reduce iodine activities below this level should provide a justification supporting the request that addresses the release rate data described in Reference 6. Reduction of reactor coolant iodine activity is an acceptable means for accepting higher projected leakage rates and still meeting the applicable limits of Title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations Part 100 utilizing licensing basis assumptions. 3. Inspection Criteria The inspection scope, data acquisition, and data analysis should be performed in a manner consistent with the methodology utilized to develop the voltage limits (e.g., the methodology described in Reference 4, Appendix A, and Reference 5, Appendix A) with the exceptions and clarifications noted below. 3.a␣Bobbin Coil Inspection Scope and Sampling 3.a.1␣The bobbin coil inspection should include 100 percent of the hot-leg TSP intersections and cold-leg intersections down to the lowest cold-leg TSP with known ODSCC. The determination of TSPs having ODSCC should be based on the performance of at least a 20 percent random sampling of tubes inspected over their full length. 3.b␣Motorized Rotating Pancake Coil (MRPC) Inspection MRPC 3 inspections should be conducted as given below for purposes of obtaining additional characterization of ODSCC flaws found with the bobbin probe and to inspect intersections with significant bobbin interference signals (due to copper, dents, large mix residuals) which may impair the detectability of ODSCC with the bobbin probe or which may unduly influence the bobbin voltage measurement. With respect to ODSCC flaw characterization, a key purpose of the MRPC inspections is to ensure the absence of detectable crack-like circumferential indications and detectable indications extending outside the thickness of the tube support plate. The voltage-based repair criteria are not applicable to intersections exhibiting such indications, and special reporting requirements pertaining to the finding of such indications are described in Section 6. 3 For the purposes of this guidance, MRPC also includes the use of comparable or improved nondestructive examination techniques. 3.b.1␣MRPC inspection should be performed for all indications exceeding 1.5 volts as measured by bobbin coil for 2.2 cm [7/8-inch] diameter tubes or 1.0 volt as measured by bobbin coil for 1.9 cm [7/8-inch] diameter tubes. 3.b.2␣The voltage-based criteria of this guidance are not applicable to intersections with copper deposits, dent signals greater than 5 volts, and large mixed residuals. 3.b.3␣All intersections with bobbin coil signals indicative of copper deposits should be inspected with MRPC. Any indications found at such intersections with MRPC should cause the tube to be repaired. 3.b.4␣All intersections with dent signals greater than 5 volts should be inspected with MRPC. Any indications found at such intersections with MRPC should cause the tube to be repaired. 3.b.5␣All intersections with large mixed residuals should be inspected with MRPC. For purposes of this guidance, large mixed residuals are those that could cause a 1-volt bobbin signal to be missed or misread. Any indications found at such intersections with MRPC should cause the tube to be repaired.
