FR940603-2-00102 FR940603-2-00061 Notice of Availability of the Draft Environmental Assessment and Land Protection Plan Proposed Establishment of Key Cave National Wildlife Refuge Lauderdale County, Alabama AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of Availability of the Draft Environmental Assessment and Land Protection Plan for the Proposed Establishment of Key Cave National Wildlife Refuge. SUMMARY: This notice advises the public that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Southeast Region, proposes to establish a national wildlife refuge in the vicinity of Lauderdale County, Alabama. The purpose of the proposed refuge is to protect and manage up to 2,300 acres of land to ensure the biological integrity of Key Cave, which has been designated by the Service as critical habitat for the endangered Alabama cavefish and as a priority one maternity cave for the endangered gray bat. A Draft Environmental Assessment and Land Protection Plan for the proposed refuge has been developed by Service biologists in coordination with the Tennessee Valley authority, the State of Alabama, the Soil Conservation Service, The Conservation Fund, the Wildlife Enhancement Council, and Monsanto, Inc. The assessment considers the biological, environmental, and socioeconomic effects of establishing the refuge. The assessment also evaluates three alternative actions and their potential impacts on the environment. Written comments or recommendations concerning the proposal are welcomed and should be sent to the address below. DATES: Land acquisition planning for the project is currently underway. The draft assessment and land protection plan will be available to the public for review and comment on June 13, 1994. Written comments must be received no later than July 29, 1994, to be considered. ADDRESSES: Comments and requests for copies of the assessment and further information should be addressed to Mr. Charles R. Danner, Chief, Branch of Project Development, Office of Refuges and Wildlife, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1875 Century Boulevard, Atlanta, Georgia 30345. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The primary objective of the proposed Key Cave National Wildlife Refuge are to (1) protect habitat for threatened and endangered species, (2) promote habitat for threatened and endangered species, (2) promote habitat for a natural diversity of wildlife, (3) enhance habitat for nongame migratory birds, and (4) provide opportunities for compatible outdoor recreation and environmental education and interpretation. The proposed refuge area is located in northwest Alabama, about 5 miles southwest of Florence, the county seat and largest city in Lauderdale County. The cave lies on the northern shore of Pickwick Lake in a limestone karst area that contains numerous sinkholes and several underground cave systems. The area's sinkholes form an integral part of the groundwater recharge to the caves. The proposed refuge would consist of about 1,500 acres of land acquired in fee title, with an additional 800 acres of sinkholes in the cave's recharge area protected through conservation easements with willing landowners. The major wildlife values are the two endangered species which inhabit Key Cave: the Alabama cavefish ( Speoplatyrhinus poulsom ) and the gray bat ( Myotis grisescens ). Key Cave is used as a summer maternity cave by the gray bat. Because of its highly specific habitat and roost requirements, fewer than 5 percent of the available caves in the animal's range are suitable for gray bat occupation. The flightless young bats roost in Key Cave from late May to mid-July, and thousands could die from a single human disturbance or act of vandalism. The Alabama cavefish has been found to exist only in Key Cave. Just nine specimens are known to exist in scientific collections. No other populations of this species are known. Based on its apparent distribution, the number of specimens collected, and the number of individuals observed, this small fish appears to be the rarest of American cavefish and one of the rarest of all freshwater fish. Its habitat in Key Cave is threatened by human disturbance, groundwater degradation, alternations in the area's drainage and hydrologic patterns, lowered groundwater levels, and diminished organic matter inputs. Both the Gray Bat Recovery Plan and the Alabama Cavefish Recovery Plan identify land acquisition as the primary means for protecting Key Cave, and both list that protection as a priority one task. Because the proposed Key Cave refuge is identified as critical habitat for the Alabama cavefish and as a priority one maternity cave for the gray bat, land acquisition would be sought under the authority of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531&hyph;1543). Dated: May 19, 1994. John R. Eadie, Acting Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13529 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
