FR941004-1-00007 FR941004-1-00001 It is clear that any license amendments and technical specification changes necessitated by the thermal annealing plan would require an opportunity for hearing, in accordance with Section 189 of the AEA. However, the scope of such a hearing would normally be limited to consideration of whether the proposed license amendment and technical specification changes are in accordance with the Commission's rules, and therefore provide reasonable assurance of adequate protection to the public health and safety. Issues related to the more general matter of the acceptability of the thermal annealing plan proposed by the licensee would not fall within the scope of any hearing for license amendment or technical specification change, except as they fall directly in the scope of the requested amendment or technical specification change. However, there is some question whether the AEA requires an opportunity for hearing in connection with the NRC approval of the thermal annealing plan or the NRC decision approving resumption of operation under the proposed rule. There are four primary alternatives with respect to providing an opportunity for hearing in connection with thermal annealing. These alternatives are discussed in greater detail below: Alternative 1. No Opportunity for Hearing Under Rule as Proposed Under this alternative, the contention is that Section 189 of the AEA does not afford an interested member of the public a right to request a hearing in connection with NRC approvals of thermal annealing plans and resumption of operation under ยง50.66(c)(2). This alternative is consistent with other provisions in 10 CFR Part 50 where approval by the Director of NRR is required and hearings are not routinely offered. Notwithstanding the lack of a requirement for a public hearing, the staff anticipates that, with respect to the initial or the first several applications for thermal annealing, several informal hearings or public meetings would be held by the staff to permit discussion of both the thermal annealing plan proposed by the licensee and the technical issues related to annealing. These hearings or meetings would ensure that all of the pertinent technical issues have been addressed by the licensee in its thermal annealing plan and by the staff in its review of the plan. These hearings or meetings would be noticed in the Federal Register . Alternative 2. Discretionary Opportunity for Hearing Under Rule as Proposed Under this alternative, the contention is that Section 189 of the AEA does not afford an interested member of the public a right to request a hearing. However, as a matter of discretion, the Commission would determine on a case-by-case basis whether an opportunity for hearing will be provided in connection with the Director of NRR's determination on a thermal annealing application under ยง50.66(b) of the proposed rule. In the hearing, the Commission would consider issues related to the adequacy of the thermal annealing plan, as well as the vessel's ability to perform its safety function after being annealed. A case-by-case determination would also be made by the NRC with respect to providing an opportunity for hearing on the Director of NRR's determination on the licensee's justification for subsequent operation under the proposed ยง50.66(c)(2). In both cases, the Commission would publish a notice in the Federal Register announcing the NRC's approval of the licensee's thermal annealing plan or approval of resumed operation under ยง50.66(c)(2). Neither implementation of the thermal annealing plan nor resumption of operation, once approved by the NRC, would be contingent upon completion of any hearing; i.e., the Commission does not believe that it is required to make a Section 189 ``no significant hazards determination'' (``Sholly finding'') when it provides a discretionary hearing. Alternative 3. Required Opportunity for Hearing Under Rule as Proposed Under this alternative, the contention is that a hearing is required by Section 189 of the AEA for both NRC's approval of the thermal annealing plan and any NRC approval of resumed operation following annealing. The adequacy of the thermal annealing plan, as well as the vessel's ability to perform its safety function after being annealed, could be raised in the hearing associated with approval of the thermal annealing plan. Licensee implementation of the thermal annealing plan could not commence until any hearing is concluded unless the NRC makes a ``no significant hazards determination'' with respect to the thermal annealing. Alternative 4. Modify Proposed Rule to Require Suspension of License Prior to Thermal Annealing Under this alternative, the proposed rule's regulatory approach for thermal annealing would be modified to include a suspension of the operating license during thermal annealing. The suspension would be automatic under the rule, without the need for a suspension order, although a letter confirming the licensee's status under the annealing rule would be prepared. The rule itself, as is currently drafted, would specify the conditions for lifting of the suspension (Section 50.66(b)). The licensee would anneal its reactor vessel without prior NRC approval of its program for conducting the annealing. Upon completion, the suspension would be lifted only if the licensee demonstrated that the thermal annealing has addressed the reactor enbrittlement such that it is acceptable to operate the plant. There would be no opportunity for hearing associated with the lifting of the suspension, and since there would be no prior NRC approval of the annealing program, a hearing opportunity under Section 189 would not be implicated by any such approval. Submission of Comments in Electronic Format Commenters are encouraged to submit, in addition to the original paper copy, a copy of the letter in electronic format on a DOS-formatted (IBM compatible) 5.25 or 3.5 inch computer diskette. Text files should be provided in WordPerfect format or unformatted ASCII code. The format and version should be identified on the diskette's external label. Finding of No Significant Environmental Impact The Commission has determined under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and the Commission's regulations in Subpart A of 10 CFR Part 51, that this rule, if adopted, would not be a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of human environment and, therefore, an environmental impact statement is not required. As discussed below, the individual actions covered in this proposed rulemaking would either serve to enhance safety of the reactor pressure vessel, thereby decreasing the environmental impact of plant operation, or have no impact on the environment. Therefore, in all cases these individual actions will not have an adverse impact on the environment. PTS Rule (10 CFR 50.61) The inclusion of thermal annealing as an option for mitigating the effects of neutron irradiation would serve to decrease the environmental impact of plant operation by enhancing the safety of the reactor pressure vessel.
