FR940825-0-00074 FR940825-0-00015 Rule 1162, Polyester Resin Operations •Specifies individual test methods for determining monomer content and weight loss of polymer resin materials, •References specific test method to determine capture efficiency, •Adds applicability section. Rule 1173, Fugitive Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds •Removed Executive Officer discretion in approving alternate test methods from section (h)(2), •Clarified section (k)(1) that unsafe components are not exempt from repair requirements, •Changed the definition of ``inaccessible component'' to be consistent with the CTG definition. Rule 1175, Control of Emissions From the Manufacture of Polymeric Cellular (Foam) Products •Revised definition of Approved Emission Control System, •Deleted definition of Emission Collection System, •Updated Emission Control Requirements section, •Expanded test method section, Rule 1176, Sumps and Wastewater Separators •Removed Executive Officer discretion in determining equivalent control measures from section (c)(2)(C), •Removed Executive Officer discretion in approving alternate test methods from sections (g)(1) and (g)(2), •Removed ability to designate safety exemptions without District approval (h)(1). EPA has evaluated the submitted rules and has determined that they are consistent with the CAA, EPA regulations, and EPA policy. Therefore, SCAQMD Rule 1162, Polyester Resin Operations; Rule 1173, Fugitive Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds; Rule 1175, Control of Emissions from the Manufacture of Polymeric Cellular (Foam) Products; and Rule 1176, Sumps and Wastewater Separators, are being approved under section 110(k)(3) of the CAA as meeting the requirements of section 110(a) and Part D. The final action on these rules serves as a final determination that the deficiencies in these rules have been corrected. Therefore, if this direct final action is not withdrawn, on October 24, 1994, any sanction or Federal Implementation Plan Clock is stopped. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future implementation plan. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. EPA is publishing this notice without prior proposal because the Agency views this as a noncontroversial amendment and anticipates no adverse comments. However, in a separate document in this Federal Register publication, the EPA is proposing to approve the SIP revision should adverse or critical comments be filed. This action will be effective October 24, 1994, unless, within 30 days of its publication, adverse or critical comments are received. If the EPA receives such comments, this action will be withdrawn before the effective date by publishing a subsequent notice that will withdraw the final action. All public comments received will then be addressed in a subsequent final rule based on this action serving as a proposed rule. The EPA will not institute a second comment period on this action. Any parties interested in commenting on this action should do so at this time. If no such comments are received, the public is advised that this action will be effective October 24, 1994. Regulatory Process Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq., EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises and government entities with jurisdiction over population of less than 50,000.
