FR940812-0-00085 FR940812-0-00019 Subpart B_Effect of Action §2542.100 Debarment or suspension. (a) Primary covered transactions. Except to the extent prohibited by law, persons who are debarred or suspended shall be excluded from primary covered transactions as either participants or principals throughout the executive branch of the Federal Government for the period of their debarment or suspension. Accordingly, no agency shall enter into primary covered transactions with such debarred or suspended persons during such period, except as permitted pursuant to § 2542.130. (b) Lower tier covered transactions. Except to the extent prohibited by law, persons who have been debarred or suspended shall be excluded from participating as either participants or principals in all lower tier covered transactions (see § 2542.30(a)(1)(ii)) for the period of their debarment or suspension. (c) Exceptions. Debarment or suspension does not affect a person's eligibility for: (1) Statutory entitlements or mandatory awards (but not subtier awards thereunder which are not themselves mandatory), including deposited funds insured by the Federal Government; (2) Direct awards to foreign governments or public international organizations, or transactions with foreign governments or foreign governmental entities, public international organizations, foreign government owned (in whole or in part) or controlled entities, and entities consisting wholly or partially of foreign governments or foreign governmental entities; (3) Benefits to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted); (4) Federal employment; (5) Transactions pursuant to national or agency-recognized emergencies or disasters; (6) Incidental benefits derived from ordinary governmental operations; and (7) Other transactions where the application of this part would be prohibited by law. §2542.110 Ineligible persons. Persons who are ineligible, as defined in §2542.20, are excluded in accordance with the applicable statutory, executive order, or regulatory authority. §2542.120 Voluntary exclusion. Persons who accept voluntary exclusions under §2542.270 are excluded in accordance with the terms of their settlements. Corporation shall, and participants may, contact the original action agency to ascertain the extent of the exclusion. §2542.130 Exception provision. The Corporation may grant an exception permitting a debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction upon a written determination by the agency head or an authorized designee stating the reason(s) for deviating from the Presidential policy established by Executive Order 12549 and §2542.100. However, in accordance with the President's stated intention in the Executive Order, exceptions shall be granted only infrequently. Exceptions shall be reported in accordance with §2542.410(a). §2542.140 Continuation of covered transactions. (a) Notwithstanding the debarment, suspension, determination of ineligibility, or voluntary exclusion of any person by an agency, agencies and participants may continue covered transactions in existence at the time the person was debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded. A decision as to the type of termination action, if any, to be taken should be made only after thorough review to ensure the propriety of the proposed action. (b) Agencies and participants shall not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any person who is debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded, except as provided in §2542.130. §2542.150 Failure to adhere to restrictions. Except as permitted under §2542.130 or §2542.140, a participant shall not knowingly do business under a covered transaction with a person who is debarred or suspended, or with a person who is ineligible for or voluntarily excluded from that covered transaction. Violation of this restriction may result in disallowance of costs, annulment or termination of award, issuance of a stop work order, debarment or suspension, or other remedies, as appropriate. A participant may rely upon the certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it and its principals are not debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction (see Appendix B of this part), unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. An agency has the burden of proof that such participant did knowingly do business with such a person.
