FR940916-1-00038 FR940916-1-00015 (a) The DOSAR is promulgated and may be revised, as necessary, in accordance with FAR Part 1. (b) The Procurement Executive shall issue all DOS acquisition regulations. 15. Section 601.601&hyph;1 is amended in paragraph (a) by removing the word ``let'' and inserting the word ``awarded'' in its place; by removing the words ``including interagency agreements'' and inserting in their place the words ``including FAR-covered interagency acquisition agreements'' in the first sentence in paragraph (b); and by adding the words ``real and'' preceding ``personal property'' in paragraph (b) in the first instance of appearance. 16. Section 601.602&hyph;3 is amended by removing the period at the end of paragraph (b)(1) and adding the words ``, e.g., withdrawal of a contracting officer's warrant or a Contracting Officer's Representative delegation or collection action.'' 17. Section 601.602&hyph;3 is amended by revising paragraph (b)(2) to read as follows; and by adding the following sentence to the end of paragraph (c) as follows: 601.602&hyph;3 Ratification of unauthorized commitments. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (2) The head of the contracting activity is delegated the authority to serve as the ratifying official for unauthorized contractual commitments not exceeding $1,000. The head of the contracting activity may refer such actions to the Procurement Executive for ratification if he/she so chooses. All unauthorized commitments in excess of $1,000 shall be ratified by the Procurement Executive. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣*␣However, the contracting officer is encouraged to obtain legal concurrence if there is a question of proprietary or a legal issue. 18. Section 601.602&hyph;3&hyph;70 is revised to read as follows: 601.602&hyph;3&hyph;70 Procedures. (a)(1) The person who made the unauthorized commitment shall submit all records and documents concerning the unauthorized commitment to the contracting officer assigned the ratification action. That person shall provide a complete written, signed statement of the facts, including why normal acquisition procedures were not followed, why and how the vendor was selected, a list of other sources considered, a description of work or products, a statement regarding the status of performance, an estimated or agreed price, certified funding citations, and a statement as to why he/she should not be personally liable for the cost, e.g., a public purpose was served and no personal benefit was received. (2) When the person who made the unauthorized commitment is no longer available to attest to the circumstances of the unauthorized commitment, an officer from the responsible office shall accomplish the requirements of this paragraph; the statement shall identify the individual responsible for the unauthorized commitment. (3) In addition, a cognizant management official from the office which employed the individual who made the unauthorized commitment at the time the unauthorized commitment was made shall provide a statement detailing actions that he/she will take to ensure that such commitments will not occur again under the same or similar circumstances. (b) The contracting officer assigned the ratification action shall prepare and execute a recommendation to the ratifying official. The contracting officer shall either recommend that the ratifying official approve and ratify the unauthorized commitment; or, disapprove the ratification of the unauthorized commitment. (1) The recommendation shall include the facts and circumstances of the unauthorized commitment; the information prescribed in FAR 1.602&hyph;3 (c)(1) and (c)(3) through (c)(6); and a recommendation to the ratifying official as to whether the unauthorized commitment should be ratified. (2) Following the signature of the contracting officer, the recommendation shall include a statement that the ratifying official could have granted authority to enter into a contractual commitment at the time it was made and still has the authority to do so; that the ratifying official hereby ratifies (or disapproves) the unauthorized commitment in the amount specified; and a date and signature block for the ratifying official. (c) The information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be supported by factual findings included or referenced in the recommendation. (d) The contracting officer shall submit the complete file to the ratifying official. For actions exceeding $1,000, the file shall be submitted through the head of the contracting activity to the Procurement Executive. (e) Upon receipt and review of the complete file, if the ratifying official ratifies the unauthorized commitment, the file shall be returned, through the head of the contracting activity if the action exceeds $1,000, to the contracting officer for issuance of the appropriate contractual document(s). If the request for ratification is not justified, the ratifying official shall return the request to the head of the contracting activity (if over $1,000) with a written explanation for the decision and a recommendation for disposition of the action. (f)(1) When a ratification is approved, the ratifying official shall prepare a letter to the contractor involved in the ratification. The letter shall state the reason(s) why the ratification was approved and provide cautionary language to the contractor regarding future instances of ratification actions. (2) When a ratification is not approved, the head of the contracting activity shall prepare a letter to the contractor advising that the ratification was not approved. The letter shall cite the reason(s) for the disapproval. 19. Section 601.603&hyph;3 is revised to read as follows:
