FR941227-0-00072 FR941227-0-00013 (B) Any taxpayer that has determined its ruling amount for any taxable year under a formula prescribed by §1.468A&hyph;6 (which prescribes ruling amounts for the taxable year in which there is a disposition of a qualifying interest in a nuclear power plant) must file a request for a revised schedule of ruling amounts on or before the deemed payment deadline for its first taxable year that begins after the disposition. * * * * * Par. 5. Section 1.468A&hyph;5 is amended as follows: 1. Paragraph (a)(4) is added. 2. Paragraph (b)(2)(v) is amended by removing ``or'' at the end thereof. 3. Paragraph (b)(2)(vi) is redesignated as paragraph (vii). 4. New paragraph (b)(2)(vi) is added. The additions read as follows: §1.468A&hyph;5 Nuclear decommissioning fund qualification requirements; prohibitions against self-dealing; disqualification of nuclear decommissioning fund; termination of fund upon substantial completion of decommissioning. (a)␣*␣*␣* (4) Trust provisions . By December 31, 1996, each qualified nuclear decommissioning fund trust agreement must provide that assets in the fund must be used as authorized by section 468A and the regulations thereunder and that the agreement may not be amended so as to violate section 468A or the regulations thereunder. (b)␣*␣*␣* (2)␣*␣*␣* (vi) Any act described in §53.4951&hyph;1(c) of this chapter only if undertaken to facilitate the temporary investment of assets or the payment of reasonable administrative expenses of the nuclear decommissioning fund; or * * * * * Par. 6. Section 1.468A&hyph;6 is amended by adding text to read as follows: §1.468A&hyph;6 Disposition of an interest in a nuclear power plant. (a) In general . This section describes the federal income tax consequences of a transfer of the assets of a nuclear decommissioning fund (Fund) within the meaning of §1.468A&hyph;1(b)(3) in connection with a sale, exchange, or other disposition by a taxpayer (transferor) of all or a portion of its qualifying interest in a nuclear power plant to another taxpayer (transferee). This section also explains how a schedule of ruling amounts will be determined for the transferor and transferee. (b) Requirements . This section applies if_ (1) Immediately before the disposition, the transferor maintained a Fund with respect to the interest disposed of; and (2) Immediately after the disposition_ (i) The transferee maintains a Fund with respect to the interest acquired; (ii) The interest acquired is a qualifying interest of the transferee in the nuclear power plant; (iii) Either a proportionate amount (which could include all) of the assets of the transferor's Fund is transferred to a Fund of the transferee, or the transferor's entire Fund is transferred to the transferee, provided in the latter case (or if the transferee receives all of the assets in the transferor's Fund, but not the transferor's Fund) that the transferee acquires the transferor's entire qualifying interest in the plant; and (iv) The transferee continues to satisfy the requirements of §1.468A&hyph;5(a)(iii), which permits an electing taxpayer to maintain only one Fund for each plant. (c) Tax consequences . A disposition that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section will have the following tax consequences at the time it occurs:
