FR940527-1-00226 FR940527-1-00014 Further, the ProPAC CIPI omits interest rates. The cumulative effect of declining interest rates for all debt instruments in recent years has driven the rate of change in the HCFA interest rate component downward, a trend projected into future rate years. The declining interest rate component drags the HCFA CIPI below the ProPAC CIPI in the projection period. Other things being equal, the ProPAC index would result in overpayment through the Federal rate because anticipated actual capital-related expenses will be less than ProPAC projects due to the effects of lower interest rates on capital-related expenses. IV. Case-Mix Adjustment and Adjustment for Forecast Error The case-mix index (CMI) is the measure of the average DRG weight for cases paid under the prospective payment system. Because the DRG weight determines the prospective payment for each case, any percentage increase in the CMI corresponds to an equal percentage increase in hospital payments. The CMI can change for any of several reasons: because the average resource use of Medicare patients changes (``real'' case-mix change), because changes in hospital coding of patient records result in higher weight DRG assignments (``coding effects''), and because the annual DRG reclassification and recalibration changes may not be budget neutral (``reclassification effect''). In the update framework for the prospective payment system for operating costs, we adjust the update upwards to allow for real case- mix change, but remove the effects of coding changes on the CMI. We also remove the effect on total payments of prior changes to the DRG classifications and relative weights, in order to retain budget neutrality for all CMI-related changes other than patient severity. (For example, we adjusted for the effects of the FY 1992 DRG reclassification and recalibration as part of our FY 1994 update recommendation.) The operating adjustment consists of a reduction for total observed case-mix change, an increase for the portion of case-mix change that we determine is due to real case-mix change rather than coding modifications, and an adjustment for the effect of prior DRG reclassification and recalibration changes. We proposed to adopt this CMI adjustment as well in the capital update framework. We received no comments on the proposed CMI adjustment. The current operating update framework contains an adjustment for forecast error. The input price index forecast is based on historical trends and relationships ascertainable at the time the update factor is established for the following year. In any given year there can be unanticipated price fluctuations that can result in differences between the actual increase in prices faced by hospitals and the forecast used in calculating the update factors. We continue to believe that the capital update framework should include a forecast error adjustment factor. In setting a prospective payment rate under the proposed framework, we would make an adjustment for forecast error only if our estimate of the capital input price index rate of increase for any year is off by 0.25 percentage points or more. There is a 2-year lag between the forecast and the measurement of the forecast error. Thus, for example, we would adjust for a forecast error made in FY 1996 through an adjustment to the FY 1998 update. We received no comments on the proposed forecasting error adjustment. V. Policy Adjustment Factors The capital input price index measures the pure price changes associated with changes in capital-related costs (prices x ``quantities''). The composition of capital-related costs is maintained at base-year 1987 proportions in the capital input price index. We would address appropriate changes in the amount and composition of capital stock through the policy adjustment factors. The current update framework for the prospective payment system for operating costs includes factors designed to adjust the input price index rate of increase for policy considerations. Under the revised operating framework, we adjust for service productivity (the efficiency with which providers produce individual services such as laboratory tests and diagnostic procedures) and intensity (the amount of services used to produce a discharge). The service productivity factor for the operating update framework reflects a forward-looking adjustment for the changes that hospitals can be expected to make in service-level productivity during the year. A hospital retains any productivity increases above the average. The intensity factor for the operating update framework reflects how hospital services are utilized to produce the final product, that is, the discharge. This component accounts for changes in the use of quality-enhancing services, changes in within-DRG severity, and expected modification of practice patterns to remove cost-ineffective services. We originally proposed that the intensity adjustment factor in the revised operating framework be adopted in the capital update framework. That factor remains a part of our developing framework. Under the revised operating update framework, we calculate case-mix constant intensity as the change in total charges per admission, adjusted for price level changes (the CPI hospital component) and changes in real case mix. The use of total charges in the calculation of the proposed intensity factor makes it a total intensity factor, that is, charges for capital services are already built into the calculation of the factor. We can therefore incorporate the proposed intensity adjustment from the operating update framework into the capital update framework. In the absence of reliable estimates of the proportions of the overall annual intensity increases that are due, respectively, to ineffective practice patterns and to the combination of quality-enhancing new technologies and within-DRG complexity, we would assume, as in the revised operating update framework, that one-half of the annual increase is due to each of these factors. The capital update framework would thus provide an add-on to the input price index rate of increase of one-half of the estimated annual increase in intensity to allow for within-DRG severity increases and the adoption of quality-enhancing technology.
