FR940217-1-00131 FR940217-1-00015 (B)␣[Reserved] (iii) Whom to contact. (A) This section of the plan must make reference to the appendices listing coastal state contacts, port contacts, and ship interest contacts. (B) For actual or probable discharges of oil, the reports must comply with the procedures described in MARPOL Protocol I. (4) Steps to control a discharge. This section of the plan must contain a discussion of procedures to address the following scenarios: (i) Operational spills: The plan must outline procedures for removal of oil spilled and contained on deck. The plan must also provide guidance to ensure proper disposal of recovered oil and clean-up materials; (A) Pipe leakage: The plan must provide specific guidance for dealing with pipe leakage; (B) Tank overflow: The plan must include procedures for dealing with tank overflows. It must provide alternatives such as transferring cargo or bunkers to empty or slack tanks, or readying pumps to transfer the excess ashore; (C) Hull leakage: The plan must outline procedures for responding to spills due to suspected hull leakage, including guidance on measures to be taken to reduce the head of oil in the tank involved either by internal transfer or discharge ashore. Procedures to handle situations where it is not possible to identify the specific tank from which leakage is occurring must also be provided. Procedures for dealing with suspected hull fractures must be included. These procedures must take into account the effect of corrective actions on hull stress and stability. (ii) Spills resulting from casualties: Each of the casualties listed in this paragraph must be treated in the plan as a separate section comprised of various checklists or other means which will ensure that the master considers all appropriate factors when addressing the specific casualty. These checklists must be tailored to the specific ship. In addition to the checklists, specific personnel assignments for anticipated tasks must be identified. Reference to existing fire control plans and muster lists is sufficient to identify personnel responsibilities in the following situations: (A) Grounding; (B) Fire or explosion; (C) Collision; (D) Hull failure; and (E) Excessive list. (iii) In addition to the checklist and personnel duty assignments required by paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the plan must include_ (A) Priority actions to ensure the safety of personnel and the ship, assess the damage to the ship, and take appropriate further action; (B) Information for making damage stability and longitudinal strength assessments, or contacting classification societies to acquire such information. Nothing in this section shall be construed as creating a requirement for damage stability plans or calculations beyond those required by law or regulation; and (C) Lightening procedures to be followed in cases of extensive structural damage. The plan must contain information on procedures to be followed for ship-to-ship transfer of cargo. Reference may be made in the plan to existing company guides. A copy of such company procedures for ship-to-ship transfer operations must be kept in the plan. The plan must address the coordination of this activity with the coastal or port state, as appropriate. (5) National and local coordination. This section of the plan must contain information to assist the master in initiating action by the coastal State, local government, or other involved parties. This information must include guidance to assist the master with organizing a response to the incident should a response not be organized by the shore authorities. Detailed information for specific areas may be included as appendices to the plan. (6) Appendices. Appendices must include the following information: (i) Twenty-four hour contact information and alternates to the designated contacts. These details must be routinely updated to account for personnel changes and changes in telephone, telex, and telefacsimile numbers. Clear guidance must also be provided regarding the preferred means of communication. (ii) The following lists, each identified as a separate appendix: (A) A list of agencies or officials of coastal state administrations responsible for receiving and processing incident reports;
