FR940830-0-00087 FR940830-0-00013 (i) Increases in the number of units resulting from the conversion of existing units will be added to the overall unit count so long as they are under ACC amendment by the first day in the FFY in which the formula is being run; * * * * * (3) *␣*␣* (iii) Exception . A unit which is conveyed under the Mutual Help or Turnkey III programs will result in an automatic (rather than a phased-in) reduction in the unit count. Paid-off Mutual Help or Turnkey III units continue to be counted until they are conveyed. 4. Section 905.602 is revised to read as follows: §905.602 Special requirements for Turnkey III and Mutual Help developments. (a) Modernization costs. Modernization work on a Mutual Help or Turnkey III unit shall not increase the purchase price or amortization period of the home. (b) Paid-off units_ (1) Turnkey III units . Eligible modernization work on any Turnkey III units that have been paid-off, but not conveyed, by the time the CIAP application or CGP Annual Statement is submitted, is limited to work which is necessary to meet statutory requirements (e.g., accessibility for disabled persons, lead-based paint testing, interim containment, professional risk assessment and abatement). Such work must be completed prior to conveyance. Turnkey III units that have not been paid-off at the time the CIAP application or CGP Annual Statement is submitted and for which work is included in the CIAP application or CGP Annual Statement, are eligible for any physical improvements provided under §905.666(d) even where the units are subsequently paid-off before the work is completed, so long as the work is completed prior to conveyance. (2) Mutual Help units . An IHA may use CIAP or CGP funds under this subpart for the purposes of modernizing a Mutual Help unit which is paid-off, but not conveyed, and may do so only with a unit which the IHA has identified in its CIAP application or Comprehensive Plan (including Five-Year Action Plan and Annual Statement). In accordance with the provisions of §905.440 (e)(8), an IHA may perform non-emergency work on a paid-off Mutual Help unit only after all delinquencies are repaid. (c) Other . The homebuyer family must be in compliance with its financial obligations under its homebuyer agreement in order to be eligible for non-emergency physical improvements, with the exception of work necessary to meet statutory and regulatory requirements, ( e.g. , accessibility for disabled persons, lead-based paint testing, interim containment, professional risk assessment, and abatement) and the correction of development deficiencies. Notwithstanding the above requirement, an IHA may, with prior HUD approval, complete non-emergency physical improvements on any homeownership unit where the IHA demonstrates that, due to economies of scale or geographic constraints, substantial cost savings may be realized by completing all necessary work in a development at one time. 5. Section 905.666 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3), (b), (c), (d)(1), (d)(3)(i), (f)(1)(iii), and (m) to read as follows: §905.666 Eligible costs. (a) *␣*␣* (1) Undertaking activities described in its approved Five-Year Action Plan under §905.672(d)(5); (2) Carrying out emergency work, whether or not the need is indicated in the IHA's approved Comprehensive Plan (including Five-Year Action Plan) or Annual Statement; (3) Funding a replacement reserve to carry out eligible activities in future years, subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph (f) of this section; * * * * * (b) Demonstration of viability . Except in the case of emergency work, an IHA shall only expend funds on a development for which the IHA has demonstrated that completion of the improvements and replacements identified in the comprehensive plan will reasonably ensure the long-term physical and social viability of the development at a reasonable cost or for essential non-routine maintenance needed to keep the property habitable until residents are relocated. (c) Physical improvement costs . Eligible costs include alterations, betterments, additions, replacements, and non-routine maintenance that are necessary to meet the modernization and energy conservation standards prescribed in §905.603. These mandatory standards may be exceeded only when the IHA determines that it is necessary or highly desirable for the long-term physical and social viability of the individual development. If demolition or disposition is proposed, the IHA shall comply with 24 CFR part 905, subpart M. Additional dwelling space may be added to existing units. (d) Costs for Turnkey III developments _(1) General. Eligible physical improvement costs for existing Turnkey III developments are limited to work items which are not the responsibility of the homebuyer families and which are related to health and safety, correction of development deficiencies, physical accessibility, energy audits and cost-effective energy conservation measures, and lead-based paint testing and abatement. In addition, management improvements are eligible modernization costs for existing Turnkey III developments. (2) *␣*␣* (3) *␣*␣* (i) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an IHA may substantially rehabilitate a Turnkey III unit whenever the unit becomes vacant or is occupied by a non-homebuyer family. An IHA that intends to use funds under this paragraph must identify in its needs assessment the estimated number of units that the IHA is proposing for substantial rehabilitation and subsequent sale. In addition, an IHA must demonstrate in its needs assessment that the IHA has homebuyers who are both eligible for homeownership, in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 905 (Subpart G), and who have demonstrated their intent to be placed into each of the Turnkey III units proposed to be substantially rehabilitated; * * * * * (f) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣*
