FR940511-1-00026 FR940511-1-00005 Of course, an institution need not permit consumers to receive interest payments by check or transfer. Similarly, the Board believes that if an institution requires consumers to receive interest solely by check (or transfer to another account), the institution need not also permit consumers to leave interest in the account for compounding. The Board notes that this proposed interpretation could require a change in the compounding and crediting practices of some depository institutions, since institutions that do not currently compound on the same basis as they offer interest payments would have to change compounding frequencies or reduce payment options. The impact of the proposed amendments may be greater for those institutions offering consumers many options in crediting frequencies. For example, an institution permitting quarterly interest payments must also credit and compound at least quarterly for those consumers who choose to leave interest in the account. If an institution allows consumers to receive monthly interest checks (and can leave interest in the account), the institution could not offer this option without offering monthly crediting and compounding to other holders of the same account as well. The Board requests comment on these matters. The Board also solicits comments on whether consumers who use APYs to comparison shop may be confused by an APY that reflects monthly compounding but pays less interest than if interest had compounded in the account. For example, assume two institutions offer a one-year CD with a 6.00% interest rate. One mandates monthly interest checks, the other permits monthly interest checks or monthly compounding. Both could advertise a 6.17% APY, even though a consumer depositing $1,000 receives $60 if interest checks are paid and $61.70 if money is left in the account. (2) Proposed Regulatory Revisions: Section-by-Section Analysis A section-by-section description of proposed amendments follows. ยง230.2 Definitions. Paragraph (c)_Annual Percentage Yield The act and regulation define the APY as the total amount of interest that would be received based on the interest rate and the frequency of compounding for a 365-day year. The proposed amendment broadens the definition to treat crediting to the consumer's account_which includes the distribution of interest through interest checks or transfer_as the equivalent of compounding. For example, if an institution pays a 6.00% interest rate on an account, the same APY would result whether an institution compounds monthly or solely sends out monthly interest payments and does not permit interest to remain in the account. The Board solicits comments on whether an exception should be made to the definition of APY, and whether the purpose of the regulation_enabling consumers to make informed decisions about deposit accounts_is better met if the APY captures the time value of interest received as an interest payment during the term of the account, as well as by compounding. Paragraph (h)_Compounding The act and regulation require institutions to disclose compounding policies for interest-bearing accounts. The Board proposes to define the term ``compounding'' as the frequency that earned interest is added to the principal in the consumer's account, on which interest then accrues. To illustrate, a CD offering monthly compounding adds interest to principal each month, and interest then accrues on the new month's principal_including the prior month's accrued interest. Paragraph (j)_Crediting The act and regulation also require institutions to disclose crediting policies for interest-bearing accounts. The Board proposes to define the term ``crediting'' to include the frequency that earned interest is paid to the account, or provided to the consumer by check or transfer to another account. Thus, for example, an institution that sends a consumer a monthly check of accrued interest would be crediting interest monthly, even if interest were not permitted to remain in the account to earn additional interest. ยง230.4 Account Disclosures. Paragraph (b)(6)(iii)_Withdrawal of Interest Prior to Maturity The regulation requires a disclosure for institutions offering time accounts that compound interest and permit a consumer to withdraw accrued interest during the account term. The disclosure states that the APY assumes interest remains on deposit until maturity and that a withdrawal will reduce earnings. The Board requests comment on whether the disclosure would continue to be helpful to consumers in the current form if the proposed amendments are adopted. ยง230.7 Payment of Interest. Paragraph (b)_Compounding and Crediting Policies The act requires institutions to pay interest on the full amount of the principal in the account each day, and provides that this requirement shall not be construed as prohibiting or requiring the use of any particular method of compounding or crediting interest. Regulation DD states that the requirement to pay interest on the full amount of principal does not require institutions to compound or credit interest at any particular frequency. As discussed above, the Board believes institutions may choose any compounding or crediting frequency. However, once interest is credited to an account it becomes part of the principal, and if interest remains in the account, interest must be paid on those funds. The Board believes institutions may choose to offer accounts that credit interest solely by posting interest to the account, or by sending interest checks or transferring the interest to another account. But the Board also believes institutions offering accounts that provide consumers with the option to have interest credited by check (or transfer to another account) or by posting interest to the account provide at least as frequent a crediting frequency to all holders of the same account. That is, institutions must compound interest on funds remaining in the account at a frequency no less often than interest is offered to be credited_by check or transfer_to other consumers holding such accounts. For example, institutions may offer a one-year CD with monthly compounding and the option to receive monthly or quarterly interest checks, but they may not combine quarterly compounding with the option to receive monthly interest checks. The Board requests comment on the proposal. Appendix A to Part 230_Annual Percentage Yield Calculation Part I. Annual Percentage Yield for Account Disclosures and Advertising Purposes A. General Rules The proposed amendments to Appendix A only affect institutions that credit interest solely by check or transfer to another account (and that do not permit the consumer to leave interest in the account). The Board proposes two amendments to Appendix A to address the calculation of the APY for these accounts. First, the Board proposes to delete footnote 3 as unnecessary. Second, the definition of ``Interest'' in the APY formula would be amended to provide that for such accounts, institutions would factor in the timing of interest payments as if interest were being compounded. For example, if an institution offers a two-year CD with a 6.00% interest rate and credits interest semi-annually to the consumer by check or transfer to another account, the ``Interest'' figure used in the APY formula would be $125.51 on a $1,000 deposit. This would be the dollar amount of interest earned for a two-year CD with a 6.00% interest rate that compounds semi-annually. The APY would be 6.09%. Finally, the Board also provides guidance on two assumptions for calculating the APY that provide greater flexibility and ease compliance with the APY formula. First, institutions could calculate the APY by assuming an initial deposit amount of $1,000. Second, if interest is paid out monthly, quarterly, or semi-annually, institutions could base the number of days either on the actual number of days for those intervals or on an assumed number of days (30 days for monthly distributions, 91 days for quarterly distributions, and 182 days for semiannual distributions). Appendix B_Model Clauses and Sample Forms The Board solicits comments on model clauses or additional sample forms that may be appropriate if the amendments are adopted. (4) Proposed Additional Guidance The proposed regulatory amendments associated with a new APY formula raise other interpretive issues. The Board solicits comments on the issues addressed below:
