FR940819-1-00010 FR940819-1-00001 (ii) Connects to a publicly owned and dedicated street or road. (c) Exceptions to street requirements. A site not meeting the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section will be acceptable if: (1) The applicant is a builder for a conditional commitment (a loan will not be approved until the site meets the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section), or the builder posts an irrevocable performance and payment bond (or similar acceptable assurance) that assures the site approval official that the site will be developed to meet the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section, or (2) The site is recommended by the site approval official and approved by the State Director. A request for State Director approval must justify that it is in the best interest of both the government and the applicant to approve the site. (d) Site layout. (1) Sites shall be surveyed and platted. Permanent markers shall be placed at all corners. (2) Sites shall meet all requirements of State and local entities and the Agency. (e) Covenants, conditions and restrictions. Sites in subdivisions shall be protected by covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) to preserve the character, value and amenities of the residential community and to avoid or mitigate potential environmental impacts unless, an exception is granted by the State Director after considering the suitability of local ordinances, zoning, and other land use controls. (1) CC&Rs shall be recorded in the public land records and specifically referenced in each deed. (2) The intent of the CC&Rs is to assure the developers that the purchasers will use the land in conformance with the planned objectives for the community. In addition, the CC&Rs should assure the purchasers that the developers will proceed to use the land as planned and that other purchasers will use and maintain the land as planned to prevent changes in the character of the neighborhood that would adversely impact values or create a nuisance. §§1924.116&hyph;1924.119 [Reserved] §1924.120 Approval authority. The State Director is responsible for delegating Single Family Housing site review and approval authority to appropriate employees when the employees have had sufficient training and have demonstrated the capability to perform the required actions, delegation is in writing in accordance with FmHA Instruction 2006&hyph;F. §1924.121 [Reserved] §1924.122 Exception authority. The Administrator may in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart or address any omission of this subpart which is not inconsistent with the authorizing statute or other applicable law if the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Government's interest. The Administrator will exercise this authority upon the written request of the State Director or the appropriate program Assistant Administrator. Requests for exceptions must be supported with documentation to explain the adverse effect on the Government, proposed alternative courses of action, and show how the adverse effect will be eliminated or minimized if the exception is granted. §1924.123 State supplements and exhibits. (a) State supplements. State Directors may supplement this subpart only to meet State and local laws and regulations and to provide for orderly processing of submittals. (b) State exhibits. State Directors may develop exhibits for use by applicants or developers if the exhibits to this subpart are not adequate for use in the State. Those exhibits may be developed to further explain the items needed within the various submittals; organization of those items; and coordination of this subpart with the requirements of the Agency program(s) providing the financial assistance. §1924.124&hyph;1924.149 [Reserved] §1924.150 OMB control number. 3. Exhibit A of subpart C is removed and reserved. Dated: June, 14, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20432 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;07&hyph;U
