FR940804-0-00114 FR940804-0-00024 In response to one comment, it is worth clarifying that that representation is presumed to cease to be current for purposes of these rules when the matter in question has reached a final judgment (i.e., once the direct appeals process, including any petition for certiorari, has run its full course), unless there is reason to believe that representation is continuing. When inquiring about the status of representation, government attorneys and agents generally must refrain from stating whether it is necessary or desirable to be represented by counsel. After the right to counsel has attached, a statement or implication suggesting that counsel is not providing proper or effective representation could violate the Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel. See United States v. Morrison , 449 U.S. 361, 364 (1981). One organization commented that the right to inquire whether a party is represented by counsel is an invitation to a more substantive conversation with a represented party with respect to the matter underlying the representation, which would violate these rules. The Department does not agree that this paragraph creates a significant potential for abuse. This exception, which is clear in its terms, allows Department attorneys to do no more than determine whether a person is in fact represented by counsel. The Department expects that all Department attorneys will understand the limited parameters and purpose of this exception, and any attempt to use this paragraph to gather additional information about the subject matter of the representation would be a clear violation of these rules and would constitute sanctionable conduct. Paragraph (b) : Discovery or judicial or administrative process. Any communication that is authorized by discovery procedures, such as a deposition of a party-opponent, or by judicial or administrative process, such as a grand jury, deposition, or trial subpoena or an administrative summons, obviously should not be prohibited by any rule. See United States v. Schwimmer , 882 F.2d 22, 28 (2d Cir. 1989), cert. denied , 493 U.S. 1071 (1990) (prosecutor's questioning of represented person before the grand jury outside the presence of counsel is ``authorized by law'' under DR 7&hyph;104). Among other reasons for this exception, a person who is served with process has an opportunity to consult with counsel prior to his or her appearance at the proceeding, and may have counsel present if desired during the proceeding (except, of course, while testifying before a grand jury). More generally, communications authorized by discovery procedures already have in place appropriate mechanisms for protection of the attorney-client relationship. This provision ensures that this regulation does not prevent such communications from continuing to be allowed. This exception does not purport to authorize any communications not otherwise available pursuant to approved discovery procedures or legal process. However, one individual commented that the text of paragraph (b), as proposed in March 1994, might be construed to authorize certain discovery procedures_such as the taking of a party's deposition testimony in the absence of the party's attorney and without the attorney's prior agreement_even where such practice was not in accordance with the rules of the applicable tribunal. To clarify that this paragraph's intent is to authorize only approved discovery procedures or legal process, this paragraph has been amended in the final rule to exempt only those communications made pursuant to discovery procedures or legal process ``in accordance with the orders or rules of the court or other tribunal where the matter is pending.'' Paragraph (c) : Initiation of communication by represented party. This paragraph sets out the circumstances under which it is proper for a government attorney to communicate with a represented party who has initiated contact, without the consent of that party's counsel. A defendant may wish to communicate with the government outside the presence of counsel for many valid reasons. For instance, a defendant may wish to cooperate with the government but not want his or her attorney to know for fear that the attorney will disclose the defendant's intentions to others. This situation may arise, for example, when the defendant's attorney is being paid by another individual involved in a criminal enterprise, and the defendant questions whether he or she has the attorney's undivided loyalty. The same problem may arise when a single attorney represents multiple parties who are part of the same criminal enterprise. When the desire of a defendant or arrestee to speak with the attorney for the government outside the presence of his or her counsel is ``voluntary, knowing, and informed,'' there is no valid reason to prohibit the government from engaging in such communications. In fact, the Department believes that it would be a dereliction of its obligation vigorously to enforce federal law if it promulgated a rule that would prohibit such communications. It is well established that an individual who is entitled to counsel under the Fifth Amendment or the Sixth Amendment may waive that right and choose to communicate with the government outside the presence of his or her attorney, ``provided the waiver is made voluntarily, knowingly and intelligently.'' Moran v. Burbine , 475 U.S. 412, 421 (1986) (internal quotations omitted); Patterson v. Illinois , 487 U.S. 285, 292 (1988); Brewer v. Williams , 430 U.S. 387, 404&hyph;06 (1977). In such a situation, the defendant should not be prohibited from engaging in communications that are allowed by the Constitution by a disciplinary rule that was intended to protect that individual in the first place. Neither common sense nor the principles underlying DR 7&hyph;104 and Rule 4.2 requires such a result.
