FR940428-2-00168 FR940428-2-00072 a. All applications, reports, or information submitted to the Regional Administrator shall be signed and certified. (See §122.22) b. The CWA provides that any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or certification in any record or other document submitted or required to be maintained under this permit, including monitoring reports or reports of compliance or non-compliance shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000 per violation, or by imprisonment for not more than 6 months per violation, or by both. 3. Availability of Reports Except for data determined to be confidential under Paragraph A.8. above, all reports prepared in accordance with the terms of this permit shall be available for public inspection at the offices of the State water pollution control agency and the Regional Administrator. As required by the CWA, effluent data shall not be considered confidential. Knowingly making any false statement on any such report may result in the imposition of criminal penalties as provided for in Section 309 of the CWA. Section E. Other Conditions 1. Definitions for purposes of this permit are as follows: Administrator means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or an authorized representative. Applicable standards and limitations means all State, interstate, and Federal standards and limitations to which a ``discharge'' or a related activity is subject to, including water quality standards, standards of performance, toxic effluent standards or prohibitions, ``best management practices,'' and pretreatment standards under sections 301, 302, 303, 304, 306, 307, 308, 403, and 405 of CWA. Application means the EPA standard national forms for applying for a permit, including any additions, revisions or modifications to the forms; or forms approved by EPA for use in ``approved States,'' including any approved modifications or revisions. Average The arithmetic mean of values taken at the frequency required for each parameter over the specified period. For total and/or fecal coliforms, the average shall be the geometric mean. Average monthly discharge limitation means the highest allowable average of ``daily discharges'' over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month. Average weekly discharge limitation means the highest allowable average of ``daily discharges'' over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar week divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that week. Best Management Practices (BMPs) means schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of ``waters of the United States.'' BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw material storage. Best Professional Judgement (BPJ) means a case-by-case determination of Best Practicable Treatment (BPT), Best Available Treatment (BAT) or other appropriate standard based on an evaluation of the available technology to achieve a particular pollutant reduction. Composite Sample _A sample consisting of a minimum of eight grab samples collected at equal intervals during a 24-hour period (or lesser period as specified in the section on Monitoring and Reporting) and combined proportional to flow, or a sample continuously collected proportionally to flow over that same time period. Continuous Discharge means a ``discharge'' which occurs without interruption throughout the operating hours of the facility except for infrequent shutdowns for maintenance, process changes, or similar activities. CWA or ``The Act'' means the Clean Water Act (formerly referred to as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act or Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972) Pub. L. 92&hyph;500, as amended by Pub. L. 95&hyph;217, Pub. L. 95&hyph;576, Pub. L. 96&hyph;483 and Pub. L. 97&hyph;117; 33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq. Daily Discharge means the discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for purposes of sampling. For pollutants with limitations expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is calculated as the total mass of the pollutant discharged over the day. For pollutants with limitations expressed in other units of measurements, the daily discharge is calculated as the average measurement of the pollutant over the day.
