FR940825-2-00178 FR940825-2-00108 (5) Degree to which project complements other country/regional exchange programs; (6) Furtherance of geographic/institutional diversity. The participation of community colleges and Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and other institutions with significant minority student enrollments is strongly encouraged. Step II_Application Process for Comprehensive Proposals The Agency will select approximately 45 to 50 prospectuses which most closely address the goals and guidelines set forth above and invite those applicants to submit comprehensive proposals under the following guidelines and review criteria. Applicants invited to submit a comprehensive proposal will be asked to include the following information: (1) A proposal cover sheet (in addition to the Bureau cover sheet) with names of both institutions, name of foreign country, project directors including their addresses, telephone and fax numbers, and academic field(s) of proposal. A sample cover sheet format will be included in the letter of invitation. (2) An executive summary (abstract) of proposed project, not to exceed two double-spaced pages. (3) A narrative, not to exceed twenty double-spaced pages, including (a) concise descriptions of institutions and participating academic departments or schools; (b) a detailed description of the proposed affiliation program, including names and qualifications of designated project directors; (c) a statement of need for the proposed program; (d) a detailed plan and chronology of exchange activities, including who will travel, when, where, and how activities will occur for each of the three years; (e) the program's anticipated benefits to participating institutions; (f) evidence of the institutions' commitment to the internationalization of their academic programs, e.g., through international partnerships, student exchanges, etc.; (g) a plan for institutional evaluation of the project; and (h) evidence that the partnership is likely to continue after the USIA grant expires. (4) A comprehensive line item budget for the three-year program, outlining specific expenditures and sources from which funds are anticipated. Detailed information concerning eligible and ineligible items and required budget format will be available in the letter of invitation. (5) Documentation of institutional support for the proposed linkage, including signed letters of endorsement from the U.S. and foreign institutions' presidents, chancellors, or directors, making specific reference to the 1995 College and University Affiliations Program and committing their participating institution(s) to maintaining their exchange participants on salary and benefits during the exchange. A general letter of support or an agreement between the two institutions without reference to the maintenance of salaries and benefits will not fulfill this requirement. A grace period will be granted to applicants for the submission of the foreign letter of support only. One original and 10 copies of the letter must be received by 5 p.m. Washington, D.C. time on March 8, 1995. A sample letter of endorsement and commitment will be included in the letter of invitation. (6) Brief academic résumés, not to exceed two single-spaced pages each, of participating faculty/staff from both institutions, clearly indicating level of language skills, overseas experience, knowledge of prospective partner country, relevant scholarly and non-scholarly travel, publications, professional memberships, and research activities. Note: All pages in excess of the two-page limit will be discarded. (7) A list of past and present international institutional linkages (for the U.S. partner). Include linkages and other projects supported by USIA and other U.S. government agencies. Also note any pending grant applications submitted to other USIA programs. Review Process: The College and University Affiliations Program review process for invited institutions will be conducted in three stages: Technical, Academic, and Agency. USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein and in the letter of invitation. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to outside academic panel(s) and Agency panel(s) for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the Agency's contracts offices, as well as the Office of Academic Programs, the USIA geographic area office, and the USIA post overseas. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or by other Agency elements. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the USIA Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grants resides with the USIA grants officer. Review Criteria Academic Review Criteria Proposals are reviewed by independent academic peer panels with geographic and disciplinary expertise which make comments and recommendations to the Agency based on the following criteria: (1) Useful and appropriate faculty and curriculum development activities. (2) Feasibility of the program plan as it relates to the stated goals and selected topics and activities. (3) Promise of the production of new skills/knowledge and advancement of scholarship and teaching in fields covered by the program. (4) Academic quality of credentials/experience of participants in relation to the goals of the proposed exchange plan (including linguistic proficiency, where required). (5) Length of exchange visits in furtherance of project goals. Longer visits up to a full academic semester are preferred.
