FR941227-2-00074 FR941227-2-00051 New Solicitation Clause I&hyph;FSS&hyph;XXX (XXX 1994) Contract Payment Information a. The General Services Administration (GSA) will be the centralized billing/payment office for all purchases/invoices issued against the schedule contracts. Paper invoices (with related purchase/delivery order copies) conforming to the requirements of the Prompt Payment Clause (52.232&hyph;25) and the Invoice Requirements Clause (552.232&hyph;72) should be submitted to either of the following mailing addresses: 1. For paper invoices (with related purchase/delivery order copies) containing prompt payment discounts: General Services Administration, Office of Finance, P.O. Box 419399, Kansas City, MO 64141&hyph;6399. 2. For all other paper invoices (with related purchase/delivery order copies): General Services Administration, Office of Finance, P.O. Box 419029, Kansas City, MO 64141&hyph;6029. b. Inclusion of the Activity Address Code (AAC) and Fund code on all purchase/delivery orders is required before invoicing GSA. EDI transactions must be submitted in accordance with Federal implementation conventions. c. Contractors shall submit invoices and copies of the agencies' purchase/delivery orders either by Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), or mail for non-/EDI transactions. Submission of invoices by EDI is preferred because it is the most economic and efficient method for the contractor and the Government. d. Agencies will submit purchase/delivery orders to contractors in an original and one copy. A copy of the customer agency EDI or paper purchase/delivery order must accompany each initial invoice submitted to GSA for payment. In the case of ongoing service arrangements like rental or leasing, this means the contractor must include a copy of the purchase/delivery order for such arrangements with the initial EDI or paper invoice submitted for payment. It will not be necessary to submit subsequent copies of the same order unless requested by GSA for a particular case. e. Proper invoices will be paid within the prompt payment discount terms included in the contract or 30 day payment cycle. f. Electronic submissions must conform to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) X12 standard and the Federal implementation conventions. Request for these conventions and questions regarding registration in the Government Electronic Commerce system should be addressed to 1&hyph;800&hyph;EDI&hyph;3414. Registration is done via your value added network and includes acceptance of the Government Trading Partner Agreement (TPA). g. Initial invoices (both paper and EDI) cannot be processed for payment without submission of a copy of the corresponding agency purchase/delivery order. Any data the ordering activity requests for inclusion on the invoice must be included on the invoice sent to GSA. Include applicable Special Item Numbers (SIN's) and/or part numbers if not referenced in the customer's order. Pursuant to the Prompt Payment Act, improper invoices will be returned to the contractor.
