FR941222-0-00021 FR941222-0-00003 Response. The cask vendor presented dose assessment results in the SAR for both 5- and 10-year-cooled fuel. However, for this rulemaking, NRC used the dose assessment for 5-year-cooled fuel for the shielding analysis radiation source term and for accidental releases of radionuclide material. NRC's use of the 5-year-cooled fuel assessment is conservative and bounding. To ensure safe storage of spent nuclear fuel in NRC-approved casks, the NRC specifies, in Section 1.2.1 of the Certificate of Compliance a number of fuel acceptance parameters. These parameters, which may include burnup, initial enrichment, heat load, cooling time, and radiological source term, define the properties of those assemblies that can be stored in a cask. One such parameter of interest for the Standardized NUHOMS is the radiological source term that forms the basis of the shielding analyses. For this parameter, the vendor proposed an alternative approach. Specifically, for fuel assemblies that fall outside the specified source term parameters but satisfy all other parameters, the vendor proposed to allow licensees to do individual cask shielding calculations to show compliance with the design basis dose rates. This could result in more assemblies in a licensee's inventory that would be eligible for dry storage. In the instance noted in the comment, the NRC did not agree with the vendor proposal. The Certificate of Compliance dose rate specifications provide a simple check to ensure that DSCs are not inadvertently loaded with the wrong fuel. The dose rate specifications are based on the shielding analyses provided by the vendor in its SAR. Because of differences in non-fuel components in the ends of some assemblies, dose rates higher than those evaluated by NRC in the SER may occur at the ends of casks than were assumed in the shielding analysis. The Certificate of Compliance specifications allow for this possibility and permit the licensee to store such fuel provided the licensee verifies proper cask fabrication, conformance with all other fuel parameters, and compliance with radiation protection requirements. The site-specific calculations referred to in the comment are not shielding calculations, but rather are the licensee's written evaluations (or dose assessments) required by 10 CFR 72.212(b)(2)(iii) to establish that the radiation criteria for ISFSI in 10 CFR 72.104 have been met. The Certificate of Compliance also requires that the licensee submit a letter report to the NRC summarizing its actions in this type of case. F.4. Comment. Several commenters were concerned with fuel clad integrity issues. Particularly, they were concerned with potential problems that may arise because of differences between vertical and horizontal storage. One commenter noted that it was essential to inspect the cladding carefully for the minute hairline cracks which would allow the radioactivity inside to escape. Another commenter wanted it made clear that for fuel to be eligible for storage it doesn't need to be specifically inspected nor require special handling or storage provisions within the spent fuel pool. The commenter also asserted that pinhole leaks in fuel rod cladding do not constitute gross breaches. The commenter wanted fuel cladding integrity clarified. Another commenter claimed that horizontal storage of fuel rods will lead to cladding deterioration that would challenge the technical specifications of the NUHOMS cask. Another commenter was concerned about the possibility of fuel rod bowing that could result in weighted contact between the fuel cladding/crud and the DSC guide sleeve, with the potential for eventual bonding of the materials over the duration of the storage period. One commenter, noting that some of the fuel in the spent fuel pools could be nearly 20 years old, was concerned that the fuel will not be tested for leaks using specific techniques such as penetrating dyes, eddy current, sipping, or ultrasound before canister loading. A commenter wanted all fuel with known defects and all water-logged fuel retained in the spent fuel pool until the cask integrity under operating conditions is fully demonstrated. Another wanted to know how ``grossly breached'' fuel will be ultimately handled and shipped off site. Response. In the Standardized NUHOMS, PWR fuel rods are stored in a horizontal orientation and do not normally deflect in the middle of any span so that the rods contact the DSC guide sleeve. However, the possibility exists that a bowed rod may come in contact with the guide sleeve. With respect to storage of BWR fuel, the fuel channel that surrounds the fuel bundle (rods) provides a barrier to separate coolant flow paths, to guide the control rod, and to provide rigidity and protection for the fuel bundle during handling. Therefore, the BWR fuel rods inside the channel do not come in contact with the guide sleeves. Even if there were contact with either PWR or BWR fuel rods, the interaction would not present a significant concern because the guide sleeve material is stainless steel, which has a very low rate of corrosion, and the DSC cavity is evacuated and back-filled with inert helium, which further reduces the likelihood of any corrosion or bonding involving the guide sleeve and fuel rods.
