FR940318-0-00015 FR940318-0-00004 Section 618(b)(2) of RTCRRIA requires that any loan fully secured by a first lien on a multifamily residential property that is sold by a financial institution subject to a pro rata loss sharing arrangement be treated as a sale and not a recourse transaction, to the extent that the purchaser and not the seller is exposed to loss on that loan portion. In addition, section 618(b)(3) of RTCRRIA provides that the federal banking agencies must take into account loss sharing arrangements, other than pro rata arrangements, under their risk-based capital regulations. The statute requires the agencies to consider the extent to which loans fully secured by a first lien on a multifamily residential property subject to other than pro rata loss sharing arrangements should be treated as sold, but it does not require the agencies to afford such arrangements sales treatment. The OTS's regulations already satisfy the requirements of sections 618(b)(2) and (3) of RTCRRIA. The OTS requires that savings associations follow generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Sales with recourse are recorded in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 77 ``Reporting by Transferors for Transfers of Receivables with Recourse.'' Under the OTS's capital rule, in computing risk-based capital, the sale of a loan fully secured by a first lien on a multifamily residential property would be accorded sales treatment if each participant is responsible solely for its pro rata share of the risk, there is no recourse to the originating association on the portion of the loan for which the buyer is liable, and the transaction meets the requirements of SFAS No. 77. In addition, the OTS's current risk-based capital regulation provides that savings associations must include in risk-weighted assets 100 percent of ``the values of assets sold with recourse *␣*␣* except where the amount of recourse liability retained by the savings association is less than the capital requirement for credit-risk exposure.'' 12 CFR 567.6(a)(2)(i)(C). Thus, the capital charge of a selling institution on loans sold with recourse on either a pro rata or other than pro rata basis is limited to the institution's maximum contractual liability for losses on the loans sold, where the contractual liability is less than the capital requirement for the asset. B. Description of the Proposal On September 2, 1992, the OTS published a notice of proposed rulemaking containing an amendment to the definition of ``qualifying multifamily mortgage loan'' in its risk-based capital regulation. The proposed definition incorporated the criteria set forth in section 618(b)(1) of RTCRRIA and added other, prudent underwriting standards. 57 FR 40143 (September 2, 1992). The public comment period on the proposal closed on October 2, 1992. Under the proposal, multifamily mortgage loans would qualify for the 50 percent risk-weight category if they satisfied the following statutory criteria: (1) The loan must be secured by a first lien on a residence consisting of 5 or more dwelling units; (2) the loan must amortize principal and interest over a period of not less than seven years and not more than 30 years; (3) all payments of principal and interest must have been made on a timely basis in accordance with the terms of the loan for at least one year; and (4) if the rate of interest does not change over the term of the loan, then: (a) The LTV ratio at origination cannot exceed 80 percent, and (b) the ratio of annual net operating income generated by the property (before payment of any debt service on the loan) to annual debt service on the loan cannot be less than 120 percent; or (5) if the loan has a variable rate, then: (a) The LTV ratio at origination cannot exceed 75 percent, and (b) the ratio of annual net operating income generated by the property (before payment of any debt service on the loan) to annual debt service on the loan cannot be less than 115 percent. The proposal also provided that multifamily mortgage loans must satisfy the following additional prudential criteria to qualify for the 50 percent risk-weight category: (1) The loan must be performing and not more than 90 days past due; (2) the loan must comply with applicable lending limit requirements and other prudent underwriting standards; and (3) the multifamily residential property securing the loan must have had an average annual occupancy rate of 80 percent or more total units for at least one year.
