FR941220-1-00044 FR941220-1-00009 (2) State Recordkeeping Requirements. The State shall keep a record of PWSs choosing to use Option 1 to comply. If the State has authorized Option 1, PWSs would be required to notify the State within 30 days of reporting a sulfate MCL exceedence, of its decision on whether to use Option 1 or other means of achieving compliance. (3) State Reporting Requirements. The quarterly report shall include all systems that have violated the sulfate MCL, and those which the State has authorized to use Option 1. d. Variances and Exemptions. Option 4 offers relief to small systems in the form of an alternative to centralized treatment. If a system in violation of the sulfate MCL chooses centralized treatment but for some reason cannot achieve compliance, the system would apply to the Primacy Agent for a variance, and the conditions of the variance would be the same elements described for Option 1. (1) Variances Under section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the SDWA, EPA or a State with primacy may grant variances from MCLs to those public water systems that cannot comply with the MCLs because of characteristics of their water sources. At the time a variance is granted, the State must prescribe a compliance schedule and may require the system to implement additional control measures. The SDWA requires that variances may only be granted to those systems that have installed BAT (as identified by EPA). However, in limited situations a system may receive a variance if it demonstrates that the BAT would only achieve a de minimis reduction in contamination (see ยง142.62(d)). Before EPA or a State issues a variance, it must find that the variance will not result in an unreasonable risk to health (URTH). In general, the URTH level would reflect acute and subchronic toxicity for short-term exposures and high carcinogenic risks for long-term exposures. For sulfate EPA's guidance regarding what is an URTH level is set at the MCL because sulfate has an acute adverse health effect. For the sulfate variance, if the PWS provides public education/notification and Alternative Water, EPA believes that the State should be able to conclude that the PWS will not be considered to exceed an URTH because those actions are considered protective of public health. Under section 1413(a)(4) of the Act, States with primacy that choose to issue variances must do so under conditions and in a manner that is no less stringent than EPA allows under section 1415. The Act permits EPA to vary the BAT established under section 1415 from that established under section 1412 based on a number of findings such as system size, physical conditions related to engineering feasibility, and the cost of compliance. Paragraph 142.62 of this proposed rule lists the BAT that EPA has specified under section 1415 of the Act for the purposes of issuing variances. The variance BAT is Alternative Water and public education/notification. (2) Exemptions Under section 1416(a), a State or EPA may grant an exemption extending deadlines for compliance with a treatment technique or MCL if it finds that: (a) Due to compelling factors (which may include economic factors), the PWS is unable to comply with the requirement; (b) The exemption will not result in an URTH; and (c) The system was in operation on the effective date of the NPDWR, or, for a system not in operation on that date, that no reasonable alternative source of drinking water is available to the new system. In determining whether to grant an exemption, EPA expects the State to determine whether the facility could be consolidated with another system or whether an alternative source could be developed. Another compelling factor is the affordability of the required treatments. It is possible that very small systems may not be able to consolidate or find a low-cost treatment. EPA's analysis of cost for the proposed sulfate rule shows that, for very small systems, the cost is lower to provide public education/notification, and Alternative Water than to provide central treatment. Thus, EPA believes this alternative BAT is affordable for these systems. As discussed above, granting exemptions under SDWA section 1416 does not appear to be a viable approach to providing relief from the sulfate MCL for smaller systems. Unlike section 1415 for variances, section 1416 does not authorize EPA to vary its designation of BAT for purposes of exemptions. IV. Economic Analysis A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact on entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this rule is a ``significant regulatory action'' because it proposes a means of MCL compliance that is unique in its attempt to limit protection only to the affected populations. As such, this action was submitted to OMB for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in the public record. EPA prepared a Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) for this rule, titled the Regulatory Impact Analysis of Sulfate (August 30, 1994). The analysis used the following data, where available, for sulfate:
