FR941216-1-00025 FR941216-1-00009 (b) That the notarial service is legally necessary and cannot be obtained otherwise than through a United States notarizing officer without loss or serious inconvenience to the applicant; and * * * * * 7. In §92.7, the title and paragraph (b) are revised to read as follows: §92.7 Responsibility of notarizing officers of the Department of State. * * * * * (b) As indicated in sections 92.4, 92.5, and 92.6, the authority of secretaries of embassy or legation as well as consular officers to perform notarial acts is generally recognized. However, the function is essentially consular, and notarial powers are in practice exercised by diplomatic officers only in the absence of a consular officer or U.S. citizen State Department employee designated to perform notarial functions as provided in Section 92.1(d). Performance of notarial acts by an officer assigned in dual diplomatic and consular capacity shall be performed in his/her consular capacity, except in special circumstances. 8. In §92.31, paragraph (a), the third sentence is revised to read as follows: §92.31 Taking an acknowledgement. (a) *␣*␣* Therefore, notarizing officers and consular agents who are called upon to perform this notarial act should consult the applicable State or territorial law to ascertain whether certificates of acknowledgement will be acceptable. * * * * * 9. Section 92.51 is revised to read as follows: §92.51 Methods of taking depositions in foreign countries. Rule 28(b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure for the District Courts of the United States provides that depositions may be taken in foreign countries by any of the following four methods: (a) Pursuant to any applicable treaty or convention, or (b) Pursuant to a letter of request (whether or not captioned a letter rogatory), or (c) On notice before a person authorized to administer oaths in the place in which the examination is held, either by the law thereof or by the law of the United States. Notarizing officials as defined by 22 CFR 92.1 are so authorized by the law of the United States, or (d) Before a person commissioned by the court, and a person so commis sioned shall have the power by virtue of the commission to administer any necessary oath and take testimony.
