FR940627-0-00250 FR940627-0-00019 (b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply: Micronuclei mean small particles consisting of acentric fragments of chromosomes or entire chromosomes, which lag behind at anaphase of cell division. After telophase, these fragments may not be included in the nuclei of daughter cells and form single or multiple micronuclei in the cytoplasm. Polychromatic erythrocyte (PCE) means an immature red blood cell that, because it contains RNA, can be differentiated by appropriate staining techniques from a normochromatic erythrocyte (NCE), which lacks RNA. In one to two days, a PCE matures into a NCE. (c) Test method _(1) Principle of the test method. (i) Groups of rodents are exposed by the inhalation route for a minimum of 6 hours/day over a period of not less than 28 days to three or more concentrations of a test substance in air. Groups of animals are sacrificed at the end of the exposure period and femoral bone marrow is extracted. The bone marrow is then smeared onto glass slides, stained, and PCEs are scored for micronuclei. Researchers may need to run a trial at the highest tolerated concentration of the test atmosphere to optimize the sample collection time for micronucleated cells. (ii) This assay may be done separately or in combination with the subchronic toxicity study, pursuant to the provisions in ยง79.62. (2) Species and strain. (i) The rat is the recommended test animal. Other rodent species may be used in this assay, but use of that species will be justified by the tester. (ii) If a strain of mouse is used in this assay, the tester shall sample peripheral blood from an appropriate site on the test animal, e.g., the tail vein, as a source of normochromatic erythrocytes. Results shall be reported as outlined later in this guideline with ``normochromatic'' interchanged for ``polychromatic'', where specified. (3) Animal number and sex. At least five female and five male animals per experimental/sample and control group shall be used. The use of a single sex or a smaller number of animals shall be justified. (4) Positive control group. A single concentration of a compound known to produce micronuclei in vivo is adequate as a positive control if it shows a significant response at any one time point; additional concentration levels may be used. To select an appropriate concentration level, a pilot or trial study may be advisable. Initially, one concentration of the test substance may be used, the maximum tolerated dose or that producing some indication of toxicity, e.g., a drop in the ratio of polychromatic to normochromatic erythrocytes. Intraperitoneal injection of 1,2-dimethyl-benz-anthracene or benzene are examples of positive control exposures. A concentration of 50&hyph;80 percent of an LD50 may be a suitable guide. (d) Test performance _(1) Inhalation exposure. (i) All data developed within this study shall be in accordance with good laboratory practice provisions under ยง79.60. (ii) The general conduct of this study shall be in accordance with the vehicle emissions inhalation exposure guideline in ยง79.61. (2) Preparation of slides and sampling times. Within twenty-four hours of the last exposure, test animals will be sacrificed. One femur from each test animal will be removed and placed in fetal bovine serum. The bone marrow is removed, cells processed, and two bone marrow smears are made for each animal on glass microscope slides. The slides are stained with acridine- orange (AO) or another appropriate stain (Giemsa + Wright's, etc.) and examined under a microscope.
