FR941202-2-00193 FR941202-2-00098 (b) NELAP enforcement is limited to suspension (short-to-long-term) from NELAP only. Any other civil/criminal actions are taken by participating agencies. (c) An effective information-sharing database used by all participating agencies is essential to ensure informed decision-making based on lab performance. 4.7.1␣Role of Enforcement vs QA/QC Most agencies have historically conducted laboratory QA/QC programs designed to help laboratories identify and correct technical problems affecting their performance. This is basically a technical assistance function by government. Enforcement, on the other hand, is an oversight process of taking informative (``warning/information gathering letters'') or punitive actions to ensure the public's desired objectives (``reliable data'') are achieved. QA/QC and enforcement are different functions and need to be kept separate. 4.7.2␣Defining Enforceable Violations The NELAP will need to specify what actions by laboratories will result in enforcement action. Furthermore, enforcement actions should be developed in increasing severity to allow laboratory correction with minimal enforcement effort. This could be done with tiers of enforcement actions, e.g. warning letter, suspension investigation order, suspension order, and suspension hearing. Enforceable violations will also need to be established to provide the basis for the enforcement program. Categories of enforceable violations could include: (a) Data falsification_intentional, by lab management, by employees, etc.; (b) False advertising_misinforming clients regarding their accreditation and capabilities; and (c) Continuing technical problems_lack of technical staff, failure to follow required SOP's, lack of equipment, etc. 4.7.3␣Recommendation Given resource constraints, strong interest in encouraging state support, and the greater potential for implementation in the mid-term (2 to 5 years), a variation of the decentralized option is recommended. This approach will still require a federal-state laboratory integrated effort to ensure the objectives, structure, and issues are defined in the necessary detail.
