FR940722-0-00130 FR940722-0-00019 177. We also adopt the more relaxed attribution standard set forth in the entrepreneurs' blocks section with regard to investors in minority and female-owned applicants. Specifically, we will not consider the gross revenues or personal net worth of a single passive investor in a minority or female-owned small business unless the investor holds in excess of a 49.9 percent passive interest (which includes as much as five percent of a corporate applicant's voting stock), provided the women or minority control group maintains at least 50.1 percent of the equity and, in the case of a corporate applicant, at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. 154 We believe that such revenue attribution will ensure that only bona fide small businesses are able to take advantage of the special provisions we have adopted, but will allow those businesses to attract sufficient equity capital to be truly viable contenders in the PCS industry. 154 See supra ¶160. 178. These financial eligibility rules will continue to apply throughout the license term. Thus, firms that received bidding credits and ``enhanced'' installment payments based on their small business status will be subject to the repayment penalties outlined above, if an investor subsequently purchases an ``attributable'' interest ( e.g. 25 percent or more of the firm's equity) and, as a result, the gross revenues of the firm exceed the $40 million gross revenues cap, or the personal net worth of the investor exceeds the $40 million personal net worth threshold. 179. Finally, we will allow a consortium of small businesses to qualify for any of the measures adopted in this order applicable to individual small businesses. As used here, the term ``consortium'' means a conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture among mutually-independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definition of a small business. 180. Several commenters argue that a consortium should not qualify for special treatment unless the consortium itself meets the established definitional criteria. 155 They contend that the FCC should not allow consortia to be used as a means of circumventing the usual prerequisites for these special provisions. In the Second Report and Order, we concluded that consortia might be permitted to receive benefits based on participation in the consortium by one or more designated entities, but believed such a consortium should not be entitled to qualify for measures designed specifically for designated entities. As a general matter, we shall continue to adhere to that principle. We think, however, that in the broadband PCS service, allowing small businesses to pool their resources in this manner is necessary to help them overcome capital formation problems and thereby ensure their opportunity to participate in auctions and to become strong broadband PCS competitors. Because of the exceptionally large capital requirements in this service, we agree with the SBA Chief Counsel for Advocacy that, so long as individual members of the consortium satisfy the definition of a small business, the congressional objective of ensuring opportunities for small business will be fully met. Individual small entities that join to form consortia, as distinguished from a single entity with gross revenues in excess of $40 million, still are likely to encounter capital access problems and, thus, should qualify for members aimed at small businesses. We do not believe however, that this congressional goal will be satisfied if special measures are allowed for consortia that are ``predominantly'' or ``significantly'' owned and/or controlled by small businesses, as recommended by several commenters. 156 This would have the effect of eviscerating our small business definitional criteria and would not further the ability of bona fide small businesses to participate in PCS services. 155 See comments of McCaw at 21 and Myers at 6. 156 See, e.g., comments of Rural Cellular Corp. at 2, Bell Atlantic at 17, NAMTEC at 19, and AT&T at 25&hyph;26. 3. Definition of Women and Minority-Owned Business 181. As discussed above, we have taken steps in this order to address the special funding problems faced by minority and women-owned firms and thereby to ensure that these groups have the opportunity to participate and become strong competitors in the broadband PCS service. 157 We thus have adopted a tax certificate program for women and minorities to allow more sources of potential funding, have relaxed the attribution standard used to determine eligibility to bid for licenses on frequency blocks C and F, and have adopted special measures for installment payments and bidding credits. 157 As noted in the Second Report and Order, the members of the following groups will be considered ``minorities'' for purposes of our rules: ``[T]hose of Black, Hispanic Surnamed, American Eskimo, Aleut, American Indian and Asiatic American extraction.'' See Statement of Policy on Minority Ownership of Broadcasting Facilities, 68 FCC 2d 979, 980 n.8 (1978); Commission Policy Regarding the Advancement of Minority Ownership in Broadcasting, 92 FCC 2d 849, 489 n.1 (1982). Moreover, as adopted in the Second Report and Order, minority and women-owned businesses will be eligible for special measures only if the minority and women principals are also United States citizens. 182. As also indicated above, for purposes of implementing these steps, we have departed from the definition of a minority and woman-owned firm that was adopted in the Second Report and Order. There, we found generally that to establish ownership by minorities and women, a strict eligibility standard should be adopted that required minorities or women to have at least a 50.1 percent equity stake and a 50.1 percent controlling interest in the designated entity. Second Report and Order at ¶277; 47 CFR §1.2110(b)(2). For the broadband PCS auctions, we retain the requirement that minorities and/or women control the applicant and hold at least 50.1 percent of a corporate applicant's voting stock. However, to establish their eligibility for certain benefits, summarized below, we shall impose an additional requirement that, even where minorities and women hold at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's equity, other investors in the applicant may own only passive interests, which, for corporate applicants, is defined to include as much as five percent of the voting stock. In addition, provided that certain restrictions are met, we shall also allow women and minority-owed firms the option to reduce to 25 percent the 50.1 percent minimum equity amount that must be held.
