FR940705-2-00130 FR940705-2-00090 A. Amendment to Section I, Scope of the NIH Guidelines The amended version of Section I reads as follows: Section I. Scope of the NIH Guidelines Section I&hyph;A. Purpose The purpose of the NIH Guidelines is to specify practices for constructing and handling: (i) Recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) molecules, and (ii) organisms and viruses containing recombinant DNA molecules. Section I&hyph;A&hyph;1. Any recombinant DNA experiment, which according to the NIH Guidelines requires approval by the NIH, must be submitted to the NIH or to another Federal agency that has jurisdiction for review and approval. Once approval, or other applicable clearances, has been obtained from a Federal agency other than the NIH (whether the experiment is referred to that agency by the NIH or sent directly there by the submitter), the experiment may proceed without the necessity for NIH review or approval (see exceptions in Sections I&hyph;A&hyph;2 and I&hyph;A&hyph;3). Section I&hyph;A&hyph;2. Certain experiments that involve the deliberate transfer of recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA into one or more human subjects (see Section V&hyph;U) shall be considered Major Actions (see Section IV-C-1-b-(1)), and shall require RAC review and NIH Director approval, if determined by NIH/ORDA in consultation with the RAC Chair and/or one or more RAC members, as necessary, to: (i) Represent novel characteristics (e.g., target disease or vector), (ii) represent an uncertain degree of risk to human health or the environment, or (iii) contain information determined to require further public review (see Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2). Section I&hyph;A&hyph;3. Experiments involving the transfer of recombinant DNA to one or more human subjects that are not considered under Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2 may qualify for Accelerated Review (see Section III&hyph;B&hyph;2 and Appendix M&hyph;V) and will be considered as Minor Actions (see Section IV-C-1-b-(2)-(a)). Actions that qualify for Accelerated Review will be reviewed and approved by NIH/ORDA in consultation with the RAC Chair and/or one or more RAC members, as necessary. Certain experiments involving the transfer of recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA into one or more human subjects (see Section V&hyph;U) may be considered exempt from RAC and/or NIH/ORDA review and/or NIH Director approval and only require registration with NIH/ORDA (see Section III&hyph;C&hyph;7). Section I&hyph;B. Definition of Recombinant DNA Molecules In the context of the NIH Guidelines, recombinant DNA molecules are defined as either: (i) Molecules that are constructed outside living cells by joining natural or synthetic DNA segments to DNA molecules that can replicate in a living cell, or (ii) molecules that result from the replication of those described in (i) above. Synthetic DNA segments which are likely to yield a potentially harmful polynucleotide or polypeptide (e.g., a toxin or a pharmacologically active agent) are considered as equivalent to their natural DNA counterpart. If the synthetic DNA segment is not expressed in vivo as a biologically active polynucleotide or polypeptide product, it is exempt from the NIH Guidelines. Genomic DNA of plants and bacteria that have acquired a transposable element, even if the latter was donated from a recombinant vector no longer present, are not subject to the NIH Guidelines unless the transposon itself contains recombinant DNA. Section I&hyph;C. General Applicability Section I&hyph;C&hyph;1. The NIH Guidelines are applicable to: Section I-C-1-a. All recombinant DNA research within the United States (U.S.) or its territories that is conducted at or sponsored by an institution that receives any support for recombinant DNA research from the NIH, including research performed directly by the NIH. An individual who receives support for research involving recombinant DNA must be associated with or sponsored by an institution that assumes the responsibilities assigned in the NIH Guidelines. Section I-C-1-b. All recombinant DNA research performed abroad: Specifically: Section I-C-1-b-(1). Research supported by NIH funds. Section I-C-1-b-(2). If they involve testing in humans of materials containing recombinant DNA developed with NIH funds and if the institution that developed those materials sponsors or participates in those projects. Participation includes research collaboration or contractual agreements, not mere provision of research materials. Section I-C-1-b-(3). If the host country has established rules for the conduct of recombinant DNA research, then the research must be in compliance with those rules. If the host country does not have such rules, the proposed research must be reviewed and approved by an NIH-approved Institutional Biosafety Committee or equivalent review body and accepted in writing by an appropriate national governmental authority of the host country. The safety practices that are employed abroad must be reasonably consistent with the NIH Guidelines.
