FR940404-2-00196 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Telecommunication Standardization Bureau Study Group 3, International Telecommunication Union, Geneva, November 1&hyph;5, 1993 Representative Earl S. Barbely, Director, Telecommunications and Information Standards, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers William Kirsch, Deputy Assistant Bureau Chief/International, Federal Communications Commission Thomas Wasilewski, Policy Specialist, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Donald P. Casey, Director, Regulatory, AT&T Easy Link, Parsippany, New Jersey Robert Madden, Manager, AT&T, Morristown, New Jersey Philip Onstad, Consultant, International Communications Association, Edison, New Jersey Marcel Scheidegger, MCI International, Rye Brook, New York Richard W. Stone, Cable and Wireless Communications, Vienna, Virginia United States Delegation to the 21st Annual Meeting of the Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), Madrid, November 1&hyph;12, 1993 Representative Carmen J. Blondin, United States Commissioner, Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Interests, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Alternate Representatives Michael B. Montgomery, United States Commissioner, M.B. Montgomery Law Corporation, City of Industry, California Lee Weddig, United States Commissioner, National Fisheries Institute, Washington, DC Congressional Advisers Jean Flemma, Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, House of Representatives, United States Congress James H. Mathews, Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, House of Representatives, United States Congress Rodney H. Moore, Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, House of Representatives, United States Congress Advisers Brian S. Hallman, Office of Marine Conservation, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Kevin Chu, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Nancy Daves, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Helen B. Lane, Science Counselor, United States Embassy, Madrid Will Martin, Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Interests, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Mariam McCall, General Counsel, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Joseph Powers, Southeast Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, Miami, Florida Richard B. Stone, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers John M. Dean, Professor of Marine Sciences, Institute of Public Affairs, University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina Peter Foley, Boone Bait Company, Inc., Winter Park, Florida John Hoey, Executive Director, Bluewater Fishermen's Association, Washington, DC Benjamin Rathbun, New England Fishery Management Council, Saugus, Massachusetts Richard Ruais, Executive Director, East Coast Tuna Association, Boston, Massachusetts Gregory Stone, New England Aquarium, Boston, Massachusetts
