FR940426-2-00027 FR940426-2-00016 [EERE-Boston] Heavy Duty State Municipal Vehicle Alternative Fuel Demonstration Programs; Notice of Solicitation AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of solicitation. SUMMARY: Pursuant to 10 CFR 600.9, The Office of Alternative Fuels of the Department of Energy is issuing a solicitation numbered DE&hyph;PS41&hyph;94R110637 to evaluate alternative fuels in transportation in response to the Alternative Motor Fuels Act of 1988 (AMFA). With the assistance of the Office of Alternative Fuels, the Office of Technical and Financial Assistance (OTFA), has the opportunity to introduce an alternative fuel program through state energy offices. A favorable application for introducing alternative fuels at the state or local level is in heavy duty municipal vehicles which are god candidates for the use of alternative fuels because of their high fuel consumption, regular driving routes, and operation from a centralized location. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is issuing a solicitation to state energy offices inviting them to apply for the Heavy Duty State/Municipal Vehicle Alternative Fuel Demonstration. Only one application will be accepted from each state. The participating state energy offices will coordinate and conduct a heavy duty municipal vehicle project to introduce alternative fuel Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) vehicles for operation by state governments, local school districts, and municipalities. The incremental costs over conventional vehicles for up to four (4) OEM alternative fuel heavy duty vehicles per project will be founded by DOE. The types of vehicles to be considered are those used directly by state or local agencies or for the sole purpose of supporting a state or local agency. Transit buses are excluded. Vehicles will be fueled with ethanol, methanol, natural gas, propane or biodiesel. The DOE Support Offices will coordinate this program's activities in conjunction and cooperation with the state energy offices, providing assistance and direction to interested participants. The state energy offices, municipalities, and local school districts will ensure that refueling facilities are identified. They are encouraged to invite local utilities or fuel suppliers to participate by investing in the development of refueling facilities. The award recipients will be responsible for the collection and reporting of data/information as specified by DOE on alternative fuel and ``control'' vehicles over a five year period. Fund Availability Up to $924,000 is available to fund financial assistance awards. Only one application will be accepted from each state. The initial project and budget period will be twelve months from the date of award. Restricted Eligibility The Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Office of Alternative Fuels, is restricting eligibility for a national demonstration of heavy duty municipal alternative fuel vehicles to the State Energy Offices in the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any territory or possession of the United States. Interested municipalities, and local school districts should contact the appropriate state energy office for applications for subawards. Financial Assistance for this solicitation is authorized by the DOE Reorganization Act, Public Law 95&hyph;91, CFDA No. 81.502, and the DOE Financial Assistance Regulations, 10 CFR Part 600. Review and Evaluation Initial review for completeness will be performed at the Support Offices. The applications will be evaluated by the Office of Technical Assistance and the Office of Alternative Fuels according to the criteria set forth in the solicitation. DATES: Applications are due by May 31, 1994. Awards will be issued by September 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: U.S. Department of Energy, Boston Office, Attention, Louise S. Urgo, One Congress Street, Boston, MA 02114&hyph;2021, Telephone 617&hyph;565&hyph;9709 Issued at: April 15, 1994. Christine A. Phoebe, Director, Administrative Division Golden Field Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10075 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
