FR941003-2-00182 FR941003-2-00064 3. Rule 17a&hyph;8 under the Act exempts from the prohibitions of section 17(a) mergers, consolidations, or purchases or sales of substantially all the assets involving registered investment companies that may be affiliated persons, or affiliated persons of an affiliated person, solely by reason of having a common investment adviser, common directors and/or common officers. The exemption provided by the rule is conditioned upon a determination by a majority of the directors of each such investment company (including a majority of the directors of each company who are not interested persons of the participating registered investment companies) that (a) participation in the transaction is in the best interests of that registered investment company, and (b) the interests of existing shareholders of that registered investment company will not be diluted as a result of the transaction. 4. The proposed reorganization could rely on rule 17a&hyph;8, except for the fact that the Government Fund and the Bond Fund may be affiliated persons for reasons other than those set forth in the rule. Because GISC, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Guardian Life, directly owns more than 5% of the outstanding voting securities of the Government Fund, and Guardian Life directly owns more than 5% of the outstanding voting securities of the Bond Fund, if the series funds are treated as separate entities, the Portfolio may not rely upon rule 17a&hyph;8 because the Bond Fund and the Government Fund may be affiliated persons because of the ultimate ownership by a single shareholder. 5. The Portfolio believes that the terms of the proposed reorganization meet the standards of section 17(b). The board of trustees of the Portfolio, including a majority of the trustees who are not ``interested persons,'' has reviewed and approved the terms of the proposed reorganization as set forth in the Plan, including the consideration to be paid or received by all parties. They have independently determined for each of the Government Fund and the Bond Fund, that the proposed reorganization will be in the best interests of the shareholders of each Fund and that the consummation of the proposed reorganization will not result in the dilution of the current interests of the shareholders of the Funds. If effectuated according to the Plan, the proposed reorganization will result in the Government Fund's assets being managed together with the Bond Fund's assets in a combined portfolio of substantially greater size. The investment objectives of the Government Fund and the Bond Fund are substantially similar, to provide positive total returns without undue risks. The proposed transaction will comply with all the conditions that rule 17a&hyph;8 requires for the protection of investment companies and their shareholders. 6. Section 17(d) prohibits any affiliated person of a registered investment company, acting as principal, from effecting any transaction in which such registered investment company is a joint participant with such person in contravention of SEC rules and regulations. Rule 17d&hyph;1 provides that no joint enterprise or arrangement may be consummated unless the SEC first approves the transaction. 7. The Funds may be affiliated persons of each other, and the proposed transaction might be deemed to be a joint enterprise or other joint arrangement. The Portfolio believes that the terms of the proposed Plan meet the standards for relief under rule 17d&hyph;1, in that the terms of the Plan are reasonable and fair to all parties, do not involve overreaching and are consistent with the investment policies of the Funds. The participation in the Plan by each Fund is also not on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of the other participants. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24376 Filed 9&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
