FR941004-1-00112 FR941004-1-00018 (o) Family preservation and family support services and linkages to other social and health services. (1) The State's CFSP must explain how the funds under title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2 of the Act, will be used to develop or expand family support and family preservation services; how the family support and family preservation services to be provided in FY 1995 and FY 1996 relate to existing family support and family preservation services; and how these family support and preservation services will be linked to other services in the child and family services continuum. (2) The State's CFSP must explain whether and/or how funds under the CAPTA and independent living programs are coordinated with and integrated into the child and family services continuum described in the plan. (3) The State's CFSP must describe the existing or current linkages and the coordination of services between the services in the child and family services continuum and the services in other Federal and non-federally funded public and nonprofit private programs, including Children's Trust Funds and private foundations. (p) Services in relation to service principles. The CFSP must describe how the child and family services are designed to assure the safety and protection of children as well as the preservation and support of families, and how they are or will be designed to meet the other service principles in 45 CFR 1355.25, e.g., services that are flexible, easily accessible, and respectful of cultural and community diversity. (q) Services in relation to permanency planning. For States administering both title IV&hyph;B programs (subparts 1 and 2), the CFSP must explain how these services will help meet the permanency provisions for children and families in sections 427 and 471 of the Act, e.g., preplacement preventive services, reunification services, independent living services. (r) Decision-making process: selection of family support programs for funding. The State's CFSP must include an explanation of how agencies and organizations were selected for funding to provide family support services and how these agencies and organizations meet the requirement that family support services be community-based. (s) Significant portion of funds used for family support and family preservation services. Each State must indicate the specific percentage of FY 1995 and FY 1996 family preservation and family support funds (title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2), that the State will expend for community-based family support and for family preservation services, and the rationale for the choice. It must also include an explanation of how this distribution was reached and why it meets the requirements that a ``significant portion'' of the service funds must be spent for each service. Examples of important considerations might include the nature of the planning efforts that led to the decision, the level of existing State effort in each area, and the resulting need for new or expanded services. While there is no minimum percentage that defines significant, the State must have an especially strong rationale if the request for either allocation is below 25 percent.
