FR941220-0-00118 FR941220-0-00014 Subpart I_Enforcement of H&hyph;1B Labor Condition Applications § XXX .800 Enforcement authority of Administrator, Wage and Hour Division. (a) Authority of Administrator . The Administrator shall perform all the Secretary's investigative and enforcement functions under section 212(n) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)) and subparts H and I of this part. (b) Conduct of investigations . The Administrator, either pursuant to a complaint or otherwise, shall conduct such investigations as may be appropriate and, in connection therewith, enter and inspect such places and such records (and make transcriptions or copies thereof), question such persons and gather such information as deemed necessary by the Administrator to determine compliance regarding the matters which are the subject of the investigation. (c) Availability of records . An employer being investigated shall make available to the Administrator such records, information, persons, and places as the Administrator deems appropriate to copy, transcribe, question, or inspect. No employer subject to the provisions of section 212(n) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)) and/or subpart H or I of this part shall interfere with any official of the Department of Labor performing an investigation, inspection or law enforcement function pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1182(n) or subpart H or I of this part. Any such interference shall be a violation of the labor condition application and the regulations in subparts H and I of this part, and the Administrator may take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate. (Note: Federal criminal statutes prohibit certain interference with a Federal officer in the performance of official duties. 18 U.S.C. 111 and 18 U.S.C. 1114.) (d) Employer cooperation . (1) An employer subject to subpart H or I of this part shall at all times cooperate in administrative and enforcement proceedings. No employer shall intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, retaliate, or in any manner discriminate against any person because such person has: (i) Filed a complaint or appeal under or related to section 212(n) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)) or subpart H or I of this part; (ii) Testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under or related to section 212(n) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)) or subpart H or I of this part; (iii) Exercised or asserted on behalf of himself or herself or others any right or protection afforded by section 212(n) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)) or subpart H or I of this part; (iv) Consulted with an employee of a legal assistance program or an attorney on matters related to section 212(n) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)) or to subpart H or I of this part or any other DOL regulation promulgated pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1182(n). (2) In the event of such intimidation or restraint as are described in this paragraph (d), the conduct shall be a violation of the labor condition application and subparts H and I of this part, and the Administrator may take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate. (e) Confidentiality . The Administrator shall, to the extent possible under existing law, protect the confidentiality of any person who provides information to the Department in confidence in the course of an investigation or otherwise under subpart H or I of this part. § XXX .805 Complaints and investigative procedures. (a) The Administrator, through an investigation either pursuant to a complaint or otherwise, shall determine whether an H&hyph;1B employer has: (1) Filed a labor condition application with ETA which misrepresents a material fact. (Note: Federal criminal statutes provide penalties of up to $10,000 and/or imprisonment of up to 5 years for knowing and willful submission of false statements to the Federal Government. 18 U.S.C. 1001; see also 18 U.S.C. 1546); (2) (i) Willfully failed to pay wages as required under § XXX .731 of this part; (ii) Willfully failed to provide the working conditions required under § XXX .732 of this part; (3) Filed a labor condition application for H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants during a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute in the occupational classification at the place of employment (see § XXX .733 of this part); or (4) Substantially failed to provide notice of the filing of the labor condition application as required in § XXX .734 of this part; (5) Substantially failed to be specific on the labor condition application as to the number of workers sought, the occupational classification in which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants will be employed, or the wage rate and conditions under which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants will be employed; (6) Failed to pay wages as required under § XXX .731 of this part, for purposes of the assessment of back wages (pursuant to § XXX .810(a) of this part); (7) Failed to make available for public examination the application and necessary document(s) at the employer's principal place of business or worksite as required in § XXX .760(a); (8) Failed to retain documentation as required by § XXX .760(c) of this part; or
