FR941110-0-00281 FR941110-0-00018 The Hawaiian archipelago includes eight large volcanic islands (Niihau, Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Lanai, Kahoolawe, Maui, and Hawaii), as well as offshore islets, shoals, and atolls set on submerged volcanic remnants at the northwest end of the chain (the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands). The archipelago covers a land area of about 16,600 square kilometers (sq km) (6,400 sq miles (mi)), extending roughly between latitude 18 ○50 ’ to 28 ○15 ’ N and longitude 154 ○40 ’ to 178 ○70 ’ W, and ranging in elevation from sea level to 4,200 meters (m) (13,800 feet (ft)) (Dept. of Geography 1983). The regional geological setting is a mid-oceanic volcanic island archipelago set in a roughly northwest to southeast line, with younger islands to the southeast. The youngest island, Hawaii, is volcanically active. The older islands are increasingly eroded, so that the basaltic portions of many of the northwesternmost islands (such as Laysan, Necker, and Nihoa) are entirely submerged, and coralline atolls and shoals are often all that remain above sea level (Macdonald et al . 1986). The topography of the Hawaiian Islands is extremely diverse. On the younger islands, Hawaii and Maui, gently sloping unweathered shield volcanoes with very poor soil development are juxtaposed with older, heavily weathered valleys with steep walls, well-developed streams, and gently sloped flood plains. The older islands to the northwest (i.e., Niihau, Kauai, Oahu, and Molokai) are generally more weathered. On a typical older island, sea cliffs and large amphitheater-headed valleys on the windward (northeast) side contrast with erosionally younger, dissected slopes on the leeward (southwest) side (Dept. of Geography 1983). The climate of the Hawaiian Islands reflects the tropical setting buffered by the surrounding ocean (Dept. of Geography 1983). The prevailing winds are northeast trades with some seasonal fluctuation in strength. There are also winter storm systems and occasional hurricanes. Temperatures vary over the year on an average of 5 ○ Celsius (C) (11 ○ Fahrenheit (F)) or less, with daily variation usually exceeding seasonal variation in temperature. Temperature varies with elevation and ranges from a maximum recorded temperature of 37.7 ○ C (99.9 ○ F), measured at 265 m (870 ft) elevation, to a minimum of minus 12.7 ○ C (9.1 ○ F) recorded at 4,205 m (13,795 ft) elevation. Annual rainfall varies greatly by location, with marked windward to leeward gradients over short distances. Minimum average annual rainfall is less than 250 millimeters (mm) (10 inches (in)); the maximum average precipitation is well in excess of 11,000 mm (450 in) per year. Precipitation is greatest during the months of October through April. A dry season is apparent in leeward settings, while windward settings generally receive tradewind-driven rainfall throughout the year (Dept. of Geography 1983). The native-dominated vegetation of the Hawaiian Islands varies greatly according to elevation, moisture regime, and substrate. The most recent classification of Hawaiian natural communities recognizes nearly 100 native vegetation types (Gagne and Cuddihy 1990). Within these types are numerous island-specific or region-specific associations, comprising an extremely rich array of vegetation types within a very limited geographic area. Major vegetation formations include forests, woodlands, shrublands, grasslands, herblands, and pioneer associations on lava and cinder substrates. There are lowland, montane, and subalpine forest types in Hawaii, extending from sea level to above 3,000 m (9,800 ft) in elevation. Coastal and lowland forests are generally dry or mesic and may be open- or closed-canopied. The stature of lowland forests is generally under 10 m (30 ft). Eleven species included in this ruling ( Adenophorus periens, Bonamia menziesii, Diellia erecta, Flueggea neowawraea, Hibiscus brackenridgei, Mariscus pennatiformis, Neraudia sericea, Plantago princeps, Solanum incompletum, Spermolepis hawaiiensis , and Vigna o-wahuensis ) have been reported from lowland forest habitat. Montane forests, occupying elevations between 1,000 and 2,000 m (3,000 and 6,000 ft), are dry to mesic on the leeward slopes of the islands of Kauai, Maui, and Hawaii. On those islands, as well as on Oahu, Molokai, and Lanai, mesic to wet montane forests occur on the windward slopes and summits. The dry and mesic forests may be open- to closed-canopied, and may exceed 20 m (65 ft) in stature. Of the species in this ruling, four ( Diellia erecta, Plantago princeps, Solanum incompletum , and Vigna o-wahuensis ) have been reported from montane mesic and dry forest habitats. Montane wet forests are usually dominated by several species of native trees and tree ferns. Three species ( Adenophorus periens, Mariscus pennatiformis , and Plantago princeps ) have been reported from montane wet forest habitat. At high montane and subalpine elevations, at and above 2,000 m (6,500 ft) elevation, are subalpine forests, usually open-canopied and forming a mosaic with surrounding grasslands and shrublands. Subalpine forests are known only from Haleakala on East Maui and from Hualalai, Mauna Kea, and Mauna Loa on Hawaii. Solanum incompletum has been reported from subalpine forest habitat. Hawaiian shrublands are also found from coastal to alpine elevations. The majority of Hawaiian shrubland types are in dry and mesic settings, or on cliffs and slopes too steep to support trees. Wet montane shrublands are typically dominated by Metrosideros ('ohi'a). Taxa reported from native shrublands include Bonamia menziesii, Hibiscus brackenridgei , and Sesbania tomentosa . Hawaiian grassland types are found from coastal to subalpine settings. Coastal and lowland grasslands are known from the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Lanai, Maui, and Hawaii. Both Hibiscus brackenridgei and Vigna o-wahuensis have been reported from native grasslands. The land that supports these 12 plant species is owned by various private parties, the City and County of Honolulu, the County of Maui, the State of Hawaii (including State parks, forest reserves, natural area reserves, and Hawaiian Home Lands), and the Federal government (including national parks, national wildlife refuges, national historic sites, and property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense). Discussion of the 12 Plant Taxa Included in This Final Rule
