FR940202-2-00152 FR940202-2-00072 (h) Monitoring and Evaluation Programs must track progress toward achievement of their program objectives. Programs must also monitor the quality of service activities, the satisfaction of both persons served and program participants, and management effectiveness. Internal evaluation and monitoring should be a continuous process, allowing for frequent feedback and quick correction of weaknesses. Additionally, programs must cooperate with the Corporation and its evaluators in all Corporation monitoring and evaluation efforts. As part of this effort, programs must collect and submit to the Corporation certain participant data, including the total number of participants in the program, and the number of participants by race, ethnicity, sex, age, economic background, education level, disability classification, and geographic region. The Corporation will provide forms for collecting participant data. Proposals must: (i) Describe how progress toward program objectives will be monitored. (ii) Describe how the quality of service activity and the satisfaction of the participants and the individuals or institutions served will be assessed on an on-going basis. (iii) Include sound plans for ensuring the required descriptive and demographic data is collected. (iv) Include the results from previous evaluations. (v) Commit to cooperating with the Corporation's national evaluation effort. (3) Budget The Budget Summary Form included here should be completed. On an attached sheet, please provide brief explanations and/or justifications of each budget item. Please note the following: (a) ``Other expenses'' may include other allowable costs (including such things as local training, equipment, transportation, insurance, etc.), related to the operation of the program. Each component of ``other expenses'' must be explained. (b) Required Match. Match may include cash and in-kind services. Other federal funds may be used as match for the purposes of this proposal, except as noted below. The amount and type of match provided will be considered in the selection process. Summer of Safety programs must provide a match 1 of at least: 1 Applicants submitting proposals under Subtitle B2 (Higher Education are normally required to provide 50% match. Pursuant to the Act, the Corporation is reducing the requirement to 25% match for proposals submitted under this Notice. Nevertheless, match beyond this minimum is strongly encourage. (i) Twenty-five percent (25%) of the cost of operating the program. (ii) Fifteen percent (15%) of the cost of the living allowance for participants. This match may not include in-kind services or other federal funds. However, applicants desiring to provide certain living expenses on an in-kind basis (housing, meals or transportation), may apply to the Corporation for a reduction in the amount of the required living allowance for program participants. (c) Include in your budget an estimate of $700 for the cost of travel and per diem for the program director and two key supervisory staff to attend a three day training program that will be held in late April in a location to be determined by the Corporation. (d) The Corporation is in the process of determining the advisability of requiring health care coverage for participants (see Appendix 5). For purposes of this budget, please reflect a line item for health care equal to $300 per participant, $255 of which is paid for by the Corporation and $45 of which is paid for by the program. (e) The educational benefit of $1000 for participants will be administered directly by the Corporation (National Service Trust Fund) and should not be included in the budget submitted for this proposal. (4) Additional Requirements Awards made by the Corporation are Federal grants and are subject to the Corporation's Regulations and applicable OMB Circulars, including Audit Requirements and other appropriate Federal Statutory requirements. These various requirements will be incorporated into the terms and conditions of the grant award. The Corporation's proposed program regulations were published in the Federal Register (Volume 59, No. 5) on January 7, 1994. The Corporation intends to issue its regulations in final form prior to this application submission deadline. (5) Selection Criteria Failure to follow the format identified in Sections 2 and 3 (above) or to respond to program requirements discussed in this Notice may result in the removal of a proposal from further consideration.
