FR940707-2-00112 FR940707-2-00051 1. At least 51 percent of persons on the governing board must be members of racial or ethnic minority populations. 2. The organization must possess a documented history of serving racial and ethnic minority populations through its offices, affiliates, or participating minority organizations for at least 12 months before the submission of the application to CDC. Limited competition is justified under this program announcement because of the need to diversify and increase the number and type of organizations with the capacity to serve and represent a diverse target population. In addition, the organizations must have the capacity to work with these target populations to effectively strengthen existing tobacco control coalitions and assist State tobacco control programs. It is critical that organizations, in working with their target populations, are able to create leadership networks and mobilize them for action, and work with other organizations representative of the target population to increase their commitment to tobacco control. The coordination and implementation of a more inclusive and comprehensive tobacco control strategy requires organizations with the capacity, experience, leadership, and organizational skills to influence the health-related actions of their constituency, and an interest in developing the capacity to identify, assess, and advocate scientifically proven, environmental (policy and legislative changes at State, local, and community levels) tobacco control activities. Availability of Funds Approximately $1,000,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund approximately 10 awards. It is expected that the average award will be $150,000, ranging from $50,000 to $200,000. 1. Approximately one award will be funded in each of the following target populations: youth, women, and blue collar and/or agricultural workers. 2. Approximately $500,000 of the total $1,000,000, will be available to fund approximately 5 minority organizations which serve one or more of the following constituencies: African-Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, Asians/Pacific Islanders, and American Indians/Alaska Natives. It is expected that the awards will begin on or about September 30, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 3 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Purpose This is a demonstration program to expand the developing network of organizations beyond those traditionally involved with tobacco control. The purpose is to demonstrate that these organizations can provide leadership, assistance, and training to facilitate the development, organization, and implementation of tobacco control programs among selected target populations, in order to achieve Healthy People 2000 tobacco objectives. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient will be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities), and CDC will be responsible for the activities listed under B. (CDC Activities). A. Recipient Activities 1. Collaborate with constituents, State and local health agencies, and other appropriate organizations and agencies to establish a broad-based coalition to advise and support tobacco control program activities. 2. Establish specific, measurable, and realistic goals and objectives that focus on the development and implementation of program activities (i.e., leadership training, consultation with primary tobacco organizations, providing constituent education) over time.
