FR940805-1-00080 FR940805-1-00013 (20) Medical examination room . The facility shall provide a space in which private medical examinations of juveniles can occur. The space shall provide for private examination of patients, hand washing, storage of equipment used in the examination room and a work surface for health care personnel. (21) Staff toilets . The facility shall provide staff toilets inside the secure area of the facility that juveniles shall not use. (22) Public spaces . The facility shall provide public restroom(s) and a public lobby with an adequate number of seats to accommodate anticipated visitors outside the secure perimeter. (23) Administration . The facility shall provide adequate space for its administrative functions. This space shall include an office for the administrator, work space for clerical staff, space for duplicating equipment, supply and equipment storage, space for storage of facility records and space for meetings. (24) Staff . The facility shall provide adequate space for staff assigned to work in the facility. These spaces shall include an area in which they can store personal property, change clothes and shower and an area in which training, meetings, briefings and breaks can occur. (25) Mechanical . The facility shall provide separate and adequate space for mechanical systems and equipment. (g) Existing construction_ (1) Occupancy by one juvenile . Only one juvenile shall occupy each cell or detention room designed for single occupancy. (2) Single occupancy space requirements . All single rooms or cells shall have at least sixty square feet of floor space, provided juveniles spend no more than ten hours per day locked in. When confinement exceeds ten hours per day, there shall be at least seventy square feet of floor space. (3) Multiple occupancy space requirements . Where used, multiple occupancy rooms or cells house juveniles, who have been screened for suitability to and classified for group living. The rooms shall provide: (i) continuous observation by staff; (ii) a minimum of fifty square feet of floor space per occupant in the sleeping area and a clear floor-to-ceiling height of not less than eight feet; (iii) natural light; (iv) a toilet(s) with some degree of privacy; (v) an operable wash basin(s) with hot and cold running water; (vi) access to showers; and (vii) beds above floor level and a locker or container for each occupant's belongings. (4) Single occupancy furnishings and conditions (general population) . Each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) natural light; (ii) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and that are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iii) a wash basin with hot and cold running water; (iv) access to showers; and (v) a bed above floor level, a desk or writing surface, safety-type hooks or closet space and a chair or stool. (5) Single occupancy furnishings and conditions (special management) . Segregation rooms shall provide living conditions that approximate those of the general juvenile population; all exceptions shall be clearly documented. Each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) natural light; (ii) a minimum of seventy square feet of floor space; (iii) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and that are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iv) access to showers; (v) hot and cold running water; and (vi) a bed at or above floor level, a desk or writing surface and a stool. (6) Space, furnishings and conditions for dayrooms . The facility shall provide separate dayroom space. The dayroom shall provide: (i) a minimum of thirty-five square feet of space per juvenile exclusive of lavatories; (ii) showers and toilets with some degree of privacy; and (iii) seating and writing surfaces, appropriate to the classification which uses this space, sufficient for the number of juveniles who use the dayroom at one time. (7) Toilets . The facility shall provide operable toilets at a minimum ratio of one for every twelve juveniles in male facilities and one for every eight juveniles in female facilities. Urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the toilets in male facilities. All housing units with three or more juveniles shall have two toilets. (8) Wash basins . Juveniles shall have access to operable wash basins with hot and cold running water in the housing units at a minimum ratio of one basin for every twelve occupants. (9) Showers. Juveniles shall have access to operable showers with temperature-controlled hot and cold running water at a minimum of one shower for every eight juveniles. Water for showers shall be controlled thermostatically to temperatures ranging from one hundred degrees to one hundred-twenty degrees Fahrenheit. (10) Housing for the disabled . Disabled juveniles shall be housed in a manner that provides for their safety, in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17, yet prevents their being discriminated against in their use of the facility. (11) Work or education release housing . Juveniles who participate in work or education release programs shall be housed separately from juveniles in the general population. (12) Program space requirements . The total indoor activity area, which includes all activity areas outside of the living unit, shall provide space equivalent to a minimum of one hundred square feet per juvenile. If the facility houses both male and female juveniles, space shall be provided for coeducational activities
