FR940926-0-00038 FR940926-0-00010 Notwithstanding comments supporting the 2.25 safety factor, NHTSA has determined that under its statutory mandate, it is necessary to specify higher safety factors for carbon fiber containers. In adopting these more stringent requirements, NHTSA sought the advice of RSPA, which has accumulated significant experience and expertise through its efforts to regulate the safety of pressure vessels used to transport hazardous materials. Specifically, NHTSA has adopted RSPA's recommendation not to specify the 2.25 safety factor for carbon composite containers. The more stringent safety factors being adopted are consistent with RSPA's longstanding approach to initially adopt conservative requirements and subsequently modify the requirements, if further real-world safety data become available supporting less stringent regulations. NHTSA has determined that applying this approach to the safety factors for carbon fiber containers is necessary, since carbon fiber containers have not been used extensively in motor vehicle applications. The agency believes that the higher safety factors are justified until further data are developed and become available on the use of carbon fiber containers in motor vehicle applications. NHTSA acknowledges that using such a safety-oriented approach may result in costlier and heavier carbon fiber containers. However, the agency believes that the requirements being adopted will not preclude the introduction and effective use of this new technology. Overall, the agency believes that the safety factors being specified for carbon fiber containers, along with the remaining safety factors it has adopted from NGV2 for other materials, will result in safe CNG containers. As for AAMA's comment, NHTSA shares that association's concerns about restricting future developments. However, based on comments by the container manufacturers and other Federal agencies, the agency believes that few, if any, designs beyond those accounted for in NGV2 are planned. If a new container technology is developed, the agency will evaluate its safety in the context of a petition for rulemaking to amend the Federal safety standard. NHTSA has decided not to adopt the catch-all high level safety factor, which could allow containers incorporating materials or designs that have not been incorporated in NGV2 and thus might be detrimental to safety. The agency further believes that it would be inappropriate, at this time, to add a catchall factor. While such a proviso would facilitate innovation and design change, the agency agrees with commenters that specifying such a catchall might be detrimental to safety, since untested designs and materials would be permitted. 2. Hold Time Interval In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed that during the burst test, elevated pressure would have to be sustained for 60 seconds. The agency noted that while RSPA regulations also specify a 60-second period, NGV2 requires a 10-second hold time interval once the maximum pressure is obtained. The agency believed that because NGV2 includes additional tests to qualify container designs and the agency was not proposing these additional tests, a shorter hold time would not be suitable. NHTSA received six comments addressing the appropriate hold time interval. All commenters except EDO believed the 60 second hold time requirement was not necessary. EDO stated that the requirement was ``tough but reasonable.'' NGVC, Brunswick, PST, and ARC stated that specifying the hold time at 60 seconds instead of 10 seconds would not compensate for the lack of other NGV2 required tests. NGVC stated that the ten second hold time interval is not intended as a test of container strength, but as the time for the pressure in the container to stabilize. PST stated that along with the 3.5 safety factor, the 60 second hold time would make an already conservative test even more stringent. After reviewing the comments and other available information, NHTSA has decided to specify a hold time of 10 seconds instead of 60 seconds. The agency notes that the proposal was based on a misperception of the hold time requirement's purpose. As the commenters stated, the hold period is included only to stabilize the pressure. It is not used as a surrogate for initial burst strength. Therefore, the reduction in hold time will not affect the test's stringency. In addition, the agency anticipates issuing a SNPRM that would propose additional performance requirements to evaluate other aspects of a CNG fuel container's integrity. 3. Sequential Testing In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed that a container that passed the pressure cycling test would then be subjected to the burst test. In proposing that the same fuel container be used in both the pressure cycling and burst tests, the agency believed that it would be appropriate to establish that the fuel container maintained its initial strength after being subject to the durability test. Seven commenters addressed the issue of using the same container for both the pressure cycling and burst tests. NGVC, AAMA, Comdyne, Pressed Steel Tanks, and Amoco stated that requiring the same fuel container for both tests would be unrealistic and overly stringent, because in real world situations, a container would not be subject to pressure cycling and burst conditions sequentially. They stated that otherwise unnecessary material would have to be added to strengthen the container so it could meet the burst test requirement after the pressure cycling test. These commenters believed such additional material would significantly increase the container's cost and weight to the extent that the container would no longer be economically viable to produce. They further stated that most containers that are currently produced to meet NGV2 or RSPA requirements would not be able to meet this requirement. In contrast, EDO and Metropolitan Suburban Bus Authority (MSBA) favored the use of sequential testing. After reviewing the comments and other available information, NHTSA has decided not to require sequential testing. The agency believes that using different containers in the pressure cycling and burst tests will provide an adequate measure of both the container's initial strength and its durability over its life, without imposing new cost burdens on the industry. The agency notes that such testing is consistent with the way in which industry currently tests under both NGV2 and RSPA standards. The agency further notes that in testing for compliance with some FMVSSs, the agency allows a manufacturer to use a separate vehicle or component for different tests within a standard. For example, three vehicles are crashed in Standard No. 301, and different brake hoses are used for various tests in Standard No. 106, Brake Hoses. 4. Failure Criteria In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed that to pass the burst test, a container would have to meet the same two performance criteria as in the pressure cycling test: (1) No leakage, and (2) no permanent circumferential deformation of more than one percent. The purpose of these requirements was to provide objective means to evaluate a container's compliance strength. NGV2 includes the no leakage criterion, but not the one percent circumferential deformation criterion. As explained in the section on the pressure cycling test, the deformation requirement was based on SAE Recommended Practice J10, August 1985, which addresses the performance of metal air brake reservoirs. The agency proposed a circumferential deformation limit to aid in determining a container's impending failure. After reviewing the comments, NHTSA is adopting the no leakage criterion to evaluate failure of the burst test. The agency has decided not to adopt the one percent deformation criterion because the agency believes that circumferential deformation is not a meaningful measure of a fuel container's impending failure in the burst test. See the section above regarding the pressure cycling test for a more comprehensive discussion about the agency's decision not to adopt the pressure deformation criterion.
