FR941221-2-00083 FR941221-2-00066 C. Administration Management and Continuity Identify the management structure, and demonstrate the means to ensure accountability for performance. Provide a description of the process and procedures to be used to obtain feedback from participants and other appropriate parties on the responsiveness and effectiveness of the services provided. The description should include an identification of the types of information to be obtained, the method(s) and frequency of data collection, and how the information will be used in implementing and managing the project. It is expected that grantees may employ focus groups and surveys, in addition to other methods, to collect feedback information. In addition, an explanation of how this project can be continued or expanded must be included. This explanation should also contain an assessment of the availability of funds from other sources. D. Use of Existing Services and Resources An identification of the specific sources and amounts of other funds which will be used, in addition to funds provided through this grant, to implement the project. The application must include information on any non-JTPA resources committed to this project, including employer funds, secured and unsecured loans, grants, and other forms of assistance, public and private. The application shall also describe the training staff development otherwise available to workers without this project and assurances that this will be continued at or above the current level. E. Coordination and Linkages A description of the consultation with relevant parties in developing the project design and of the role of these parties in implementing the project. Suggested consultation shall include: State JTPA Dislocated Worker Unit, Substate Title III grantee(s) and administrative entity(ies), and local organizations in the project service area providing education, training and supportive services. Special consideration will be given to proposals that demonstrate joint labor-management participation. F. Participant Services A description of the services to be available and/or provided to workers who are project participants. The services supported with funds under this grant must be allowable under Section 314 of the Act. This description should include a participant service flowchart indicating the sequence in the participant service process and the critiera/decision points which are used to determine the appropriateness of specific services for individual participants. G. Outcomes A description of the project outcomes and of the specific measures, and planned achievement levels, that will be used to determine the success of the project. These outcomes and measures should include, but are not limited to: (1) The number of participants projected: to be enrolled in services, to successfully complete services through the project, and to be placed into new jobs; (2) Measurable effects of the services provided to project participants are indicated by gains in individuals' skills, competencies, or other outcomes; (3) Average wages of participants prior to and at completion of project; (4) Customer satification with the project, and at critical points in the service delivery; and (5) Other additional measurable, performance-based outcomes that are relevant to the proposed innervation and which may be readily assessed during the period of performance of the project, such as increased productivity of the health care organization, as a whole, or a reduction in layoffs that would have occurred in the absence of the project. Note: An explanation of how such additional measures are relevant to the purpose of the demonstration program shall be included in the application. The proposal shall also describe how outcomes achieved by individuals served under the project are related to the overall restructuring effort.
