FR940719-2-00023 FR940719-2-00003 7. The Indemnity Per Bushel shall be multiplied by the Wheat Production Loss to determine the total indemnity to be paid to You. B. ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' means the average derived by totaling midpoint of the bids for soft white Wheat arriving at Portland, Oregon by rail, truck, or barge as reported by the Portland Grain Exchange for each price reporting day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of price reporting days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more price reporting days during the applicable month. A price reporting day is any normal weekday that price bids for soft white Wheat are reported by the Portland Grain Exchange. C. In the event that price reporting by the Portland Grain Exchange for soft white Wheat is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price there are fourteen (14) or less price reporting days from the Portland Grain Exchange, the Average Daily Settlement Price shall be derived by adding a Chicago-Portland basis adjustment of thirty-five cents (35¢) per bushel to the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for Wheat for each full active trading day during the month, totaling these basis-adjusted daily final closing settlement prices for Wheat for each full active trading day during the month, and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price for Wheat, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable as to Your Wheat Crop and that portion of the Premium paid by You which is applicable to such Wheat Crop shall be refunded by Us. A full active trading day is any trading day on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market during which more than 50 Wheat futures contracts are traded. Article XIV_DEFINITIONS is amended by adding, after paragraph H, the following new paragraph I: I. ``Wheat'' is defined to include both a wheat crop seeded during the fall months of the year, overwintered in the field and harvested the following seasons, as well as wheat planted in the spring months of the year and harvested that same year. Pursuant to the ``Insurance Period'' Section of Article II of the Policy: The coverage provided by the policy and this endorsement for your fall wheat crop is not continuous . You must renew the coverage provided by the policy and this endorsement on your fall wheat crop no later than October 31 of each year for coverage to be effective for the succeeding year. Done in Washington, DC on May 4, 1994. Kenneth D. Ackerman, Manager, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12198 Filed 5&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;08&hyph;M
