FR941026-1-00003 FR941026-1-00001 The combined-balance discount offered by Fleet appears to be covered by section 106, which prohibits a bank from offering a discount on a product or service on the condition that the customer obtain some additional product or service from the bank or from any of its affiliates. Although the discount on the Fleet One Account fee is not conditioned on any particular product being purchased, the customer is required to purchase some product or products from the menu of eligible products in order to receive the discount. 4 Furthermore, the packaging of some of those products in the form proposed by Fleet does not appear to qualify for the statutory or regulatory traditional bank product exception. 5 4 Coverage of combined-balance discounts also appears to be consistent with the purposes of section 106. Section 106 was enacted because of Congress's concern that banks would use their power over credit to gain a competitive advantage in other markets. Ordinarily, a tying arrangement involves an attempt to gain a competitive advantage in one product market, but the fact that a bank is attempting to gain a smaller advantage in a larger number of product markets raises similar concerns. 5 Under the Board's regulations, a bank or nonbank could offer a discount on brokerage services on condition that a customer purchase a traditional bank product from the bank or company offering the brokerage services or from an affiliate. However, no exception allows the reverse case, where discounts on bank products are being used to induce customers to purchase brokerage services. In addition, although the discount plan offered by Fleet is structured so as to avoid any anti-competitive effects, the Board notes that in other cases the number and attractiveness of traditional bank products offered in such an arrangement could be substantially less than those offered by Fleet, and the effect of the tie to non-traditional products that much stronger. In addition, there is the potential for such discount plans to be manipulated in order to have the same effect as a classic tie_that is, structured so that the customer is effectively required to purchase one product in order to receive, or to receive a discount on, another product. Exception In deciding to permit Fleet to offer the Fleet One Account, the Board concluded that the combined-balance discount on the Fleet One Account was consistent with the type of banking relationships that section 106 recognized were important to preserve. 6 Section 106 preserves such relationships through the statutory traditional bank product exception, which permits a bank to tie a product or service to a loan, discount, deposit, or trust service offered by that bank. The legislative history of section 106 notes that this exception was intended to preserve a customer's ability to negotiate the price of multiple banking services with the bank on the basis of the customer's entire relationship with the bank. The proposed exception serves the same purpose. 6 The Board also granted Fleet an exemption allowing Fleet banks to condition the Fleet One Account on a customer's obtaining two products from Fleet, but the Board is not proposing to make this exemption broadly available through regulation. Rather, the Board has concluded that such exemptions should be granted on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, under the statutory and regulatory traditional bank product exceptions, a bank already could offer a combined-balance discount on an account where all the products in the arrangement were traditional bank products (loans, discounts, deposits, and trust services). Granting an exception for a combined-balance discount would simply permit the bank to increase customer choice by adding a customer's securities brokerage account or other non-traditional products to the menu of traditional products that count toward the minimum balance. For these reasons, the Board is proposing to establish, through a regulatory exception, a safe harbor for arrangements offering benefits similar to those in Fleet. The proposed safe harbor is not only consistent with the statute's goal of preserving traditional banking relationships, but also its concerns about anti-competitive behavior. The proposal requires that the offering bank offer deposits and that all such deposits be considered in determining whether the customer has reached the minimum balance required to waive the relevant fee. Furthermore, all products offered as part of the arrangement would be required to be separately available for purchase at competitive prices. 7 Because a customer could qualify for a combined-balance discount based solely on deposit balances and because the bank would be required to offer customers all products involved in the arrangement separately and at competitive prices, a customer would not have an incentive to establish a brokerage account, or obtain any other product, that the customer did not want in order to obtain the discount. For this reason, the Board does not believe that the proposed rule would allow coercive or anticompetitive practices, or otherwise contravene the purposes of section 106. 8 7 The Board's anti-tying regulation currently conditions all regulatory exceptions on all products involved in the tying arrangement being separately available for purchase, and that condition would apply to the proposed exception. The Board has sought comment on an amendment to this condition providing that products be separately available for purchase ``at competitive prices.'' 59 FR 39709 (August 4, 1994). 8 Under antitrust precedent, concerns over tying arrangements are substantially reduced where the buyer is free to take either product by itself even though the seller also may offer the two items as a unit at a single price.
