FR940616-2-00122 FR940616-2-00090 International Creative Arts Exchanges for Public and Private Non-Profit Organizations ACTION: Request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Creative Arts Exchanges Division of the U.S. Information Agency's [USIA] Office of Arts America announces a program of awards to private, non-profit organizations to support projects for artists and arts administrators. These will consist of residencies and/or study tours in which artists from the United States and other countries work and learn together. Interested applicants are invited to request and read the complete Federal Register announcement before submitting their proposals. DATES: This action is effective from the publication date of this notice through September 21, 1994, for projects whose activities will begin between February 1, 1995, and June 30, 1995. All applications must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington DC time on Wednesday, September 21, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on September 21, 1994, but received at a later date. For projects that begin after June 30, 1995, competition details will be announced in the Federal Register on or about December 1, 1994. Inquiries concerning technical requirements are welcome prior to submission of applications. ADDRESSES: The original and 14 copies of the completed application, including required forms, should be submitted by the deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, REF: E/DE Discretionary Grant Competition, Grants Management Division (E/XE), E/DE&hyph;95&hyph;01, room 336, 301 4th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20547. Awards are contingent upon the availability of funds. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND APPLICATION PACKAGES, CONTACT: The Creative Arts Exchanges Division of the U.S. Information Agency's Office of Arts America, 301 4th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20547; telephone (202) 619&hyph;5338. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Creative Arts Exchanges Division works with U.S. non-profit organizations on cooperative international group projects that introduce American and foreign participants to each other's cultural and artistic life and traditions. It supports international projects in the United States or overseas involving composers, choreographers, filmmakers [see guidance below], playwrights, theater designers, writers and poets, visual artists, museum professionals [see guidance below], managers and administrators of arts institutions and organizations [see guidance below]. We particularly seek projects with organizations with expertise in the arts as well as broad outreach and networking capabilities into American arts activities nationwide. On its side USIA offers prospective applicants its network of U.S. Information Service [USIS] posts located in American embassies, consulates and cultural centers around the world. Proposals making imaginative and substantive use of this USIS network will have a decided advantage in the competition. Proposed projects should support the USIA mission to increase mutual understanding between the United States and other countries and to promote international cooperation in educational and cultural fields. USIS' role in such projects should be integral and not purely facilitative.
