FR941020-0-00041 FR941020-0-00012 The Ohio rules require that, following the installation of a Stage II vapor control system, tests be performed to verify proper installation and function of the systems and requires systems to be retested after major facility modification. These tests are a leak test, a dynamic pressure drop test, and a liquid blockage test. The tests the State has adopted to verify proper installation and function of the systems are not the same tests that are included in USEPA's Technical Guidance_Stage II Vapor Recovery Systems for Control of Vehicle Refueling at Gasoline Dispensing Facilities. The test procedures vary significantly from those included in EPA's Guidance and, at the time of this rulemaking, have not been adopted by the California Air Resources Board (CARB). USEPA anticipates that the tests Ohio EPA has included will be approved by CARB in the near future and will serve to accurately determine proper installation and function of the systems because these tests are actually updated versions of the tests included in USEPA's Technical Guidance Document. However, if these tests are not approved by CARB, then Ohio would be required to revise its SIP so that it does not rely on these tests. USEPA finds this to be acceptable. (5) Recordkeeping and Reporting Ohio has adopted the recordkeeping items recommended in USEPA's guidance and specifies that sources subject to Stage II must make the following documents available upon request: (1) The quantity of gasoline delivered by the facility each calendar month; (2) The results of any verification tests; (3) A log of the date and description of all repair and maintenance work performed, or any other modifications to the vapor control system; (4) A copy of the most recent permit to operate application submitted to OEPA; (5) A copy of the most recent permit to operate issued by OEPA; and (6) Proof of attendance and completion of the training required by OEPA. The USEPA finds these recordkeeping requirements acceptable since they are in compliance with the Federal requirements. (6) Periodic Inspection Requirements The Ohio submittal contains a requirement for annual inspections of facilities subject to the Stage II program, with mandatory follow-up inspections at noncomplying facilities. The inspection will cover inspection records, facility equipment, and functional testing of equipment. The USEPA believes these inspection requirements are in compliance with the Federal requirements. (7) Enforcement Compliance Mechanisms The Ohio submittal describes the measures that the State will implement to ensure facility compliance with the program requirements. Training and public education programs are among the enforcement activities that OEPA will undertake. If a facility is found to be in violation of any of the program requirements, the facility will be issued a warning letter and provided an opportunity to develop an acceptable compliance schedule that describes how compliance will be achieved within a 30 day time frame. Failure to develop an acceptable compliance schedule will result in either Findings and Orders or a consent decree/order being issued to the facility. The Findings and Orders or consent decree/order will include appropriate civil penalties. USEPA recommends that the OEPA develop a penalty schedule that applies specifically to the Stage II Vapor Recovery Program. This schedule should include fines and other penalties that apply specific penalties for specific violations at facilities failing to comply with the program requirements or to maintain the vapor recovery system. These penalties would be in addition to any civil penalties resulting from a Finding and Order or consent decree/order. Otherwise, a facility could avoid maintaining its equipment, without consequence, until an inspector has identified a violation, issued a warning letter with a 30 day compliance time frame, and failed to comply with the terms of the decree or order. Director's Discretion Provision USEPA was provided several opportunities to comment on the State's draft rules while OEPA was developing the regulations for implementation of the Stage II vapor recovery program. On December 7, 1992, the OEPA Division of Air Pollution Control requested Region 5's comments on draft language of Paragraph 3745&hyph;21&hyph;09(DDD)(5). OEPA explained that the paragraph was developed after the public comment period in response to concerns expressed by Ohio's Joint Committee on Administrative Rules and Regulations (JCARR). On December 12, 1992, Region 5 informed OEPA that the new section 09(DDD)(5) was unapprovable, and presented OEPA with an alternative version of the section which provided that the OEPA Director may exercise discretion to suspend the Stage II program only in the event that: (1) A redesignation request is approved by USEPA; or (2) The Director (a) provides a demonstration to USEPA that the Stage II program in each affected area is not necessary to ensure the attainment and/or maintenance of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ozone, and (b) USEPA approves such demonstration through a SIP revision. The final Stage II rules package submitted by Ohio for approval on June 7, 1993, did not incorporate the language suggested by Region 5, but retained the unapprovable discretionary suspension provision from the December 7, 1992, draft. The SIP revision submitted by OEPA satisfies all of the criteria outlined in USEPA guidance regarding the oversight and enforcement of the Stage II program. However, Paragraphs 3745&hyph;21&hyph;09(DDD)(5)(a) and 3745&hyph;21&hyph;09(DDD)(5)(b) jeopardize the enforceability of the Stage II vapor recovery program by granting the Director of OEPA the discretion to suspend the program without first seeking and obtaining a SIP revision (i.e., Federal approval). The discretionary suspension provision poses an unacceptable threat to continuous Federal enforceability of the requirements of the Stage II program. Therefore, Paragraph 3745&hyph;21&hyph;09(DDD)(5), the paragraph must be disapproved. A memorandum from John Calcagni, then Director of the Air Quality Management Division, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards (OAQPS), dated July 9, 1992, provides guidance on SIP submittals that are determined to be complete, but contain some provisions that do meet the requirements of the CAA and other provisions that do not. In those cases where the provisions in question are separable, the guidance recommends partial approval of the SIP submittal. Ohio has informed the USEPA, in a letter dated December 9, 1993, that the State assents to partial approval of its Stage II program with disapproval of its director's discretion provision. Final Action USEPA is partially approving and partially disapproving the State of Ohio's Stage II vapor recovery program. The USEPA is only disapproving Paragraph 3745&hyph;21&hyph;09(DDD)(5). The remainder of the program is being approved under section 110(k)(3) of the CAA. Partial approval of the Stage II program will result in the approved portions of the State of Ohio's rules being incorporated into the State's Federally approved SIP. The USEPA is disapproving Paragraph 3745&hyph;21&hyph;09(DDD)(5) of the Ohio rules since the provision poses an unacceptable threat to continuous Federal enforceability of the requirements of the Stage II vapor recovery program. Disapproval of Paragraph 2745&hyph;21&hyph;09(DDD)(5) is intended to ensure that OEPA follows the established procedures required by title I of the CAA for suspending the program requirements. Before suspending the Stage II program in an affected area, OEPA must demonstrate to USEPA that the program is not necessary in the area to ensure maintenance of the NAAQS for ozone. Procedural Background This action is being taken without prior proposal because the changes are believed to be noncontroversial and USEPA anticipates no significant comments on them. The public is advised that this action will be effective December 19, 1994, unless notice is received by November 21, 1994, that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments. If the USEPA receives adverse comment, the direct final rule will be withdrawn and all public comments received will be addressed in a subsequent final rule based on a proposed rule which is published in the proposed rule section of this Federal Register . If the effective date is delayed, timely notice will be published in the Federal Register . Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting, allowing, or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. The USEPA shall consider each request for revision to the SIP in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors, and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements.
