FR940920-1-00052 FR940920-1-00007 Additionally, the EPA requests comment and suggestions on specific work practice requirements or equipment requirements that would assure optimal operation of the air pollution control system and minimize emissions. Such operating practices or equipment practices would be most beneficial for minimizing emissions of those pollutants for which annual stack testing is the proposed compliance test method. Comments are specifically requested on work practice standards or equipment requirements that would minimize dioxin/furan, Hg, Cd, and PM emissions. Based on the information received, the EPA may require specific work practices or equipment to supplement the emission limits included in the final standards. H. Performance Test Methods and Monitoring Requirements The NSPS promulgated on February 11, 1991 for MWC's with unit capacities above 225 Mg/day established performance testing and monitoring requirements for MWC acid gases (SO 2 and HCl), MWC metals (PM and opacity), MWC organics (dioxins/furans), MWC operating practices (CO, load, and flue gas temperature), and NO X . These testing and monitoring requirements are described in the NSPS promulgated on February 11, 1991 (56 FR 5488). These same testing and monitoring requirements will apply to MWC's at all size plants under today's proposed NSPS, except that: (1) Procedures are being proposed for determining dioxin/furan emissions on a TEQ basis; (2) continuous monitoring of NO X is not required at small plants; (3) provisions have been incorporated to allow compliance testing every third year for dioxins/furans, PM, and HCl at small plants that pass their compliance test for 3 years in a row; and (4) annual opacity tests using EPA Reference Method 9 (in combination with continuous monitoring of opacity level) would be required for both large and small MWC plants. Furthermore, today's proposal includes new data availability requirements for CEMs. Today's proposal requires that valid paired CEMs hourly averages (i.e., SO 2 and O 2 (or CO 2 ), NO X and O 2 (or CO 2 ), and CO and O 2 (or CO 2 )) be obtained for 75 percent of the hours per day for 90 percent of the days per calendar quarter that the MWC is operating and combusting MSW. Because the proposed NSPS allows compliance with a dioxin/furan limit either on a TEQ basis or on a total mass basis, procedures are being proposed for determining dioxin/furan emissions on a TEQ basis. For measuring dioxins/furans, on a TEQ basis, the mass of each dioxin/furan tetra- through octa- congener would be measured by EPA Reference Method 23. Then, each congener mass would be adjusted by the corresponding TEF's, which are listed in the proposed NSPS. Finally, the adjusted congener masses would be added together to determine dioxins/furans in terms of nanograms per dry standard cubic meter TEQ. Under the proposed standards, if three consecutive annual compliance tests for an MWC at a small MWC plant indicate compliance with the emission limit for a pollutant (i.e., dioxins/furans, PM, or HCl), the MWC would be allowed to wait 3 years before retesting for the pollutant. If the next test conducted in the third year shows compliance with the emission limit for the pollutant, then the facility could again wait 3 years to wait for the pollutant. If noncompliance with the emission limit for the pollutant occurs, corrective actions would be required to be undertaken and annual testing would be required to be conducted until 3 consecutive years of compliance with the emission limit established. At a minimum, performance tests for dioxins/furans, PM, and HCl must be performed for each MWC at a small MWC plant every 3 years. This provision is included to minimize costs for small plants, while still retaining periodic testing to ensure compliance. Testing and monitoring requirements are being proposed today to ensure control of Cd, Pb, and Hg emissions. For Cd, Pb, and Hg, an initial performance test would be required for MWC's at small and large plants to determine compliance with the proposed emission limits. The performance test for Cd, Pb, and Hg would be conducted in accordance with EPA Reference Method 29. The number and location of sampling points would be determined using EPA Reference Method 1, and flue gas analysis would be performed using EPA Reference Method 3. All performance tests would consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under representative full load operating conditions. The average Cd, Pb, and Hg emission rates of three test runs or more would be used to determine compliance. Also, as discussed above for dioxins/furans, PM, and HCl, if small plants demonstrate compliance with the Cd, Pb, and Hg emission limits for 3 consecutive years, they would be allowed to begin testing for these three pollutants every third year. At a minimum, performance tests for Cd, Pb, and Hg would be required to be conducted by small MWC plants every 3 years. Large plants would be required to test for Cd, Pb, and Hg annually. These annual testing requirements are consistent with those for other pollutants, and MWC plants can reduce testing expenses by testing for multiple pollutants during the same test period. Studies conducted by the EPA have shown EPA Reference Method 29 to be a more reliable method for measuring Hg from MWC's than EPA Reference Method 101A. Recent refinements have been made to Method 101A, but the EPA has concluded that Method 29 remains a superior method. In a separate notice in today's Federal Register , EPA Reference Method 29 is being proposed for determining emissions of Hg and other metals from MWC's, MWI's, and power plants. Method 29 consists of a particulate filter followed in series by two nitric acid/hydrogen peroxide (HNO 3 /H 2 O 2 ) impingers and two acidified potassium permangenate (KMnO 4 /H 2 SO 4 ) impingers. The method is identical to the EPA's Office of Solid Waste multimetals method, except that Method 29 requires filtration and analysis of the impinger solution collected in the KMnO 4 /H 2 SO 4 impingers. These filtration and analysis requirements are being added to the method for quality assurance purposes to protect against the loss of Hg in the manganese oxide (MnO 2 ) precipitate that can form in this solution. This additional step will result in similar sample preparation and analysis requirements for EPA Reference Methods 29 and 101A.
