FR941121-0-00084 FR941121-0-00009 We will consider the need for intermediate sanction authority for HMOs and CMPs failing to abide by reconsidered determinations in a forthcoming rulemaking initiative. Comment: Two commenters recommended that we require HMOs/CMPs to prominently post information about the appeals process and send out a national notice communicating information about appeal rights. Response: Existing §417.604(c) (``Written description of appeals procedure'') requires HMOs/CMPs to provide enrollees with written materials on appeal procedures. We believe that this is a better method for ensuring that all enrollees are informed. Further, this approach makes the information readily available in the enrollee's own home. With regard to the need for a national communication, we agree that beneficiaries should be made aware of the new appeal rights and procedures. We will modify the Medicare Handbook and other booklets and pamphlets routinely distributed by us to incorporate the policies of this final regulation. Comment: One commenter suggested that we require HMOs/CMPs to notify enrollees, in writing, of the changes adopted in the final rule and to submit a plan for educating enrollees about the new rights and procedures. Response: While we disagree that a special education program is needed, we agree that HMOs/CMPs must inform Medicare enrollees of these new protections. HMOs/CMPs have various means of communicating with enrollees, including written material (for example, newsletters), and use of these means for informing Medicare beneficiaries of these new appeal rights is acceptable to us. The requirement at §417.604, discussed above, is adequate for this purpose and another regulatory requirement is unnecessary. HMOs, CMPs, and HCPPs must notify their enrollees of the changes/additions to the appeal rights and when they are effective. Comment: Two commenters recommended that these appeal rights be extended to Medicaid recipients in prepaid health plans. Response: Appeal rights for Medicaid beneficiaries is not part of the scope of this rulemaking effort. These comments, however, have merit and have been brought to the attention of appropriate persons within our Office of Managed Care. Comment: One commenter stated that we changed §417.801(4) without addressing it in the preamble. Response: We assume that the commenter is referring to §418.801(b)(4). In the amendatory language of the proposed rule, we stated that ``In §417.801, the introductory language of paragraph (b) is republished, paragraph (b)(4) is revised, paragraph (b)(5) is redesignated as paragraph (b)(6), and a new paragraph (b)(5) is added to read as follows:''. That amendatory language contained technical errors. Paragraph (b)(4) was not revised; the language published in the proposed rule is the same as existing paragraph (b)(4). Additionally, existing paragraph (b)(5) should not have been redesignated; existing paragraph (b)(6) should have been redesignated as paragraph (b)(7) and a new paragraph (b)(6) added. These errors have been corrected in the final rule.
