FR940228-1-00020 FR940228-1-00003 This subpart addresses exemptions and is basically the same as §34.51 in the current part 34 with the exception of minor wording changes to make it consistent with current language used in other parts of the rule. See §39.91. Subpart H_Violations This subpart addresses violations and is basically the same as §34.61 and §34.63 in the current part 34 with the exception of minor wording changes to make the sections referenced consistent with the proposed rule. Appendix A to Part 34 This appendix is new. The requirements in appendix A to the current part 34 have been relocated to §34.43(f). Part I of the new appendix A provides the proposed requirements for an independent certifying organization, and does not apply to Agreement States choosing to become a certifying entity. Parts II and III of the new appendix A provide the proposed requirements for certification programs and written examinations for a certifying entity, which would include Agreement States. The proposed appendix A would not impose new requirements on NRC's radiography licensees. NRC is proposing that an independent certifying organization would have to be a national society or association involved in setting national standards of practice for industrial radiography or non-destructive testing to be recognized. Membership in the organization could not be restricted because of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin or handicap and the organization's certification program would need to be open to nonmembers. The independent certifying organization would need to: (1) Be incorporated; (2) Have a permanent full-time staff; (3) Be nationally recognized; (4) Have a policy and decision-making review board; (5) Be governed by written organizational by-laws and policies; and (6) Have a viable system of financing its operations. An independent certifying organization would also need to have: (1) A committee to review and approve certification guidelines and procedures and to advise the organization's staff in implementing its certification program; (2) A committee to review complaints against certified individuals; (3) Written procedures describing its certification program; and (4) An agreement to exchange information about certified individuals with the Commission and the Agreement States. For a certification program to be acceptable, NRC is proposing that it include provisions requiring individuals to receive training in the topics listed in §34.43(f), complete a written examination, complete a practical examination or equivalent, and require a minimum period of on-the-job experience. The program would also have to include procedures that ensure due process whenever an individual's certification may need to be revoked, suspended, or restricted for willful or significant failure to comply with his or her employer's operating or emergency procedures, or the Commission's or an Agreement State's regulations. For the written examination, NRC is proposing that it be: (1) Designed to test knowledge and understanding of the subjects listed in §34.43(f); (2) written for a ninth-grade reading comprehension level; and (3) scientifically analyzed to ensure that the questions are not biased or misleading. Agreement State Compatibility The rule will be a matter of compatibility between the NRC and the Agreement States, thereby providing consistency between Federal and State safety requirements. With regard to basic radiation equipment specifications, standards, and definitions identified as matters of Division 1 level of compatibility, the Agreement States will be expected to adopt, essentially verbatim, the proposed part 34 standards and definitions into their equivalent regulations. However, the NRC also recognizes that certain terms, such as radiographer's assistant, may not be used in present Agreement State regulations. Continued use of alternative terms, such as ``trainee'' will be considered acceptable so long as the underlying requirements of the position are consistent with those proposed by the Commission. The remainder of the rule will be a Division 2 level of compatibility allowing the Agreement State regulators the flexibility to adopt similar or more stringent requirements based on their radiation protection experience, professional judgments, and community values. Appendix A of proposed 10 CFR part 34 provides the requirements for certifying entities to be acceptable to NRC. The Commission reserves the right to make this determination and therefore this is a Division 4 item of compatibility. Because it concerns a regulatory function that will be reserved for the Commission pursuant to 10 CFR part 150, the Agreement States will not need to implement this provision of the proposed rulemaking. A new section proposed for part 150 would make clear the Commission's intent to reserve this function and also to reserve the right to set minimum radiographer certification standards. Agreement States that wish to develop radiographer certification programs would be expected to implement parts II and III of the proposed appendix A. The definitions and the requirements for certification programs and written examinations contained in this rulemaking must be the same for all NRC and Agreement State licensees to maintain consistency. In practice, States that develop certification programs must develop regulatory language and regulations that implement appendix A, parts II and III criteria. States would be permitted to include additional administrative requirements (such as State-issued cards). States that do not develop certification programs would not be expected to implement appendix A. NRC or an Agreement State must reciprocally recognize valid radiographer certifications issued by either an independent certifying entity approved by the NRC or by an Agreement State certification program meeting the requirements of appendix A, parts II and III, of the proposed rule. Agreement States would be expected to submit their proposed program for NRC review and evaluation prior to implementing their certification program.
