FR940711-2-00122 FR940711-2-00049 Note: To obtain credit, completion of a major level of education must result primarily from active JTPA program participation of at least 90 calendar days or 200 hours, usually prior to the completion of the major level of education. 5. Entered Non-Title II Training _The total number of adults/youth who, prior to termination, had entered an occupational skills employment/training program not funded under Title II of the JTPA, that builds upon and does not duplicate training received under Title II. Note: To obtain credit, the participant must have been retained in that program for at least 90 calendar days OR 200 hours or must have received a certification of occupational skill attainment. During the period the participant is in non-Title II training, he/she may or may not have received JTPA services. It is expected that the ultimate result of this outcome will be the attainment of a job-specific skill competency on the part of the terminee. Attachment 3_Rewarding Model Programs for Out-of-School Youth One of the Department of Labor's high priorities is to improve the effectiveness of JTPA programs for out-of-school youth. Results from the National JTPA Study show that outcomes achieved by out-of-school youth 30 months after entering the program are disappointing. To implement section 107(b)(7)(C) of the amended JTPA, the Department encourages in PY 1994, and will require in PY 1995, that Governors reward out-of-school youth programs that are identified by the Department or recognized by the State as having a demonstrated record of success. States need to develop ways to identify such programs. Possible approaches include: _Using outcomes achieved to identify successful programs. Outcomes could include both the two youth performance measures and measures such as learning gains and earnings/retention in full-time employment. _Alternatively, States could offer SDA's ``seed money'' from incentive funds to plan/operate programs that provide innovative or high-quality training to out-of-school youth based on criteria established by the Governor. Examples of such criteria include training that integrates occupational and basic skills training, and training that emphasizes acquiring job skills in demand in the emerging workplace. Note: Whatever method is used to reward successful out-of-school youth programs, access to such incentives must be limited to those SDA's that serve in excess of 50 percent out-of-school youth in their overall Title II&hyph;C program.
