FR940407-2-00158 FR940407-2-00081 Applications which meet the screening requirements in Part V, item E below will be reviewed competitively. Such applications will be referred to reviewers for a numerical score and explanatory comments based solely on responsiveness to the guidelines and evaluation criteria published in this announcement. Applications will be reviewed by persons outside of the OCS unit which will be directly responsible for programmatic management of the grant. The results of these reviews will assist the Director and OCS program staff in considering competing applications. Reviewers' scores will weigh heavily in funding decisions but will not be the only factors considered. Applications generally will be considered in order of the average scores assigned by reviewers. However, highly ranked applications are not guaranteed funding since other factors are taken into consideration, including, but not limited to, the timely and proper completion of projects funded with OCS funds granted in the last five (5) years; comments of reviewers and government officials; staff evaluation and input; geographic distribution; previous program performance of applicants; compliance with grant terms under previous DHHS grants; audit reports; investigative reports; and applicant's progress in resolving any final audit disallowances on previous OCS or other Federal agency grants. OCS reserves the right to discuss applications with other Federal or non-Federal funding sources to ascertain the applicant's performance record. E. Criteria for Screening Applicants 1. Initial Screening All timely applicants will receive an acknowledgement with an assigned identification number. This number, along with any identification code, must be referenced in all subsequent communications concerning the application. If an acknowledgement is not received within three weeks after the deadline date, please notify ACF by telephone at (202) 401&hyph;9234. All applications that meet the published deadline for submission will be screened to determine completeness and conformity to the requirements of this announcement. Only those applications meeting the following requirements will be reviewed and evaluated competitively. Others will be returned to the applicants with a notation that they were unacceptable. a. The application must contain a Standard Form 424 Application for Federal Assistance (SF&hyph;424), a budget (SF&hyph;424A), and signed Assurances (SF 424B) completed according to instructions published in Part VI and Attachments B, C, and D of this Program Announcement. b. A project narrative must also accompany the standard forms. OCS requires that the narrative portion of the application be limited to 50 pages, typewritten on one side of the paper only. Charts, exhibits, letters of support and cooperative agreements are not counted against this page limit. It is strongly recommended that you follow the format for the narrative in Part VII, A, 10. c. The SF&hyph;424 and the SF&hyph;424B must be signed by an official of the organization applying for the grant who has authority to obligate the organization legally. d. Application must contain documentation of the applicant's tax exempt status as required under Part I, Section B. 2. Pre-Rating Review Applications which pass the initial screening will be forwarded to reviewers and/or OCS staff prior to the programmatic review to verify that the applications comply with this Program Announcement in the following areas: a. Eligibility: Applicant meets the eligibility requirements described in Part I, Section B. Proof of non-profit status must be included in the Appendices to the Project Narrative (See Part VII, Section A, 11). Applicants must also be aware that the applicant's legal name as required on the SF&hyph;424 (Item 5) must match that listed as corresponding to the Employer Identification Number (Item 6). b. Target Populations: The application clearly targets the specific outcomes and benefits of the project to those types of low-income participants and beneficiaries described in Part III, Section A, Program Participants/Beneficiaries. c. Grant Amount : The amount of funds requested does not exceed the limits indicated in Part III, Section A., item 1. d. Cooperative Partnership Agreement. The application contains a written agreement or letter of commitment that includes, at a minimum, the activities cited in Part II, Section A. The agreement must be signed by an official of the agency responsible for administering the JOBS program in the area to be served. e. Third-Party Project Evaluation. A third-party project evaluation plan is included. f. Business Plan. If a third-party private employer is part of the proposed project, a complete business plan is included in the application. An application will be disqualified from the competition and returned if it does not conform to all of the above requirements.
