FR940505-1-00444 FR940505-1-00012 (d) Application for certification. (1) A separate application for a certificate of conformity shall be made for each set of standards and each class of new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines. Such application shall be made to the Administrator by the manufacturer and shall be updated and corrected by amendment. The application shall meet all of the requirements set forth in 40 CFR 86.094&hyph;21, unless otherwise provided in the California application specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (2) The application shall contain a copy of the application for certification specified in ยง1960.1 of title 13 of the California Code of Regulations. (3) The application shall also demonstrate that throughout all testing conducted by the manufacturer in fulfilling the application for certification specified in ยง1960.1 of title 13 of the California Code of Regulations, and such additional testing as may be necessary, that the vehicle(s) for which certification is being requested meet all the applicable emission standards and design specifications specified in paragraph (c) of this section. (4) The applications shall also contain a statement by the manufacturer that the vehicle(s) for which certification is being requested will meet the emission standards specified in paragraph of this section over its full useful life (or half life, as applicable) in the absence of obvious abuse or tampering, as defined in paragraph (e)(iii)(B) of this section. Vehicles found to not do so under the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section will be subject to recall per the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section. (e) Enhanced in-use recall provisions. (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the provisions of subpart S or 40 CFR part 85, and the associated established practices of EPA, shall apply to the recall of vehicles subject to the requirements of this section. (2) Vehicle selection. Vehicles shall be selected by EPA for purposes of recall testing from the portion of the vehicle population subject to enhanced inspection and maintenance testing described in ยง52.2963. EPA may test vehicles at any time or mileage within their applicable useful life. (3) Vehicle testing. (i) Selected vehicles will be tested unless EPA determines that a selected vehicle(s) has been subjected to obvious abuse or tampering. (ii) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, obvious abuse or tampering includes the following conditions: (A) The presence of less than one half of the recommended volume of motor oil in the engine crankcase; (B) The deliberate removal of the catalyst or evaporative canister; (C) The addition of a turbocharger to a naturally aspirated engine; (D) The presence of damage to the engine or emission controls resulting from a vehicular accident; and (E) Other factors which the Administrator may consider appropriate for determining the presence of obvious abuse or tampering. (iii) The manufacturer may be present at the time of vehicle procurement and testing and request that a vehicle not be tested due to obvious abuse or tampering. The Administrator may request that such a request from a manufacturer be supported by appropriate documentation, though the final determination rests with the Administrator. (iv) Vehicles that EPA determines have been subject to obvious abuse or tampering will be removed from the test sample. (v) EPA will test vehicles in the condition in which the vehicles are received from the owner. No repair or maintenance will be conducted on the vehicle prior to testing. (vi) Vehicles shall be tested according to the same test procedures prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. (4) (i) Discretionary recall authority. Based on the criteria contained in 40 CFR 85.1802, the Administrator may determine that a nonconformity with an applicable standard under paragraph (c) of this section exists for a vehicle engine family. In addition, the Administrator may make such a determination of nonconformity when the average emissions of the test vehicles for any pollutant exceeds the applicable recall emission standard specified in paragraph (c) of this section. (ii) Any vehicle recall conducted by a manufacturer under paragraph (e) of this section shall apply to all vehicles of the affected engine family which have been sold in the State of California.
