FR940106-1-00067 FR940106-1-00011 Table 4._ Proposed Salmon Smolt Criteria 1Sacramento River 2Water year type 2Index value 1San Joaquin River 2Water year type 2Index value Wet .45 Wet .46 Above Normal .38 Above normal .30 Below Normal .36 Below normal .26 Dry .32 Dry .23 Critical .29 Critical .20 To protect both Fish Migration and Cold Fresh-Water Habitat designated, EPA proposes that the specific smolt survival criteria in Table 4, above, be adopted for the Bay/Delta. As explained above, the proposed Sacramento River criteria are modified from the USFWS indices in Table 3. The San Joaquin River criteria are the same as Table 3. The Sacramento River criteria provide overall protection at approximately the 1956&hyph;1970 historical level (.37 mean survival index). The San Joaquin River criteria provides better protection than the 1956&hyph;1970 historical level (.27 mean survival index). Both sets of criteria provide better protection than the 1956&hyph;1970 historical period in drier years, and less protection in wetter years. These criteria should provide more consistent smolt survival and help avoid situations where extraordinary measures are necessary to preserve runs, particularly in the San Joaquin River tributaries. Water year type designations are identical to State Board classifications (SWRCB 1992a). d. Implementation Measures Under the CWA, the States have a primary role in developing measures implementing water quality criteria. EPA expects that the State Board would implement these criteria by making appropriate revisions to operational requirements included in water rights permits issued by the State Board. EPA believes that the State Board would have a number of possible implementation approaches for achieving the salmon smolt survival criteria. In the recent State Board hearings, USFWS recommended a series of implementation measures (based on the Five Agency Chinook Salmon Committee proposals) designed to achieve the smolt survival indices recommended in the joint statement by USFWS, NMFS and EPA. For the Sacramento River, these included closure of the Delta Cross Channel from April through June, closure of Georgiana Slough from April 15 to June 15, and minimum Sacramento Flow at Rio Vista of 4000 cfs from April through June. For the San Joaquin River, these measures included requiring a range of flows from 2,000 to 10,000 cfs at Vernalis from April 15 to May 15; requiring minimum flows of 1000 cfs at Jersey Point from April through June, except from April 15 to May 15, when higher flows from 1000 to 3000 cfs would be required; and placing a full barrier in upper Old River from April through May. Total water exports would be curtailed to a range from 6000 cfs in wet years to 2000 cfs in critically dry years from April 15 to May 15. Based on the USFWS models, these particular measures will achieve the proposed smolt survival indices in Table 3. However, as discussed earlier, EPA has incorporated into its proposed target index values changes to the recommended implementation measures based on concerns about the effect of these measures on other aquatic resources. Given the nature of the index itself, however, there is substantial flexibility in how the target values can be achieved. For example, if flows are increased above the recommended levels in the San Joaquin River, the associated export limits could also be increased while achieving the same level of protection. Reductions in Sacramento River temperatures would also provide significant benefits. Although temperature controls were not included in the USFWS recommendations, they are an important variable in the USFWS model, and may be the most significant factor affecting smolt survival in the Sacramento River system. Implementation measures affecting temperature may therefore be an effective means of attaining the smolt survival criteria. There is also evidence that short-term operational changes implemented at peak migration times coincident with critical periods of high ambient air and water temperature may provide significant benefits (Kelley, et al, 1991). Other possibilities listed in California DFG's Central Valley Salmon and Steelhead Restoration and Enhancement Plan (CDFG 1990) include screening Georgiana Slough and screening the Delta Cross Channel. A sound barrier (a device generating subsurface sound that discourages fish from entering the Slough) at Georgiana Slough is currently under study and may also be a useful implementation measure. As new methods are developed to increase smolt survival, their benefits can be assessed, and their contribution toward meeting and/or revising the criteria taken into account.
