FR940831-2-00028 FR940831-2-00020 Section IV (Estimated Percent Consumption by End Use): No substantial changes from the 1991 version are anticipated. Definitions and instructions will be enhanced to clarify possible ambiguities among the categories. Section V (Establishment Checklist): There are three subsections in Section V: Part A. Estimated Square Footage of Buildings, Part B. Energy Management Activities, Part C. General Technologies, and other parts concerning specific technologies relevant only to selected industries. EIA and the Bureau of the Census jointly conducted a survey of MECS respondents for the purpose of evaluating the effectiveness and comprehensibility of certain aspects of the 1991 MECS questionnaire. The results of the survey relating to Part A indicate that most respondents could provide an estimate of the enclosed square-footage without major difficulty. Accordingly, the 1994 MECS questionnaire will ask for those estimates. Those respondents who would still prefer to give an estimate within a broad category will be given that option. The list for Part B will be expanded to include participation in certain Federal government programs, such as the Environmental Protection Agency's ``Green Lights'' and DOE's ``Motor Challenge.'' Third party sponsorship will be separated from Self-only participation as a column-header. Part C, the checklist for energy-saving technologies, will be expanded to include specific cogeneration technologies. III. Request for Comments Prospective respondents and other interested parties should comment on the proposed revisions. The following general guidelines are provided to assist in the preparation of responses. Please indicate to which form(s) your comments apply. As a potential respondent: A. Are the instructions and definitions clear and sufficient? If not, which instructions require clarification? B. Can the data be submitted using the definitions included in the instructions? C. Can data be submitted in accordance with the response time specified in the instructions? D. Public reporting burden for this collection is estimated to average eight hours per response. How much time, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information, do you estimate it will require you to complete and submit the required form(s)? F. What is the estimated cost of completing these forms, including the direct and indirect costs associated with the data collection? Direct costs should include all costs, such as administrative costs, directly attributable to providing this information. G. How can the form(s) be improved? H. Do you know of any other Federal, State, or local agency that collects similar data? If you do, specify the agency, the data element(s), and the means of collection. As a potential user: A. Can you use data at the levels of detail indicated on the form(s)? B. For what purpose would you use the data? Be specific. C. How could the form(s) be improved to better meet your specific needs? D. Are there alternate sources of data and do you use them? What are their deficiencies and/or strengths? E. For the most part, information is published by EIA in U.S. customary units, e.g., cubic feet of natural gas, short tons of coal, and barrels of oil. Would you prefer to see EIA publish more information in metric units, e.g., cubic meters, metric tons, and kilograms? If yes, please specify what information (e.g., coal production, natural gas consumption, and crude oil imports), the metric unit(s) of measurement preferred, and in which EIA publication(s) you would like to see such information. EIA is also interested in receiving comments from persons regarding their views on the need for the information contained in the Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey. Comments submitted in response to this notice will be summarized and/or included in the request for OMB approval of the form(s). They also will become a matter of public record. Statutory Authorities: Section 2(a) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;511), which amended Chapter 35 of Title 44 of the United States Code [See 44 U.S.C. ยง3506(a) and (c)(1)]. Issued in Washington, D.C., August 24, 1994. Yvonne M. Bishop, Director, Office of Statistical Standards, Energy Information Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21537 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
