FR940407-2-00160 FR940407-2-00081 Item 13. Proposed Project _The ending date should be calculated based on a 36-month project period. Item 14. Congressional District of Applicant/Project _Enter the number of the Congressional District where the applicant's principal office is located and the number of the Congressional district(s) where the project will be located. Item 15a. This amount should be no greater than the amount specified under Part III, Availability of Funds and Grant Amounts. Item 15b&hyph;e. These items should reflect both cash and third-party, in-kind contributions for the budget period requested. Item 15f. N/A Item 15g. Enter the sum of Items 15a&hyph;15e. B. SF&hyph;424A_Budget Information_Non-Construction Programs See Instructions accompanying this form as well as the instructions set forth below: In completing these sections, the Federal Funds budget entries will relate to the requested OCS funds only, and Non-Federal will include mobilized funds from all other sources_applicant, state, local, and other. Federal funds other than requested OCS funding should be included in Non-Federal entries. Sections A B, C and D of SF&hyph;424A should reflect budget estimates for the first budget period of the project. Section A_Budget Summary Lines 1&hyph;4. Col. (a) Line 1 _Enter Job Opportunities for Low-Income Individuals . Col. (b) Line 1 _Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.561. Cols. (c) and (d) Columns (c) and (d) are not relevant to this program and should not be completed. Column (e)&hyph;(g) For line 1, enter in columns (e), (f) and (g) the appropriate amounts needed to support the project. (Maximum $500,000) Line 5_Enter the figures from Line 1 for all columns completed (e), (f), and (g). Section B_Budget Categories Please Note: This information supersedes the instructions provided following SF&hyph;424A. Columns (1)&hyph;(5): Column 1: Enter the first budget period of 12 months. Column 2: Enter the second budget period of 12 months. Column 3: Enter the third budget period of 12 months. Column 4: Leave blank. Column 5: Enter the total requirements for Federal funds by the Object Class Categories of this section. Allocability of costs are governed by the cost principles set forth in OMB Circular A&hyph;122 and 45 CFR Part 74. Budget estimates for national administrative costs must be supported by adequate detail for the grants officer to perform a cost analysis and review. Adequately detailed calculations for each budget object class are those which reflect estimation methods, quantities, unit costs, salaries, and other similar quantitative detail sufficient for the calculation to be duplicated. For any additional object class categories included under the object class other identify the additional object class(es) and provide supporting calculations. Supporting narratives and justifications are required for each budget category, with emphasis on unique/special initiatives, large dollar amounts; local, regional, or other travels, new positions, major equipment purchases and training programs. A detailed itemized budget with a separate budget justification for each major item should be included as indicated below: Personnel_Line 6a. Enter the total costs of salaries and wages. Justification Identify the principal investigator or project director, if known. Specify by title or name the percentage of time allocated the project, the individual annual salaries, and the cost to the project of the organization's staff who will be working on the project. Do not include costs of consultants or personnel costs of delegate agencies or of specific project(s) or businesses to be financed by the applicant. Fringe Benefits_Line 6b. Enter the total costs of fringe benefits unless treated as part of an approved indirect cost rate which is entered on line 6j. Justification Provide a breakdown of amounts and percentages that comprise fringe benefit costs, such as health insurance, FICA, retirement insurance, taxes, etc.
