FR941207-0-00116 FR941207-0-00020 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 216 [Docket No. 941107&hyph;4307; I.D. 040494E] Taking and Importing of Marine Mammals; Yellowfin Tuna Imports AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NMFS is amending the regulations governing ``intermediary nation'' embargoes under the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) by removing the regulatory definition of ``intermediary nation,'' which was inconsistent with a new statutory definition and by incorporating the language of the statutory definition into the applicable regulatory text. This amendment is necessary to bring the regulations into conformance with a recent amendment to the MMPA. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wanda L. Cain, Office of Protected Resources (F/PR2), NMFS, 301&hyph;713&hyph;2055. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The MMPA requires the Secretary to prohibit the importation into the United States of any fish harvested with commercial fishing technology that results in the incidental kill of ocean mammals in excess of U.S. standards. In the case of yellowfin tuna harvested with purse seine nets in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean, the MMPA prohibits the importation directly from harvesting nations that do not have an affirmative finding from NMFS that they have a comparable marine mammal protection program and mortality rate, as well as indirectly through intermediary nations. The MMPA defines an ``intermediary nation'' as: a nation that exports yellowfin tuna or yellowfin tuna products to the United States and that imports yellowfin tuna or yellowfin tuna products that are subject to a direct ban on importation into the United States pursuant to section 101(a)(2)(B). (Pub. L. 102&hyph;582, section 401(a)). Prior to the enactment of Public Law 102&hyph;582, which added the definition of ``intermediary nation'' to the MMPA, NMFS had promulgated a regulatory definition of the term in ยง216.3. However, that regulatory definition does not conform to the new statutory definition and, by this rule, is removed. The language of the statutory definition is incorporated by this rule into the applicable regulatory text in ยง216.24(e)(5)(xiv). In addition, this rule relocates to ยง216.24(e)(5)(xiv) provisions pertaining to reasonable certification and proof, transhipments, and revocation of intermediary nation findings, which were contained in the definition removed from ยง216.3, but which still remain applicable. Classification This rule amends an existing regulation, without prescribing law or policy, in order to conform the definition of an ``intermediary nation'' to that contained in a statutory enactment. The Assistant Administrator finds under section 553(b)(B) of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) that good cause exists to waive prior notice and opportunity for public comment on this rule in that they would serve no useful purpose. Further, in that this rule merely incorporates a statutory definition already in effect, good cause exists under section 553(d)(3) of the APA to waive the 30-day delay in effectiveness. This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 216 Administrative practice and procedure, Imports, Indians, Marine mammals, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Transportation. Dated: December 1, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service.
