FR941027-1-00008 FR941027-1-00001 RE Act. The Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 et seq. ). REA cost-of-money loan. A loan made under section 305(d)(2) of the RE Act bearing an interest rate as determined under 7 CFR 1735.31(c). REA cost-of-money loans are made concurrently with RTB loans. RTB loan. A loan made by the Rural Telephone Bank (RTB) under section 408 of the RE Act bearing an interest rate as determined under 7 CFR 1610.10. RTB loans are made concurrently with REA cost-of-money loans. State. Each of the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the territories and insular possessions of the United States. This does not include countries in the Compact of Free Association. Telecommunications. The transmission or reception of voice, data, sounds, signals, pictures, writings, or signs of all kinds, by wire, fiber, radio, light, or other visual or electromagnetic means. Telecommunications Providers. Local exchange carriers, competitive access providers, and interexchange carriers which provide telecommunications service in the State covered by the Modernization Plan and such other entities providing telecommunications services as the developer of the Modernization Plan (See ยง1751.102) may determine. Wireline Service. Telecommunications service provided over telephone lines. It is characterized by a wire or wirelike connection carrying electricity or light between the subscriber and the Public Switched Network. Wireline Service implies a physical connection. Although radio may form part of the circuit, it is not the major method of transmission as in radiotelephone. ยง1751.101 General. (a) It is the policy of REA that every State have a Modernization Plan which provides for the improvement of the State's Public Switched Network. (b) A proposed Modernization Plan must be submitted to REA for approval. REA will approve the proposed Modernization Plan if it conforms to the provisions of this subpart. Once obtained, REA's approval of a Modernization Plan cannot be rescinded. (c) The Modernization Plan shall not interfere with REA's authority to issue such other telecommunications standards, specifications, requirements, and procurement rules as may be promulgated from time to time by REA including, without limitation, those set forth in 7 CFR part 1755. (d) The Modernization Plan must, at a minimum, apply to all REA borrowers. If a Modernization Plan is developed by the PUC or the State Legislature, REA encourages, but does not require, that the Modernization Plan's requirements apply to the rural service areas of all Telecommunications Providers. A State's decision not to include non-REA borrowers will not prejudice REA approval of their Plan. The PUC or the State Legislature may also, at its option, extend coverage of the Modernization Plan to all service areas of all Telecommunications Providers in the State. In addition, while requirements contained in ยง1751.106 apply only to wireline services, the State Legislature or PUC, at its discretion, may extend coverage of Modernization Plans to wireless or other communications services in a State as it deems appropriate. ยง1751.102 Modernization Plan developer_eligibility. (a) Each State, either by statute or through its Public Utility Commission, is eligible until one year after publication of the final rule in the Federal Register to develop a proposed Modernization Plan and deliver it to REA. REA will review and consider for approval all PUC or State Legislature-developed Modernization Plans received by REA within this one year period. The review and approval, if any, may occur after the one year period ends even though the PUC or State Legislature is no longer eligible to submit a proposed Modernization Plan. (b) The PUC must notify all Telecommunications Providers in the State that are part of the Public Switched Network and other interested parties of its intent to develop a proposed Modernization Plan. The PUC is encouraged to consider all such Providers' and interested parties' views and incorporate these views in the Modernization Plan. (c) If the State Legislature or PUC is no longer eligible to develop a Modernization Plan, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, eligibility to develop the Modernization Plan passes to a numeric majority of the Borrowers within the State. In this case, the following apply:
