FR941125-2-00086 FR941125-2-00065 Signet Banking Corporation, Richmond, VA; Application To Engage in Nonbanking Activities Signet Banking Corporation, Richmond, Virginia (Applicant), has applied pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) (BHC Act) and §225.23(a)(3) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)(3)), through Signet Strategic Capital Corporation, Richmond, Virginia (Company), to engage de novo in providing investment advisory services with respect to futures and options on futures on nonfinancial commodities. Applicant would engage in these activities on a worldwide basis. Section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act provides that a bank holding company may, with Board approval, engage in any activity which the Board, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, has determined (by order or regulation) to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. This statutory test requires that two separate tests be met for an activity to be permissible for a bank holding company. First, the Board must determine that the activity is, as a general matter, closely related to banking. Second, the Board must find in a particular case that the performance of the activity by the applicant bank holding company may reasonably be expected to produce public benefits that outweigh possible adverse effects. A particular activity may be found to meet the ``closely related to banking'' test if it is demonstrated that banks generally have provided the proposed activity, that banks generally provide services that are operationally or functionally similar to the proposed activity so as to equip them particularly well to provide the proposed services, or that banks generally provide services that are so integrally related to the proposed activity as to require their provision in a specialized form. National Courier Ass'n v. Board of Governors , 516 F.2d 1229, 1237 (D.C. Cir. 1975). In addition, the Board may consider any other basis that may demonstrate that the activity has a reasonable or close relationship to banking or managing or controlling banks. Board Statement Regarding Regulation Y, 49 FR 806 (1984). Applicant maintains that the Board previously has determined by order that providing investment advisory services with respect to futures and options on futures on nonfinancial commodities is closely related to banking. See Swiss Bank Corporation , 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 126 (1991); J.P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated , 80 Federal Reserve Bulletin 151 (1994). Applicant states that Company only would provide advisory services with respect to previously approved contracts. Applicant also states that Company would provide investment advisory services in accordance with the limitations of §§225.25(b)(19)(i) & (ii) of Regulation Y. In order to approve the proposal, the Board must determine that the proposed activities to be conducted by Company ``can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.'' 12 U.S.C. §1843(c)(8). Applicant believes that the proposal will produce public benefits that outweigh any potential adverse effects. In particular, Applicant maintains that the proposal will enhance competition and enable Applicant to offer its customers a broader range of products. In addition, Applicant states that the proposed activities will not result in adverse effects such as an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. In publishing the proposal for comment, the Board does not take a position on issues raised by the proposal. Notice of the proposal is published solely to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the application and does not represent a determination by the Board that the proposal meets, or is likely to meet, the standards of the BHC Act. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing and received by William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551, not later than December 9, 1994. Any request for a hearing on this application must, as required by §262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(e)), be accompanied by a statement of the reasons why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. This application may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors or the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, November 18, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Deputy Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29043 Filed 11&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;F
