FR940114-1-00082 FR940114-1-00018 b. Need for Showing of Intent Participants at the San Francisco meeting recommended that the regulations provide that ``false certification'' must relate to the school's intent to deceive and not include a clerical error. The participants at the New York meeting, who also discussed this issue, did not reach a consensus regarding the requirement for a showing of intent by the school. c. Procedures Only the attendees at the Atlanta meeting discussed the procedures that should be utilized in implementing the provision for discharge of loans in cases of false certification. Participants at the Atlanta meeting recommended that the regulations provide that the determination of a false certification can be made by the Department, the guaranty agency, or the courts. They also recommended that if the guaranty agency makes the decision, the regulations should allow the school to appeal that decision to the Secretary. Participants at that meeting also recommended that a lender be required to notify the guaranty agency within 30 days of receiving a complaint that a loan was falsely certified and that collection activity be suspended while the agency investigates the claim. The agency would be required to complete its investigation within 6 months. 3. Repayment of Bankruptcy Claims Public Law 102&hyph;325 changed the procedure for payment of bankruptcy claims by the Department and requires the Secretary to repay the loan if collection of the loan is stayed under Title 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Participants at all of the regional meetings recommended that the Department define ``stay'' in accordance with the current definition in the Bankruptcy Code. However, in response to the Department's question regarding the appropriate procedure for handling loans that are not ultimately discharged in bankruptcy, there were differences of opinion. The attendees at the San Francisco meeting recommended that if a loan was not likely to be discharged by the bankruptcy court, the guaranty agency should obtain the loan from the lender and hold it until the bankruptcy court action is completed and then return it to the lender. Attendees at the New York meeting recommended that lenders be permitted to file bankruptcy claims for payment directly to the Secretary and if the Secretary wanted the guaranty agency to service the account, the agency should be permitted to receive at least a portion of any repayment. They also recommended that the lender be given the option to repurchase any loan that is not discharged in bankruptcy. Participants at the Atlanta meeting recommended that lenders be required to repurchase any loans not discharged on which a claim was paid. Because this amendment has now been superseded by section 2(c)(63) of Public Law 103&hyph;208, which incorporated the provisions found in current FFEL Program regulations, these comments are now moot. 4. Garnishment The last statutory provision reflected in these proposed regulations is section 488A of the HEA, which establishes a national wage garnishment law. That section was added by Public Law 102&hyph;164, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act of 1991, and was not discussed during the regional meetings or the negotiated rulemaking sessions. Negotiated Rulemaking After completion of the regional meetings, the Department prepared draft proposed regulations to implement the provisions of Public Law 102&hyph;325 relating to the FFEL Program. In accordance with the requirements of section 492(b) of the HEA, those regulations were submitted to a negotiated rulemaking process. During the weeks of January 4&hyph;8 and February 1&hyph;5, 1993, the Department met with negotiators selected from among individuals nominated by attendees at the regional meetings. The discussion below of the proposed regulations reflects those areas where the negotiators reached a consensus and the proposed regulations reflect that agreement. The discussion below also indicates where consensus was not reached during the negotiations. However, the negotiators did not choose to discuss every part of the proposed regulations. Accordingly, the discussion below of those issues not discussed during the negotiations reflects only the views of the Secretary.
