FR940720-0-00120 FR940720-0-00007 Subpart Q_Preemption of State Standards and Waiver Procedures for Nonroad Engines and Nonroad Vehicles 85.1601␣Applicability. 85.1602␣Definitions. 85.1603␣Application of definitions; scope of preemption. 85.1604␣Procedures for California nonroad authorization requests. 85.1605␣Criteria for granting authorization. 85.1606␣Adoption of California standards by other states. Subpart Q_Preemption of State Standards and Waiver Procedures for Nonroad Engines and Nonroad Vehicles §85.1601 Applicability. The requirements of this subpart are applicable to nonroad engines and nonroad vehicles. §85.1602 Definitions. As used in this subpart, all terms not defined shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act, as amended. Commercial means an activity engaged in as a vocation. Construction equipment or vehicle means any internal combustion engine-powered machine primarily used in construction and located on commercial construction sites. Engine used in a locomotive means either an engine placed in the locomotive to move other equipment, freight, or passenger traffic, or an engine mounted on the locomotive to provide auxiliary power. Farm equipment or vehicle means any internal combustion engine-powered machine primarily used in the commercial production and/or commercial harvesting of food, fiber, wood, or commercial organic products or for the processing of such products for further use on the farm. Locomotive means a self-propelled piece of on-track equipment (other than equipment designed for operation both on highways and rails, specialized maintenance equipment, and other similar equipment) designed for moving other equipment, freight, or passenger traffic. New means a domestic or imported nonroad vehicle or nonroad engine the equitable or legal title to which has never been transferred to an ultimate purchaser. Where the equitable or legal title to an engine or vehicle is not transferred to an ultimate purchaser until after the engine or vehicle is placed into service, then the engine or vehicle will no longer be new after it is placed into service. A nonroad engine or vehicle is placed into service when it is used for its functional purposes. The term ultimate purchaser means, with respect to any new nonroad vehicle or new nonroad engine, the first person who in good faith purchases such new nonroad vehicle or new nonroad engine for purposes other than resale. This definition of new shall not apply to locomotives or engines used in locomotives. Nonroad engine means: (1) Except as discussed in paragraph (2) of this definition, a nonroad engine is any internal combustion engine:
