FR941206-1-00105 FR941206-1-00008 A variety of more stringent alternatives were considered, including more restrictive limits based on HAP content (rather than VOC content), more stringent VOC limits, and requiring use of pollution control equipment. These alternatives are discussed below. To evaluate other potential limits, the EPA gathered existing data on HAP content from marine coating manufacturers and shipyards. Information compiled from a material safety data sheet (MSDS) was used to determine (estimate) the HAP content of each paint. Most of the data came from MSDSs and product data sheets. Based on these data, the percentage of VOC in marine coatings that are HAP varies from zero to 100 percent and averaged 30 percent by weight for all paints in the project data base. (The HAP content could exceed the VOC content in coatings containing non-VOC HAP.) Industry subsequently informed EPA that the quality of HAP-specific data on MSDSs is poor. The MSDSs are prepared primarily to meet Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) requirements. Although one section addresses hazardous constituents, the industry indicated that information and format required for OSHA purposes are not as detailed or accurate as would be desired for development of a regulation. Further, the list of hazardous materials that OSHA regulations require must be addressed in MSDSs is different from the HAP list in section 112(b) of the Act. In addition, it is acceptable to give a concentration range on the MSDS, rather than a specific value. Finally, many entries on the MSDS are generic petroleum solvents, such as mineral spirits, which are mixtures of many organics (some of which may be HAP) and vary in composition from lot to lot. Because of these drawbacks in MSDS data, the EPA considered it not accurate enough to be used in setting limits for VOHAP. The Agency believes, however, that the resulting data base is sufficiently accurate for use in estimating broad parameters, such as the potential reduction associated with limitations on VOC content. Enforcement of a limit on HAP content would require an EPA reference test method. Although one is under development by the Agency, it has not yet been published. Based on the quality of the HAP content data on the MSDSs and the lack of an approved test method for speciating and quantifying HAP, the EPA has determined that VOC will be used as a surrogate to limit HAP emissions. Consequently, the proposed rule would establish the VOHAP limit at the VOC limit of the California rules using VOC as a surrogate for HAP and the Agency's VOC test method, Method 24, for determining compliance. The EPA considered requiring limits more stringent than the existing California limits. The data base indicates that within each category of coatings there are coatings with VOC contents below the California limit. (Some may have been developed in response to the technology-forcing provisions of the California regulations that provide for more stringent limits to come into effect in September 1994 for some coating categories.) Although coatings with lower VOC contents than the rule requires are marketed in each category, they reportedly would not perform for the full range of potential applications within a coating category. An important consideration in examining control requirements for this industry is U.S. Navy military specifications or ``milspecs.'' Because of the need for coatings for specialized applications and the demand for predictable performance, the Navy oversees exhaustive performance testing procedures. Naval personnel indicate an ongoing program to qualify lower VOC coatings. The California rules were developed with considerable input from the Navy, and according to a Naval representative, reflect the ``state of the art'' for lower-VOC shipbuilding coatings. Volatile organic compound limits more stringent than proposed would require that the Navy use paints for which they have not yet completed long term testing, hence are not milspec approved. Given these considerations, the EPA is proposing MACT emission levels based on the 1992 California regulations that limit the total VOC as-applied paint.
