FR940208-1-00007 FR940208-1-00001 * * * * * 4. Section 1945.175 is amended by revising paragraphs (c)(2), and (c)(4) to read as follows: ยง1945.175 Options, planning and appraisals. (c) Appraisals. * * * * * (2) Real estate appraisals will be completed as provided in subpart E of part 1922 of this chapter. However, the value of assets that secure EM loans associated with a disaster having any portion of its incidence period occurring on or after May 31, 1983, must be based on the higher of two values, all of which must be part of the file. These values will show: (i) The asset value on the day before a State Governor's, Indian Tribal Council's, or an FmHA State Director's first EM designation request, which is associated with the naming of one or more counties in a State as a disaster area where eligible farmers may qualify for EM loans; or the asset value one year (365 days) and one day before the designation request. (ii) Form FmHA 1922&hyph;1, will be completed to reflect the recommended market value (RMV) as of the day before the Governor's request. (A) When the value one day before the Governor's request reflects adequate security for the loan(s), the basis for arriving at the second value, one year and one day before the Governor's request, will be documented in an attachment to the appraisal. (B) When the first appraisal does not reflect adequate security only the applicable Part(s) 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8 of a second Form FmHA 1922&hyph;1, will be completed to reflect changes between the two dates, and establish a value one year and one day before the Governor's request. (C) In cases where there is a physical loss of real estate and funds will be used for development, the RMV will be as improved. (iii) The following types of real estate offered as collateral for securing EM loans will be appraised at the present market value only: (A) Farm real estate the applicant/borrower did not own on the date set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. (B) Real estate ``not owned'' by the applicant/borrower (for example, a relative if offering real estate as collateral for the proposed EM loan). (C) A single family dwelling located on a nonfarm tract. (D) Other types of real estate such as apartment houses and commercial buildings. The County Supervisor will request the assistance of the State Director in establishing the value of such real estate. (iv) Sales data utilized in the preparation of the necessary appraisal(s) should conform to the dates set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, to ensure a fair market value of the property is established. In addition, it should be confirmed that said sales resulted from reasonable sales efforts and that both the buyer and seller were willing, informed, and knowledgeable parties. * * * * * (4) Chattel appraisals will be completed on Form FmHA 1945&hyph;15, ``Value Determination Worksheet,'' (EM loans only) when chattels are taken as security. The property which will serve as security will be described in sufficient detail so it can be identified. Sources such as livestock market reports and publications reflecting values of farm machinery and equipment will be used as appropriate. The value of assets that secure EM loans associated with a disaster having any portion of the incidence period occurring on or after May 31, 1983, must be based on the higher of two values, all of which must be made part of the file. These values will be based on the time periods contained in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. (i) In those cases where the value one year and one day before the Governor's request reflects adequate security, the appraiser or County Supervisor will reasonably estimate the value one day before the Governor's request. (ii) Chattels owned by the applicant, and nonfarm chattel property offered as security (such as planes, house trailers, boats, etc.) will be appraised at the present market value only. Chattels that the applicant/borrower did not own on the dates set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section will be appraised at the present market value only. Dated: February 1, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2777 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;07&hyph;U
