FR940902-1-00017 FR940902-1-00002 Dr. 131.13, Cash_General_Economic Development Grant Funds Cr. 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income To record grant funds disbursed by REA. Dr. 123.3, Investment in Associated Companies_Federal Economic Development Loans Cr. 131.13, Cash_General_Economic Development Grant Funds To record advances of Federal funds to associated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. Dr. 124.1, Other Investments_Federal Economic Development Loans Cr. 131.13, Cash_General_Economic Development Grant Funds To record advances of Federal funds to nonassociated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. Dr. 171, Interest and Dividends Receivable Cr. 419, Interest and Dividend Income To record the accrual of interest on loans made to associated and nonassociated organizations with Federal funds for authorized rural economic development projects. Dr. 131.14, Cash_General_Economic Development Non-Federal Revolving Funds Cr. 123.3, Investment in Associated Companies_Federal Economic Development Loans or Cr. 124.1, Other Investments_Federal Economic Development Loans To record repayment of loans made with Federal funds. Dr. 123.4, Investment in Associated Companies_Non-Federal Economic Development Loans Cr. 131.14, Cash_General_Economic Development Non-Federal Revolving Funds To record advances of non-Federal funds to associated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. Dr. 124.2, Other Investments_Non-Federal Economic Development Loans Cr. 131.14, Cash_General_Economic Development Non-Federal Revolving Funds To record advances of non-Federal funds to nonassociated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. Dr. 171, Interest and Dividends Receivable Cr. 419, Interest and Dividend Income To record the accrual of interest on loans made to associated and nonassociated organizations with non-Federal funds for authorized rural economic development projects. Dr. 131.14, Cash_General_Economic Development Non-Federal Revolving Funds Cr. 123.4, Investment in Associated Companies_Non-Federal Economic Development Loans or Cr. Dr. 124.2, Other Investments_Non-Federal Economic Development Loans To record repayment of loans made with non-Federal funds. 19. In ยง1767.41, Interpretation No. 627 is revised, and Interpretation No. 628, Postemployment Benefits, and Interpretation No. 629, Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, are added to read as follows: 627 Postretirement Benefits Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (Statement No. 106), requires reporting entities to accrue the expected cost of postretirement benefits during the years the employee provides service to the entity. For purposes of applying the provisions of Statement No. 106, members of the board of directors are considered to be employees of the cooperative. Prior to the issuance of Statement No. 106, most reporting entities accounted for postretirement benefit costs on a ``pay-as-you-go'' basis; that is, costs were recognized when paid, not when the employee provided service to the entity in exchange for the benefits. As defined in Statement No. 106, a postretirement benefit plan is a deferred compensation arrangement in which an employer promises to exchange future benefits for an employee's current services. Postretirement benefit plans may be funded or unfunded. Postretirement benefits include, but are not limited to, health care, life insurance, tuition assistance, day care, legal services, and housing subsidies provided outside of a pension plan. This statement applies to both written plans and to plans whose existence is implied from a practice of paying postretirement benefits. An employer's practice of providing postretirement benefits to selected employees under individual contracts with specified terms determined on an employee-by-employee basis does not, however, constitute a postretirement benefit plan under the provisions of this statement. Postretirement benefit plans generally fall into three categories: single-employer defined benefit plans, multi-employer plans, and multiple-employer plans. The accounting requirements set forth in this interpretation focus on single- and multiple-employer plans. The accounting requirements set forth in Statement No. 106 for multiemployer plans or defined contribution plans shall be adopted for borrowers electing those types of plans. Under the provisions of Statement No. 106, there are two components of the postretirement benefit cost: the current period cost and the transition obligation. The transition obligation is a one-time accrual of the costs resulting from services already provided. Statement No. 106 allows the transition obligation to be deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of the active employees. If the average remaining service life of the employees is less than 20 years, a 20-year amortization period may be used. Accounting Requirements All REA borrowers must adopt the accrual accounting provisions and reporting requirements set forth in Statement No. 106. The transition obligation and accrual of the current period cost must be based upon an actuarial study. This study must be updated to allow the borrower to comply with the measurement date requirements of Statement No. 106; however, the study must, at a minimum, be updated every five years. REA will not allow electric borrowers to account for postretirement benefits on a ``pay-as-you-go'' basis. The deferral and amortization of the transition obligation does not require REA approval provided that it complies with the provisions of Statement No. 106. If, however, a borrower elects to expense the transition obligation in the current period and subsequently defer this expense in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, the deferral must be approved by REA. In those states in which the commission will not allow the recovery of the transition obligation through future rates, the transition obligation must be expensed, in its entirety, in the year in which Statement No. 106 is adopted. A portion of the transition obligation may be charged to construction and retirement activities provided such charges are properly supported.
