FR940413-2-00114 FR940413-2-00059 D. Late Proposals Any proposal received at the office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt will not be considered unless it is received before award is made and it_ (1) Was sent by U.S. Postal Service registered or certified mail not later than the fifth calendar day before the date specified for receipt of application (e.g., an offer submitted in response to a solicitation requiring receipt of applications by the 20th of the month must have been mailed by the 15th); or (2) Was sent by U.S. Postal Service Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee, not later than 5 p.m. at the place of mailing two working days prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals. The term ``working days'' excludes weekends and U.S. Federal holidays. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late proposal sent either by U.S. Postal Service registered or certified mail is the U.S. postmark both on the envelope or wrapper and on the original receipt from the U.S. Postal Service. Both postmarks must show a legible date or the proposal shall be processed as if mailed late. ``Postmark'' means a printed, stamped, or otherwise placed impression (exclusive of a postage meter machine impression) that is readily identifiable without further action as having been supplied and affixed by employees of the U.S. Postal Service on the date of mailing. Therefore, applicants should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation ``bull's eye'' postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late proposal sent by ``Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee'' is the date entered by the post office receiving clerk on the ``Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee'' label and the postmark on both the envelope or wrapper and on the original receipt from the U.S. Postal Service. ``Postmark'' has the same meaning as defined above. Therefore, applicants should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation ``bull's eye'' postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper. E. Withdrawal of Proposals Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice or telegram (including mailgram) received at any time before award. Proposals may be withdrawn in person by an applicant or an authorized representative thereof, if the representative's identity is made known and the representative signs a receipt for the proposal before award.
