FR940928-0-00074 FR940928-0-00021 The four other comments addressed both categories. GAMA and ACEEE stated that the same descriptor should be required for instantaneous water heaters and heat pump water heaters that is required for storage water heaters. 66 AGA commented that, if pool heaters, instantaneous water heaters, and heat pump water heaters are to be labeled, the required disclosure should be the estimated annual operating cost. 67 CEC recommended that the Commission require energy factor, annual energy consumption, and annual cost of operation disclosures. CEC stated that the energy factor is needed because this is the measure upon which utility incentive programs are based, and that annual energy consumption and annual cost of operation are needed ``to fulfill FTC's Congressional mandate.'' 68 66 GAMA, E&hyph;3, 2, 3&hyph;4. At the time the NPR was published, energy usage descriptor for water heaters was estimated annual operating cost. The NPR proposed the disclosure of either estimated annual operating cost or energy factor for instantaeous water heaters. GAMA, therefore, envisioned the choice as between energy factor and estimated annual operating cost. ACEEE, EE&hyph;3, 2, 3. ACEEE assumed that heat pump water heaters would be disclosing estimated annual operating cost in this case, but did not make this assumption for instantaneous water heaters. As of December 28, 1994, however, the required disclosure of energy usage for water heaters will be the estimated annual energy consumption with an ``operating cost disclosure statement.'' See Note 63, above. 67 AGA, EE&hyph;4, 2&hyph;4. 68 CEC, EE&hyph;2, 5, 7. The Commission agrees with GAMA and ACEEE that the energy usage of instantaneous and heat pump water heaters should be expressed with the same descriptor (estimated annual energy consumption) that is used to disclose the energy usage of the storage-type water heaters currently covered by the Rule. This permits consumers to compare the energy usage of the various types of water heaters that could fulfill their needs. Accordingly, today's amendments will incorporate instantaneous water heaters and heat pump water heaters into the existing requirements to disclose estimated annual energy consumption. See section 305.3(d) of ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 4. Sub-categories for Ranges of Comparability The NPR solicited comment about whether to include instantaneous water heaters in the three existing water heater ranges (one range each for electric, gas [including propane] and oil water heaters), or to establish a separate range category. The current ranges of comparability for water heaters are categorized on the basis of first-hour rating. 69 Under the DOE test, there is a method for calculating the equivalent of a first-hour rating for instantaneous water heaters. Therefore, these products could be included in the existing ranges and could be considered with conventional water heaters for range purposes. Because they have no storage tanks, however, and are different from conventional water heaters, the NPR sought public comment on whether a separate category would be more helpful to consumers than including these products in the existing water heater ranges. 69 The DOE test defines ``First Hour Rating'' as the amount of hot water the water heater can supply in one hour of operation. See 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, Appendix E, 1.5. The DOE test also contains a provision by which a first-hour rating for heat pump water heaters can be calculated. Like instantaneous water heaters, therefore, heat pump water heaters could be included in the conventional water heater ranges. The NPR sought comment on whether it would be more helpful to consumers to include heat pump water heaters with conventional water heaters or to create a separate range category for them. Four commenters addressed the issue of range subcategories for these products. Paloma contended that gas instantaneous water heaters are so different from storage-type water heaters that they should be in a separate range category. 70 GAMA and ACEEE stated, without elaboration, that instantaneous water heaters should be in the same range category as conventional storage water heaters. 71 ACEEE thought that heat pump water heaters should be in the same range category as storage-type water heaters, but GAMA and CEC disagreed, recommending that they be in a separate range category. 72 70 Paloma, E&hyph;2, 4. 71 GAMA, E&hyph;3, 2; ACEEE, EE&hyph;3, 2. 72 ACEEE, EE&hyph;3, 3; GAMA, E&hyph;3, 3&hyph;4; CEC, EE&hyph;2, 7. The Commission is creating separate sub-categories for each of these two types of water heaters, rather than including them in the existing ranges of comparability for water heaters. As noted in the comments, the technology of instantaneous and heat pump water heaters is different from that of storage-type water heaters. In addition, it is not likely that homeowners would substitute these new types of products ``one-to-one'' for conventional, storage-type units. 73 The Commission has determined that it would be helpful for consumers looking for alternatives to conventional storage-type water heaters to have products using different technologies grouped separately. Accordingly, the Commission has determined to amend the Rule to create three new range sub-categories_one each for gas instantaneous water heaters (natural gas and propane), oil instantaneous water heaters, and heat pump water heaters. See Appendices D4&hyph;D6 in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 73 For example, heat pump water heaters do not recover (reheat water after being drained of heated water) as quickly as comparably-sized storage-type models, and instantaneous water heaters are more limited than comparable storage-type models as to how much hot water they can provide per unit of time ( e.g., gallons per minute). Moreover, an instantaneous water heater which would (be gas-fired) that would be large enough to serve a small house would be disproportionately expensive to purchase when compared to comparable storage-type models. Thus, it is not likely that homeowners would substitute these new types of products ``one-to-one'' for conventional, storage-type units. This approach to ranges of comparability for the newly covered water heaters is consistent with the separate range groupings the Commission currently uses for home heating equipment; i.e., forced-air furnaces and boilers are separate sub-categories within the furnace category. See 59 FR 34014, 34042&hyph;49 (July 1, 1904).
