FR941122-0-00011 FR941122-0-00005 Synopsis of the changes ␣ 1Former organizational structure 1New organizational structure Executive Associate Commissioner Abolished, functions realigned to the Deputy Commissioner, and the four Executive Associate Commissioners (EACs). Office of Professional Responsibility Abolished, some functions absorbed by the Office of Internal Audit. Office of Program Inspections Abolished, some functions absorbed by the Office of Internal Audit. Office of Congressional and Public Affairs Functions redistributed to an Office of Public Affairs and an Office of Congressional Relations. Office of Anti-Smuggling under the Office of Enforcement Anti-Smuggling function absorbed into the Office of Investigations. Associate Commissioner, Management EAC, Management. Office of Comptroller under the Office of Management Office of Finance under the EAC, Management. Office of Personnel and Training under the Office of Management Office of Human Resources and Administration under the EAC, Management. Office of Administration under the Office of Management Administration functions absorbed into the Office of Human Resources and Administration under the EAC, Management. Office of Equal Employment Opportunity under the Office of Management Reports to the EAC, Management. Office of Plans and Analysis under the Executive Associate Commissioner EAC, Policy and Planning. Office of Information Systems under the Executive Associate Commissioner Office of Information Resources Management under the EAC, Management. Records Systems Division under the Office of Information Systems Functions realigned to EAC, Management; EAC, Programs; EAC, Policy and Planning; and Director, Public Affairs. Data Systems Division under the Office of Information Systems Reports to the Office of Information Resources Management. Office of Policy Directives and Instructions under the Office of Information Systems Policy Directives and Instructions Branch under the EAC, Policy and Planning. Project Control and Integration Division under the Office of Information Systems Systems Integration Division under the Office of Information Resources Management. Office of Examinations Reports to the EAC, Programs. Adjudication Division under the Office of Examinations Adjudications and Nationality Division under the Office of Examinations. Refugee, Asylum, and Parole Division under the Office of Examinations Functions realigned to EAC, Field Operations to include an Asylum Division and a Refugees and Parole Division, both of which report to the Office of International Affairs. Office of Outreach Program under the Office of Examinations Absorbed into the Adjudications and Nationality Division under the Office of Examinations. Administrative Appeals Unit under the Office of Examinations Administrative Appeals Office under the Office of Examinations. Legalization Division under the Office of Examinations Abolished. National Fines Office under the Office of Examinations Absorbed into the Inspections Division under the Office of Examinations. Four Regional Commissioners Abolished and functional responsibilities realigned to three Regional Directors reporting to the EAC, Field Operations, and four Directors of Administrative Centers reporting to the EAC, Management.
