FR940228-1-00149 FR940228-1-00010 (iv) The proceeds of the first disbursement of the loan were delivered to the student or credited to the student's account prior to the end of the participation. (e) For the purposes of this section_ (1) A commitment under the Federal Pell Grant and PAS programs occurs when a student is enrolled and attending the institution and has submitted a valid Student Aid Report to the institution or when an institution has received a valid institutional student information report; (2) A commitment under the campus-based programs occurs when a student is enrolled and attending the institution and has received a notice from the institution of the amount that he or she can expect to receive and how and when that amount will be paid; and (3) A commitment under the Federal Stafford and Federal SLS programs occurs when the Secretary or a guaranty agency notifies the lender that the loan is guaranteed. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094, 1099a&hyph;3) 15. Section 668.81, as proposed to be amended in a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking published on February 17, 1994 (59 FR 8062), is further amended by removing paragraph (a)(2); redesignating paragraph (a)(1) introductory text as paragraph (a) introductory text; redesignating paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) as paragraphs (a)(1) through (4), respectively; removing the word ``or'' after the semi-colon in paragraph (c)(1); revising paragraph (c)(2); adding paragraphs (c)(3) and (4); and revising paragraph (d) to read as follows: §668.81 Scope and special definitions. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (2) An institution fails to qualify for initial certification or provisional certification to participate in any Title IV, HEA program because the institution does not meet the factors of financial responsibility and standards of administrative capability contained in subpart B of this part; (3) A participating institution's or a provisionally certified participating institution's period of participation, as specified under §668.13, has expired; or (4) A participating institution's provisional certification is revoked under the procedures in §668.13. (d) This subpart does not apply to a determination by the Secretary of the system to be used to disburse Title IV, HEA program funds to a participating institution (i.e., advance payments and payments by way of reimbursements). * * * * * 16. A new Appendix A to Part 668 is added to read as follows: Appendix A to Part 668_Standards for Acceptable Refund Policies by Participating Institutions For purposes of §668.22(b)(1)(iv)(A), the Secretary considers an institution to have a fair and equitable refund policy if the institution uses a policy that meets the minimum requirements of this appendix. These requirements are a modified version of guidelines developed by the National Association of College and University Business Officers. These requirements do not affect an institution's obligation to comply with other Department of Education regulations. (I) The governing board of the institution must review and approve the schedule of all institutional charges and refund policies applicable to students. The pricing of services and refund policies have important consequences to students, parents, the institution, and society; as such, pricing and refund policies must receive board attention and approval. (II) The institution must seek consumer views in the process of establishing and amending charge and refund structures. Decisions regarding institutional funds are ultimately the sole responsibility of the institution's legally designated fund custodians. However, consumer concerns do affect decision making, and involving consumers in decision making related to charges and refunds is an essential approach for assessing student needs and creating public awareness of institutional requirements. (III) The institution must publish a current schedule of all student charges (including the costs of required supplies and equipment), publish a statement of the purpose for such charges and related refund policies, have those statements readily available free of charge to current and prospective students, and substantiate that the costs of required supplies and equipment are reasonably related to the cost of providing the supplies and equipment to the students. Students and parents have a right to know what charges they will be expected to pay and what will or will not be refunded. They also have a right to know what services accompany payment of the charges. Informational materials published free for students and prospective students are ideal for this purpose.
