FR940817-2-00264 FR940817-2-00113 5.2.1.3.4. Weight of evidence. A ``weight of evidence'' approach to identifying an agent as a neurotoxic hazard is almost always necessary. With the exception of therapeutic products, a single, complete, controlled study of an agent's effects on the nervous system, conducted in an appropriate representative sample of humans, is rarely, if ever, possible. Rather, those individuals charged with identifying hazard are usually confronted with a collection of imperfect studies, often providing conflicting data (Barnes and Dourson, 1988). There are several possible approaches, depending on the quality of the evidence. Two examples are the use of data from only the most sensitive species tested and the use of data from only species responding most like the human for any given endpoint. In assessing neurotoxicity of therapeutic products, when human data are available and neurotoxic endpoints detected in animals can be clinically measured, the human findings supersede those of the nonclinical data base. Assuming that all available evidence is to be included, considerations necessary for formulating a conclusion include the relative weights that should be given to positive and negative studies. Sometimes positive studies are given more weight than negative ones, even when the quality of the studies is comparable. Experimental design factors such as the species tested, the number and gender of subjects evaluated, and the duration of the test are given different weights when data from different studies are combined. The route of exposure in a given study and its relevance to expected routes of human exposure are often a weighted factor. The issue of statistical significance is frequently debated. Some argue that an effect occurring at a statistically insignificant level may nevertheless represent a biologically or toxicologically significant event, and should be afforded the same weight as if the finding were statistically significant. In general, however, only statistically significant measures should be considered in hazard identification. The power of various statistical measures is also considered. 5.2.2. Dose-Response Assessment In the second step of the risk assessment process, the dose-response assessment, the relationship between the extent of damage or toxicity and dose of a toxic substance for various conditions of exposure is determined. Because several different kinds of responses may be elicited by a single agent, more than one dose-response relationship may need to be developed (e.g., neurochemical and morphological parameters). When quantitative human dose-effect data are not available for a sufficient range of exposures, other methods must be used to estimate exposure levels likely to produce adverse effects in humans. In the absence of human data, the dose-response assessment may be based on tests performed in laboratory animals. Evidence for a dose-response relationship is an important criterion in assessing neurotoxicity, although this may be based on limited data from standard studies that often use only three dose groups and a control group (Barnes and Dourson, 1988). The most frequently used approach for risk assessment of neurotoxicants and other noncancer endpoints is the uncertainty- or safety-factor approach (Barnes and Dourson, 1988; Kimmel, 1990). For example, within the EPA, this approach involves the determination of reference doses (RfDs) by dividing a no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) by uncertainty factors that presumably account for interspecies differences in sensitivity (Barnes and Dourson, 1988). Generally, an uncertainty factor of 10 is used to allow for the potentially higher sensitivity in humans than in animals and another uncertainty factor of 10 is used to allow for variability in sensitivity among humans. Hence, the RfD is equal to the NOAEL divided by 100. If the NOAEL cannot be established, it is replaced by the lowest observed adverse effect level (LOAEL) in the RfD calculation and an additional uncertainty factor of 10 is introduced (i.e., the RfD equals the LOAEL divided by 1000). If more than one effect is observed in the animal bioassays, the effect occurring at the lowest dose in the most sensitive animal species and gender is generally used as the basis for estimating the RfD (OTA, 1990). Sometimes, different RfDs can be calculated, depending on endpoint or species selected. Selection of safety factors may be influenced by several considerations, including data available from humans, weight of evidence, type of toxic insult, and probability of variations in responses among susceptible populations (e.g., very young or very old). Established guidelines have been accepted by several agencies that use the safety-factor approach to account for intraspecies variability, cross-species extrapolation, and exposure duration. In some instances, comparisons between these predicted values and experimental data have been conducted and the results appear comparable for some selected examples (Dourson and Stara, 1983; McMillan, 1987). The uncertainty-factor approach is based on the assumption that a threshold does exist, that there is a dose below which an effect does not change in incidence or severity. The threshold concept is complicated and controversial. As described by Sette and MacPhail (1992), there are several different ways in which the term threshold is used. Thresholds are defined, in part, by the limit of detection of an assay. As the sensitivity of the analytical method or bioassay is improved, the threshold might be adjusted downward, indicating that the true threshold had not been previously determined. Another problem inherent with an observation of no discernible effects at low doses is that it is impossible to determine whether the risk is actually zero (i.e., the dose is below a threshold dose) or whether the statistical resolving power of a study is inadequate to detect small risks (Gaylor and Slikker, 1992). Every study has a statistical limit of detection that depends on the number of individuals or animals involved. For example, it would be relatively unusual to conduct an experiment on a neurotoxicant with as many as 100 animals per dose. If no deleterious effects were observed in 100 animals at a particular dose, it might be concluded that this dose level is below the threshold dose. However, we can only be 95 percent confident that the true risk is less than 0.03. That is, if 3 percent of the animals in a population actually develop a toxic effect at this dose, there is a 5 percent chance that a group of 100 animals would not show any effect. The observation of no toxic effects in an extremely large sample of 1,000 animals only indicates with 95 percent confidence that the true risk is less than 0.003, etc. Because thresholds cannot be realistically demonstrated, they are therefore assumed.
