FR940407-1-00058 FR940407-1-00012 * * * * * (v) Book value means the value at which an asset is carried on a balance sheet. (w) Capital structure means a company's financial framework, which is composed of long-term debt, preferred (and preference) stock, and common-stock equity capital (par value plus earned and capital surplus). (x) Capitalization ratio means the percentage of a company's capital structure that is long-term debt, preferred (and preference) stock, and common stock-equity capital. (y) Consolidated system means a parent company and all of its subsidiaries. (z) Subsidiary company means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting shares of stock are owned by another corporation, called the parent company. (aa) Long-term debt means a liability due in a year or more. (bb) Times-interest-earned ratio means the measure of the extent to which operating income can decline before a firm is unable to meet its annual interest costs. It is computed by dividing a firm's earnings before interest and taxes by the firm's annual interest expense. 5. In ยง552.6, paragraph (a)(1), the first sentence of paragraph (a)(2), the introductory text of paragraph (b)(1), paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (b)(5), and the heading of paragraph (b)(9) are revised; paragraph (b)(10) is added; paragraphs (c)(5) and (c)(10) are revised; paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) are revised; paragraphs (e) and (f) are redesignated (g) and (h); a new paragraph (e) is added and paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) are redesignated (f)(1) and (f)(2) and the paragraph headings thereof revised reading as follows: ยง552.6 Forms. (a) General . (1) The submission required by this part shall be submitted in the prescribed format and shall include General Information regarding the carrier, as well as the following schedules as applicable: Exhibit A_Rate Base and supporting schedules; Exhibit B_Income Account and supporting schedules; Exhibit C_Rate of Return and supporting schedules; Exhibit D_Application for Waiver; Exhibit E_Initial Tariff Filing Supporting Data; and Exhibit F_Allowable Rate of Return schedules. (2) Statements containing the required exhibits and schedules are described in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), and (h) of this section and are available upon request from the Commission. * * * (b) Rate base (Exhibits A and A(A))&hyph;(1) Investment in Vessels (Schedules A&hyph;I and A&hyph;I(A)). Each cargo vessel (excluding vessels chartered under leases which are not capitalized in accordance with ยง552.6(b)(10)) employed in the Service for which a statement is filed shall be listed by name, showing the original cost to the carrier or to any related company, reduced to reflect the use of funds from the Capital Construction Fund's capital gains account or ordinary income account, plus the cost of improvements, conversions, and alterations, reduced to reflect the use of funds from the Capital Construction Fund's capital gains account or ordinary income account, less the cost of any deductions. All additions and deductions made during the period shall be shown on a pro rata basis, reflecting the number of days they were applicable during the period. The result of these computations shall be called the Adjusted Cost. * * * * *
