FR940228-1-00088 FR940228-1-00010 In the case of nonprofit institutions, the Secretary has developed standards in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 117 (FAS 117) that was issued in June 1993 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). FAS 117 altered the reporting format for not-for-profit organizations after the negotiated rulemaking process was already well underway. FAS 117 is effective for annual financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1994, except for organizations with less than $5 million in total assets and less than $1 million in annual expenses. For those organizations, the Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1995 with earlier application encouraged. The Secretary proposes to require a nonprofit institution to prepare a classified statement of financial position in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles to provide the Secretary with the financial information necessary to determine the institution's financial responsibility under these proposed regulations. The Secretary proposes that, alternatively, a nonprofit institution could provide this information as footnotes to the audit. Although FAS 117 does not require a nonprofit institution to submit a classified statement of financial position prior to published implementation dates, it does not prohibit the institution from doing so. The Secretary notes that a financial statement that is not classified is not structured to provide the financial information necessary for the Secretary to determine an institution's compliance with these proposed regulations; however, the information could be included as footnotes to the audit. The Secretary proposes that a nonprofit institution is not financially responsible if it cannot demonstrate, at the end of its latest fiscal year, a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of at least 1:1. The Secretary proposes to not permit a nonprofit institution to include the cash reserves in the institution's current assets. The Secretary believes that, because the proposed current assets to current liabilities ratio for a nonprofit institution is 1:1, if the institution used designated reserve funds to meet this ratio, there would be no assurance of solvency. The importance of a higher current ratio for for-profit institutions lies in the fact that they are not as likely to be able to draw on fund raising as a source of cash in the event of hampered liquidity because donors are less likely to contribute funds to a for-profit institution where those contributions would not be tax deductible. Many nonprofit institutions have sufficient support in the community and from friends and alumni who are willing to donate to the institution. The cash intake of for-profit institutions is therefore limited to cash generated through profitability, whereas nonprofit institutions have an additional source of cash. Endowments, even when restricted to functions such as providing scholarships, are awarded and may be taken into cash from operations. Consistent profitable operations result in a better liquidity position for for-profit institutions, whereas consistent profitable operations are not necessary for a nonprofit to remain viable. In addition, it is inherent in a nonprofit institution that its final cash position not reflect a profit. In the nonprofit industry, the financial manager has limited authority. The financial manager may make recommendations, but the ultimate authority lies with the governing board. There is, therefore, less control in the hands of financial managers and a corresponding decrease in their ability to control a liquidity situation. Lack of liquidity means that the institution is unable to service its current debt. This can lead to the forced sale of long-term investments and assets. To the owners of an institution, a lack of liquidity will mean reduced profitability or it may mean loss of control or loss of the entire capital investment. To creditors of the enterprise, it means slow collection of principal and interest due or even loss of the amounts due them. Students of these institutions can also be affected by a short-term poor financial condition. These effects may take the form of inability of the institution to perform their contract, inability to make refunds due to students or lenders, or the loss of supplier relationships. Suppliers are interested in an institution's liquidity position, and if it is found to be inadequate, it may cease to do business with the institution.
