FR940418-1-00042 FR940418-1-00011 Monday April 18, 1994 Part III Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Parts 121, 125 and 135 Operator Flight Attendant English Language Program; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 74␣/␣Monday, April 18, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Parts 121, 125 and 135 [Docket No. 27694; Notice No. 94&hyph;11] RIN 2120&hyph;AE98 Operator Flight Attendant English Language Program AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM). SUMMARY: The FAA is considering rulemaking to establish requirements to ensure that flight attendants understand sufficient English language to communicate, coordinate, and perform all required safety related duties. If the FAA actually proposes such a requirement, it would be comparable to regulatory requirements for other crewmembers and dispatchers. Improvements in communication, coordination, and performance of required safety related duties that may result from this regulatory process would benefit crewmembers and passengers. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before July 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this notice should be mailed, in triplicate, to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;200), Docket No. 27694, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments delivered must be marked Docket No. 27694. Comments may be examined in room 915G weekdays between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., except on Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Donell Pollard, Project Development Branch, AFS&hyph;203, Air Transportation Division, Office of Flight Standards, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591; telephone (202) 267&hyph;3735. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of a proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments relating to the environmental, energy, federalism, or economic impact that might result from any future rulemaking action are also invited. Substantive comments should be accompanied by cost estimates. Communications should identify the regulatory docket or notice number and should be submitted in triplicate to the Rules Docket address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments specified will be considered by the Administrator before rulemaking action is taken. All comments received will be available, both before and after the closing date for comment, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Persons wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments must include a preaddressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 27694.'' The postcard will be date stamped and mailed to the commenter. Availability of ANPRM Any person may obtain a copy of this ANPRM by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center, APA&hyph;230, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3484. Communications must identify the notice number of this ANPRM. Persons interested in being placed on the mailing list for future rulemaking actions should request from the above office a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Distribution System, which describes the application procedure. Background It is essential that all flight crewmembers, dispatchers, and air traffic controllers, be able to communicate with each other. Sections 61.83, 61.103, and 61.123 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) require that a person, in order to be eligible to receive a special pilot certificate without limitations, be able to read, write, and understand the English language. Section 61.151 of the FAR requires that a person, in order to be eligible for an airline transport pilot certificate, to be able to read, write, and understand the English language and speak it without accent or impediment of speech that would interfere with two-way radio conversation. Additionally, persons eligible to be flight engineers, navigators, and dispatchers are required to be able to read, write and understand the English language. The primary objective of these rules is to insure communication and coordination among crewmembers and others who have duties related to the safe operation of a flight. The Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee, an entity comprised of aviation related organizations that advise the FAA on various regulatory issues, has stated that it is inconsistent to assign flight attendants safety related duties aboard flights without ensuring that they have the ability to effectively communicate and coordinate these duties with other crewmembers. Possible Rulemaking This notice is to inform the public that the FAA is considering amending the applicable portions of parts 121, 125 and 135 of the FAR by requiring certificate holders to establish a program to ensure that flight attendants understand sufficient English to communicate, coordinate and perform all required safety related duties. The FAA is issuing this Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to gather operational and economic data for use in determining whether to develop a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM). The FAA is seeking information in the following specific areas: Nature of the Problem (1) What are the safety related duties that would be affected by lack of proficiency in the English language? (2) What are the actual or potential safety related problems, if any, caused by a lack of English language proficiency on the part of the flight attendants?
