FR940603-2-00178 FR940603-2-00094 Camesa Inc., which imports the strand at issue and finishes it into steel wire rope in the United States, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Grupo Camesa, the Mexican manufacturer and exporter of the strand (see Camesa submission of December 20, 1993, page one). Since all of Camesa Inc.'s purchases of strand during the POI were from Grupo Camesa, these purchases are from a related party within the meaning of section 773(e)(4) of the Tariff Act. Accordingly, the relationship between Grupo Camesa and Camesa Inc. would make it more likely that circumvention of the antidumping duty order may have occurred during the POI. (C) Increase in Imports of Components Generally, the Department considers circumvention to be more likely when imports of parts and components which are used in the production of merchandise subject to the order have increased after issuance of the antidumping duty order. The Department reviewed Camesa's imports of strand after the issuance of the order, and compared these imports to those prior to the order. We note that Camesa's imports steadily increased after issuance of the order through the end of the POI (see Camesa submission of December 20, 1993, Attachment Five). This pattern of imports of strand from Mexico indicates that circumvention of the order on steel wire rope may have occurred during the POI. Affirmative Preliminary Determination of Circumvention After consideration of all the factors discussed above, the Department preliminarily determines that circumvention of the antidumping duty order on steel wire rope from Mexico has occurred within the meaning of section 781(a) of the Tariff Act. We base this determination on the following: First, the merchandise finished at Camesa Inc. and sold in the United States is of the same class or kind of merchandise as that covered by the order and is completed from merchandise produced in the order country. Second, on the basis of BIA, the Department preliminarily determines that the difference between the value of the steel wire rope sold in the United States and the value of the strand used in the production of steel wire rope is small within the meaning of section 781(a) of the Tariff Act. Third, Camesa's imports into the United States of strand from Mexico increased during the POI, while Camesa's imports into the United States of wire rope from Mexico ceased after the Department issued the affirmative preliminary determination of sales at less than fair value of steel wire rope from Mexico. Finally, Camesa Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Grupo Camesa. Thus, the pattern of trade, relationship between Grupo Camesa and Camesa Inc., and level of imports into the United States support a finding of circumvention of the antidumping duty order. Based on this affirmative preliminary determination of circumvention, we have preliminarily determined that strand, as defined above, falls within the scope of the antidumping duty order on steel wire rope from Mexico, pursuant to section 781(a)(1) of the Tariff Act. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 773(d) of Tariff Act, the Department is directing the U.S. Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of stranded wire from Mexico having a lay or twist of not more than 1 revolution for a length equal to the strand diameter multiplied by 8.5, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The merchandise subject to suspension of liquidation is wire strand of the kind used in the production of steel wire rope, as defined in the ``Scope of the Anticircumvention Inquiry'' section of this notice. The U.S. Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of bond in the amount of 111.68 percent. This suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. Notification of the International Trade Commission The Department, consistent with section 781(e) of the Tariff Act, will notify the ITC of this preliminary determination to include the merchandise subject to this inquiry within the antidumping duty order on steel wire rope from Mexico. Pursuant to section 781(e) of the Tariff Act, the ITC may request consultations concerning the Department's proposed inclusion of the subject merchandise. If, after consultations, the ITC believes that a significant injury issue is presented by the proposed inclusion, the ITC may provide written advice to the Department. In such a case, the ITC will have 60 days to provide written advice to the Department. Public Comment Interested parties may request disclosure within 5 days of the date of publication of this determination, and may request a hearing within 10 days of publication. Case briefs and/or written comments from interested parties may be submitted no later than 30 days after the date of publication of this notice. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttals to comments, limited to issues raised in those briefs or comments, may be filed no later than 37 days after publication of this notice. Any hearing, if requested, will be held 44 days after publication of this notice. The Department will publish the final determination with respect to the circumvention inquiry, including the results of its analysis of any written comments. This preliminary affirmative circumvention determination is in accordance with section 781(a) of the Tariff Act and 19 CFR 353.29(e). Dated: May 19, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12798 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
