FR940811-2-00120 FR940811-2-00075 [Release No. 34&hyph;34492; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;28] Self-Regulatory organizations; Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Real Estate Investment Trusts (``REITs'') Portfolio Market Index Target-Term Securities. August 5, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on July 15, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the Exchange. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1982). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange proposes to list for trading Market Index Target-Term Securities (``MITTS''), 2 the return on which is based upon a portfolio (``REIT Portfolio'') of securities of U.S. Real estate investment trusts (``REITs''). Initially, the REIT Portfolio will contain the securities of 20 REITs that are traded in the United States on the NYSE or on the American Stock Exchange (``Amex''). 3 2 ``MITTS'' is a registered service mark and ``Market Index Target-Term Securities'' is a service mark of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (``Merrill Lynch''). 3 The REITs represented in the REIT Portfolio are: Carr Realty Corporation; Duke Realty Investments, Inc.; Federal Realty Investment Trust; Gables Residential Trust; Health Care Property Investors Inc.; Health and Rehabilitation Properties Trust; JP Realty, Inc.; Kimco Realty Corporation; Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.; New Plan Realty Trust; Simon Property Group, Inc.; Trinet Corporate Realty Trust, Inc.; Urban Shopping Centers, Inc.; Excel Realty Trust, Inc.; Weingarten Realty Investors; General Growth Properties, Inc.; Taubman Centers, Inc.; Burnham Pacific Properties, Inc.; Western Investment & Real Estate Trust; and Wellsford Residential Property Trust. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NYSE has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Pursuant to the listing criteria set forth in Section 703.19 of the Exchange's Listed Company Manual (``Manual''), the Exchange proposes to list for trading MITTS on the REIT Portfolio (``REIT Portfolio MITTS'') issued by Merrill Lynch. MITTS are securities that entitle the holder to receive from the issuer upon maturity an amount based upon the change in the market value of a stock index or portfolio, provided that a minimum amount (90% of the principal amount) will be repaid. REIT Portfolio MITTS will allow investors to combine protection of a substantial portion of the principal amount of the MITTS with potential additional payments based on a portfolio of securities of selected REITs and the dividend stream related to the components of that portfolio. The REIT Portfolio MITTS will provide that at least 90% of the principal amount thereof will be repaid at maturity. The Security REIT Portfolio MITTS will entitle the owner at maturity to receive an amount in cash based upon the ``Total Return Portfolio Value;'' provided, however, that the amount payable at maturity will not be less than $9 for each $10 principal amount of the REIT Portfolio MITTS. The ``Total Return Portfolio Value'' will be an amount based upon the change in the ``Original Portfolio Value'' and the value of the REIT Portfolio at maturity, plus the aggregate dollar amount of dividends paid on the components of the REIT Portfolio after the issuance of the REIT Portfolio MITTS and prior to maturity. The Original Portfolio Value will equal $10, i.e. , the value of the REIT Portfolio on the date the REIT Portfolio MITTS are priced by the issuer for initial offering to the public. The value of the REIT Portfolio at maturity will be based on the average of the closing prices for the components of the REIT Portfolio for a specified number of days immediately prior to maturity date of the REIT Portfolio MITTS. 4 4 In particular, the Total Return Portfolio Value will be based on the average of the REIT Portfolio values for the first 45 NYSE trading days of the Calculation Period. The Calculation Period is defined as the period from and including the ninetieth scheduled NYSE trading day prior to the maturity date to and including the fourth scheduled NYSE trading date prior to the maturity date.
