FR940428-1-00013 FR940428-1-00006 48 CFR Part 5452 DLA Acquisition Regulation; Fuel Allocation Procedures AGENCY: Defense Logistics Agency, DoD. ACTION: Proposed rule and request for comments. SUMMARY: The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) proposes to add coverage to a proposed to 48 CFR Chapter 54, which is published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register . The proposed changes affect regulations on Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses. Comments are hereby requested on the proposed changes which implement and supplement the Federal Acquisition Regulation 49.504(a)(1) which requires the use of FAR Default clause 52.249&hyph;8. The changes are required in order to incorporate three nonstandard clauses in bulk, bunkers, intoplane, and posts, camps, and stations petroleum solicitations and contracts concerning fuel allocation procedures. These allocation clauses permit DFSC contractors to supply less than the full amount of fuel contracted by the government, without being terminated for default, during periods of exceptional fuel shortages. The proposed coverage is being published in the Federal Register because it is expected to have an effect beyond the internal operating procedures of DLA and, in some cases, a significant cost or administrative impact on contractors. DATES: Comments on the proposed DLAR rules must be submitted in writing to the address shown below on or before June 27, 1994, to be considered in the formulation of the final rules. ADDRESSES: Interested parties should submit written comments to Defense Logistics Agency, Directorate of Procurement, Contract Policy Team (AQPLL), Ms. Melody Reardon, Cameron Station, Alexandria, Virginia 22304&hyph;6100 FAX: (703) 274&hyph;0130. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Melody Reardon, Defense Logistics Agency, AQPLL (703) 274&hyph;6431. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background Defense Fuel Supply Center has historically utilized deviations to FAR termination for default clauses in order to provide for contingencies in the case of fuel allocations by contractors. These deviations have been approved on an annual basis since 1974. Defense Fuel Supply Center proposed incorporating these three nonstandard clauses in DLAR to eliminate the need for annual review and approval. The clauses are necessary to protect potential contractors from default proceedings and ensure the continuance of a competitive procurement environment for government petroleum requirements. Allocation of fuel to customers on a pro rata basis during periods of extreme shortage is a standard practice in the petroleum industry. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act The proposed clauses are not expected to have significant economic impacts on a substantial number of small entities within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C1 601 et seq. since the clauses have been utilized for many years by Defense Fuel Supply Center as deviations to FAR. An initial regulatory flexibility analysis has, therefore, not been performed. Comments are invited from small businesses and other interested parties. Comments from small entities concerning the affected FAR sections will also be considered in accordance with section 610 of the Act. Such comments must be submitted separately and cite this case in correspondence. C. Paperwork Reduction Act
