FR940318-0-00118 FR940318-0-00023 The Agency believes that the Congressional mandate to evaluate substitutes based on reducing overall risk to human health and the environment authorizes use of global warming as one of the SNAP evaluation criteria. Public comment failed to identify any definition of overall risk that warranted excluding global warming. Further, in October 1993, the President directed EPA through the Climate Change Action Plan (CCAP) to use its authority under section 612 of the Clean Air Act to narrow the uses allowed for hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons with high global warming potential. EPA disagrees with the statutory and legislative history arguments raised by the commenter. The commenter points to language that relates only to the listing of ozone depleting and global warming substances, which is not relevant to EPA's authority under section 612(c) to regulate substitutes based on an assessment of overall risk. The fact that Congress may have deleted authority for EPA to phase out use of substances based solely on their global warming potential without regard to available substitutes certainly imposes no limitation on consideration of global warming potential as a factor in assessing the overall risk of using any class I or II substitute. Especially in light of President Clinton's recent commitment to use section 612 authority specifically to narrow uses of high global warming potential CFC substitutes based on an overall risk assessment, EPA has concluded that it is appropriate to consider global warming potential as one factor in the SNAP analysis. Therefore, in this final rule, the Agency will continue to exercise its statutory authority to review substitutes for listing as unacceptable or acceptable alternatives, using the criteria for evaluation set out in the NPRM, including global warming. 4. Definitions a. Definition of potentially available. Several commenters supported EPA's definition of potentially available because it would speed the review process and encourage innovation in development of new substitutes. Other commenters expressed the concern that EPA's definition of ``potentially available'' could allow EPA to review and accept a substitute which may be several years from general commercial availability, and on that basis to ban some other commonly used chemical with relatively higher risk. These commenters argued that EPA should at least wait until test marketing has begun to consider an alternative ``potentially available'' for the purpose of SNAP review. Another commenter argued that a knowledge of the economic viability of a substitute is crucial in assessing its potential availability as a substitute under SNAP. Under section 612(c) of the CAA, the Agency is specifically required to identify alternatives that are either ``currently or potentially available.'' For this final rule, the Agency is defining as potentially available any alternative for which adequate health, safety, and environmental data, as required for the SNAP notification process, exist to make a determination of acceptability, and which the Agency reasonably believes to be technically feasible, even if not all testing has yet been completed and the alternative is not yet produced or sold. EPA would not prohibit use of a substitute where no substitute that reduces overall risk is currently available, to avoid situations where the only available substitute to allow transition away from ozone-depleting compounds is unacceptable under SNAP. b. Definition of a substitute. Several commenters expressed support for EPA's definition of a substitute as used in the NPRM. One commenter proposed the use of the word ``alternative'' instead of ``substitute,'' while supporting the Agency's general construction of the statute to allow SNAP's purview to extend beyond chemical substitutes to a broader range of alternative technologies, including process changes. Another commenter, while also generally supporting EPA's definition of a substitute, pointed out that the language ``could replace'' is overly broad. This commenter noted that this language suggests that someone who is not using a compound as an ODS replacement, but is aware that it could be used in this way, should report to EPA under SNAP. For the purpose of this final rule the Agency is using the word ``substitute'' as a synonym for alternative. As discussed in section IV.A, this definition includes chemical substitutes, alternative manufacturing processes, and alternative technologies. In response to the public comment described above, the Agency has also clarified in this final rule that SNAP addresses only those substitutes or alternatives actually replacing the class I and II compounds listed under section 602 of the CAA within the eight industrial sectors identified in sections IX.D. through K. 5. General Comments on Substitutes a. Perfluorocarbons. Under the NPRM for SNAP, EPA proposed perfluorocarbons (PFCs) as acceptable for limited use as replacements for ozone depleting chemicals in the solvent cleaning, and fire suppression and explosion protection sectors. Several commenters supported the Agency's cautious approach toward PFCs, given the high global warming potential of these compounds as well as their extreme atmospheric persistence. Other commenters sought clarification with respect to the scope of the Agency's proposed restrictions on PFCs.
