FR940208-2-00190 FR940208-2-00093 (b) a statement identifying the document and requesting its inclusion in the extraordinary challenge record. (3) On receipt of a document referred to in subrule (2), the responsible Secretary shall include the document in the extraordinary challenge record. 42. (1) Within 10 days after a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee referred to in Article 1904.13(a)(i) of the Agreement is filed, a panelist against whom an allegation contained in the Request is made and who proposes to participate in the extraordinary challenge proceeding: (a) shall file a Notice of Appearance; (b) may file, under seal, documents to be included in the extraordinary challenge record relevant to the panelist's defense against the allegation; and (c) may file an ex parte motion requesting that the extraordinary challenge proceeding be conducted in camera. (2) Where a committee issues an order pursuant to subrule 46(1)(a), a panelist who filed documents described in subrule (1)(b) may, within 5 days after issuance of the order, withdraw any of those documents. (3) Where a panelist withdraws documents pursuant to subrule (2), the committee shall not consider those documents. Filing and Content of Briefs and Appendices 43. (1) All briefs shall be filed within 21 days after the Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee is filed and shall be in the form required by rule 44. (2) Appendices shall be filed with the briefs. 44. (1) Briefs and appendices shall be securely bound along the left-hand margin. Briefs shall contain information, in the following order, divided into five parts: Part I: (a) A table of contents; and (b) A table of authorities: The table of authorities shall arrange the cases alphabetically, refer to the page(s) of the brief where each authority is cited and mark, with an asterisk in the margin, those authorities primarily relied upon. Part II: A statement of the case: This part shall contain a concise statement of the relevant facts with references to the panel record by page and, where applicable, by line. Part III: A statement of the issues: (a) In the brief of a Party that files a Request, this part shall contain a concise statement of the issues; and (b) In the brief of any other participant, this part shall contain a concise statement of the position of the participant with respect to the issues. Part IV: Argument: This part shall consist of the argument, setting out concisely the points of law relating to the issues, with applicable citations to authorities and the panel record. Part V: Relief: This part shall consist of a concise statement precisely identifying the relief requested. (2) Paragraphs in Parts I to V of a brief may be numbered consecutively. (3) Authorities referred to in the briefs shall be included in an appendix, which shall be organized as follows: a table of contents, copies of all treaty and statutory references, references to regulations, cases primarily relied on in the briefs, set out alphabetically, all documents relied on from the panel record and all other materials relied on. Motions 45. (1) Motions, other than motions referred to in subrule 42(1)(c), may be considered at the discretion of the committee (model form provided in the Schedule). (2) A committee may dispose of a motion based upon the pleadings filed on the motion. (3) A committee may hear oral argument in person or, subject to subrule 35(b), direct that a motion be heard by means of a telephone conference call with the participants.
