FR940606-0-00051 FR940606-0-00019 (v) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or (B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable; or (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g) of this section, a person does not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if: (i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and the local processing agency determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance; (ii) The person moved into the property after the submission of the application for the loan and before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, the person was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated, or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (or for any assistance provided under this section) as a result of the project; (iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or (iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project. (3) The property owner or local processing agency may request, at any time, a HUD determination of whether a displacement is or would be covered by this section. (i) Definition of initiation of negotiations. For purposes of determining the formula for computing a replacement housing payment to be provided to a displaced residential tenant, the term initiation of negotiations means the execution of the loan agreement between the property owner and HUD. (Approved by Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number 2506&hyph;0121) PART 850_HOUSING DEVELOPMENT GRANTS 11. The authority citation for part 850 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437o, 3535(d). 12. A new ยง850.34 is added to read as follows: ยง850.34 Tenant assistance, displacement, relocation, and acquisition. (a) General policies. The grantee shall: (1) Ensure that the rehabilitation will not cause the displacement of any very low-income household by a household that is not a very low-income household. (2) Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, minimize the displacement of persons as a result of a project assisted under this part. (3) Administer all phases of the Housing Development Grant Program, including the selection of projects and the provision of notices, counseling, referrals, other advisory services and relocation payments, in a manner that does not result in discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, age, disability, familial status or national origin. (4) Adopt and make public a written tenant assistance policy (TAP) that describes the assistance that will be provided to tenants who reside in the project and which includes a statement of nondiscrimination policy consistent with paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The TAP shall comply with the provisions of this section. Each tenant in the project shall be provided a copy of the TAP and advised of the impact of the project on him or her. For privately owned projects, such notice shall be given immediately after submission of the application by the Owner of the property, or earlier. For publicly owned projects, such notice shall be given immediately after the firm project commitment (defined in ยง850.3), or earlier. (b) Relocation assistance for displaced persons. A ``displaced person'' (defined in paragraph (f) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601&hyph;4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. A ``displaced person'' shall be advised of his/her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 360119), and, if the representative comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority person is located in an area of minority concentration, such person also shall be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas. (c) Real property acquisition requirements. The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements described in 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. (d) Appeals. A person who disagrees with the grantee's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a ``displaced person,'' or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the grantee. A person who is dissatisfied with the grantee's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Field Office. (e) Responsibility of grantee. (1) The grantee shall certify that it will comply (i.e., provide assurance of compliance, as required by 49 CFR part 24) with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section. The grantee shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's (e.g., the property owner's) contractual obligation to the grantee to comply with these provisions.
