FR940825-1-00013 FR940825-1-00002 (b) All fire partitions must extend from the floor slab to the bottom of the slab above or shall connect with ceiling construction having a fire resistance rating of not less than that required for the fire partition walls. (c) All opening protectives (e.g., doors, windows) in fire partitions shall have the minimum fire resistance rating as set forth in section f.9. (d) Penetrations through assemblies shall comply with section f.11.(b). 8. Floor/Ceiling and Roof/Ceiling Assemblies. (a) All floor openings connecting two or more stories shall be protected by a vertical shaft enclosure that complies with section f.5. (b) All penetrations of a floor/ceiling assembly shall be protected by a shaft enclosure that complies with section f.5. Exception: A shaft enclosure shall not be required where cables, cable trays, conduits, tubes, or pipes penetrate a floor assembly and are protected with an approved through-penetration protection system tested in accordance with ASTM E814. The system shall have an ``F'' rating and a ``T'' rating of not less than 1 hour, but not less than the required fire resistance rating of the assembly being penetrated. Exception: Hatch openings at the top of the shaft are permitted when a 1.5 hour fire rated assembly is provided at the hatch opening or when a protected enclosure around the shaft opening is a 1.5 hour fire rated assembly. (c) All roof/ceiling assembly penetrations shall be protected in accordance with section f.1.(b). 9. Fire Door Assemblies. (a) Fire door assemblies shall provide a fire resistance rating in accordance with the following table: ␣ 1Type of assembly 1Required assembly rating (hours) 1Minimum opening protection Fire separation assemblies having a fire resistance rating greater than one hour 4 3 ␣ 3 3 ␣ 2 11/2 ␣ 11/2 11/2 Fire separation assemblies: Shaft and exit enclosure walls 1 1 Other fire separation assemblies 1 3/4 Fire partitions: Exit access corridor enclosure wall 1 1/3 ␣ 1/2 1/3 Other fire partitions 1 3/4 (b) Operation. Fire doors shall be self-closing and latching. Stairwell doors may be held open by approved devices that will meet all of the following requirements: (1) The device shall release the door and the door shall automatically close and latch if the ATCT fire alarm is operated. (2) The fire door shall be provided with appropriate hardware so that it can be instantly reopened manually by some simple and readily obvious operation (e.g., panic hardware, door knob). 10. Fire Dampers. Fire dampers shall be installed in accordance with the applicable provisions of NFPA 90A, Standard for the Installation of Air Conditioning and Ventilating Systems. 11. Firestopping and Draftstopping. (a) Firestops or draftstops shall be provided as specified herein in all walls, partitions, and other concealed spaces or openings, horizontal and vertical, to prevent the free passage of flame and the products of combustion and shall be sufficient to maintain the fire resistance rating of the wall, partition, or floor pierced. (b) Wall and floor openings penetrated by materials (e.g., telephone and communication cables) where the materials are required to be frequently changed, added, etc., may be firestopped using mineral wool, firestop pillows, or other fire resistive material. (c) Firestops shall be provided in any concealed space where there is the potential for fire, heat, or smoke passage, other than a properly enclosed service shaft, pass, or chase.
