FR941202-0-00009 FR941202-0-00001 (1) Comment. The proposed requirements for linearity and geometry tests are not consistent with methods of assaying alpha or beta emitters, such as liquid scintillation counting. Response. The regulatory text includes the phrase ``as appropriate for the use of the instrument.'' Therefore, if linearity or geometry tests are not appropriate for an instrument, the tests are not required. (2) Comment. The regulation does not require medical use licensees to measure the activity of a unit dosage of an alpha- or a beta-emitting radionuclide. This provision should also apply to commercial nuclear pharmacies. Response. Section 35.52(a) will exempt a medical use licensee from measuring the alpha- or beta-activity of a unit dosage, if the licensee obtains that unit dosage from a commercial nuclear pharmacy. This exemption is acceptable because ยง32.72(c) will require the commercial nuclear pharmacy to measure that activity before dispensing the radioactive drug. Commercial nuclear pharmacies would be required to measure the alpha- or beta-activity of a unit dosage because, otherwise, it might not be measured by anyone. Therefore, this provision cannot be applied to commercial nuclear pharmacies. Authorized Nuclear Pharmacist There were several comments concerning this definition. These comments and the NRC's responses are summarized below. (1) Comment. This definition uses the phrase ``a permit issued by a Commission or Agreement State specific licensee of broad scope.'' Is there a standard format for this permit? Response. The Commission does not require licensees of broad scope to use a standard format for a permit. The format for this permit may vary from one licensee to another. (2) Comment. The word ``or'' should be inserted between the first and second paragraphs of this definition. Response. It is an acceptable regulatory drafting convention that for a sentence with multiple independent conditions, only one ``or'' is necessary between the last condition and the previous condition to indicate that satisfying any one of the conditions is acceptable. Because this definition has three independent conditions, an ``or'' between the first and the second condition is not necessary. Authorized User Comment. There were several comments concerning the use of the phrase ``individual's character'' in the preamble of the proposed rule. The commenters stated that the use of the phrase ``individual's character'' appears inappropriate in considering whether the individual should be approved as an authorized user. Response. For the same reasons as set forth in response to comment (2) of ยง32.72(b), the Commission disagrees with the comment. Medical Use There were several comments concerning the addition of human research subjects in the definition of medical use. These comments and the NRC's responses are summarized below. (1) Comment. By including human research subjects under ``medical care,'' it is implied that a physician may be allowed to deliver any radiation dose to a human research subject if the physician can convince the local IRB that the dose is warranted. Also, the concept of implying that human research subjects can be considered as patients may cause difficulty because there are separate laws and considerations for each group. Response. The definition under discussion is ``medical use,'' not ``medical care.'' The term ``medical use'' is specifically defined for the purpose of identifying a class of uses involving byproduct material that is regulated by the Commission. By using the term ``patients or human research subjects'' in connection with a requirement, the Commission states that the requirement applies to both patients and human research subjects. The Commission does not intend to imply that a human research subject can be considered as a patient, nor does the Commission intend to imply that a physician may deliver any radiation dose to a human research subject, without appropriate approval. The Commission recognizes that there are separate medical or pharmacy laws and considerations governing human research subjects and patients. However, the Commission has determined that the radiation safety requirements in its regulations that are designed to protect patients from radiological hazards are equally applicable to human research subjects.
