FR941107-2-00043 FR941107-2-00010 Comment 15: Hevensa argues that the Department should perform the sales below cost test by comparing the sales price to a monthly weighted-average COP. It asserts that comparing sales prices at the beginning of the POI to a weighted-average COP for the POI would be distortive, given the high rate of inflation experienced in Venezuela during the POI. The petitioners argue that Hevensa's proposed comparison of monthly COPs, calculated on a historical cost basis, to monthly selling prices would be contrary to Department practice and highly distorted. Petitioners assert that as a consequence of the erosion of the value of the Venezuelan currency between the date the inputs were purchased and the date of shipment of the silicomanganese produced using inventoried inputs, Hevensa's proposed methodology understates Hevensa's production costs. DOC Position: Department practice is to compute a single POI weighted-average cost of production for each different model or product of subject merchandise. Monthly COPs are computed in situations where the country under investigation is experiencing ``hyperinflation.'' When a country is experiencing hyperinflation, we require respondents to report monthly COPs using the replacement cost methodology. In this investigation, the Department determined that the Venezuelan economy was not experiencing hyperinflation during the POI. Indeed, this was the position taken by Hevensa during the investigation. As a consequence, Hevensa submitted its historical costs rather than the replacement costs required by the Department's hyperinflation methodology. Accordingly, monthly weighted average COPs were not used in the calculations for the final determination. Continuation of Suspension of Liquidation We are directing the Customs Service to continue to suspend liquidation of all entries of silicomanganese from Venezuela that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after June 17, 1993, the date of publication of our preliminary determination in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated amount by which the FMV of the merchandise subject to this investigation exceeds the U.S. price, as shown below. This suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows: ␣ 1Producer/manufacturer exporter 1Weighted-average margin Hevensa 8.81 All others 8.81 ITC Notification In accordance with section 735(d) of the Act, we have notified the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) of our determination. The ITC will now determine, within 45 days, whether these imports are materially injuring, or threatening material injury to the U.S. industry. If the ITC determines that material injury, or threat of material injury, does not exist, the proceeding will be terminated and all securities posted will be refunded or cancelled. If the ITC determines that such injury does exist, the Department will issue an antidumping order directing Customs officials to assess antidumping duties on all imports of the subject merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the effective date of the suspension of liquidation. Notification to Interested Parties This notice also serves as the only reminder to parties subject to administrative protective order (APO) of their responsibility concerning the return or destruction of proprietary information disclosed under APO in accordance with 19 CFR 353.34(d). Failure to comply is a violation of the APO. This determination is published pursuant to section 735(d) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.20(a)(4). Dated: October 31, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27547 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
