FR940810-2-00068 FR940810-2-00044 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration For Children and Families Agency Information Collection Under OMB Review Under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35), we have submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval of a new information collection request titled: ``Inventory of Child Care Management Information Systems.'' This request is sponsored by the Division of Child Care of the Administration for Children and Families (ACF). ADDRESSES: Copies of these survey instruments may be obtained from Edward E. Saunders of the Office of Information Systems Management, ACF, by calling (202) 205&hyph;7921. Written comments and questions regarding this information collection should be sent directly to: Laura Oliven, OMB Desk Officer for ACF, OMB Reports Management Branch, New Executive Office Building, Room 3002, 725 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20503 (202) 395&hyph;7316. Information on Document: Title: Inventory of Child Care Management Information Systems. OMB No. New. Description: The Administration for Children and Families (ACF) is responsible for a number of Federal programs which promote the economic self-sufficiency and social well-being of low-income families and children. Current ACF child care programs that provide funding to States, Territories, Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations for this purpose include: Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC)/Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training (JOBS), At-Risk Child Care (ARCC), Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG), Social Services Block Grant (SSBG), and Transitional Child Care (TCC). In recent years, Federally-funded child care programs have grown in complexity and size. Increased monitoring and reporting is required in order to assure program accountability and respond effectively to congressional requests for information about the management, integration and use of funds for these various child care programs. Until recently, ACF has awarded grants to States, Territories, Indian Tribes, and Tribal organizations to develop and enhance the automation of child care program operations. To this end, grantees were encouraged to use computers and information systems technologies to operate their child care programs more efficiently and effectively. However, no systematic approach has been untaken by ACF to determine the scope of management information systems (MIS), especially the computerization of day care operations or the capabilities, utilization, functions and configuration of computer systems for the management and administration of Federal child care programs. This survey will be used to develop an inventory of child care MIS for State, Territory and Tribal Grantees. ACF needs this information to develop baseline information from which to identify technical assistance needs of its grantees. In addition, this information will assist ACF in program evaluation, management, and monitoring of child care programs. ␣ 1␣ 1States/Territories 1Tribes Annual number of respondents 112 213 Annual frequency 1 1 Average burden hours per response 1.5 .5 Total burden hours 168 106.5 Total burden hours 274.5 Dated: August 2, 1994. Larry Guerrero, Deputy Director, Office of Information Systems Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19465 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;M
