FR940110-1-00102 FR940110-1-00006 ยง960.17 AHP applications involving loan funds and loan consortia. (a) General. (1) An applicant may use a subsidized advance or a direct subsidy to make a loan or a grant to a loan fund or loan consortium as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. (2) AHP applications involving the use of loans or grants by loan funds or loan consortia pursuant to the AHP are governed by the provisions of this part, except as otherwise provided in this section. (b) AHP application approval requirements. The requirements for approval of an AHP application that proposes to use subsidized advances or direct subsidies to make a loan or a grant to a loan fund or a loan consortium are governed by the provisions of ยง960.8, except that: (1) The application will be scored on the criteria that the loan fund or loan consortium proposes to use to select projects that will ultimately receive a loan or grant from the loan fund or loan consortium that is subsidized by the AHP; and (2) The Bank shall review and shall require the applicant to review each new rental housing project funded by a loan fund or loan consortium prior to disbursing the loan or grant to ensure that: (i) The project meets the threshold requirements of ยง960.9; and (ii) The project meets the criteria committed to in the approved AHP application. (c) Use of funds. _(1) Subsidized advances. If an applicant receives a subsidized advance and uses the proceeds of the advance to make a loan to a loan fund or loan consortium, the loan fund or loan consortium shall extend credit to the borrower at a rate of interest equal to the rate of interest charged on the subsidized advance plus a reasonable interest rate spread approved by the Bank. The applicant and the loan fund or loan consortium may determine between themselves what proportion of the interest rate spread the applicant and the loan fund or loan consortium will share. (2) Direct subsidies. (i) If an applicant receives a direct subsidy from a Bank and in turn provides a grant to a loan fund or loan consortium, the loan fund or loan consortium must either: (A) Pass the entire grant on to the recipient; (B) Use the entire grant to lower the interest rate on a loan to the borrower; or (C) Lend the entire grant to the borrower to finance a rental housing project for a term of not less than 30 years, with all principal and interest payments deferred until the end of such term. If such loan is repaid before the end of the 30-year term, the entire amount of the grant must be repaid to the applicant, which in turn must forward the funds to the Bank to be used for additional AHP projects. (ii) If a loan fund or loan consortium provides both a loan and a grant to a borrower and the loan fund or loan consortium charges an origination fee for providing the loan, then any fee charged by the loan fund or loan consortium for providing the grant may not be paid with AHP subsidized advances or direct subsidies.
