FR940419-0-00052 FR940419-0-00018 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 685 [Docket No. 931198&hyph;4100; I.D. 031494C] RIN 0648&hyph;AF97 Pelagic Fisheries of the Western Pacific Region AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NMFS adopts as final, with one change, the interim final rule authorizing the Southwest Regional Director (RD), NMFS, to require the owner or agent of a vessel with a permit for the longline fishery to make accommodations for a NMFS observer. This final rule requires permit holders or their designated agents (which may include the vessel operator) to provide NMFS with at least 72 hours notice (not including weekends and Federal holidays) prior to each departure from port so the RD can determine if an observer placement will be made. This action is necessary to ensure adequate collection-of-data on the frequency and nature of interactions between longline fishing gear and sea turtles around Hawaii to ensure the fishery operates in compliance with the Endangered Species Act (ESA). EFFECTIVE DATE: April 23, 1994, 0001 hours Hawaii time. ADDRESSES: Copies of the Observer Plan may be obtained from Anneka W. Bane, Acting Regional Director, Southwest Region, 501 W. Ocean Blvd., Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA 90802. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Svein Fougner at 310&hyph;980&hyph;4034; Norm Mendes at 310&hyph;980&hyph;4022, or Alvin Katekaru at 808&hyph;955&hyph;8831. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Pelagic fisheries of the western Pacific region, including the longline fishery based in Hawaii, are managed under a Fishery Management Plan (FMP) that was approved in 1987 and subsequently was amended six times. Rules implementing the FMP are found at 50 CFR part 685. A Biological Opinion and Incidental Take Statement were issued June 10, 1993, concerning the take of sea turtles in the Hawaii longline fishery. In addition to setting a limit on the incidental take of sea turtles, the Incidental Take Statement also requires NMFS to establish an observer program (initially through voluntary placements and subsequently through a mandatory program) to ensure collection of sufficient data to produce statistically significant results and to evaluate the accuracy of logbooks submitted for the fishery. This rule provides the administrative mechanism for NMFS to carry out the observer program with general longline permit holders. An interim final rule establishing the mandatory observer program was published on December 22, 1993 (58 FR 67699). In that rule, the observer placement authority was provided under the limited entry permit requirement for longline vessels under an existing longline limited entry program in Hawaii. It was anticipated that a new limited entry program would be implemented by an FMP amendment existing at the time the program expires at midnight, April 22, 1994. However, the proposed FMP amendment (Amendment 7) was not submitted to the Secretary for review and implementation under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act) until late January 1994. Under the normal schedule of the Magnuson Act for action on FMP amendments, the new program (if approved) will not be implemented before mid-June 1994. This means there could be a lapse of 2 months in observer placements due to the lack of a limited entry program and moratorium permits to which the existing observer requirements apply. If this occurred, there would be a substantial risk that the incidental take of turtles could erroneously be estimated. This could result in adverse impacts on sea turtles, if the take of turtles were significantly underestimated and corrective action to protect turtles were not taken; or adverse impacts on the industry if the take of turtles were overestimated and unnecessary constraints were imposed on the fishery. The interim final rule is being adopted as final with one change. The change from the interim final rule is to impose the observer placement requirements on the owner of a vessel covered by a general longline permit issued under ยง685.9, provided any part of the vessel's next fishing trip will occur in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) around Hawaii. This is a change from the interim rule, which required notification of NMFS by holders of permits issued pursuant to the current moratorium under ยง685.15. However, the moratorium, and the permits issued thereunder, are due to expire April 22, 1994. As explained above, a replacement limited entry program will probably not be implemented prior to April 22, 1994. Therefore, in order to continue to collect observer data, NMFS needs to modify the observer requirement to apply to vessels with general longline permits issued under ยง685.9. These general permits are currently required and will remain so even with the expiration of the moratorium and implementation of a new limited entry program. Comments on the interim final rule were received from two persons. One commenter emphasized the importance of obtaining detailed, at-sea data on the longline fishery and fully endorsed the observer program. The other commenter raised a number of operational concerns tied to the timing of notices prior to fishing trips and of observer placement meetings. This commenter suggested that more flexibility is needed to accommodate the nature of the fishery and the difficulty for fishermen to make firm timing commitments regarding vessel departures.
