FR940414-2-00168 FR940414-2-00092 Thursday April 14, 1994 Part V Executive Office of the President Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Personal Motor Vehicles; Intent To Form a Policy Dialog Advisory Committee Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 72␣/␣Thursday, April 14, 1994␣/␣Notices EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT Intent To Form a Policy Dialog Advisory Committee to Assist in the Development of Measures To Significantly Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Personal Motor Vehicles AGENCY: Executive Office of the President. ACTION: Intent to Form a Policy Dialog Advisory Committee under the Federal Advisory Committee Act. SUMMARY: To address the danger of global climate change from emissions of greenhouse gases, on April 21, 1993, President Clinton announced the nation's commitment to reduce emissions of these gases in the United States to their 1990 level by the year 2000 and to produce a cost-effective plan to continue the trend of reduced emissions thereafter. On October 19, 1993, the President released the Climate Change Action Plan (CCAP), which commits the federal government, in partnership with the private sector, to a broad range of measures in many sectors to meet the target for the year 2000. Studies of greenhouse gas emission trends leading up to the CCAP confirmed that, particularly in the years after 2000, the personal transportation sector is expected to be the fastest growing contributor to carbon dioxide emission levels, as a result of continuing fast growth of vehicle miles travelled and relatively slow improvement in vehicle fuel economy. Although the CCAP contains several measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transportation sector, there is a need for significant cost-effective longer-term efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles and light duty trucks. The CCAP directed three policy offices in the Executive Office of the President_the Office of Environmental Policy (OEP), the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the National Economic Council (NEC)_to co-chair a process to develop policies to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions from personal motor vehicles in the years after 2000. The three offices, in consultation with the Department of Transportation (DOT), Department of Energy (DOE), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Council of Economic Advisors (CEA), have established a process under which a Policy Dialog Advisory Committee, constituted pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act, will be convened. The Advisory Committee will develop recommendations on the sets of policies that would, if adopted, most cost-effectively obtain a return to 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions from personal motor vehicles by the years 2005, 2015 and 2025, with no upturn thereafter. This framework of achievement of 1990 emissions levels in three alternative years is designed to focus the issues and the Committee's recommendations. Decisions on the amount and timing of reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from personal motor vehicles, and the policies to attain them, remain the responsibility of the federal government. However, the Administration has stated that it is committed to significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from personal motor vehicles.
