FR940119-0-00043 FR940119-0-00013 NHTSA further notes that the petitioner's assertions appear to be based on a belief that a trailer manufacturer must use the test procedure and testing equipment described in Standard No. 121. Such a belief is incorrect. The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (Safety Act) requires each manufacturer to certify that its vehicles meet Standard No. 121. Accordingly, the vehicle must meet the applicable requirements of Standard No. 121 when tested by NHTSA according to the test procedure specified in the standard. However, the Safety Act does not require a manufacturer to use the standard's test procedure or specified test equipment. A manufacturer may use a variety of means to certify compliance, including, among other things, engineering analyses, actual testing, and computer simulations, provided that due care is exercised in making its certification. If the manufacturer exercised due care, it would not be subject to civil penalties for manufacturing and selling a noncomplying vehicle. Moreover, a manufacturer need not conduct these operations itself. Manufacturers can utilize the services of independent engineers and testing laboratories. The can also join together through trade associations to sponsor testing or analysis. Another alternative is for manufacturers, such as trailer manufacturers, to rely on testing and analysis performed by other parties, such as the valve manufacturers. Valve manufacturers perform extensive analyses and tests of their products and, because they seek to sell those products, have a strong incentive to provide their customers (the trailer manufacturers) with information that the trailer manufacturer can use to certify the vehicle to the applicable standards. For example, Bendix currently provides this type of information to vehicle manufacturers regarding Bendix's new valve for the new pressure control requirements. Based on the above considerations, NHTSA believes that a trailer manufacturer can certify compliance with the control pressure differential amendments without facing an unreasonable cost burden. After reexamining this matter in response to Mr. Crail's petition, NHTSA reaffirms its conclusion that the new control line pressure balance requirements will result in relatively small costs for trailer manufacturers. The agency also believes that its conclusions in the final rule are appropriate. Accordingly, the petitioner's request to reconsider the amendment to Standard No. 121 is denied. Issued on January 12, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1176 Filed 1&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
