FR940628-0-00050 FR940628-0-00017 (1) A borrower may request the rehabilitation of the borrower's defaulted FFEL loan held by the guaranty agency. The borrower must make one voluntary full payment each month for 12 consecutive months to be eligible to have the defaulted loans rehabilitated. For purposes of this section, ``full payment'' means a reasonable and affordable payment agreed to by the borrower and the agency. The required amount of such monthly payment may be no more than is reasonable and affordable based upon the borrower's total financial circumstances. Voluntary payments are those made directly by the borrower regardless of whether there is a judgment against the borrower, and do not include payments obtained by income tax off-set, garnishment, or income or asset execution. A guaranty agency must attempt to secure a lender to purchase the loan at the end of the twelve-(12-)month payment period. (i) For purposes of this section, the determination of reasonable and affordable must_ (A) Include a consideration of the borrower's and spouse's disposable income and reasonable and necessary expenses including, but not limited to, housing, utilities, food, medical costs, work-related expenses, dependent care costs and other Title IV repayment; (B) Not be a required minimum payment amount, e.g. $50, if the agency determines that a smaller amount is reasonable and affordable based on the borrower's total financial circumstances. The agency must include documentation in the borrower's file of the basis for the determination if the monthly reasonable and affordable payment established under this section is less than $50.00 or the monthly accrued interest on the loan, whichever is greater. However, $50.00 may not be the minimum payment for a borrower if the agency determines that a smaller amount is reasonable and affordable; and (C) Be based on the documentation provided by the borrower or other sources including, but not be limited to_ ( 1 ) Evidence of current income (e.g., proof of welfare benefits, Social Security benefits, child support, veterans' benefits, Supplemental Security Income, Workmen's Compensation, two most recent pay stubs, most recent copy of U.S. income tax return, State Department of Labor reports); ( 2 ) Evidence of current expenses (e.g., a copy of the borrower's monthly household budget, on a form provided by the guaranty agency); and ( 3 ) A statement of the unpaid balance on all FFEL loans held by other holders. (ii) The agency must include any payment made under §682.401(b)(4) in determining whether the 12 consecutive payments required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section have been made. (iii) A borrower may request that the monthly payment amount be adjusted due to a change in the borrower's total financial circumstances only upon providing the documentation specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section. (iv) A guaranty agency must provide the borrower with a written statement confirming the borrower's reasonable and affordable payment amount, as determined by the agency, and explaining any other terms and conditions applicable to the required series of payments that must be made before a borrower's account can be considered for repurchase by an eligible lender. The statement must inform borrowers of the consequences of having their loans rehabilitated (e.g. credit clearing, possibility of increased monthly payments). The statement must inform the borrower of the amount of the collection costs to be added to the unpaid principal at the time of the sale. The collection costs may not exceed 18.5 percent of the unpaid principal and accrued interest at the time of the sale. (v) A guaranty agency must provide the borrower with an opportunity to object to terms of the rehabilitation of the borrower's defaulted loan. (2) The guaranty agency must report to all national credit bureaus within 90 days of the date the loan was rehabilitated that the loan is no longer in a default status. (3) An eligible lender purchasing a rehabilitated loan must establish a repayment schedule that meets the same requirements that are applicable to other FFEL Program loans made under the same loan type and provides for the borrower to make monthly payments at least as great as the average of the 12 consecutive monthly payments received by the guaranty agency. For the purposes of the maximum loan repayment period, the lender must treat the first payment made under the 12 consecutive payments as the first payment under the 10-year maximum. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1078&hyph;6) 17. Section 682.406 is amended by removing ``and'' at the end of paragraph (a)(12); removing the period at the end of paragraph (a)(13) and adding in its place, ``; and'' and adding a new paragraph (a)(14) to read as follows: §682.406 Conditions of reinsurance coverage. (a) *␣*␣* (14) The guaranty agency certifies to the Secretary that diligent attempts have been made by the lender and the guaranty agency under §682.411(g) to locate the borrower through the use of reasonable skip-tracing techniques. * * * * * 18. Section 682.407 is amended by adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: §682.407 Administrative cost allowance for guaranty agencies. * * * * * (e) An administrative cost allowance improperly paid on a loan to a guaranty agency must be deducted by the agency from the amount reflected in the following quarter's ED form 1130 when it is submitted to the Department for payment. * * * * * 19. Section 682.409 is amended by revising paragraph (a); revising paragraph (c)(1); and adding a new paragraph (c)(6) to read as follows: §682.409 Mandatory assignment by guaranty agencies of defaulted loans to the Secretary. (a) (1) If the Secretary determines that action is necessary to protect the Federal fiscal interest, the Secretary will direct a guaranty agency to promptly assign to the Secretary any loan held by the agency on which the agency has received payment under §682.402(d), 682.402(i), or 682.404. An orderly transition from the FFEL program to the Federal Direct Student Loan (FDSL) Program and the collection of unpaid loans owed by Federal employees by Federal salary offset are, among other things, deemed to be in the Federal fiscal interest. Unless the Secretary notifies an agency, in writing, that other loans must be assigned to the Secretary, an agency must assign any loan that meets all of the following criteria as of April 15 of each year: (i) The unpaid principal balance is at least $100. (ii) For each of the two fiscal years following the fiscal year in which these regulations are effective, the loan, and any other loans held by the agency for that borrower, have been held by the agency for at least four years; for any subsequent fiscal year such loan must have been held by the agency for at least five years.
