FR940318-0-00011 FR940318-0-00002 (i) Heart (apex, pericardial sac, and contents if present); (ii) Liver (portions exhibiting lesions or, in grossly normal organs, the drained gallbladder and adjacent liver tissues); (iii) Ovary-Testes (entire inactive ovary or testes, but if ovary is active, include any atypical ova); (iv) Oviduct (if active, include any debris and dehydrated ova); (v) Kidneys and spleen; and (vi) Other visible pathological sites where purulent, necrotic, or proliferative lesions are seen. (3) From each reactor, aseptically collect 10 to 15 g, or the nearest lesser amount available, from each organ or site listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and mince, grind, and blend them completely in 10 times their volume of beef extract broth or a comparable non-selective broth. Organs or sites listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be pooled from the same individual bird. Suspensions should be transferred in 10-ml aliquots to 100 ml of both tetrathionate brilliant green (TBG) (Hajna or Mueller-Kauffmann) broth and a separate non-selective broth and incubated at 37 笳気 for 24 hours. Refer to illustration 2 for recommended bacteriological recovery and identification procedures, including delayed secondary enrichment and combinations of plating media that significantly suppress the overgrowth of contaminants, such as brilliant green Novobiocin (BGN) and Xylose-Lysine- Tergitol 4 (XLT4). (4) From each reactor, make a composite sample of the following parts of grossly normal or diseased tissues from the digestive tract: Crop wall, duodenum (including portions of the pancreas), jejunum (including remnant of yolk-sac attachment), both ceca, cecal tonsils, and rectum-cloaca. Aseptically collect 10&hyph;15 g or the nearest lesser amount available from each specified digestive or intestinal tissue, and mince, grind, and blend them completely in 10 times their volume of TBG broth. The digestive/intestinal tissues may be pooled from the same individual bird. Do not pool tissues from different birds. Transfer 10 ml of the described digestive TBG suspensions into 100 ml of TBG broth, and incubate at 41.5 笳気 for 24 hours. Cultures may be incubated at 37 笳気 if 41.5 笳気 incubators are not available. The higher incubation temperatures for TBG broth reduce populations of competitive contaminants common in gut tissue. Refer to illustration 2 for recommended bacteriological recovery and identification procedures, including delayed secondary enrichment and combinations of plating media that significantly suppress the overgrowth of contaminants, such as BGN and XLT4. (5) A system such as the Analytical Profile Index for Enterobacteriaceae (API) may be utilized to aid cultural identifications. (6) All isolates culturally identified as salmonellae should be serogrouped or serotyped. BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;34&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSER18mr94.003 E:GRAPHICSER18mr94.004 BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;34&hyph;C
