FR940512-1-00048 FR940512-1-00010 (1) Involve representing an individual_ (i) Before private entities or organizations, government agencies (whether State, local, or Federal), or in a court of law (whether State or Federal); or (ii) In negotiations or mediation, in formal or informal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether State, local, or Federal), or in legal proceedings in a court of law; and (2) Be on behalf of_ (i) A single individual, in which case it is individual advocacy; (ii) A group or class of individuals, in which case it is systems (or systemic ) advocacy ; or (iii) Oneself, in which case it is self advocacy. Attendant care means a personal assistance service provided to an individual with significant disabilities in performing a variety of tasks required to meet essential personal needs in areas such as bathing, communicating, cooking, dressing, eating, homemaking, toileting, and transportation. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 706(30)(B)(vi)) Center for independent living means a consumer-controlled, community-based, cross-disability, nonresidential, private nonprofit agency that_ (1) Is designed and operated within a local community by individuals with disabilities; and (2) Provides an array of IL services. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 796a(1)) Consumer control means, with respect to a center or eligible agency, that the center or eligible agency vests power and authority in individuals with disabilities, including individuals who are or have been recipients of IL services. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 796a(2)) Cross-disability means, with respect to a center, that a center provides IL services to individuals representing a range of significant disabilities and does not require the presence of one or more specific significant disabilities before determining that an individual is eligible for IL services. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 796a(1)) Designated State agency or State agency means the sole State agency designated to administer (or supervise local administration of) the State plan for VR services. The term includes the State agency for individuals who are blind, if that agency has been designated as the sole State agency with respect to that part of the State VR plan relating to the vocational rehabilitation of individuals who are blind. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 706(3) and 721(a)(1)(A)) Designated State unit means either_ (1) The State agency VR bureau, division, or other organizational unit that is primarily concerned with the vocational rehabilitation, or vocational and other rehabilitation, of individuals with disabilities and that is responsible for the administration of the VR program of the State agency; or (2) The independent State commission, board, or other agency that has the vocational rehabilitation, or vocational and other rehabilitation, of individuals with disabilities as its primary function. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 706(3) and 721(a)(2)(A)) Eligible agency means a consumer-controlled, community-based, cross-disability, nonresidential, private, nonprofit agency. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 796f&hyph;5) Independent living core services mean, for purposes of services that are supported under the SILS or CIL programs_ (1) Information and referral services; (2) IL skills training; (3) Peer counseling, including cross-disability peer counseling; and (4) Individual and systems advocacy. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 706(29))
