FR940511-1-00096 FR940511-1-00013 Newly-regulated facilities ( i.e., facilities at which the only hazardous wastes that are managed are today's proposed wastes in units subject to permit requirements when these listings are finalized) must qualify for interim status within six months of publication of the rule in order to continue managing these wastes in such units. To retain interim status, a newly-regulated land disposal facility must submit a part B permit application within eighteen months after publication of the rule and certify that the facility is in compliance with all applicable ground-water monitoring and financial responsibility requirements (see RCRA Section 3005(e)(3)). Interim status facilities that manage today's proposed wastes after these listings are promulgated, must file an amended Part A permit application within six months of publication of the final rule if they are to continue managing these wastes in units that require a permit. The facilities must file the necessary amendments by the effective date of the rule, or they will not retain interim status with respect to today's proposed wastes. Currently permitted facilities that manage today's proposed wastes after their listings are finalized by EPA must request permit modifications if they are to continue management of these wastes in units that require a permit. Since EPA initially will be responsible for processing these permit modifications, the new Federal procedures for permit modifications will be followed (see 53 FR 37934, September 28, 1988). These new procedures contain a specific provision for newly listed or identified wastes (see 40 CFR 270.42(g)). This provision generally requires that a permitted facility that is ``in existence'' for the newly listed or identified waste on the effective date of the waste listing must submit a Class 1 modification by that date. Essentially, this modification notifies the Agency and the public that the facility is handling the waste and identifies the units involved. By submitting this notice, the facility temporarily is allowed to continue management of the newly-listed wastes until the Agency can make a final change to the permit. Next, within 180 days of the effective date the permittee must submit a more detailed permit modification request ( i.e., a Class 2 or 3 modification). This information will be used by the Agency to develop a final permit change. For more information on permit modifications see the September 28, 1988 preamble discussion referenced above. List of Subjects 40 CFR Part 261 Environmental protection, Hazardous wastes, Recycling, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 40 CFR Part 271 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Confidential business information, Hazardous materials transportation, Hazardous waste, Indian lands, Intergovernmental relations, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Water pollution control, Water supply. 40 CFR Part 302 Air pollution control, Chemicals, Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act, Extremely hazardous substances, Hazardous chemicals, Hazardous materials, Hazardous materials transportation, Hazardous substances, Hazardous wastes, Intergovernmental relations, Natural resources, Pesticides and pests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Superfund, Waste treatment and disposal, Water pollution control, Water supply. Dated: April 29, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
