FR940105-2-00023 FR940105-2-00008 a. Operator/Agent Familiarization Tours. 1. Preliminary planning ( i.e. , proposed itinerary) of the familiarization tour(s) to cities, State(s) or regions for operators/agents to introduce the tourism product to support tour development or marketing. (30 points) 2. Plans for subsequent follow-up with participants to ensure continued awareness and potential sale of product. (45 points) 3. Measurement plan to assess project return versus outlay. (25 points) b. Tour Package Development. 1. Preliminary planning for and packaging of tour programs, i.e. , selection of receptive/wholesale operators and program components. (30 points) 2. Plans for subsequent implementation and promotion of the program in conjunction with tour wholesalers, retailers, etc. (45 points) 3. Measurement to assess program effectiveness. (25 points) c. Consumer Travel Shows/Workshops. 1. Preliminary planning and packaging of product for information delivery to consumer. (30 points) 2. Plans for subsequent follow-up with trade contacts or potential consumers. (45 points) 3. Measurement of project effectiveness. (25 points) An applicant may choose to implement only one of the three designated types of market development programs to be considered as having satisfied the Market Development project criterion. 3. Advertising Applications for advertising projects should include a planned campaign outline, including the message to be conveyed (visually and written), and an outline of proposed media plans. If layouts, copy and media schedules are available at the time application is made, they should be submitted with application. If they are not, specific campaign details must be submitted to the Office of Tourism Trade Development prior to the actual placement of the advertising in the media. The applicable criteria are: a. Basic approach and objectives. (20 points) b. Correlation with USTTA national public relations program. (20 points) c. Evidence that customer demographic, psychographic and statistical data necessary to develop marketing and advertising strategy is available. (10 points) d. Creative interpretation of the proposed strategy. (20 points) e. Expected reach of the advertising campaign in relation to its cost and short-term impact on the market. (15 points) f. Measurement plan to assess program cost/return effectiveness. (15 points) 4. Trade Development Trade development projects are those which complement ongoing programs directed toward the members of the travel trade. For application purposes, trade development projects are not concerned with either the development or promotion of tour packages (which are covered in the ``Tour Package Development'' criterion). Such projects may include: Trade-oriented product workshops or seminars, trade advertising, familiarization tours for retail travel agents, and participation in travel trade shows. The applicable criteria are: a. Techniques used to create awareness and encourage selling of the destination by the travel trade. (25 points) b. Implementation time and anticipated project benefits derived after grant expiration. (25 points) c. Goals of project and methods used to measure program results. (50 points)
