FR940429-0-00229 FR940429-0-00015 Discussion: A third-party servicer entrusted with Title IV, HEA program funds may not use those funds to compensate itself for fees owed to the servicer by an institution. As provided in ยง668.18, federal funds may only be used for Title IV, HEA program purposes, and may not be hypothecated or used for collateral. The only exception would be where an institution has agreed to pay to the servicer all or part of the administrative cost allowance payable to an institution under the Title IV, HEA program regulations. Otherwise, the Secretary will regard any effort to take servicing fees directly from federal funds as a grave violation of a third-party servicer's fiduciary obligation, for which its eligibility to contract with any institution should be terminated. Changes: None. Comments: Several commenters believed that it is unreasonable to expect a third-party servicer to be held to the same fiduciary standards as the institution. Many commenters stated that the proposed language could be read to mean that if any employee of a third-party servicer (e.g., janitor or painter) has been convicted of or has pled nolo contendere to any crime involving government funds (not specifically Federal student aid), the servicer is subject to termination. Four of these commenters voiced concern about the issue of due process, because the ability to screen all applicants is very limited due to laws regarding privacy and nondiscrimination in hiring. One of the commenters stated that such removal may be prevented by State or Federal laws and perhaps expose the servicer to liability. One commenter believed that the provisions should be effective only for new contracts, because many servicers currently have contracts with subcontractors that do not contain the restriction regarding removal of an affiliation, and the servicer could be liable for breach of contract. Discussion: The Secretary does not agree with the comment that a third-party servicer should not be held to the same fiduciary standard as an institution. As an agent of an institution, a third-party servicer administers aspects of the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. Therefore, it is necessary to hold a third-party servicer to the same level of fiduciary responsibility as the institution in handling or influencing the use of Title IV, HEA program funds. The Secretary agrees with those commenters who argued that a third-party servicer should not be considered to have violated its fiduciary duty with regard to the conduct of any person, entity, or officer or employee of an entity with which the servicer contracts, if that person or entity does not have Title IV-related responsibilities. For example, the Secretary would not hold the conduct of a custodian employed by a third-party servicer as an element in determining that the third-party servicer has violated its fiduciary duty, if that custodian had no responsibility for administering a Title IV, HEA program. With respect to those commenters who were concerned that the removal of an agent of a third-party may violate due process or may be prohibited by Federal or State law or may be a breach of contract, the Secretary does not believe that those prohibitions exist. However, the Secretary recommends that third-party servicers modify their contract terms to specify that the servicer is prohibited from engaging any entity to administer any aspect of the Title IV, HEA programs that meets the criteria in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(D) of this section. The Secretary expects a third-party servicer to apply these provisions to existing contracts as well as to any new contracts that the servicer may enter. These provisions supersede provisions of existing contracts that the servicer may have with outside entities. Changes: Paragraph (d)(1)(i)(D) of this section is revised so that a third-party servicer violates its fiduciary duty in instances where the servicer uses or contracts with, in a capacity that involves the administration of any aspect of the Title IV, HEA programs, any other person, agency, or organization that has been or whose officers or employees have been convicted of, or pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of Federal, State, or local government funds, or has been administratively or judicially determined to have committed fraud or other material violation of law with respect to those funds. Comments: One commenter suggested that paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section should be amended to exclude those instances in which the funds that were fraudulently or criminally obtained or spent were repaid. The same commenter believed that this provision is too broad in scope, and should be restricted only to crime and fraud involving funds covered by the contract between the institution and the servicer. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenter. A person that has been convicted of, pled guilty to, or has been determined to have engaged in criminal misconduct or fraud with respect to government funds poses a danger to the Title IV, HEA programs and the funds appropriated for use by those programs. Such a person has violated the public trust by misusing public funds. The Secretary does not believe that payment of restitution by that person is sufficient to guarantee that the person will not repeat the offense. Changes: None. Comments: Several commenters thought that the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section were unreasonable by specifying that an institution or third-party servicer would violate its fiduciary responsibility if the servicer or a principal or affiliate of the servicer violated any Title IV, HEA program requirement. The commenters thought that the cure_to sever all ties with that servicer, or a principle or affiliate of that servicer, or to remove all responsibilities of administration of the Title IV, HEA programs_was too punitive in its scope.
