FR941003-2-00179 FR941003-2-00063 13. The expense risk borne by Great-West Life is the risk that the charges for administrative expenses, which are guaranteed not to increase for the life of the Contracts, may be insufficient to cover the actual costs of issuing and administering the Contracts in excess of the Contract Maintenance Charge. Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Applicants request an order of the Commission under Section 6(c) for exemptions from Section 26(a)(2) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act to the extent necessary to permit the dedication of a maximum charge of 1.25% for the assumption of mortality and expense risks from the assets of: (a) The Separate Account in connection with the issuance of the Contracts; (b) the Separate Account in connection with the issuance of any Future Contracts; and (c) any other separate account established in the future by Great-West Life in connection with the issuance of Future Contracts. Applicants believe that the requested exemptions are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. 2. Applicants submit that their request for exemptive relief for deduction of the 1.25% mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Separate Account, or any other separate account established by Great-West Life in the future, in connection with the issuance of Future Contracts, would promote competitiveness in the variable annuity contract market by eliminating the need for Great-West Life the file redundant exemptive applications, thereby reducing Great-West Life's administrative expenses and maximizing the efficient use of its resources. Applicants further submit that the delay and expense involved in having repeatedly to seek exemptive relief would impair Great-West Life's ability effectively to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. Further, if Great-West Life were required repeatedly to seek exemptive relief with respect to the same issues addressed in this Application, investors would not receive any benefit or additional protection thereby. Thus, Applicants believe that the requested exemptions are appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. 3. Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act authorizes the Commission, by order upon application, to conditionally or unconditionally grant an exemption from any provision, rule or regulation of the 1940 Act to the extent that the exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. 4. Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act, in relevant part, prohibit a registered unit investment trust, its depositor or principal underwriter, from selling periodic payment plan certificates unless the proceeds of all payments, other than sales loads, are deposited with a qualified bank and held under arrangements which prohibit any payment to the depositor or principal underwriter except a reasonable fee, as the Commission may prescribe, for performing bookkeeping and other administrative duties normally performed by the bank itself. 5. Applicants represent that the 1.25% mortality and expense risk charge under the Contracts is within the range of industry practice for comparable annuity contracts. This representation is based on Applicants' analysis of publicly available information about similar industry products, taking into consideration such factors as current charge levels, the manner in which charges are imposed, the existence of charge level or annuity-rate guarantees, and the markets in which the Contracts are offered. Applicants represent that Great-West Life will maintain at its administrative offices, available to the Commission, a memorandum setting forth in detail the products analyzed in the course of, and the methodology and results of, its comparative survey. Similarly, prior to making available any Future Contracts through the Separate Account, or through other separate accounts established in the future by Great-West Life, Applicants will represent that the mortality and expense risk charge under any such Future Contracts will be within the range of industry practice for comparable contracts. Applicants represent that Great-West Life will maintain at its administrative offices, available to the Commission, a memorandum setting forth in detail the products analyzed in the course of, and the methodology, and results of, its comparative survey. 6. Applicants acknowledge that, if a profit is realized from the mortality and expense risk charge under the Contracts, all or a portion of such profit may be available to pay distribution expenses not reimbursed by the CDSC. Great-West Life has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangements will benefit the Separate Account and the Contract owners. The basis for that conclusion is set forth in a memorandum which will be maintained by Great-West Life at its administrative offices and will be made available to the Commission. Additionally, Applicants acknowledge that, if a profit is realized from the mortality and expense risk charge under Future Contracts, all or a portion of such profit may be available to pay distribution expenses not reimbursed by the CDSC. Great-West Life also will maintain and make available to the Commission a memorandum setting forth the basis for the same representation with respect to Future Contracts offered by the Separate Account and by any other separate account established in the future by Great-West Life. 7. Applicants also represents that the Separate Account, and separate accounts established by Great-West Life in the future, will invest only in underlying funds which undertake, in the event they should adopt a plan under Rule 12b&hyph;1 to finance distribution expenses, to have a board of directors or trustees, majority of whom are not ``interested persons'' of the company, formulate and approve any such plan. Condition Applicants undertake that such Future Contracts funded by the Separate Account, or by separate accounts established in the future by Great-West, which seek to rely on the order issued pursuant to this Application will be substantially similar in all material respects to the Contracts. Conclusion For the reasons set forth above, Applicants represent that the exemptions requested are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24314 Filed 9&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
