FR940302-2-00092 FR940302-2-00066 103.00␣Non-U.S. Companies * * * * * Where it appears to the Exchange that a non-U.S. Company's interim earnings reporting or corporate governance practices are not prohibited by the law in the country in which it is domiciled, such practices need not necessarily be barriers to listing or continued listing. In addition, the Exchange will permit non-U.S. issuers to follow home-country practices regarding the distribution of annual reports to shareholders, if, at a minimum, (a) shareholders are provided at least summary annual reports, including summary financial information, (b) shareholders have the ability, upon request, to receive an annual report that complies with the requirements of Para. 203.01 (a ``full annual report''), and (c) the financial information contained in the summary annual report is reconciled to U.S. generally-accepted accounting principles to the extent that such reconciliation would be required in the full annual report. 5 5 NYSE Listed Company Manual Para. 103.00. The rule change is, in part, in response to an amendment, adopted in 1990, to the U.K. Companies Act that permits issuers listed on the London Stock Exchange to provide holders of their ordinary shares a choice to receive a full annual report or a summary annual report. 6 Certain U.K. issuers sought permission from the NYSE to provide holders of ADRs with summary reports in place of full annual reports if the shareholders do not object. 6 The U.K. Companies Act sets forth the specific financial and management information that must be contained in the summary reports. In addition, the U.K. Companies Act requires that shareholders who receive only the summary report be given the opportunity, at any time, to obtain the full annual report from the company and that companies must notify shareholders annually of this right and how the report can be obtained. When the program was instituted in the U.K. in 1990, shareholders received both reports and notice of the available option with respect to future reports. The NYSE rule is formulated to permit foreign issuers to distribute summary annual reports consistent with the practices of their home countries. The rule does not attempt to specify particular financial requirements. 7 Instead, the Exchange will review specific proposals to ensure that U.S. Holders receive adequate information. 8 7 Although the new rule is formulated to accommodate the U.K.'s program, other foreign countries may adopt different practices. 8 NYSE Letter, supra note 4. The letter clarified that the Exchange does not intend to adopt the substance of the U.K. program, and that it will permit the practice of providing shareholders with an option to receive summary annual reports as opposed to full annual reports to evolve over time. The NYSE has committed to review each home country's practices to determine their sufficiency in providing information to U.S. Holders. The rule also does not mandate any specific method for providing U.S. Holders with summary annual reports. As with the substantive requirements, the NYSE proposal recognizes that foreign countries will develop their own procedures for issuers to provide summary reports in lieu of full annual reports. The Exchange, however, has indicated that it will review all proposed programs to ensure that U.S. Holders have reasonable access to the full annual report and receive full disclosure of their option to receive the full report. 9 9 Id. Under the NYSE rule, full annual reports must still be prepared and made available to all U.S. shareholders. III. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change to permit non-U.S. issuers to distribute summary annual reports to U.S. Holders according to the home country practice of the foreign issuer is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of section 6(b) of the Act. 10 Specifically, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the Section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest, in that it accommodates foreign practices while ensuring that U.S. shareholders of foreign securities and holders of ADRs continue to receive adequate information concerning the companies in which they invest. 10 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). As the securities markets of the world become increasingly interconnected, it is inevitable that application of certain exchange rules conflict with customs and market practices in other jurisdictions. 11 The Commission believes that the NYSE's rule reflects an appropriate balance between the need to protect U.S. investors and the costs associated with requiring non-U.S. companies to provide U.S. investors with full annual reports while the companies home country law permits summary reports to foreign investors. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed in more detail below, we believe it is appropriate, in this limited situation pursuant to the conditions set forth in NYSE Rule 103.00, to allow foreign issuers to comply with their home country practices for the distribution of annual reports to U.S. Holders. 11 The Commission previously has allowed the Exchange to waive or modify certain of its listing standards for foreign companies based on the laws, customs or practices of their home countries. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 24634 (June 23, 1987), 52 FR 24230 (June 29, 1987).
