FR940428-1-00046 FR940428-1-00009 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service 36 CFR Part 222 Range Management; Grazing Fees RIN 0596&hyph;AB42 AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would change the system used to determine the fees for grazing livestock on National Forest System land in the Western States. These changes are needed to obtain a fair and reasonable return to the United States for the privilege of grazing privately owned livestock on public rangelands administered by the Forest Service. The proposed change in the fee considered the impact on the economic viability of the western livestock industry. By separate rulemaking, the Bureau of Land Management, U.S. Department of the Interior, is proposing a similar system for determining the fee for grazing livestock on lands administered by that agency. Also by separate rulemaking published elsewhere in this separate part of the Federal Register , the Forest Service is proposing to revise its regulations for administering the livestock grazing program on National Forest System lands. DATES: Comments must be received in writing by July 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Rangeland Reform '94, P.O. Box 66300, Washington, DC 20035&hyph;6300. Comments on the proposed rule will be made available for public inspection during the regular business hours (7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.), Monday through Friday. Viewing of the comments can be arranged by contacting the Forest Service at the telephone number provided below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Peter G. Ashton, Range Management Staff, Forest Service, 202&hyph;205&hyph;1746. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background This proposed rule to revise the grazing fee system is a part of the ``Rangeland Reform '94'' effort by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to insure a fair and reasonable return for grazing privately owned livestock on public rangelands. The impact of a higher fee on the livestock industry was considered. The two agencies are proposing to use the same grazing fee system; however, each agency must prepare a separate proposed rule that reflects the differences in statutory authority that apply to each agency. On August 13, 1993, the Departments of Agriculture and the Interior published Advance Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRs) in the Federal Register (58 FR 43202; 43208), in which each Department gave notice of its intent to revise its livestock grazing and grazing fee rules. The comment period on both ANPRs ended September 13, 1993, and was subsequently reopened for an additional 30-day period that ended October 20, 1993. A total of about 12,600 letters were received on the ANPRs. These letters included over 56,000 individual comments on various aspects of grazing administration and fees. The greatest number of comments addressed possible changes in the grazing fee. In response to the public comment, the Department of Agriculture has decided to separate the grazing fee system proposal from the rangeland management proposal. Comments on the grazing fee system portion of the ANPR will be considered in the development of the final grazing fee rule. Reviewers need not resubmit comments they filed on the Department of Agriculture's ANPR in order for them to be considered by the agency in the preparation of the final rule. Proposed Revisions to 36 CFR Part 222, Subpart C The proposed grazing fee system embodied in this proposed rule is intended to correct the disparity between rates charged for livestock forage on private and Federal lands. An explanation of proposed amendments to the existing grazing fee regulations at 36 CFR part 222, subpart C, follows: Section 222.50_General Procedures This section of the proposed rule establishes guidelines for administering the grazing fee system. Section 222.50(a) of the proposed rule is a revision of the current rule to simplify general administrative instructions. Proposed paragraph (b) clarifies the determination of grazing fees. Proposed paragraph (c) retains the current definition of head month with some minor editing. Proposed paragraph (d) would continue the proviso that there would be no charge for lambing on National Forest System land for sheep already authorized under a grazing permit; however, the text is edited for clarity. Proposed paragraph (e) consolidates under a single provision of the rule, the fees charged for livestock use under temporary grazing permits. This change would simplify the administration of grazing fees and would specify that the authorized officer may adjust, up or down, the fees for temporary grazing permits to meet management objectives of the forest land and resource management plan and grazing permit terms and conditions.
