FR941012-0-00029 FR941012-0-00006 Datum: NAD 83 (b) Definitions. AC'95 vessels. Any vessel designated by AC'95 and approved by the U.S. Coast Guard Patrol Commander that has been given official duties in support of the World Championship Races. These vessels include but are not limited to mark boats, stake boats, and umpire boats. Official vessels. Official Vessels are all U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, state and local law enforcement vessels, and civilian vessels designated by the Coast Guard Patrol Commander and flying the official patrol vessel flag. The official patrol vessel flag is a white rectangular flag emblazoned with the words ``America's Cup '95'' and depicting two sailing vessels racing beneath the America's Cup trophy. The civilian vessels may include but are not limited to AC'95 Crowd Control Vessels and media vessels. AC'95 Crowd Control Vessels are 20-foot and 23-foot Bayliner power boats identified by the word ``PATROL'', followed by a number, printed on both sides of the vessel. AC'95 Crowd Control Vessels will fly the official patrol vessel flag and operate a yellow and red flashing light. Participant. Any IACC race boat, IACC chase boat or IACC tender that is registered with AC'95 while in performance of its official function relative to a given race. Patrol Commander. A Patrol Commander has been designated by the Commander, Eleventh Coast Guard District. The Patrol Commander has the authority to control the movement of all vessels operating in the regulated areas and may suspend the regatta at any time it is deemed necessary for the protection of life and property. Note: The Patrol Commander may be contacted during the regulatory periods on VHF/FM Channel 16 (156.8 MHZ) or Channel 22 (157.1 MHZ) by calling ``Coast Guard Patrol Commander'' or ``Coast Guard San Diego.'' Spectator vessels. All vessels not registered with the America's Cup '95 governing (AC'95), the race sponsor, as a participant and not designated as an AC'95 Race Official or an Official Vessel by the Coast Guard Patrol Commander are spectator vessels. Transmitting vessels. A special classification of spectator vessels, whose sole purpose for being underway within the waters of San Diego Bay is to exit the Bay or enter the Bay and return to its mooring. Transiting vessels include commercial or military vessels. (c) Special Local Regulations. The following regulations are in effect between the hours of 10 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. on October 30 and November 5, 1994, and as otherwise ordered by the Patrol Commander through Broadcast Notice to Mariners: (1) The area of San Diego Bay described as the IACC Bay Racing Venue in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be closed to all vessels except participants, AC'95 Vessels and Official Vessels. (2) All transiting vessels wishing to enter or exit San Diego Bay through the America's Cup Channel, specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section (the Channel), must obtain permission to proceed in the Channel from the Patrol Commander at least 30 minutes prior to the expected transit time (prior to entering the Channel). Before actual entry into the Channel, the vessel must notify the Patrol Commander of its location and speed. VHF/FM Channel 13 (156.65 MHZ) is the designated channel for these communications. If deemed necessary by the Patrol Commander, the Coast Guard will assign an escort vessel to accompany the transiting vessel through the Channel. The maximum speed for transiting through the Channel is ten knots. While using the Channel, the transiting vessel shall follow all directions of the Patrol Commander and the assigned escort vessel, if applicable. (3) Spectator sail vessels shall not operate exclusively under sail without the prior express permission of the Patrol Commander to do so. (4) Spectator vessels shall not enter the IACC Bay Racing Venue, as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section (and identified by Official Vessels and inflatable buoys marking the race venue perimeter), or the America's Cup Channel, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, except in the case of an emergency. If equipped with a VHF/FM radio, vessels shall immediately notify the Coast Guard on Channel 16 (156.8 MHZ) of the existence of any emergency. (5) Spectator and transiting vessels shall not impede or interfere with AC'95 Vessels, Official Vessels and participant vessels. (6) Spectator and transiting vessels shall not exceed a speed of ten knots. (7) Five Knot Speed Limit. The Patrol Commander may implement a five knot speed limit within the regulated areas, or portions thereof, if the Patrol Commander deems it necessary to ensure safe navigation. Notice of the five knot speed limit shall be made by a Broadcast Notice to Mariners. If a five knot speed limit is implemented, all spectator and transiting traffic, whether entering or exiting the harbors, will be required to comply. (8) All vessels shall follow instructions of Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary vessels. (d) Effective Dates. This section will be effective 10 a.m. PDT on October 28, 1994, through 5:30 p.m. PST on November 6, 1994, inclusive, unless cancelled earlier by the District Commander. Dated: September 22, 1994. R. A. Appelbaum, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard Commander, Eleventh Coast Guard District. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25156 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
