FR940105-2-00021 FR940105-2-00008 I. Selection Procedures All applications will be reviewed and judged individually, independent from all other applications, by each of four qualified evaluators acting without consultation among themselves. Each evaluator will score each application by awarding points for each of the three (3) evaluation criteria set forth in IV, below. Scores awarded for each evaluation criterion will be multiplied by the weight assigned to that criterion. A maximum score of 100 points may be awarded to an application. Once scores have been determined individually by each evaluator, a final score for each application will be determined by averaging the scores provided by each of the four evaluators. II. Matching Requirements The recipient is required to provide 25 per cent matching funds for the total project cost. In determining the amount of the non-Federal share, due consideration will be given to all contributions both in cash and in-kind. In-kind contributions shall be made in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110 (non- or for-profits) or 15 CFR part 24 (state and local governments). A waiver of the match may be requested if the non-Federal share is not reasonably available and the applicant provides documentation clearly demonstrating the lack of resources due to the disaster. III. Award Period Financial assistance shall be awarded on a one-year basis. IV. Evaluation Criteria The three evaluation criteria and the weight assigned each criterion are: A. Needs and Effect Criterion (assigned weight_0.4) Application demonstrates the need of affected area and the ability of the project to counteract directly the negative impact of the 1993 floods on tourism. (1) Application clearly reflects the ability of project to offset negative impacts of the disaster which have not been substantially mitigated by other aid. (40 points) (2) Application includes documentation from Federal, State, or local sources demonstrating the current degree of need. This must include documentation showing the: (a) Current loss of and tourism-related employment; (b) level of tourism prior to the disaster; (c) current level of tourism; (d) impact in terms of employment and income of tourism on the area economy versus other industries; and (e) extent to which the negative impact of the disaster on tourism has been mitigated. (60 points)
