FR940927-2-00034 FR940927-2-00026 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC&hyph;508] Cooperative Agreement With the Iowa Department of Public Health for Health Assessment of Persian Gulf War Veterans Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the anticipated availability of fiscal year (FY) 1995 funds for a cooperative agreement with the Iowa Department of Public Health (IDPH) for Health Assessments of Persian Gulf War Veterans. Approximately $1.50 million is expected to be available in FY 1995 to fund this project. It is expected that the award will begin on or about December 1, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 2 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. The purpose of this cooperative agreement will be to conduct a pilot survey which will assess the past and present health status of Iowa residents who are Persian Gulf War veterans compared with other Iowa residents who are Persian Gulf War-era veterans, in terms of self-reported health outcomes. This assessment will serve as a model for potential future similar assessments undertaken by other Federal agencies, States, local governments, or universities. CDC will serve as the principal point of contact with the Department of Defense and other Federal agencies to secure names and locating information for the study participants; provide expert review, comment and approval on all study protocols, data collection instruments, analysis plans, media releases, draft and final reports, and publications generated by the recipient and its contractors and ensures appropriate involvement of related Federal agencies and veteran services organizations. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Environmental Health. (To order a copy of Healthy People 2000, see the section WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .) Authority This program is authorized under the Public Health Service Act, section 301 (42 U.S.C. 241). Smoke-Free Workplace PHS strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Assistance will be provided only to IDPH for conducting this project. No other applications are solicited. The Program Announcement and application kit have been sent to IDPH. IDPH is the most appropriate organization to conduct the work under this cooperative agreement for the following reasons: 1. IDPH among the States has taken aggressive and positive steps to address the health concerns among Iowa Gulf War veterans. It has already established vital links among Iowa veterans' groups and scientists to address these concerns and are therefore in the strongest position to carry out this effort rapidly and cost effectively. 2. IDPH has the statutory responsibility for protecting and enhancing the public health of the citizens of the State of Iowa. This includes assessing the impact of the Persian Gulf War experience on the health of Iowa residents who are Gulf War or Gulf War-era veterans.
