FR940325-0-00080 FR940325-0-00016 Response: Trustee coordination is discussed in §11.32(a)(1), which was not affected by this rulemaking. Further clarification is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. Comment: Several commenters raised questions about designation of a lead authorized official. Some commenters asked the Department to revise §11.32(a)(1)(ii)(A) to prohibit an official from an agency that is both a trustee and a PRP from being designated as the lead authorized official. Another commenter stated that the lead authorized official should be selected on a case-by-case basis according to which agency has the greatest interests at stake. Response: Revision of the procedures for appointing a lead authorized official contained in §11.32(a)(1)(ii)(A) is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. Comment: One commenter questioned why the Department had raised the issue of collateral estoppel in the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice. Response: The Department referred to collateral estoppel in response to a comment. The commenter thought that requiring Federal trustee officials to use the natural resource damage assessment regulations would eliminate collateral estoppel problems. The Department responded that revising the optional nature of the regulations was beyond the scope of this rulemaking and, moreover, would not necessarily resolve potential collateral estoppel problems. E. Preliminary Estimate of Damages Comment: The commenters who addressed the issue of the preliminary estimate of damages agreed that an estimate of damages is needed to determine the proper scope of an assessment and to ensure the reasonableness of assessment costs. Several commenters thought that trustee officials should be required to disclose the preliminary estimate as soon as possible to ensure that the public and the PRPs have an opportunity to comment on the reasonableness of projected assessment costs. One commenter stated that trustee officials should be required to consult with the PRPs when developing the preliminary estimate. Response: The Department believes that premature disclosure of the preliminary estimate might adversely affect the ability of trustee officials to settle or litigate a natural resource damage case. Therefore, the Department has revised the language of proposed §11.35(d)(3) to clarify that trustee officials need not disclose the preliminary estimate until the assessment has been completed. Even though the preliminary estimate is not disclosed until the end of the assessment, PRPs and the general public will still have a meaningful opportunity to comment on the reasonableness of assessment costs. Under §11.14(ee), which was not affected by this rulemaking, the relationship between anticipated damages and anticipated assessment costs is only one factor of reasonable costs. Another factor is whether all aspects of the assessment directly contribute to the calculation of a monetary damage figure. The public and the PRPs need not know the preliminary estimate of damages to comment on whether an assessment satisfies this factor of reasonableness. Moreover, after the assessment has been completed, trustee officials are required to include the preliminary estimate in the Report of Assessment, which will allow PRPs and courts to evaluate whether anticipated damages exceeded anticipated assessment costs. Nothing in the rule prevents trustee officials from consulting with PRPs during the development of the preliminary estimate. However, the Department believes that requiring trustee officials to do so could adversely affect their ability to settle or litigate their claims. Comment: Some commenters thought that the preliminary estimate should always be completed before publication of the Assessment Plan. Other commenters thought that the Department should provide additional guidance on when delay of preparation of a preliminary estimate would be warranted. Response: The Department acknowledges the importance of the preliminary estimate in ensuring that the Assessment Plan is appropriately focused. However, the Department believes that trustee officials should have discretion to delay completion of the preliminary estimate until the end of Injury Determination if insufficient data exist upon which to base an estimate. The Department realizes that in some cases the injuries might be so complex or the existing data might be so sparse that any preliminary estimate of damages would be meaningless until Injury Determination is complete. The Department does not believe that additional guidance on this topic is needed. Comment: A few commenters suggested that trustee officials be allowed to develop a range of preliminary estimates rather than one specific estimate. These commenters expressed concern that if required to develop a specific number, trustee officials would be likely to develop a high preliminary estimate, which would then encourage them to find damages at least as high as the preliminary estimate, regardless of the actual damages. Response: The Department does not think that a range of preliminary estimates would provide an adequate standard for evaluating whether assessment costs are reasonable. Also, the Department does not believe that development of a specific preliminary estimate will encourage trustee officials to develop exaggerated damage claims, particularly since the preliminary estimate of damages may be revised as new information becomes available. F. Reasonable Cost of an Assessment
