FR940930-2-00214 FR940930-2-00072 The Division noted in the Market 2000 Study that the failure to display limit orders that are priced better than current quotes raises at least three regulatory concerns. First, the failure to display limit orders could artificially widen spreads, which raises the concern that investors are receiving unfair prices. Second, the failure to display limit orders raises fair competition concerns. If the quotes from a market or market maker do not fully represent the buying and selling interest, markets will lose incentives to compete based on quotes, and the price discovery process may be impaired. Third, with many markets offering automatic executions of small orders at the best displayed quotes, a failure to display the best quotes results in inferior executions for some small-order customers. The Division therefore recommended that the SROs encourage the display of all limit orders in listed stocks that are better than the best intermarket quotes (unless the ultimate customer expressly requests that an order not be displayed), noting that such a requirement would provide a more accurate picture of trading interest, result in tighter spreads, and contribute to improved price discovery. 12 12 Id. at IV&hyph;6. The Commission believes that the Phlx proposal will result in increased transparency to the benefit of investors. In particular, the Commission believes that the portion of Advice E&hyph;A&hyph;1 which requires specialists to display the best bid or offer price on the floor for primary stock issues will be beneficial because it should increase transparency and provide an indication of market interest for stocks in which Phlx is the primary market. For secondary issues, the requirements for the display of bids and offers will also be beneficial to market participants because it will provide to other market centers in the national market system all Phlx bids and offers that are equal to or superior to bids and offers displayed in the system. Such a standard is consistent with the discussion of limit order display in the Market 2000 Study, noted above. The Commission also believes that it is appropriate to include Advice E&hyph;A&hyph;1 in the Phlx's minor rule plan because a violation of the dissemination requirements for the best bids or offers should not entail the complicated factual and interpretative inquiries associated with more sophisticated Exchange disciplinary actions under Phlx Rule 960. The Commission further believes that the fine schedule, which is graduated to account for repeat offenders and will be administered on a three-year rolling calendar basis under the Phlx's minor rule plan, should provide a prompt, effective and appropriate means to enforce compliance with the Advice. Moreover, under the Phlx's minor rule plan, a person fined under the Advice will be permitted to contest the fine pursuant to Phlx Rule 970 and will be entitled to full due process. It Is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 13 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;91&hyph;20) is approved. 13 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 14 14 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24272 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
