FR941125-1-00027 FR941125-1-00008 4. The COMS must provide a means to simulate a zero and upscale calibration value in order to check the COMS transmitter/receiver calibration. The calibration checking system shall include, at the same time, all the optical and electromechanical equipment used in the normal measurement mode. The checking system will measure and provide a permanent record of the COMS calibration status. The COMS's, which conduct zero and upscale calibration drift (CD) assessments without simultaneously check ing all the components actively used in normal day-to-day opacity measurement, are deemed to deviate from the proposed specifica tions. The Agency recognizes that some existing dual-path COMS's do not include the reflector in the daily zero and span check. However, these COMS's have been, and will continue to be, an accepted exception to the simultaneous check requirement. 5. The COMS shall provide operators visual or audible alarms for exceeding PS&hyph;1, operation specification, equipment failures, and effluent opacity standards. 6. The COMS shall provide an automated means to assess and record accumulated automatic zero compensations on a 1-hour and 24-hour basis. The 1-hour is specifically required only during a specific 24-hour period of the operational test period. The 24-hour assessment and recording of the 24-hour accumulated CD is a continual requirement of the system. 7. The automatic compensation for dirt accumulation on the window surfaces of the COMS requires including the compensation allowance in the 4 percent opacity tolerance for zero CD adjust ment. The measurement for determining compensation shall be conducted on those surfaces that are directly in line with the light beam used to measure the effluent opacity. In addition, only those optical surfaces, directly in the light beam path under normal operation to measure opacity, may be compensated for dust accumulation. The EPA has determined that systems that attempt to measure dust accumulation in locations, other than the measurement path of the normally transmitted measurement light beam or assume equal and uniform dust accumulations on unmeasured surfaces (e.g., reflectors), could result in unacceptable nega tive biases in opacity measurements. Those automatic dust compensation systems that meet the optical path assessment criteria may demonstrate and petition the Administrator for an increase in compensation to 20 percent opacity adjustment. 8. Providing a means to independently audit the COMS will be required of all new and replacement COMS's. Manufacturers of COMS's, meeting the March 30, 1983 specifications, have routinely incorporated this performance check allowance into their designs. In addition, the proposed specifications recognize and allow for the use of a ``zero-jig.'' This apparatus, which must have a unique serial number specific to the installed COMS, may be used to conduct performance check audits as well as for zero calibra tions of the COMS transmitter/receiver (dual-path systems) during installation. 9. The COMS must automatically correct opacity emissions measured at the COMS installation location to the emission outlet pathlength. The capability to automatically display and record the pathlength correction factor (PLCF) changes must be incorporated into the COMS design. B. Demonstration of Design The proposed demonstration of design conformance requirements of PS&hyph;1 have evolved from historical observation of the current required demonstrations. Such demonstrations have customarily been done by COMS manufacturers due to their unique capabilities at the manufacturing locations. The EPA believed this to be appropriate in 1983 when it allowed the source owner or operator to obtain a Manufacturer's Certificate of Conformance (MCOC) rather than conducting design performance testing at the source. The EPA, then and now, continues to hold the source owner and operator responsible for the overall demonstration that the COMS meets all of PS&hyph;1 requirements. Today's proposed specification requires COMS manufacturers to conduct the design specification testing required in section 6.0, Design Specific ation Verification Procedure. However, this does not relieve the source owners or operators from demonstrating compliance with applicable COMS requirements. Manufacturers of COMS's are encouraged, although not required, to seek an EPA evaluation of their design specification demonstration procedures for each model of COMS marketed as conforming with these specifications. The evaluation will provide competitive advantages to successful demonstrations as well as providing purchaser assurances of initial conformance to regulatory requirements. The activity is expected to reduce retrofit and corrective costs potentially encountered with nonconforming systems. The evaluation will also ensure that COMS's manufactured outside the United States (U.S.), for subsequent sale in the U.S., perform testing in the U.S. prior to sale.
