FR941117-0-00113 FR941117-0-00011 (b) Initial channel. The FCC will not assign more than two channels for new stations. Stations are considered to be new if there are no authorized transmitters on any channel listed in §22.561 controlled by the applicant in the same geographic area. (c) Additional channel. Applications for transmitters to be located in the same geographic area as an authorized station controlled by the applicant, but to operate on a different channel, are considered as requests for an additional channel for the authorized station, unless paragraph (d) of this section applies. (d) Additional transmitters on same channel. Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, applications for transmitters to be located in the same geographic area as an authorized station controlled by the applicant, and to operate on the same channel, are not considered as requests for an additional channel. (f) Dismissal of application constituting cumulative request for more than two channels. If the FCC receives an application for a transmitter to be located in the same geographic area as a transmitter proposed in a pending application previously filed by the applicant, but on different channels such that, considered together, the applications would constitute a request for more than two channels, the FCC may dismiss the subsequent application without prejudice. (g) Dismissal of premature applications for additional channel. If the FCC receives an application requesting two additional channels (or one additional channel) for an authorized station prior to receiving notification that the station is providing service to subscribers on all (or all except one) of the authorized channels, the FCC may dismiss that application without prejudice. §22.571 Responsibility for mobile stations. Mobile stations that are subscribers in good standing to a two-way service in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service, when receiving service from that station, are considered to be operating under the authorization of that station. Licensees are responsible for exercising effective operational control over mobile stations receiving service through their stations. Mobile stations that are subscribers in good standing to a two-way service in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service, while receiving service from a different station, are considered to be operating under the authorization of such different station. The licensee of such different station is responsible, during such temporary period, for exercising effective operational control over such mobile stations as if they were subscribers to it. §22.573 Use of base transmitters as repeaters. As an additional function, base transmitters may be used as repeaters. Licensees must be able to turn the base transmitter on or off from the control point regardless of whether a subscriber-operated transmitter is transmitting. §22.575 Use of mobile channel for remote control of station functions. Carriers may remotely control station functions (e.g. shut down or reactivate base transmitters, turn aviation obstruction warning lights on or off, etc.) using a control transmitter operating on a mobile channel, subject to the conditions in this section and in §22.567(h). (a) The control transmitter must be capable of overriding transmissions from subscriber-operated transmitters if necessary. Subscriber-operated transmitters must not be capable of being used to deliberately or accidentally prevent the licensee from controlling the station. (b) The licensee must implement measures designed to prevent station functions from being controlled by persons not authorized by the licensee to control the station. (c) The control transmitter location must be within the composite service contour of the licensee's authorized station on the paired base channel. §22.577 Grandfathered dispatch service. No new dispatch transmitters or dispatch points are authorized. Carriers that were authorized to provide dispatch service prior to January 1, 1982, and have provided such service continuously since that date may continue to provide such service. (a) Installation. A grandfathered station licensee may install a dispatch transmitter for one or more subscribers without applying for specific authorization, provided that the following conditions are met. (1) The dispatch transmitter must use the mobile channel that is paired with the channel used by the grandfathered base station. (2) The dispatch transmitter antenna must not exceed the criteria in §17.7 of this chapter that determine whether the FAA must be notified of the proposed construction. (3) The output power of the dispatch transmitter must not exceed 10 Watts. (4) The dispatch transmitter must be incapable of overriding the functioning of any control transmitter that may be using the same channel. (5) The dispatch transmitter must be under the continuous supervision of the licensee. (b) Notification. Licensees must notify the FCC by letter whenever a dispatch transmitter is installed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The notification must include the name and address of the subscriber(s) for which the dispatch transmitter was installed, the location of the dispatch transmitter, the height of antenna structure above ground and above mean sea level, the channel(s) used, and the call sign and location of the grandfathered base station.
