FR940504-1-00019 FR940504-1-00002 (iv) *␣*␣* (C) They and the entity itself must have the character (emphasizing credit history, past record of debt repayment and reliability), and industry to carry out the proposed operation. Past record of debt repayment will not be cause for a determination that the applicant is not eligible if an honest attempt has been made to meet the obligation. If the applicant (the entity or any of its members) is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt, in accordance with §1941.14 of subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter), it is automatically ineligible for loan assistance. ( 1 ) The County Office will use Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3 to check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's CAIVRS to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny credit can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the County Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. ( 2 ) If the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt) and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive this restriction upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. (D) They and the entity itself will honestly endeavor to carry out the applicant's/borrower's undertakings and obligations. This would include, but is not limited to, providing current, complete, and truthful information when applying for assistance and making every reasonable effort to meet the conditions and terms of the proposed loan. * * * * * ( 3 ) Restrictions. An applicant will be considered ineligible for loan assistance under any of the following circumstances. A decision to deny a loan for any of these reasons is not appealable. (i) In accordance with the Food Security Act of 1985 (Pub. L. 99&hyph;198) after December 23, 1985, if an individual or any member, stockholder, partner, or joint operator of an entity is convicted under Federal or State law of planting, cultivating, growing, producing, harvesting or storing a controlled substance (see 21 CFR part 1308, which is exhibit C of subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter (available in any FmHA office) for the definition of ``controlled substance'') prior to loan approval in any crop year, the individual or entity shall be ineligible for a loan for the crop year in which the individual or member, stockholder, partner, or joint operator of the entity was convicted and the four succeeding crop years. Applicants will attest on Form FmHA 410&hyph;1, ``Application for FmHA Services,'' that as individuals or that its members, if an entity, have not been convicted of such crimes after December 23, 1985. (ii) An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible for any Farmer Program loan or loan guarantee until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. The Administrator may waive this restriction upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. * * * * * 34. Section 1980.185 is amended in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(2)(iii) in the fourth sentence by changing the reference from ``INS Form G&hyph;641, `Application for Verification of Information from Immigration and Naturalization Records,''' to ``INS Form G&hyph;639, `Verification Request Form,''' and in the last sentence by changing the reference from ``INS Form G&hyph;641'' to ``INS Form G&hyph;639,'' by revising the introductory text of paragraph (b), by revising paragraphs (b)(1)(iv), (b)(1)(v), (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii), and by adding paragraph (b)(3) to read as follows: §1980.185 Soil and Water loans. * * * * * (b) Soil and Water loan eligibility requirements. Subject to the restrictions listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, an applicant is eligible for loan assistance if the following requirements are met: (1) *␣*␣* (iv) Have the character (emphasizing credit history, past record of debt repayment and reliability) and industry to carry out the proposed operation. Past record of debt repayment will not be cause for a determination that the applicant is not eligible if an honest attempt has been made to meet the obligation. If an applicant (the entity or any of its members) is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt, in accordance with §1941.14 of subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter), it is automatically ineligible for loan assistance. (A) The County Office will use Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3 to check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's CAIVRS to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny credit can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the County Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (B) If the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt), and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive this restriction upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. (v) Honestly endeavor to carry out the applicant's/borrower's undertakings and obligations. This would include, but is not limited to, providing current, complete, and truthful information when applying for assistance and making every reasonable effort to meet the conditions and terms of the proposed loan. * * * * * (2) *␣*␣*
