FR940712-1-00049 FR940712-1-00012 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed rental schedule is applicable to commercial and private communication uses authorized by a BLM right-of-way authorization. The uses include television broadcast, FM radio broadcast, rebroadcast devices, cable television, commercial mobile radio service, private mobile communication, cellular telephone, common carrier microwave, private microwave, facility manager, and miscellaneous uses. The proposed rule also would require payment of a percentage of the sublease rent collected by the holder from its tenants. Rental payments are waived for applicants or holders who provide public telecommunication services and are licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) as a noncommercial, educational radio or television station. The following objectives have been adopted to guide development of the rental schedule and implementation of procedures to balance carefully the public's interest in obtaining fair market rent: (1) Allow the continued growth of communication markets and services, especially in rural areas; (2) design a process that is cost effective, sets rental payments that are predictable and can be easily updated; (3) provide incentive for improved management of communication sites. The proposed rule takes into consideration recommendations of the Radio and Television Broadcast Use Fee Advisory Committee, information provided by users, industry groups, private appraisers, and comments received by the FS in response to their proposed policy published in the Federal Register on July 13, 1993. Comparative information provided by BLM and private appraisers was screened carefully only to include examples of land rent. The rent paid does not include any payment for services such as power, access, building and/or tower space, or maintenance. Information used was provided by the principals in those transactions. The proposed procedures will provide a consistent approach for the administration and assessment of rental payments for communication uses on public lands. The schedule provides incentives for co-locating single users within existing facilities under a multiple use right-of-way authorization. The rule also outlines a process for setting and updating rental payments and phasing in substantial increases in rental payments.
