FR940511-2-00203 FR940511-2-00128 (iv) The extent of the resources committed to continue the operation of Youth Sports activities and facilities beyond the grant term included in the applicant's description of plans to continue the Youth Sports activities in the future, as required in section III.(a)(12) of this NOFA. (5 points) (5) The severity of the drug problem at the local public or Indian housing site for the youth sports program and the extent of any planned or actual efforts to rid the site of the problem. (Maximum points: 10) In assessing this criterion HUD will consider the following factors: (i) The extent of the drug-related problems at the housing developments to be assisted, as established in the applicant's plan required by section III.(a)(7) of this NOFA; (5 points) (ii) The extent of any planned or actual efforts to rid the housing developments to be assisted of their drug-related problem, as described in the applicant's plan required by section III.(a)(7) of this NOFA. (5 points) (6) The extent to which local sports organizations or sports figures are involved. (Maximum points: 5 points) In assessing this criterion, HUD will consider the following factor: (i) The documentation provided in the application of the level of on-site or other participation by local sports, cultural, recreational, educational, or other community organizations or figures that is focused on the specific youth activities for which the application is prepared (section III.(a)(11) of this NOFA). (5 points) (7) The extent of the coordination of proposed activities with local resident management groups or resident associations (where such groups exist) and coordination of proposed activities with ongoing programs of the applicant that further the purposes of the Youth Sports program. (Maximum points: 15) In assessing this criterion, HUD will consider the following factors: (i) The applicant's description of its consultations with resident management groups or resident associations, where they exist, and residents, as required by section III.(a)(7) of this NOFA; (10 points) (ii) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates the relationship of the Youth Sports activities with other existing anti-drug activities, if any, in the housing developments to be assisted as reflected in the applicant's plan required by section III.(a)(7) of this NOFA. (5 points) (8) The extent of non-Federal contributions that exceed the fifty percent amount of such funds required. (Maximum points: 5) In assessing this criterion, HUD will consider the following factor: (i) The applicant's budget describing the share of the costs of the applicant's Youth Sports Program provided by a grant under this program and the share of the costs provided from funds from non-federal sources and other resources, such as the number of volunteers and volunteer hours committed, submitted in accordance with section III.(a)(5) of this NOFA. (5 points) (9) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates local government or tribal support for the program. (Maximum points: 5) In assessing this criterion, HUD will consider the following factor: (i) The applicant's description of local or tribal government support as evidenced by contributions from these entities listed under section III.(a)(5) of this NOFA. (5 points) (e) Environmental Review Before making an award of grant funds under this part, HUD will perform an environmental review to the extent required under the provisions of NEPA, applicable related authorities at 24 CFR 50.4, and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 50. II. Application Process (a) An application package may be obtained from the local HUD field office or by calling HUD's Drug Information and Strategy Clearinghouse at 1&hyph;800&hyph;578&hyph;3472. The application package contains information on all exhibits and certifications required under this NOFA. (b) The deadline for the submission of grant applications under this NOFA is June 20, 1994. In order to be eligible, the original and two copies of the application must be physically received by 4:30 p.m., local time, on the deadline date at the local HUD field office or, in the case of IHAs, in the local HUD Office of Indian Programs, with jurisdiction over the PHA or IHA, Attention: Public Housing Division Director, or Office of Indian Programs Director. A list of these offices is included as Appendix 1 to this NOFA. This application deadline is firm as to date and hour. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, the Department will treat as ineligible for consideration any application that is received after the deadline. Applicants should take this practice into account and make early submission of their materials to avoid any risk of loss of eligibility brought about by any unanticipated or delivery-related problems. A Fax is not acceptable. III. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements (a) Each application for a grant under this program must include the following: (1) Standard Grant Application Forms SF&hyph;424 and SF&hyph;424A with narrative showing breakdown by program and cost, to include all equipment. (2) The following certifications, executed by the CEO of the applicant: (i) A certification that the applicant will supplement the amount provided by a grant under this program with an amount of funds from non-federal sources equal to or greater than 50 percent of the amount provided by the grant;
