FR941202-2-00199 FR941202-2-00098 5.4␣Performance Evaluation Samples Each laboratory shall participate in a performance evaluation program as outlined in Chapter 2.0. 5.5␣Environmental Laboratory Staffing Requirements 5.5.1␣General Requirements for Laboratory Staff The testing laboratory shall have sufficient supervisory and other personnel, having the necessary education, training, technical knowledge and experience for their assigned functions. Job descriptions shall be available for all positions. The laboratory shall have available a clear description of the lines of responsibility in the laboratory and shall be proportioned such that adequate supervision is ensured. An organizational chart is recommended. 5.5.2␣Laboratory Staff Responsibilities and Credentials Laboratory management shall be responsible for: (a) All analytical and operational activities of the laboratory, including those of any auxiliary or mobile laboratory facilities; (b) Supervision of all personnel employed by the laboratory, including those assigned to work in any auxiliary or mobile laboratory facilities, and those persons designated as principle analysts; (c) Assuring that all sample acceptance criteria (Section 5.9) are met and that samples are logged into the sample tracking system and properly labeled and stored; and (d) The production and quality of all data reported by the laboratory, including any auxiliary or mobile laboratory facilities. Each analyst and other members of the staff shall be responsible for complying with all QA requirements. Each laboratory position must have a combination of experience and education to adequately demonstrate a specific knowledge of their particular function and a general knowledge of laboratory operations, analytical methods, quality assurance/quality control procedures and records management. 5.5.3␣Quality Assurance Officer A quality assurance officer shall: (a) Serve as the focal point for QA/QC and be responsible for analytical data review (sign off on data is required); (b) Have functions independent from laboratory management; (c) Be able to objectively evaluate data and perform assessments without outside (e.g., managerial) influence; (d) Have formal training and experience in QA/QC procedures and be knowledgeable in the quality system as defined under NELAP; (e) Have a general knowledge of the analytical methods for which data review is performed; and (f) Conduct internal audits on the entire operation twice annually. 5.6␣Equipment A laboratory must have access to all equipment specified by the analytical procedures for which accreditation is sought. All maintenance activities, both routine and nonroutine, shall be documented. The following records shall be maintained for each piece of equipment: _Name of item; _Manufacturer's name, type identification and serial number; _Date received and placed in service;
