FR940603-0-00072 FR940603-0-00026 (e) Mesh obstruction or constriction. (1) A fishing vessel may not use any mesh configuration, mesh construction, or other means on or in the top of the net, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section, which obstructs the meshes of the net in any manner. (2) No person on any vessel may possess or fish with a net capable of catching summer flounder in which the bars entering or exiting the knots twist around each other. (f) Stowage of nets. Otter trawl vessels retaining 100 lb (45.3 kg) or more of summer flounder from May 1 through October 31 or 200 lb (90.6 kg) or more of summer flounder from November 1 through April 30 that are subject to the minimum mesh size may not have ``available for immediate use'' any net, or any piece of net, not meeting the minimum mesh size requirement, or any net, or any piece of net, with mesh that is rigged in a manner that is inconsistent with the minimum mesh size. A net that conforms to one of the following specifications, and that can be shown not to have been in recent use, is considered not to be ``available for immediate use'': (1) A net stowed below deck, provided: (i) It is located below the main working deck from which the net is deployed and retrieved; (ii) The towing wires, including the ``leg'' wires, are detached from the net; (iii) It is fan-folded (flaked) and bound around its circumference. (2) A net stowed and lashed down on deck, provided: (i) It is fan-folded (flaked) and bound around its circumference; (ii) It is securely fastened to the deck or rail of the vessel; and (iii) The towing wires, including the leg wires, are detached from the net. (3) A net that is on a reel and is covered and secured, provided: (i) The entire surface of the net is covered with canvas or other similar material that is securely bound; (ii) The towing wires, including the leg wires, are detached from the net; and (iii) The codend is removed from the net and stored below deck. (4) Nets that are secured in a manner approved by the Regional Director, provided that the Regional Director has reviewed the alternative manner of securing nets and has published that alternative in the Federal Register . 5. Section 625.25, paragraph (d) is revised to read as follows: ยง625.25 Possession limit. * * * * * (d) Owners and operators of otter trawl vessels issued a permit under ยง625.4, that fish with, or possess nets or pieces of net on board, that do not meet the minimum mesh requirements and that are not stowed in accordance with ยง625.24(f), may not retain 100 lb (45.3 kg) or more of summer flounder from May 1 through October 31, or 200 lb (90.6 kg) or more of summer flounder from November 1 through April 30. Summer flounder on board these vessels must be stored, so as to be readily available for inspection, in standard 100-lb (45.3 kg) totes or fish boxes having a liquid capacity of 18.2 gallons (70 liters), or a volume of not more than 4,320 cubic inches (2.5 cubic feet or 70.79 cubic cm). * * * * * 6. Section 625.28 is added to read as follows: ยง625.28 Experimental fishery. (a) The Regional Director, in consultation with the Executive Director of the Council, may exempt any person or vessel from the requirements of this part for the conduct of experimental fishing beneficial to the management of the summer flounder resource or fishery. (b) The Regional Director may not grant such exemption unless he/she determines that the purpose, design, and administration of the exemption is consistent with the objectives of the FMP, the provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable law, and that granting the exemption will not: (1) Have a detrimental effect on the summer flounder resource and fishery; or (2) Cause any quota to be exceeded; or (3) Create significant enforcement problems. (c) Each vessel participating in any exempted experimental fishing activity is subject to all provisions of this FMP except those necessarily relating to the purpose and nature of the exemption. The exemption will be specified in a letter issued by the Regional Director to each vessel participating in the exempted activity. This letter must be carried aboard the vessel seeking the benefit of such exemption. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13518 Filed 5&hyph;31&hyph;94; 1:57 pm] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
