FR940106-2-00007 FR940106-2-00003 The analysis will address major issues and concerns about the proposed action and alternatives and will disclose the direct and indirect impacts related to those issues. The following tentative issues have been identified: (1) Impacts to wetlands and floodplains; (2) Impacts to waterways; (3) Impacts to cultural resource; (4) Impacts to streams from increased snowpack and runoff; (5) Impacts to fisheries; (6) Effect on the suitability of the Mad River for inclusion in the national system of Wild and Scenic Rivers; (7) Effect on recreation opportunities, specifically skiing and winter sports at Sugarbush South; (8) Effects on visual quality, and (9) Impacts to the local economy. The Draft Environmental Impact Statement is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency and to be available for public review in the summer of 1994. At that time, the Environmental Protection Agency will publish a Notice of Availability in the Federal Register . The comment period on the draft environmental impact statement will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency publishes the Notice of Availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes it is important to give reviewers notice at this early stage of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. After the comment period ends on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement, the comments will be analyzed and considered by the agency in preparing the Final Environmental Impact Statement. The Final Environmental Impact Statement is scheduled to be completed and available to the public approximately 5 months following the close of the review period for the Draft Environmental Impact Statement. The responsible Forest Service official will document the decision and the reasons supporting it in a Record of Decision. That decision will be subject to appeal pursuant to 36 CFR part 215. A separate decision will be made by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers concerning the issuance of permits under section 404 of the Clean Water Act. The Forest Service official responsible for approving the proposed action is Terry Hoffman, Forest Supervisor, Green Mountain National Forest, 231 North Main Street, Rutland, VT 05701. Dated: December 21, 1993. Terry W. Hoffman, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;407 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
