FR940405-1-00133 FR940405-1-00013 Employers shall have implemented all provisions of this standard no later than one year from [THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE]. Appendix A to ยง XXXX . XXXX _CARBON DIOXIDE MEASUREMENT PROTOCOL (NONMANDATORY) Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) sampling is one of the measurement tools used to characterize indoor air quality. Indoor CO 2 air concentrations are indicator measures for effectiveness of building ventilation. Elevated carbon dioxide levels can be an indicator of inadequate outside air exchange rates. Carbon dioxide concentrations below 800 ppm generally indicate that the ventilation is adequate for diluting occupant-generated contaminants. The carbon dioxide concentration and the associated outside air ventilation rate offers no confidence as to the adequacy of dilution and removal of other contaminants released in the space. There is also no implication of health effects associated with this level of carbon dioxide, or any implication of a permissible exposure limit. Health effects have been observed in buildings where the carbon dioxide levels were below 800 ppm. OSHA recommends this procedure: (1) Design a program of air sampling that includes samples taken: (a) at least every three months to detect the effects of seasonal changes (summer/winter transition seasons); (b) after adjustments have been made to the HVAC system; and (c) at any time there is reason to believe air quality has deteriorated. At least once a year carbon dioxide levels should be monitored when the HVAC system is providing minimum outside air ventilation. (2) Measure carbon dioxide concentrations late in the morning (about 11:00 am) and late in the afternoon before workers leave for home (about 3:30 pm). These are the times when carbon dioxide levels should be closest to equilibrium levels and should give the best indication of effective air exchange rates. These normal use patterns may be altered by visitor frequency and should be accounted for in the monitoring scheme. (3) Conduct the sampling at a height of between 3 and 5 feet above the floor, or about the height of employees' heads. Make sure the samples are taken at least 2 feet from where people are breathing. Take the samples at a sufficient distance from any other sources of carbon dioxide so these sources do not affect the measurements. (4) Select sampling locations in normally-occupied areas where the ventilation mixing would be the least effective. These areas might include corners of a room farthest from supply ducts and exhaust vents, locations surrounded by barriers that might affect air movement, or rooms at the far end of a ventilation supply duct. (5) Measure the carbon dioxide levels outside the building for comparison with the indoor levels. Average outdoor carbon dioxide levels are typically 300 to 500 ppm. (6) Use colormetric detector tubes or other direct-reading instruments calibrated and operated according to the manufacturer's instructions for measuring carbon dioxide concentrations. Take sampling and analytical error into account before comparing results with the 800 ppm benchmark. All measuring devices have a degree of uncertainty associated with the results. An estimate of that uncertainty is called the sampling and analytical error. The uncertainty can be reduced by taking more samples with the same device. Table A&hyph;1 can be used to assure 95 percent confidence that the average of the results from a set of detector tube samples is less than 800 ppm. OSHA recommends these following steps: (1) Calculate the average of the measurements. (a) Add the detector tube results together. (b) Divide that total by the number of samples. (2) Compare the average of the results with the number of samples taken in the second column in the table. If the average is less than the number in the table, there is confidence that the CO 2 levels are less than 800 ppm. Example: Three samples are taken and the results are 650 ppm, 710 ppm, and 680 ppm. The average of these three samples is 680 ppm (2,040 ppm divided by 3). The results indicate confidence that the carbon dioxide levels are less than 800 ppm since the 680 ppm average of the three samples is less than 695 ppm
