FR940114-2-00120 FR940114-2-00070 [Finance Docket No. 32431] Patrick D. Broe_Continuance in Control Exemption_Central Kansas Railway, Limited Liability Co. Patrick D. Broe (Mr. Broe), a noncarrier, has filed a notice of exemption to continue in control of Central Kansas Railway, Limited Liability Company (CKRLLC), upon CKRLLC's becoming a rail carrier. CKRLLC, a noncarrier, has concurrently filed a notice of exemption in Finance Docket No. 32430, Central Kansas Railway, Limited Liability Company_Acquisition and Operation Exemption_Central Kansas Railway, Inc., and Certain Incidental Line Segments of The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company and Burlington Northern Railroad Company, to acquire and operate: (1) All of the rail lines of Central Kansas Railway, Inc. (CKR), located in Kansas and Oklahoma; (2) two rail lines in Kansas from The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa Fe); (3) one rail line in Kansas from the Burlington Northern Railroad Company; and (4) incidental trackage rights over six segments of track owned by Santa Fe, one segment of track owned by Union Pacific Railroad Company, one segment of track owned by Missouri Pacific Railroad Company, and one segment of track owned by St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company. The parties intended to consummate that transaction on December 28, 1993, or later. Mr. Broe is a noncarrier individual who will directly control CKRLLC upon its becoming a carrier. Mr. Broe also directly controls Panhandle Northern Railroad Company (exempted in Finance Docket No. 32377), The Broe Companies, Inc., a holding company that directly controls CKR, and noncarriers Great Western Railway Company (Great Western) and Railco, Inc. (Railco). Great Western directly controls rail carriers, Great Western Railway of Colorado, Inc., Great Western Railway Company of Iowa, Inc., and Great Western Railway of Oregon, Inc. Railco controls noncarrier Chicago West Pullman Transportation Company, which in turn, controls six class III railroads: Chicago West Pullman & Southern Railroad Company, Georgia Woodlands Railroad Company, Newburgh & South Shore Railroad Company, Chicago Rail Link, Manufacturers' Junction Railway Company, and Kansas Southwestern Railway Company. The existing common control relationship among these carriers is discussed in Finance Docket No. 32362. This is a transaction within a corporate family of the type specifically exempted from prior review and approval under 49 CFR 1180.2(d)(3). It will not result in adverse changes in service levels, significant operational changes, or a change in the competitive balance with carriers outside the corporate family. The purpose of this transaction is to have the assets of CKR transferred to CKRLLC, a limited liability corporation, for estate planning purposes. As a condition to use of this exemption, any employees affected by the transaction will be protected by the conditions set forth in New York Dock Ry._Control_Brooklyn Eastern Dist., 360 I.C.C. 60 (1979). Petitions to revoke the exemption under 49 U.S.C. 10505(d) may be filed at any time. The filing of a petition to revoke will not automatically stay the transaction. Pleadings must be filed with the Commission and served on: Karl Morell, Taylor, Morell & Gitomer, suite 210, 919 18th St., NW., Washington, DC 20006. Decided: January 6, 1994. By the Commission, David M. Konschnik, Director, Office of Proceedings. Sidney L. Strickland, Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1013 Filed 1&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
