FR940429-2-00124 FR940429-2-00089 Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 82␣/␣Friday, April 29, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3487; FR&hyph;3630&hyph;N&hyph;01] Funding Availability (NOFA) for Fiscal Year 1994 Congregate Housing Services Program AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner, HUD; Office of the Administrator, Farmers Home Administration (FmHA). ACTION: Notice of Funding Availability for Fiscal Year 1994. SUMMARY: This Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) announces the funding of Regional competitions for HUD dollars and a national competition for dollars allotted to the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA), which are available for the supportive services component of the Congregate Housing Services Program (CHSP). A Final Common Rule for the CHSP is published elsewhere in today's Federal Register , as 7 CFR part 1944 and 24 CFR part 700. Funding announced in today's document covers new grants for congregate services for frail elderly persons, persons with disabilities, and temporarily disabled individuals living in eligible housing for the elderly. States, Indian tribes, units of general local government, Public Housing Agencies (PHAs) and Indian Housing Authorities (IHAs) and local nonprofit housing sponsors, are eligible applicants. Applications from PHA/IHAs and local non-profit housing sponsors are limited to the housing they own. States, Indian tribes and units of general local government may submit one or more applications on behalf of one or more owners of eligible housing who may be either local non-profit housing sponsors or for-profit housing owners. This document contains information concerning: (a) The purpose of the NOFA; (b) where to get the application package; (c) deadline for filing applications; (d) eligibility, available amounts, and selection criteria; and (e) information on application processing, and the selection process. DATES: The deadline date for submission of an application to HUD for funding under the CHSP is on or before 3 p.m., local time, July 13, 1994, at the appropriate HUD field office. The deadline date for submission of an application to FmHA for funding under the CHSP is on or before 3 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, July 13, 1994, at FmHA Headquarters. RECEIPT OF APPLICATIONS: HUD will receive applications at the Field Office for the jurisdiction in which the projects are located. FmHA will receive applications at the FmHA Headquarters Building in Washington, DC. Copies will also be received at the FmHA State office which has jurisdiction over the project. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general information concerning grants under the CHSP, or limited technical assistance by telephone regarding the preparation of an application for the CHSP, potential applicants may contact HUD and FmHA as follows: For questions regarding HUD projects, applicants applying for Public and/or Indian Housing Projects should contact the Housing Management Specialist in the Field Office which has jurisdiction for the projects. Applicants applying for Section 8, 202, 221(d) or 236 Projects should call the Loan Servicer in the field office which has jurisdiction for the projects. HUD and FmHA Field office addresses and telephone numbers are listed in Attachment 1 to this NOFA. Applicants for FmHA projects should contact John Pentecost or Sue Harris at FmHA Headquarters at 202&hyph;720&hyph;1606. (This is NOT a toll-free number.) Hearing impaired individuals may reach FmHA by calling the central TDD number of (202)&hyph;245&hyph;0846, HUD by calling (202)&hyph;708&hyph;9300, or either agency by calling the TDD number of the Federal Relay Service 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;TDDY and requesting a transfer. Applicants for HUD projects should not contact HUD Headquarters: such calls will normally be referred to the appropriate HUD Field Office. Applicants for FmHA projects should not contact FmHA State or District Offices; such calls will normally be referred to FmHA Headquarters. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction Act Statement The information collection requirements contained in this NOFA have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3520). No person may be subjected to a penalty for failure to comply with these information collection requirements until they have been approved and assigned an OMB control number. The OMB control number, when assigned, will be announced by separate notice in the Federal Register .
