FR940610-2-00219 FR940610-2-00106 84.023A, C, E, and N␣Research in Education of Individuals With Disabilities Program Purpose of Program: To advance and improve the knowledge base and improve the practice of professionals, parents, and others providing early intervention, special education, and related services_including professionals in regular education environments_to provide children with disabilities effective instruction and enable these children to learn successfully. Eligible Applicants: State and local educational agencies; institutions of higher education; and other public agencies and nonprofit private organizations. Applicable Regulations: (a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) in 34 CFR parts 74, 75, 77, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86; and (b) The regulations for this program in 34 CFR part 324. Priorities: Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) and 34 CFR 324.10 the Secretary gives an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priorities. The Secretary funds under these competitions only applications that meet one of these absolute priorities: Absolute Priority 1_Advancing and Improving the Research Knowledge Base (84.023A). This priority supports a wide range of research and related activities that support innovation, development, exchange, and use of advancements in knowledge and practice designed to contribute to the improvement of instruction and learning of infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities. Invitational Priority: Within Absolute Priority 1 the Secretary is particularly interested in applications that meet one or more of the following invitational priorities. However, under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(1) an application that meets one or more of these invitational priorities does not receive competitive or absolute preference over other applications: The Secretary is particularly interested in pilot studies, projects that employ new methodologies, descriptive studies, projects to advance assessment, projects that synthesize state-of-the-art research and practice, projects for research dissemination and utilization, and projects that analyze extant data bases. The Secretary further encourages studies that use these approaches to foster the full participation and maximize the achievement of students with disabilities in education reform efforts related to the Goals 2000: Educate America Act. Project Period: Up to 12 months. Supplementary Information: No project will be funded at an amount more than the high end of the range specified in Chart 5. Any project approved by reviewers that exceeds this amount will be required to be performed, as proposed, within the award amount. Absolute Priority 2_Field-Initiated Research Projects (84.023C). This priority provides support for field-initiated research projects focusing on special education and related services for children and youth with disabilities and early intervention services for infants and toddlers, consistent with the purposes of the program, as described in 34 CFR 324.1. Supplementary Information: No project will be funded at an amount more than the high end of the range specified in Chart 5. Any project approved by reviewers that exceeds this amount will be required to be performed, as proposed, within the award amount. Project Period: Up to 60 months. Absolute Priority 3_Synthesize and Communicate a Professional Knowledge Base: Contributions to Research and Practice (84.023E). A project must_ (a) In conducting a synthesis of the literature_ (1) Identify and implement rigorous social science methods for synthesizing the professional knowledge base (e.g., integrative reviews (Cooper, 1982), best-evidence synthesis (Slavin, 1989), meta-analysis (Glass, 1977), multi-vocal approach (Ogawa & Malen, 1991), and National Institute of Mental Health consensus development program (Huberman, 1977)); (2) Identify the topical focus and the relevant and irrelevant concepts under review, and pose hypotheses around which the synthesis would be conducted; (3) Develop hypotheses with input from potential consumers of the synthesis to enhance the usability and validity of project efforts. Consumers include researchers, policymakers, educators, other relevant practitioners, individuals with disabilities, and parents; (4) Develop and implement procedures for locating and organizing the extant literature and ensure that these procedures address and guard against potential threats to the integrity and generalizability of findings; (5) Establish criteria and procedures for judging the appropriateness of studies; (6) Meet with the Office of Special Education Programs and with the other projects funded under this priority to review their topical focus and methodological approach for conducting the synthesis prior to the start of their respective synthesis; and (7) Analyze and interpret the professional knowledge base, including identification of general trends in the literature, points of consensus and conflict among the findings, and areas of evidence where the literature base is lacking. The interpretation of the literature base must address the contributions of the findings for improving the practice of professionals educating children and youth with disabilities; and (b) In communicating its findings_ (1)(i) Cooperate with OSEP to convene a forum_to be held in Washington, DC between the 18th and 21st months of the project_at which the project would exchange findings from the synthesis activity with researchers, policymakers, educators, other relevant practitioners, individuals with disabilities, and parents; and (ii) Provide draft copies of its analysis and interpretations to participants; (2) Based on discussion and feedback from forum participants, prepare final synthesis documents; and (3)(i) Develop the information products that have the greatest potential for use by national professional education and parent organizations in their existing communication systems and member networks; (ii) In developing the information products the project must propose products appropriate for the topical focus and audience, provide a rationale for those proposed types of products, and propose communication strategies for fostering the use of the products by the appropriate audience; and (iii) The project must coordinate with OSEP to finalize information products for various systems and networks. Each project must budget for_ (1) A two-day meeting in Washington, DC, during the first year, as described under paragraph (b)(1) of this priority; (2) The two-day Research Project Directors' meeting to be held in Washington, DC, each year of the project; and (3) Two trips for up to two days each to Washington, DC for the activity described under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this priority. Supplementary Information: The estimated average size of award specified in Chart 5 is for year one only. Year two is estimated at $50,000.
