FR941222-0-00027 FR941222-0-00003 G.4. Comment. One commenter stated that projected future uses of land and water within the region are impossible to make given the unknown length of time this waste may remain on site and the options for both cask and reactor license renewal beyond 20 and 40 years, respectively, and the fact that no known man-made structure can last for the length of time that this waste must be isolated from humans and the environment. If an MRS or repository ever become available, this waste may have to be repacked. Each handling of this waste increases the likelihood of an accident, spill, contamination, and worker and public exposures. Response. Projected future land and water use can be made based on the continued safe operation of a reactor and its associated dry cask storage facility. The continued operation of these facilities should have no greater impact on land and water use in the future than they do today. As previously noted, the NRC Waste Confidence decisions concluded there is reasonable assurance that safe disposal of spent fuel by the Federal Government will be available by the year 2025. Therefore, the spent fuel will not remain at a reactor site for the length of time it must be isolated from humans and the environment. It should be noted that the absence of significant environmental impacts from dry cask storage at a reactor site is the conclusion of NRC's environmental assessment for the Standardized NUHOMS and for previously approved dry casks analyzed in earlier rulemakings addressing 10 CFR Part 72, as well as in the Commission's Waste Confidence decisions in 1984 (August 31, 1984; 49 FR 34658) and 1989 (September 29, 1989; 54 FR 39765). In the 1984 Waste Confidence decision, the Commission concluded there was reasonable assurance that spent fuel can be safely stored at reactor sites, without significant environmental impacts, for at least 30 years beyond expiration of NRC reactor operating licenses. The 1989 Waste Confidence decision review reaffirmed earlier Commission conclusions on the absence of significant environmental impacts. G.5. Comment. One commenter questioned whether the NUHOMS canister will fit the conceptual design for the DOE multi-purpose canister (MPC). If DOE chooses to use vertical casks (like the VSC) at the MRS, will the NUHOMS inner canister fit into the vertical outer concrete shell in the MPC design? If local reactors choose the VSC&hyph;24 or the NUHOMS, will either inner metal canister fit into the overpacks for DOE, or will they have to be opened after storage, returned to the pool, the fuel put in a new canister, and the old one discarded as radioactive waste? Response. The Certificate of Compliance for the Standardized NUHOMS is intended for the interim storage of spent fuels and is not required to conform to, and has not been evaluated by NRC for conformance with, the conceptual design for the DOE MPC. DOE has not yet made final decisions regarding design or deployment of the MPC. Therefore, it is not possible to speculate on conformance of the Standardized NUHOMS to the MPC. G.6. Comment. One commenter asked what are the criteria for 20-year renewal of this cask design? How will this be checked? If the design is not renewed, what is the plan? Response. The 1989 proposed rule (May 5, 1989; 54 FR 19379) to add Subparts K and L to Part 72 indicated that the 20-year period represents what the Commission believes to be an appropriate increment for cask design approvals. The application for design reapproval would have to demonstrate the cask's ability to perform the necessary safety functions for the reapproval period. The application would be evaluated by NRC against the Commission's regulatory requirements. If a cask design is not reapproved, the licensee would have to remove casks from service as the 20-year approved storage life expired. This could mean removal of the spent fuel and storing it elsewhere. G.7. Comment. One commenter wanted to discuss the need for an additional cask design, including how it would better meet the need of the interim dry cask storage of high-level waste. Response. Section 218(a) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA) provides the following directive: ``The Secretary [of DOE] shall establish a demonstration program in cooperation with the private sector, for the dry storage of spent nuclear fuel at civilian nuclear reactor power sites, with the objective of establishing one or more technologies that the [Nuclear Regulatory] Commission may, by rule, approve for use at the sites of civilian nuclear power reactors without, to the maximum extent practicable, the need for additional site-specific approvals by the Commission.'' After subsequent DOE technical evaluations and based on a full review of all available data, the Commission approved dry storage of spent nuclear fuel in a final rule published in the Federal Register on July 18, 1990 (55 FR 29181). The final rule established a new Subpart K within 10 CFR Part 72, entitled ``General License for Storage of Spent Fuel at Power Reactor Sites.'' Therefore, there is a need for casks to be approved by NRC to implement the NWPA to meet the demand of the interim dry cask storage of spent fuels in the nuclear power plants. However, the variety of cask designs submitted by vendors for NRC review and approval is mostly dictated by economic reasons that do not involve NRC.
