FR940804-2-00157 FR940804-2-00085 [Investment Company Act Rel. No. 20435; 812&hyph;8960] FGIC Capital Market Services, Inc.; Notice of Application July 29, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``Act''). APPLICANT: FGIC Capital Market Services, Inc. RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested under section 6(c) from paragraphs (a)(5), (a)(6), and (b) of rule 3a&hyph;5. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicant seeks an order that would permit it to rely on rule 3a&hyph;5. FILING DATE: The application was filed on April 29, 1994 and amended on July 22, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicant with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on August 23, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicant, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request such notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicant, 115 Broadway, New York, New York 10006. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James E. Anderson, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0573, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. Applicant is a recently-formed Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of FGIC Holdings, Inc. (``FGIC Holdings''). FGIC Holdings is a wholly-owned subsidiary of GE Capital Corporation (``GE Capital''), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of General Electric Company. FGIC Holdings is a holding company engaged primarily in the insurance business through its subsidiary, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company. GE Capital is a diversified financial services company. GE Capital's activities consist of several distinct businesses that fall into five industry segments: specialized financing, mid-market financing, consumer services, equipment management, and specialty insurance. 2. Applicant was formed for the primary purpose of issuing and selling in private placement transactions municipal reinvestment contracts (``MRCs'') and similar investment agreements primarily to state or local government entities or agencies. Applicant also sells put options where the holder acquires securities permitted under rule 3a&hyph;5(a)(6) directly for its own account and applicant agrees, at the option of the holder, to purchase such investments at a later date. 1 Within six months of applicant's receipt of the proceeds of the MRC offerings and put fees, applicant lends at least 85% of such proceeds to GE Capital or certain companies controlled by GE Capital (the ``Subsidiaries'') for their use in financing their respective operations. 2 GE Capital fully guarantees applicant's obligations under each MRC it issues. 1 Applicant considers the sale of put options to constitute the sale of debt securities and proceeds of the put options to consist of the put fees. 2 All references herein to the Subsidiaries are intended to include solely companies that are controlled by GE Capital under the definition of a ``company controlled by a parent company'' under rule 3a&hyph;5(b)(3). 3. Section 3(a)(1) defines an investment company to include any issuer that is engaged primarily, or that proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities. Section 3(a)(3) defines an investment company to include any issuer engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities, and that owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the issuer's total assets, exclusive of Government securities and cash items, on an unconsolidated basis. Because applicant's loans to GE Capital and the Subsidiaries may be considered investments in the debt securities of GE Capital and the Subsidiaries, applicant falls within the definition of investment company.
