FR941110-0-00164 FR941110-0-00016 Other commenters were in favor of obligating facilities to bear the cost of temporary management, and several asked that we state that the cost of temporary management is not an allowable expense for Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement. One commenter recommended that the salary payment be funded by the facility but routed to the State which would deliver the payment to the temporary manager. The commenter was concerned that direct facility payment would undermine the objectivity of the temporary manager. Response: We will continue to require that facilities pay the salary of the temporary manager, and we will not deem this cost to be an allowable expense for Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement. We believe that to do otherwise would undermine our enforcement efforts to motivate corrective action and encourage sustained substantial compliance. If we relieved facilities of their responsibility for bearing the costs of correcting serious deficiencies, we would be providing them with a clear disincentive to remain in substantial compliance. We also believe that providing the services of a temporary manager without charging for them would be an inappropriate response to a facility's failure to meet the responsibility it assumed upon entering the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs to meet participation requirements. A noncompliant facility must be held accountable for breaches of responsibility; therefore, it (and not HCFA or the State) should bear the cost of the temporary management it has incurred. Because responsibility for paying for the cost of the temporary management is one condition of the remedy, a facility's unwillingness to pay will be considered a failure to relinquish control to the temporary manager, and will cause the facility to be subject to the possibility of termination instead. A facility's inability to pay for the cost of the temporary management will have the same result. A provision has been added at paragraph (c)(4) to indicate this. The conspicuous absence of consideration of a facility's financial condition as a statutory criterion for imposing temporary management (as opposed to its inclusion as a criterion for determining the amount of a civil money penalty) implies that the Congress did not intend for it to be a factor in imposition of the remedy. Consequently, we are also compelled to proceed with action to terminate those facilities that are unable to assume the cost of the temporary management. We do not believe that our position conflicts with the statutory references cited by certain commenters. Section 1919(h)(2)(A)(ii) of the Act states that funds collected by a State as a result of imposition of civil money penalties shall be applied to the protection of the health or property of residents of nursing facilities that the State or the Secretary finds deficient, including maintenance of operation of a facility pending correction of deficiencies or closure. A temporary manager does not maintain operation of a facility. Rather, it is the facility ownership that is responsible for sustaining facility operations. If the State assumes control of a facility after it has been abandoned by its ownership, then it would be appropriate for the State to use civil money penalty funds to pay the expenses of maintaining the abandoned facility. We also believe that commenters misinterpreted the provision of the Act found at section 1919(h)(2)(E). This section states that the reasonable expenditures of a State to provide for temporary management shall be considered for Federal payment purposes to be necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the State plan. We believe this refers to the resources necessary to locate, orient, guide, and monitor the temporary manager, and does not include the cost of the temporary manager's service itself. When a facility pays for the temporary manager, we believe that it would be unnecessarily circuitous to route the salary payment to the State before delivering it to the temporary manager, and disagree that direct payment would compromise the temporary manager's objectivity. A facility would not be able to use the temporary manager's salary as leverage to influence his or her actions because a facility could not effectively keep the salary from the temporary manager. The temporary manager would be paid even if the facility attempted to withhold his or her salary because HCFA or the State could recoup the amount owed to the temporary manager from payments later made to the facility. Therefore, we are requiring that the facility pay the salary of the temporary manager directly, and are modifying the provision at ยง488.415(c) to reflect this. Comment: A large number of commenters believed that facilities should not be given the opportunity to refuse temporary management. Commenters were concerned that facilities would reject temporary management if given the choice, thereby subjecting residents to continued substandard quality of care, promoting facility terminations, and exposing residents to relocation trauma.
