FR940324-2-00101 FR940324-2-00047 Bureau of Land Management Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior, Susanville District Office, California, [CA&hyph;020&hyph;5101&hyph;10&hyph;B039; CACA&hyph;31406, NVN&hyph;57250]. ACTION: Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). SUMMARY: This Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement is published in accordance with the regulations under Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1501.7. The Bureau of Land Management (BLM), Susanville District will, together with the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) direct the preparation of a joint Environmental Impact Statement and Environmental Impact Report (EIS/EIR) for a proposed 345 kilovolt electric power transmission line. The joint EIS/EIR is to be prepared by a third party contractor. The BLM will be the lead Federal agency, and with the CPUC as the lead California State agency will produce this joint EIS/EIR to satisfy the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), respectively. The following Federal agencies have indicated that they will participate as cooperating agencies in the preparation of the EIS/EIR. U.S. Forest Service (Modoc and Toiyabe National Forests); Department of Defense (Sierra Army Depot); U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs (Sacramento Area Office); Bonneville Power Administration. The EIS/EIR will assess the environmental impacts of the approval, construction, operation and maintenance of a 345,000 volt (345KV) electric power transmission line approximately 160 miles long, running from the vicinity of Alturas, California through Modoc, Lassen, and Sierra Counties, California, through Washoe County, Nevada to the vicinity of Reno, Nevada. The project has been proposed by the Sierra Pacific Power Company of Reno, Nevada, and is referred to as the Alturas Intertie. The project would affect Federal, State and private lands. Possible alternatives to the project include: (1) Project and route alternatives presented in the proponent's application; (2) no action or project denial(s) alternative; (3) approval of one or more of the proposed alternative projects; (4) any reasonable project and route alternatives identified as a result of the scoping; and (5) combinations of any of the above. The National Environmental Policy Act requires the BLM to take into account the environmental impacts that could result from a major Federal action. The CPUC is required to consider the same potential impacts of a proposed action within the State of California under the California Environmental Quality Act. The EIS/EIR we are preparing will give the BLM and the CPUC the information needed to make a decision based on understanding of environmental consequences and take actions that protect, restore and enhance the environment. NEPA (and CEQA) also requires us to discover and address concerns the public and other governmental agencies may have about a proposed project. This process is called ``scoping''. The main goal of the scoping process is to focus the analysis in the EIS/EIR on the important environmental issues, and to separate those issues that are not significant and do not require detailed study. the EIS/EIR will also evaluate possible alternatives to the project, or portions of the project, and make recommendations on how to avoid or lessen environmental impacts of the project. The purpose of this notice is to invite members of the public, affected Federal, State, and local agencies, any affected Indian tribes, the proponent of the action, and other interested persons to participate in the scoping process for this project by providing written and verbal comments or recommendations concerning the issues to be analyzed in the EIS/EIR. DATES: Written comments will be accepted until May 6, 1994. Public and governmental agency scoping sessions will be held in Reno, NV, Susanville, CA and Alturas, CA at locations and dates that will be announced soon. ADDRESSES: Because this is a combined Federal EIS and State EIR, the Bureau of Land Management and the California Public Utilities Commission have agreed that all written comments will be collected at one location. Written comments on the combined Federal EIS and State EIR must therefore be sent to the California Public Utilities Commission (Attn: Julie Halligan, Project Manager); Commission Advisory and Compliance Division, Environmental and Energy Advisory Branch; 505 Van Ness Ave., Room 3207; San Francisco, CA 94102. Written comments should reference BLM case number CACA&hyph;31406, and the ``Alturas Intertie Project''. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: This Federal Notice of Intent to prepare an EIS is issued by the District Manager, Bureau of Land Management, 705 Hall Street, Susanville, California 96130. Any Federal agencies or Indian tribes wishing to participate as a Federal Cooperating Agency should send a letter prior to May 1, 1994 to the BLM Susanville District Manager at this address, describing only the extent to which they want to be involved. (Scoping comments must be sent separately to the CPUC address given above.) The letter must reference case number CACA&hyph;31406. For further information on the Federal action, write to the District Manager or call Peter Humm, BLM Project Manager, at (916) 257&hyph;5381 or 257&hyph;0456.
