FR941227-0-00100 FR941227-0-00020 Subpart M_Section 570.702 Eligible Applicants Two commenters requested that the Department make available the Section 108 Loan Guarantee Program to non-entitled units of local governments in the HUD-administered Small Cities Program. The Department agrees that the non-entitled communities in the States of New York and Hawaii should have available the use of Section 108 and ยง570.702(c) provides for this. III. Other Matters Environmental Impact A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment was made in accordance with HUD regulations at 24 CFR part 50, which implement section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, at the time of the development of the proposed rule. Because no substantial programmatic changes have been made, that finding remains applicable to this final rule. The Finding of No Significant Impact is available for public inspection during regular business hours in the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of the General Counsel, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Room 10276, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410. Impact on Small Entities The Secretary, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 605(b) (the Regulatory Flexibility Act), has reviewed this final rule before publication, and by approving it certifies that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rule proposes to modify, simplify and update the administration and procedural requirements of the CDBG Small Cities Program to conform with legislation applicable to this program. Accordingly, the final rule is anticipated to have some beneficial impact on small entities. However, the number of small entities that may be affected by this rule will not be substantial and the economic impact will not be significant. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that this final rule does not have Federalism implications and therefore is not subject to review under the Order. No programmatic or policy changes will result from this rule's promulgation which will have a substantial direct effect on the States, or on the relationship between the Federal government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibility among the various levels of government. Family Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that this final rule does not have the potential for significant impact on family formation, maintenance and general well-being, and thus is not subject to review under the Order. No significant changes in existing HUD policies or programs will result from promulgation of this rule. Regulatory Agenda This final rule was listed as sequence number 1834 in the Department's Semiannual Agenda of Regulations published on November 14, 1994 (59 FR 57632, 57662) pursuant to Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Catalogue of Federal Domestic Assistance The Catalogue of Federal Domestic Assistance program number is 14.219, Community Development Block Grants_Small Cities Program. List of Subjects in 24 CFR Part 570 Administrative practice and procedure, American Samoa, Community development block grants, Grant programs_education, Grant programs_housing and community development, Grant programs_education, Guam, Indians, Lead poisoning, Loan programs_housing and community development, Low and moderate income housing, New communities, Northern Mariana Islands, Pacific Islands Trust Territory, Pockets of poverty, Puerto Rico, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Small cities, Student aid, Virgin Islands. Accordingly, 24 CFR part 570 is amended as follows: PART 570_COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
