FR940930-2-00141 FR940930-2-00041 All but seven of the taxa are or were endemic to the Hawaiian island of Kauai; the exceptions are or were found on the Hawaiian islands of Niihau, Oahu, Molokai, Maui, and/or the island of Hawaii as well as Kauai. The 37 plant taxa and their habitats have been variously affected or are currently threatened by one or more of the following: habitat degradation by feral and domestic animals (goats, pigs, axis and mule deer, cattle, and red jungle fowl); competition for space, light, water, and nutrients by introduced vegetation; erosion of substrate produced by human- or animal-caused disturbance; recreational and agricultural activities; habitat loss from fires; disease; loss of pollinators; and predation by animals (goats, rats and mice). Due to the small number of existing individuals and their very narrow distributions, these taxa and most of their populations are subject to an increased likelihood of extinction and/or reduced reproductive vigor from stochastic events. The taxa included in this plan were historically distributed throughout the island of Kauai and grow in a variety of vegetation communities (grassland, shrubland, and forests), elevational zones (coastal to montane), and moisture regimes (dry to wet). Most of the taxa included in this plan persist on steep slopes, precipitous cliffs, valley headwalls, and other regions where unsuitable topography has prevented agricultural development or where inaccessibility has limited encroachment by alien animal and plant taxa. The objective of this plan is to provide a framework for the recovery of these 37 taxa so that their protection by the Endangered Species Act (ESA) is no longer necessary. Immediate actions necessary for the prevention of extinction of these taxa include fencing for exclusion of ungulates, alien plant control, protection from fire, population and plant community monitoring and management, ex situ propagation, and augmentation of populations, as appropriate. Long-term activities necessary for the perpetuation of these taxa in their natural habitats additionally include baseline and long-term research regarding growth requirements, public education, maintenance of fenced areas, long-term monitoring and management of populations and communities, and re-establishment of populations within the historic ranges of some taxa. Further research current range, reproduction and reproductive status, pollinators, life history, limiting factors, habitat requirements, and minimum viable population sizes is needed to facilitate appropriate management decisions regarding the long-term perpetuation of each of these taxa. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of these plans. Authority The authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: September 26, 1994. Michael J. Spear, Regional Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Region 1. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24195 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
