FR940325-2-00051 FR940325-2-00025 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [ER&hyph;FRL&hyph;4709&hyph;7] Environmental Impact Statements and Regulations; Availability of EPA Comments Availability of EPA comments prepared March 7, 1994 Through March 11, 1994 pursuant to the Environmental Review Process (ERP), under section 309 of the Clean Air Act and section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act as amended. Requests for copies of EPA comments can be directed to the Office of Federal Activities at (202) 260&hyph;5076. An explanation of the ratings assigned to draft environmental impact statements (EISs) was published in the Federal Register April 10, 1993 (58 FR 18392). Draft EISs ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;J65213&hyph;MT Rating EC2, Helena National Forest and Elkhorn Mountain portion of the Deerlodge National Forest Land and Resources Management Plan, Oil and Gas Leasing, Implementation, several counties, MT. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding the adequacy of the data presented in the DEIS to describe the existing condition and potential environmental effects to the aquatic resources within the analysis area. EPA also raised concerns regarding the level of protection given to waters of the United States, including wetlands, and the lack of a monitoring plan for various stages in the leasing process. ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;J65214&hyph;CO Rating EC2, Sheep Flats, Grove Creek and Valley View Timber Sales, Harvesting Timber and Road Construction, Grand Mesa, Uncompahgre and Gunnison National Forests, Collban District, Mesa County, CO. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding monitoring and evaluation and biological diversity. EPA requested clarifying information in the final document. ERP No. D&hyph;COE&hyph;L32009&hyph;OR Rating EC2, Coos Bay Channel Deepening Project, Navigation Improvements and Ocean Disposal Sites Designation, OR. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns based on the potential adverse effects to existing beneficial uses of streams. EPA requested additional information about compliance with water quality standards, mitigation effectiveness, cumulative effects, site-specific monitoring, and noise effects. ERP No. D&hyph;TVA&hyph;E65041&hyph;00 Rating EC2, Land between the Lakes (LBL) Natural Resource Management Plan, Implementation, KY and TN. Summary: EPA supported TVA alternative E, which provided multiple use and uneven-aged silvaculture. EPA expressed environmental concerns about potential high-grading of timber, nutrient runoff into lakes, and out-dated aquatic plant/blue-green algae information. ERP No. D&hyph;UAF&hyph;J11009&hyph;CO Rating EC2, Lowry Air Force Base (AFB) Disposal and Reuse, Implementation, Denver County, CO. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns with the November 1993 Lowry reuse plan based on residential use near contaminated areas and recommended further study. Also recommended was conformity information under the Clean Air Act. ERP No. DS&hyph;AFS&hyph;J82005&hyph;MT Rating LO, Lewis and Clark National Forest Noxious Weed Control Program, Updated Information, Implementation, several countries, MT. Summary: EPA had no objections to the preferred alternative involving integrated chemical, biological, and manual control of weeds on the Forest, but requested that the FEIS include additional maps and further evaluation of the potential for runoff of herbicides at toxic concentrations into Frenchies Gulch. Final EISs ERP No. F&hyph;AFS&hyph;J65208&hyph;MT, Smokey-Corridor Timber Sales, Timber Management and Road Construction/Reconstruction, Implementation, Lewis and Clark National Forest, White Sulphur Springs, Meagher County, MT. Summary: Review of the Final EIS was not deemed necessary. No formal comment letter was sent to the preparing agency. ERP No. F&hyph;COE&hyph;G39027&hyph;LA, Louisiana Coastal Wetlands Comprehensive Restoration Plan, Implementation and Funding, several parishes, LA. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns that the Corps of Engineers had not demonstrated compliance with all state and federal laws for each of the individual projects included in the Implementation phase. EPA also recommended against relying on the section 404 permitting process to accomplish required NEPA compliance. ERP No. F&hyph;FAA&hyph;G51026&hyph;TX, New Austin Airport at Bergstrom Air Force Base (AFB) 1993 Master Plan, Approval, Funding, Property Acquisition and Construction, City of Austin, Travis County, TX. Summary: EPA's environmental concerns on the draft EIS about the alternatives, wetlands impact, air quality and pollution prevention were answered in the Final EIS. EPA asked that additional, clarifying information supporting Alternative F&hyph;North be provided in the Record of Decision. ERP No. F&hyph;NPS&hyph;J61089&hyph;UT, Timpanogos Cave National Monument General Management and Development Concept Plans, Implementation, American Fork Canyon, Utah County, UT. Summary: Review of the Final EIS was not deemed necessary. No formal comment letter was sent to the preparing agency. ERP No. FS&hyph;AFS&hyph;J65193&hyph;MT, Beaver-Dry Timber Sales, Timber Harvest and Road Construction, Updated Information, Implementation, Helena National Forest, Lincoln Ranger District, Lewis and Clark and Powell Counties, MT. Summary: Review of the Final EIS was not deemed necessary. No formal comment letter was sent to the preparing agency. Dated: March 22, 1994. Marshall Cain, Senior Legal Advisor, Office of Federal Activities. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7116 Filed 3&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;U&hyph;M
