FR940106-0-00025 FR940106-0-00007 (4) Adequacy of systems-integration and multi-disciplinary planning including integration of appropriate downstream or upstream production, manufacturing, quality assurance, and customer service requirements. (5) Potential broad impact on U.S. technology and knowledge base. (b) Potential Broad-based Economic Benefits of the Proposal (20 Percent) (1) Potential to improve U.S. economic growth. (2) Timeliness of proposal; that is, the potential project results will not occur too late or too early to be competitively useful. (3) Degree to which ATP support is essential for the achievement of the broad-based benefits from the proposed R&D and appropriateness of proposed R&D for ATP support. This factor takes into consideration the likelihood of the results being achieved in the same general time frame by the applicant or by other U.S. researchers without ATP support, and whether other Federal agencies or other sponsors are already funding very similar kinds of work. (4) Cost-effectiveness of proposal. (c) Adequacy of Plans for Eventual Commercialization (20 Percent) (1) Evidence that if the project is successful, the applicants will pursue further development of the technology toward commercial application, either through their own organization(s) or through others. (2) Degree to which proposal identifies potential applications of the technology and provides evidence that the applicant has credible plans to assure prompt and widespread use of the technology if the R&D is successful and to ensure adequate protection of the intellectual property by the participant(s) and, as appropriate, by other U.S. businesses. (d) Proposer's Level of Commitment and Organizational Structure (20 Percent) (1) Level of commitment of proposer as demonstrated by contribution of personnel, equipment, facilities, and cost-sharing. Extent to which the proposer assigns the company's best people to the project. Priority given to this work vis-a-vis other projects. (2) For joint ventures, the extent to which the joint venture has been structured (vertical integration, horizontal integration, or both) so as to include sufficient participants possessing all of the skills required to complete successfully the proposed work. (3) For joint ventures, appropriate participation by small businesses. ``Small business'' is defined in ยง295.2(q). (4) Appropriateness of subcontractor/supplier/collaborator participation and relationships (where applicable). (5) Clarity and appropriateness of management plan. Extent to which the proposers have clarified who is responsible for each task, and the chain of command. Extent to which those responsible for the work have adequate authority and access to higher level management. (e) Experience and Qualifications of the Proposing Organization (10 Percent) (1) Adequacy of proposer's facilities, equipment, and other technical, financial, and administrative resources to accomplish the proposed program objectives. This factor includes consideration of resources possessed by subcontractors to the applicant or other collaborators. (2) Quality and appropriateness of the technical staff to carry out the proposed work program and to identify and overcome barriers to meeting project objectives. (3) Past performance of the company or joint venture members in carrying out similar kinds of efforts successfully, including technology application. Consideration of this factor in the case of a start-up company or new joint venture, will take into account the past performance of the key people in carrying out similar kinds of efforts. 11. Newly designated ยง295.7 is revised to read as follows: ยง295.7 Notice of availability of funds. (a) The Program shall publish at least annually a Federal Register notice inviting interested parties to submit proposals, and may more frequently publish invitations for proposals in the Commerce Business Daily, based upon the annual notice. Potential applicants must request a proposal preparation kit from the Program. Applications will only be considered for funding when submitted in response to an invitation published in the Federal Register , or a related announcement in the Commerce Business Daily.
