FR941117-2-00049 FR941117-2-00040 •Analyzes the economic impact, costs, savings, and effectiveness of draft regulations, to assure compliance with the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, and specific impact on small rural hospitals as required by Public Law 100&hyph;203. •Coordinates review of regulations received for concurrence and prepares Bureau and HCFA response. •Indexes official regulations files to assist in post publication legal reviews. d. Technology and Special Analysis Staff (FKA&hyph;7) •Evaluates policies, regulations, rulings and guidelines pertaining to the establishment of Medicare coverage and payment for new health care technologies and for preventive services, including mammography screening and covered inoculations. •Initiates special technical and economic studies in response to identified problems in payment or coverage policy. •Coordinates with other components, such as the Health Standards and Quality Bureau, the analysis of innovative treatment patterns, referral patterns and activities that improve health care status. •Recommends legislative or other remedies to improve coverage and utilization effectiveness of new items and services. •Coordinates activities of HCFA's Technology Advisory Committee (TAC) and disseminates policy changes and clarifications flowing from TAC meetings. •Coordinates activities with the Agency for Health Care Policy Research and other HCFA components such as the Office of Research and Demonstrations, the Health Standards and Quality Bureau and the Bureau of Program Operations as they relate to the establishment of policies for reasonable and necessary medical services and with the Public Health Service on formal reviews of safety and effectiveness of new health care technologies. This will include such issues as appropriate use of physician practice guidelines and measures of cost-effectiveness. •Prepares studies, and advise others on the preparation of studies, analyzing the cost-benefits of new technology to support changes in Medicare coverage and payment policy; also, reviews cost-benefit studies prepared by others and develops the policy implications of these studies. •Provide data analysis to support program policy changes in payment systems or in coverage of services, and to support Reports to Congress on program policy issues. •Conducts economic research and develops or oversees the development of microsimulation models to ascertain the impact of national payment policies in areas such as inpatient/outpatient hospital services, hospital capital, physicians and other alternative types of medical delivery services. •Works on major payment reform proposals as they relate to such issues as expenditure caps and use of preferred provider organization concepts under Medicare. •Reviews all significant economic and medical research bearing on Medicare coverage and payment policies and prepares summaries of significant findings, emphasizing the policy situations. •Serves as liaison to other agencies within the Department, other government organizations and industry groups regarding technical and economic policy issues and analysis. e. Office of Hospital Policy (FKA3) •Develops, evaluates, and maintains national policies, regulations and instructions on the coverage, payment and utilization effectiveness of items and services under the Medicare program provided for inpatients of hospitals, by End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) facilities, organ procurement agencies and transplantation centers; develops and evaluates provider reporting and accounting policy; assists in the development and evaluation of related legislation. •Develops, evaluates, and maintains regulations, policies and instructions for payments to hospitals for inpatient services under the prospective payment system. •Coordinates with and reviews recommendations from the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission. •Coordinates with other components, such as the Health Standards and Quality Bureau in developing and evaluating health and safety standards for hospitals and ESRD providers or suppliers of health services under Medicare. •Develops HCFA coding standards and policies for ICD&hyph;9 and 10. •Participates in the formulation and analysis of medical classification systems, such as Diagnosis Related Groups, mortality and other outcome groupings, and the Medicare Quality Indicator System. •Formulates, maintains, and evaluates national policies pertaining to the exclusion of certain categories of hospitals and hospital costs from the prospective payment system (PPS) and requirements for exceptions and adjustments to PPS rates.
