FR940223-2-00168 FR940223-2-00097 Content of Briefs and Appendices 59. (1) Every brief filed pursuant to subrule 57 (1) or (2) shall contain information, in the following order, divided into five parts: Part I: (a) A table of contents; and (b) A table of authorities cited: The table of authorities shall contain references to all treaties, statutes and regulations cited, any cases primarily relied on in the briefs, set out alphabetically, and all other documents referred to except documents from the administrative record. The table of authorities shall refer to the page(s) of the brief where each authority is cited and mark, with an asterisk in the margin, those authorities primarily relied on. Part II: A statement of the case: (a) in the brief of a complainant or of a participant filing a brief pursuant to subrule 57(1), this Part shall contain a concise statement of the relevant facts; (b) in the brief of an investigating authority or of a participant filing a brief pursuant to subrule 57(2), this Part shall contain a concise statement of the position of the investigating authority or the participant with respect to the statement of facts set out in the briefs referred to in paragraph (a), including a concise statement of other facts relevant to its case; and (c) in all briefs, references to evidence in the administrative record shall be made by page and, where practicable, by line. Part III: A statement of the issues: (a) in the brief of a complainant or of a participant filing a brief pursuant to subrule 57(1), this Part shall contain a concise statement of the issues; and (b) in the brief of an investigating authority or of a participant filing a brief pursuant to subrule 57(2), this Part shall contain a concise statement of the position of the investigating authority or the participant with respect to each issue relevant to its case. Part IV: Argument: This Part shall consist of the argument setting out concisely the points of law relating to the issues, with applicable citations to authorities and the administrative record. Part V: Relief: This part shall consist of a concise statement precisely identifying the relief requested. (2) Paragraphs in Parts I to V of a brief may be numbered consecutively. (3) A reply brief filed pursuant to rule 57(3) shall include a table of contents and a table of authorities, indicating those principally relied upon in the argument. Appendix to the Briefs 60. (1) Authorities referred to in the briefs shall be included in an appendix, which shall be organized as follows: a table of contents, copies of all treaty and statutory references, references to regulations, cases primarily relied on in the briefs, set out alphabetically, and all other documents referred to in the briefs except documents from the administrative record. (2) The appendix required under subrule 57(4) shall be compiled by a participant who filed a brief under subrule 57(1) and who was so designated by all the participants who filed a brief. Each participant who filed a brief under subrule 57(2) shall provide the designated participant with a copy of each authority on which it primarily relied in its brief that was not primarily relied on in any other brief filed under subrule 57(1). Each participant who filed a brief under subrule 57(3) shall provide the designated participant with a copy of each authority on which it primarily relied in its brief that was not primarily relied on in briefs filed pursuant to subrule 57 (1) or (2). (3) The costs for compiling the appendix shall be borne equally by all participants who file briefs. Motions 61. (1) A motion shall be made by Notice of Motion in writing (model form provided in the Schedule) unless the circumstances make it unnecessary or impracticable.
