FR941103-0-00089 FR941103-0-00013 Comment 6: Observers must be placed on all participating vessels to ensure that the vessels' crews comply with the provisions of the pilot program. Response: NMFS intends to have 100 percent observer coverage on the vessels the first year and then evaluate whether 100 percent coverage is necessary for the entire pilot study. Comment 7: NMFS must ensure that this pilot program is not used as an excuse to violate tolerance laws. Response: In the final rule, landing restrictions, record keeping requirements, selection of participants, and enforcement are all used to help ensure against abuse of the tolerance regulations. In addition, as previously stated, the participating vessels are required to notify NMFS Enforcement 24 hours prior to each landing of the expected time and location of arrival. Comment 8: This program is not necessary for swordfish management. Response: ICCAT has sanctioned this program as part of its overall international research program. Reliable data on small fish are necessary to manage Atlantic swordfish adequately. Knowledge of stock distribution will have wide implications for stock analysis and future management options. Increased tagging of live fish and their subsequent recovery, with all the analytical implications, will benefit the NMFS pelagic tagging program, management decisions (e.g., information for possible time/area closures), and the ICCAT statistical data base. This program also can help fulfill a social need, and provides a logical disposition of the specimens taken for scientific purposes. Comment 9: Indirect economic benefit will accrue through tax advantages; NMFS must ensure against economic motive for killing small swordfish. Response: Information from IRS indicates that this is not a problem because in general the fishermen will not get any additional tax benefit beyond that which already exists. Comment 10: In order for this program to work, NMFS must provide enough enforcement to overcome the incentive to kill small juveniles. Small swordfish will be killed to ``high-grade'' the 15 percent tolerance on participating pilot program vessels. Response: The final rule specifically forbids killing small juveniles, and requires that all participating vessels notify enforcement 24 hours prior to landing. All live fish less than the minimum size must be tagged and released alive by participating vessels. Some ``high-grading'' may occur, but it will be no more than current regulations allow, since all donated dead fish less than the minimum size must be tagged prior to landing and weigh-out. The regulations specifically prohibit the removal of a donation tag; vessel owners or operators must account for all tags.
