FR940805-1-00065 FR940805-1-00013 (iii) showers and toilets with some degree of privacy; and (iv) seating and writing surfaces, appropriate to the classification which uses this space, sufficient for the number of inmates who use the dayroom at one time. (5) Toilets. The facility shall provide operable toilets at a minimum ratio of one for every twelve inmates in male facilities and one for every eight inmates in female facilities. Urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the toilets in male facilities. All housing units with three or more inmates shall have two toilets. (6) Wash basins. Inmates shall have access to operable wash basins with hot and cold running water in the housing units at a minimum ratio of one basin for every twelve occupants. (7) Showers. Inmates shall have access to operable showers with temperature-controlled hot and cold running water at a minimum of one shower for every eight inmates. Water for showers shall be thermostatically controlled to temperatures ranging from one hundred degrees to one hundred-twenty degrees Fahrenheit. (8) Housing for the disabled. Disabled inmates shall be housed in a manner that provides for their safety in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17, yet prevents their being discriminated against in their use of the facility. (9) Work or education release housing. Inmates who participate in work or education release programs shall be housed separately from inmates in the general population. (10) Exercise and recreation areas. The facility shall provide secure outdoor, covered or enclosed exercise areas. Outdoor exercise areas shall be a minimum of one thousand five hundred square feet of unencumbered space; covered and enclosed exercise areas shall provide a minimum of one thousand square feet of unencumbered space. Exercise areas shall be adequate in size and type to ensure that each inmate shall be offered at least one hour of access daily regardless of climatic conditions. (11) Multi-purpose and interview rooms. The facility shall provide a minimum of one accessible multi-purpose room and one accessible interview room. (12) Program area toilets. The facility shall provide toilets with some degree of privacy and wash basins, which are accessible to inmates, in or adjacent to activity areas. (13) Visiting spaces. The facility shall provide a secure visiting room and, when appropriate, space in which contact visiting can occur. The space shall facilitate staff observation of visiting. The facility shall provide secure space outside the security perimeter for the storage of visitors' personal items. (14) Food service spaces. When the facility provides for food preparation, it shall have adequate space for food processing, storage, refrigeration and sanitation. Toilet and wash basin facilities shall be available to food service personnel and inmates in the vicinity of the food preparation area. The square footage of the kitchen shall be appropriate to the needs of the facility. If dining occurs outside the dayroom, the facility shall provide a minimum of fifteen square feet per occupant. (15) Storage space. The facility shall provide the following storage spaces: (i) a secure, well-ventilated janitor closet, which includes sink and adequate space for the storage of cleaning implements and supplies; (ii) secure storage, located outside the secure area, for flammable, toxic and caustic items; and (iii) storage for inmate clothing, bedding, mattresses, personal hygiene items and facility supplies. (16) Laundry. The facility shall provide access to laundry services or laundry space and equipment. (17) Booking. The facility shall provide an intake/booking and release area which shall be located inside the security perimeter, but outside inmate living quarters. The booking area shall include: (i) an intake/booking work area; (ii) sallyport; (iii) access to operable toilets, with some degree of privacy, wash basins, drinking water and showers; (iv) space for alcohol and drug testing equipment; (v) space for inmate identification equipment; (vi) a secure, well-ventilated storage room for inmates' personal property; (vii) telephone(s), which can be used by inmates; (viii) private interview spaces; (ix) temporary holding rooms or waiting spaces with sufficient fixed seating for all inmates at their rated capacities; and (x) access to continuously observable protective holding cells for the safe holding of intoxicated individuals. (18) Medical examination room. The facility shall provide a space in which private medical examinations of inmates can occur. The space shall provide for private examination of patients, hand washing, storage of equipment used in the examination room and a work surface for health care personnel. (19) Staff toilets. The facility shall provide staff toilets that shall not be used by inmates inside the secure area of the facility. (20) Public spaces. The facility shall provide public restroom(s) and a public lobby with an adequate number of seats to accommodate anticipated visitors outside the secure perimeter. (21) Administration. The facility shall provide adequate space for its administrative functions. This space shall include an office for the administrator, work space for clerical staff, space for duplicating equipment, supply and equipment storage, space for storage of facility records and space for meetings. (22) Staff. The facility shall provide adequate space for staff assigned to work in the facility. These spaces shall include an area in which they can store personal property, change clothes and shower and an area in which training, meetings, briefings and breaks can occur. (23) Mechanical. The facility shall provide separate and adequate space for mechanical systems and equipment. (g) Existing construction_ (1) Occupancy by one inmate. Only one inmate shall occupy each cell or detention room designed for single occupancy.
