FR941205-1-00051 FR941205-1-00014 Information Form for Class A/B Agreements Instructions All agreements between ocean common carriers that are Class A/B agreements as defined in 46 CFR 572.502(a) must be accompanied by a completed Information Form for such agreements. A complete response must be supplied to each part of the Form. Where the party answering a particular part is unable to supply a complete response, that party shall provide either estimated data (with an explanation of why precise data are not available) or a detailed statement of reasons for noncompliance and the efforts made to obtain the required information. All sources must be identified. Part I Part I requires the filing party to state the full name of the agreement as also provided under 46 CFR 572.403. Part II Part II requires the filing party to list all effective agreements covering all or part of the geographic scope of the filed agreement, whose parties include one or more of the parties to the filed agreement. Part III(A) Part III(A) requires the filing party to indicate whether the agreement authorizes the parties to collectively fix rates under a common tariff, to agree upon rates on a non-binding basis, or to discuss rates. Such rate activities may be authorized by a conference agreement, an interconference agreement, an agreement among one or more conferences and one or more non-conference ocean common carriers, or an agreement among two or more non-conference ocean common carriers. Part III(B) Part III(B) requires the filing party to indicate whether the agreement authorizes the parties to establish a joint service. Part III(C) Part III(C) requires the filing party to indicate whether the agreement authorizes the parties to pool cargo or revenues. Part III(D) Part III(D) requires the filing party to indicate whether the agreement authorizes the parties to establish capacity management or capacity regulation programs, whereby some part of the capacity of the parties' vessels is withheld from a specified transportation market. Part III(E) Part III(E) requires the filing party to indicate whether the agreement authorizes the parties to discuss or exchange data on vessel-operating costs, which include wages of officers and crew; fringe benefits; consumable stores; supplies and equipment; maintenance and repair; insurance; vessel fuel; and charter hire. Part III(F) Part III(F) requires the filing party to indicate whether the agreement authorizes the parties to regulate or discuss service contracts.
