FR940606-1-00072 FR940606-1-00012 IMO Resolution A.328, Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Liquefied Gases in Bulk, 1975. Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL) No. 783, Standard for Electric Flashlights and Lanterns for Use in Hazardous (Classified) Locations, 1993. Copies of the material are available for inspection where indicated under ADDRESSES. Copies of the material are available from the sources listed in ยง154.8. Before publishing a final, the Coast Guard will submit this material to the Director of the Federal Register for approval of the incorporation by reference. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. It is not significant under the Department of Transportation (DOT) regulatory policies and procedures (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraphs 10e of the DOT regulatory policies and procedures is unnecessary. These proposed regulations would apply only to ``new gas vessels'', as the term is defined in ยง154.7. No currently operating ``new gas vessels'' would be affected. There are presently no U.S. flag ``new gas vessels'', and currently operating foreign ``new gas vessels'' already meet the similar requirements of the Gas Carrier Code. The impact of this proposal on U.S. flag vessels constructed in the future is also anticipated to be minimal, because the major part of this proposal allows for the carriage of cargoes previously required to be carried on chemical tankers and for the addition of an alternative, less expensive, cargo containment system. As stated above, the impact on foreign flag vessels built in the future will continue to be minimal because these vessels will already comply with the requirements of the Gas Carrier Code. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 501 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal, if adopted, will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' may include (1) small businesses and not-for-profit organizations that are independently owned and operated and are not dominant in their fields and (2) governmental jurisdictions with populations of less than 50,000. These proposals would apply only to liquefied gas vessels, all of which are large in size and owned by large corporations. Therefore, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. If, however, you think that your business or organization qualifies as a small entity and that this proposal will have a significant economic impact on your business or organization, please submit a comment (see ADDRESSES ) explaining why you think it qualifies and in what way and to what degree this proposal will economically affect it. Collection of Information Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) reviews each proposed rule that contains a collection-of-information requirement to determine whether the practical value of the information is worth the burden imposed by its collection. Collection-of-information requirements include reporting, recordkeeping, notification, and other, similar requirements. This proposal contains collection-of-information requirements in the following section: ยง154.15. The following particulars apply: DOT No: 2115. OMB Control No: 2115&hyph;0113. Administration: U.S. Coast Guard. Title: Safety Standards for Self-Propelled Vessels Carrying Bulk Liquefied Gases. Need for Information: To prevent the uncontrolled release of cargo by liquefied gas carriers. Proposed Use of Information: To verify compliance with safety regulations. Frequency of Response: 1 per respondent per year. Burden Estimate: 10 hours per year. Respondents: Designers of cargo containment systems; eight worldwide Form(s): No specific forms. Information supplied from existing plans and drawings used for designing a cargo containment system.
