FR940128-1-00133 FR940128-1-00006 e. Modified atmosphere-packaging means the food-packaging technique in which the air in a package or container is replaced by one or more gases, in various concentrations, before sealing. The purpose of this type of packaging is to extend the refrigerated shelf life of the product by limiting microbial growth or detrimental chemical changes in the food. f. Smoked-flavored fish means fish that is prepared by treating it with salt (sodium chloride) and then imparting to it the flavor of smoke by other than the direct action of smoke, such as immersing it in a solution of liquid smoke. This paragraph does not alter the labeling requirements under §101.22 of this chapter. g. Smoked fish means fish that is prepared by treating it with salt (sodium chloride) and then subjecting it to the direct action of smoke from burning wood, sawdust, or similar material. h. Sodium nitrite content means the concentration in parts per million of sodium nitrite in the loin muscle of the finished product as determined by the method of analysis for sodium nitrite in the ``Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,'' 15th ed. (1990). i. Vacuum-packaged means the food-packaging technique in which the air in a package or container is removed before sealing. j. Water-phase salt content means the percent salt (sodium chloride) in the finished product as determined by the method of analysis for water-phase salt on the ``Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,'' 15th ed. (1990). It is measured in the loin muscle of whole, dressed fish and in the thickest part of cuts of fish. 3. Critical Control Points Hazards Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plans prepared in accordance with subpart A of 21 CFR part 123, will typically identify and address the following critical control points: a. Raw material thawing b. Brining or dry salting c. Drying d. Smoking e. Cooling after smoking f. Post-smoke processing, if any g. Final product cooling h. Refrigerated storage i. Distribution In accordance with subpart A of 21 CFR part 123, processors shall identify in their HACCP plans how they will control hazards at critical control points. The measures in sections 4 through 11 of this guidance are suitable for HACCP plans. 4. Thawing Thawing should be carried out in as rapid a manner as possible, so that the internal temperature at the core of the fish does not exceed 40 ○F (4.4 ○C). 5. Brining and smoking
