FR940811-2-00074 FR940811-2-00048 Health Care Financing Administration Privacy Act of 1974; System of Records AGENCY: Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA). ACTION: Notice of proposed expansion of system purpose, addition of a new category of records in the system, addition of new routine uses, and administrative update. SUMMARY: HCFA proposes revising the system notice for the ``Medicaid Statistical Information System (MSIS),'' System No. 09&hyph;70&hyph;6001, by: Adding ``drug data'' as a new category of records in the system; expanding the purpose of the system to include actuarial forecasting and statistical profiling; modifying a current route use (number 5); and adding a new route use (number 6) for the release of data without individuals' consent HCFA has developed drug data which will be helpful in supporting such things as research, policy, effectiveness of care, and statistical reporting. These data are being added to the ``Categories of records in the system.'' The purpose of the system of records is also being expanded in order to be more specific, by including actuarial forecasting and statistical profiling as distinct purposes. Routine use No. 5 allows release to employees of a State for specific purposes. The modification would add the language, ``or for management and/or administration of the Medicaid program.'' The proposed new routine use would permit release of data to other Federal agencies. This routine use has two purposes. First, disclosure would be permitted to another Federal agency to enhance the accuracy of Medicaid's payment of heath benefits. Second, disclosure would be permitted when necessary to enable another Federal agency to fulfill the requirements of a Federal statute or regulation. HCFA has recently received several requests from other Federal agencies asking for help in coordinating benefits or implementing Federal statutes or regulations that involve Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. A primary purpose of this system of records is to ensure high quality and effective use of data on the Medicaid program. We believe that this purpose can be better accomplished through coordination of Medicaid beneficiary data between and among Federal agencies. In addition, administrative updates, such as current language and address changes are proposed. EFFECTIVE DATES: HCFA filed a revised system report with the Chairman of the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, the Chairman of the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Administrator, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), on August 4, 1994. To ensure all parties have adequate time in which to comment, the revised system of records, including routine uses, will become effective 40 days from the publication of this notice or from the date submitted to OMB and the Congress, whichever is later, unless HCFA receives comments which require alterations to this notice. ADDRESSES: The public should address comments to Mr. Richard A. DeMeo, HCFA Privacy Act Officer, Office of Customer Relations and Communications, HCFA, Room 2&hyph;H&hyph;4, East Low Rise Building, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207&hyph;5187. Comments received will be available at this location. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Richard Beisel, Director, Division of Medicaid Statistics, Bureau of Data Management and Strategy, HCFA, Room 2&hyph;A&hyph;1, Security Office Park Building, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207&hyph;5187, Telephone (410) 597&hyph;3902. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: We are publishing this notice to inform the public of our intent to expand the purpose, add a category of records, modify a routine use, add a routine use, and make administrative and language updates to the MSIS System of Records. The purpose of the system of records is being expanded in order to be more specific, by including actuarial forecasting and statistical profiling as distinct purposes. HCFA has developed drug data which will be helpful in supporting such things as research, policy, effectiveness of care, and statistical reporting. These data are being added as a ``Category of records in the system.'' Routine Use No. 5, which allows release to employees of a State for specific purposes, is being modified by adding, ``or for management and/or administration of the Medicaid program.'' The new routine use will be numbered (6) and will read as follows: 6. To another Federal agency: (1) To contribute to the accuracy of HCFA's proper payment of Medicaid health benefits, and/or (2) to enable such agency to administer a Federal health benefits program, or as necessary to enable such agency to fulfill a requirement of a Federal statute or regulation, if HCFA:
