FR940804-1-00053 FR940804-1-00014 Local laws and regulations are insufficient to protect habitat for Downingia concolor var. brevior and Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii. For example, the County of San Diego generally does not provide protection for sensitive plant species unless they are actually Federally listed (Hogan, pers. comm., 1993). E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence Stochastic extinction threatens both Downingia concolor var. brevior and Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii by virtue of their small population size and restricted distribution. The likelihood of finding a normal distribution of genetic variability is reduced in small populations (Jensen 1987). Reduced genetic variability may lower the ability of these populations to survive. The potential for local extirpation due to small population size can be exacerbated by environmental conditions such as drought, flooding, or fire (Gilpin and Soule 1986, Falk and Holsinger 1991). Due to their accessibility, populations of these two taxa are particularly vulnerable to trampling. As discussed under factor A above, trampling from cattle occurs in meadows occupied by Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii and Downingia concolor var. brevior in the National Forest and private land holdings. As discussed under factor D above, several measures were initiated during the past decade to protect the vernally wet meadow ecosystem and associated sensitive plant species at Cuyamaca State Park and the Cleveland National Forest. However, these measures have not prevented trampling by hikers and horses. Introduced species of grasses and forbs have invaded many of California's plant communities. Such weedy species can displace the native flora by out competing them for nutrients, water, light, and space. Weedy plant invasions are facilitated by disturbances such as grazing, urban and residential developments, and various recreational activities. Introduced weeds have become established in many portions of the Laguna Mountains thereby reducing the amount of suitable habitat for native plant species (Sproul 1979). For example, the invasion of exotic species including Lolium perenne (ryegrass) and Poa pratensis (Kentucky bluegrass) has altered the composition of habitats supporting the two plant taxa under consideration in this proposed rule (Sproul 1979). Trampling by livestock typically changes the composition of native plant communities by reducing or eliminating those species that cannot withstand trampling and predation (see Factors A and C), and enabling more resistant (usually exotic) species to increase in abundance. Introduction of seed from non-sterile hay and animal feces increases the likelihood of invasion of exotic species and prevents re-establishment of native plants. Taxa that were not previously part of the native flora may be introduced and flourish under a grazing regime and may reduce or eliminate native plant species through competition for resources. Grazing is considered to be a threat to all populations of Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii within the Cleveland National Forest, primarily as a result of trampling and the invasion of non-native species into sensitive plant habitats (Winter 1991). The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by these species in determining to propose this rule. Based on this evaluation, the Service finds that Downingia concolor var. brevior is in imminent danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range due to habitat destruction and degradation resulting from hydrologic alterations, grazing, trampling by recreational activities, the inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms, an increased probability of stochastic extinction, and competition from exotic plant species. The Service considered threatened status for this species, but determined that it such status would not be in keeping with the purposes of the Act because the single remaining population consists of only 8 to 23 stands within a restricted range, and is at risk of extirpation due to stochastic events such as water inundation. Therefore, the preferred action is to list Downingia concolor var. brevior as endangered.
