FR940930-0-00065 FR940930-0-00011 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary 32 CFR Parts 104 and 199 RIN 0720&hyph;AA24 [DoD 6010.8&hyph;R] Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS); Continued Health Care Benefit Program AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, DoD. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule establishes a Continued Health Care Benefit Program (CHCBP) for certain DoD and other Uniformed Services health care beneficiaries who lose eligibility for health care in the Military Health Services System (MHSS). It also provides for use of the CHAMPUS benefit structure and CHAMPUS rules and outlines procedures for the CHCBP. EFFECTIVE DATES: October 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Office of the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (OCHAMPUS), Program Development Branch; Aurora, Colorado 80045&hyph;6900. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Gunther J. Zimmerman, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs), (703) 695&hyph;3331. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Overview of the Final Rule On April 6, 1994, an interim final rule regarding benefits and operational issues associated with implementation of the Continued Health Care Benefit Program (CHCBP) was published (59 FR 16136). The CHCBP was directed by Congress in section 4408 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993, Public Law 102&hyph;484, which amended title 10, United States Code, by adding section 1078a. This law directed the implementation of a program of temporary continued health benefits coverage for certain former beneficiaries of the Department of Defense, comparable to the health benefits provided for former civilian employees of the Federal government. Congress also directed that the program start by October 1, 1994, and replace the conversion health care programs authorized in 10 U.S.C. 1086a and 1145(b). Conversion health care is provided via a DoD contract with Mutual of Omaha and is scheduled to end September 30, 1994. The statute directs that the benefits offered by the CHCBP must be comparable to those offered to former civilian employees of the Federal government. As is the case for those employees, the costs will be borne by the beneficiary who will pay the entire premium charge. Additionally, the Department of Defense is permitted to charge up to an additional ten percent of the premium charge to cover administrative expenses. Under section 4408(b), eligibility to enroll in the CHCBP includes members of the Uniformed Services who are discharged or released (voluntarily or involuntarily as long as not under adverse conditions) and their dependents; certain unremarried former spouses of a member or former member; and emancipated children. Health care coverage in the CHCBP is for a specific time period, which varies by the category of beneficiary. Coverage periods are as follows: Former uniformed services members and their dependents_up to 18 months; unremarried former spouses_up to 36 months; emancipated children (age 21 if not in college or up to age 23 if in college)_up to 36 months. Eligible beneficiaries generally will have 60 days to elect coverage after they are notified of their opportunity to enroll. The Department of Defense considered three alternatives to implement this program: First, integration of the program within the Federal Employee Health Benefit Program (FEHBP) health care plans under arrangement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM); second, competitive procurement of a private insurer to administer this program; and lastly, continued CHAMPUS-type coverage, paid for by the beneficiary, with a third party administrator collecting the premiums and performing eligibility and verification functions. The first option was rejected based on the difficulties of making the transition from a DoD administered benefit to an OPM program. The second option was not selected based on the likelihood that an acquisition process involving a beneficiary group of such unpredictable size and characteristics would not result in a vendor willing to underwrite this program. Contractors would be wary that health care costs would exceed the capped premium. Thus, we elected to offer this program directly through the established mechanisms of CHAMPUS.
