FR940506-2-00006 FR940506-2-00004 Finally, at the request of the U.S. International Trade Commission, we have replaced the words ``this includes'' with the words ``these consist of'' to further clarify the products covered by this investigation. Class or Kind Prior to our preliminary determination, Akzo argued that this investigation should involve at least three classes or kinds of merchandise: Yarn, staple fiber and pulp. After considering extensive comments from both parties, we preliminarily determined that the products covered by this investigation constitute a single class or kind of merchandise, and three such or similar categories. (See Preliminary Concurrence Memorandum, dated December 9, 1993, on file in room B-099 of the main building of the Department of Commerce). In our preliminary determination, we invited additional comments from interested parties on this issue. However, no additional evidence supporting a finding of three classes or kinds has been submitted. In addition, no comments in opposition to our preliminary determination have been filed. We therefore continue to find that the products covered by this investigation constitute a single class or kind of merchandise. Period of Investigation The period of investigation (POI) is January 1, 1993, through June 30, 1993. Such or Similar Comparisons We made fair value comparisons using the following such or similar categories: (1) Yarn; (2) staple fiber; and (3) pulp. Where we were not able to compare U.S. sales to sales of identical merchandise, we made similar merchandise comparisons on the basis of the criteria defined in Appendix V to the antidumping duty questionnaire, on file in room B-099 of the main building of the Department of Commerce. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.58, we made comparisons at the same level of trade, where possible. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether Akzo's sales to the United States of PPD-T aramid fiber were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price We calculated USP according to the methodology described in our preliminary determination, with the following exceptions: 1. We included certain sales in our calculation of USP which Akzo contends were pursuant to a long-term contract negotiated prior to the POI. (For a further discussion of these sales, see comment 1 below.) 2. We increased U.S. indirect selling expenses by the amount of G&A expenses allocated to the aramid fibers business unit of Akzo Fibers Inc. by its parent company, Akzo America Inc. (see comment 6 below). 3. We recalculated inventory carrying costs incurred in the Netherlands on U.S. sales to reflect the short-term borrowing rate of Arami, ( i.e. , the actual producer and seller of subject merchandise), (see comment 8 below).
