FR940525-2-00104 FR940525-2-00064 Date of amendment request: April 26, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would relocate tables of instrument response time limits from the Technical Specifications to the Updated Final Safety Analysis Report (UFSAR) in accordance with the guidance contained in Generic Letter 93&hyph;08 dated December 29, 1993. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes delete and subsequently relocate the details of Technical Specification Table 3.3.1&hyph;2, ``REACTOR PROTECTION SYSTEM RESPONSE TIMES,'' Table 3.3.2&hyph;3, ``ISOLATION ACTUATION SYSTEM INSTRUMENTATION RESPONSE TIME,'' and Table 3.3.3&hyph;3, ``EMERGENCY CORE COOLING SYSTEM RESPONSE TIMES,'' consistent with the guidance provided by Generic Letter 93&hyph;08 dated, December 29, 1993, entitled, ``Relocation of Technical Specification Tables of Instrument Response Time Limits.'' Generic Letter 93&hyph;08 recommends the removal and subsequent relocation of various Technical Specification tables which denote instrument and system response time limits. The response time limits and associated footnotes are proposed to be relocated to the Fermi 2 Updated Final Safety Analysis Report (UFSAR). This allows Fermi 2 to administratively control subsequent changes to the response time limit tables in accordance with 10 CFR 50.59. The procedures which contain the various response time limits are also subject to the change control provisions in the Administrative Controls section of the Technical Specifications. The proposed change only relocates the existing response time limits. The Surveillance Requirements and associated Actions are not affected and remain in the Technical Specifications. Relocating this information does not affect the initial conditions of a design basis accident or transient analysis. Since any subsequent changes to the UFSAR or procedures are evaluated in accordance with 10 CFR 50.59, no increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated is allowed. Further, the proposed changes do not alter the design, function, or operation of the components involved and therefore, do not affect the consequences of any previously evaluated accident. 2. The proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes will not impose any different operational or surveillance requirements. The changes propose to relocate these response time limit tables to other plant documents whereby adequate control of information is maintained. Further, as stated above, the proposed changes do not alter the design, function, or operation of the components involved and therefore, no new accident scenarios are created. 3. The proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed change will not reduce a margin of safety because it has no impact on any safety analysis assumption. The proposed change does not alter the scope of equipment currently required to be OPERABLE or subject to surveillance testing nor does the proposed change affect any instrument setpoints or equipment safety functions. In addition, the values to be transposed from the Technical Specifications to the UFSAR are the same as the exiting Technical Specifications. Since any future changes to these requirements in the UFSAR or procedures will be evaluated per the requirements of 10 CFR 50.59, no reduction in a margin of safety is allowed. Therefore, the change does not involve a significant reduction in margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Monroe County Library System, 3700 South Custer Road, Monroe, Michigan 48161. Attorney for licensee: John Flynn, Esq., Detroit Edison Company, 2000 Second Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226. NRC Project Director: Ledyard B. Marsh. Duke Power Company, et al., Docket Nos. 50&hyph;413 and 50&hyph;414, Catawba Nuclear Station, Units 1 and 2, York County, South Carolina Date of amendment request: March 30, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendments would allow the analog channel operational test interval for radiation monitoring instrumentation to be increased from monthly to quarterly. The proposed amendments are said by the licensee to be consistent with NRC staff recommendations and guidance contained in NUREG&hyph;1366, ``Improvements to Technical Specifications Surveillance Requirements,'' and Generic Letter 93&hyph;05, ``Line-Item Technical Specifications Improvements to Reduce Surveillance Requirements for Testing During Power Operation.'' Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Criterion 1 The requested amendments will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Decreasing the frequency of the radiation monitor analog channel operational test from monthly to quarterly will have no impact upon the probability of any accident, since the radiation monitors are not accident initiating equipment. Also, no credit is taken in accident analyses for automatic actions performed by radiation monitors contained in Catawba's Technical Specifications, so the requested amendments will have no adverse impact upon the consequences of any accident. Criterion 2 The requested amendments will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. As stated above, the radiation monitors are not accident initiating equipment. No new failure modes can be created from an accident standpoint. The plant will not be operated in a different manner. Criterion 3 The requested amendments will not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Plant safety margins will be unaffected by the proposed changes. No safety equipment which is taken credit for in accident analyses will be affected by the requested amendments. The availability of the affected radiation monitors will be increased as a result of the proposed amendments because the monitors will not have to be made unavailable for testing as frequently. In addition, radiation monitor operating experience supports the proposed amendments. Finally, the proposed amendments are consistent with the NRC position and guidance set forth in NUREG&hyph;1366 and Generic Letter 93&hyph;05. Based upon the preceding analyses, Duke Power Company concludes that the requested amendments do not involve a significant hazards consideration.
