FR940512-1-00019 FR940512-1-00003 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;61&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Boeing Model 747&hyph;400 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Boeing Model 747&hyph;400 series airplanes. This proposal would require a revision to the Flap Control Unit input wiring. This proposal is prompted by reports of disconnection of the Landing Gear Module electrical connectors, which can result in the loss of the primary, secondary, and alternate control of the flaps. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent the possibility of an all-flaps-up landing due to the loss of control of all flap operations. DATES: Comments must be received by June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;61&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Boeing Commercial Airplane Group, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Washington 98124&hyph;2207. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kathi Ishimaru, Aerospace Engineer, Systems & Equipment Branch, ANM&hyph;130S, Seattle Aircraft Certification Office, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2674; fax (206) 227&hyph;1181. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;61&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;61&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion Boeing Commercial Airplanes has advised the FAA of an unsafe condition that may exist in certain Boeing Model 747&hyph;400 series airplanes. Boeing advises that, if the Landing Gear Module connectors become disconnected, all Flap Control Unit (FCU) modes of flap operation (primary, secondary, and alternate control of flaps) could be lost. There has been one occurrence of a partial disconnection of these connectors during a flight test of one airplane, which resulted in some of the flaps failing to extend. In another incident, there was a partial disconnection of these connectors on one in-service airplane that occurred while the airplane was on the ground; this situation prevented the airplane from being dispatched. Disconnection of the subject connectors could result in the loss of all three modes of flap operation. If this were to occur, the pilot would be unable to change the position of the leading and trailing edge flaps. This condition, if not corrected, could result in an all-flaps-up (flaps retracted) landing and consequent high landing speeds that could cause the airplane to run off the runway before being able to stop. The FAA has reviewed and approved Boeing Alert Service Bulletin 747&hyph;27A2346, dated April 28, 1994, that describes procedures for revising the FCU input wiring by moving two of the three FCU inputs from the ``Alt-Arm'' switch to the Alternate Flap relays. This will keep the FCU's in the Primary Hydraulic/Pneumatic operation mode if the Landing Gear Module connectors become disconnected, and would allow the pilot to maintain primary and secondary control of the flaps. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would require revising the FCU input wiring. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously.
