FR940128-1-00039 FR940128-1-00006 G. Sanitation Control Procedures 1. General FDA is proposing to require in ยง123.10 that processors and importers that engage in processing perform sanitation inspections at specified frequencies and maintain sanitation control records that document the results and frequency of those inspections. If these regulations are adopted, the sanitation control records will be subject to the recordkeeping requirements in ยง123.8, including review by FDA investigators. For seafood, sanitary practices affect most directly the safety of those products that do not receive any further cooking by the consumer. These products include raw molluscan shellfish; finfish destined to be consumed as sushi; cooked, ready-to-eat products; and certain smoked and salted products. Both finfish and shellfish are regarded as microbiologically sensitive foods based on the potential presence of pathogens, notably L. monocytogenes (Ref. 55, pp. 31 and 32). L. monocytogenes is a pathogenic bacterium that is widespread in the environment. Thus, the likelihood of finding it on the exterior surfaces and viscera of fish is high. Since 1983, several large outbreaks of human listeriosis have been linked to contaminated foods. Although it is a relatively rare illness, the exceptionally high mortality rate among susceptible individuals makes this illness one of the leading fatal foodborne diseases in the United States. Numerous seafood products have been shown to support growth of L. monocytogenes (Refs. 56 and 57), and seafoods have been epidemiologically linked to two outbreaks and one sporadic case of listeriosis (Ref. 58). Furthermore, several cooked seafood products have been recalled from the market in North America because of contamination with L. monocytogenes (Ref. 27). Seven of nine smoked fish processing facilities recently inspected by FDA in New York State had L. monocytogenes in the environment or in the products (Ref. 59). Good sanitation practices are critical to the prevention of listeriosis and other microbiologically related foodborne illnesses. FDA's CGMP regulations for food in part 110 set out general principles of sanitation that should be followed in plants that manufacture, package, label, or hold human food. They address such matters as personal hygiene and cleanliness among workers who handle food, the suitability of the plant design to sanitary operations, and the cleaning of food-contact surfaces. FDA inspections of seafood processors apply the principles in part 110. Nearly half of the consumer complaints relating to seafood that FDA receives in a typical year are related to plant or food hygiene (Ref. 60). The reasons, while not entirely clear, appear to be related to factors such as the age of processing facilities, the seasonal nature of operations that affect training, and the turnover of personnel. A representative cross section of those FDA establishment inspection reports (EIR's) for domestic seafood manufacturers that revealed CGMP deficiencies for fiscal years 1988&hyph;90 demonstrates this point (Ref. 61). The cross section involves 795 EIR's covering 561 facilities. (The number of EIR's exceeds the number of facilities because followup visits were made to check on the status of corrective actions.) The following percentages refer to EIR's with deficiencies where at least some of the deficiencies involved sanitation: (1) Twenty-three percent documented receiving area facilities that were not clean/orderly or in good repair. (2) Twenty-six percent documented facilities lacking effective insect and rodent control measures in the receiving area. (3) Sixteen percent documented failure to handle ice in a sanitary manner and to protect it properly.
