FR940128-1-00070 FR940128-1-00006 A recent survey of smoked fish and smoked fish products in Iceland has shown that 29 percent of samples tested were contaminated with Listeria species, including L. monocytogenes (Ref. 141). Another survey revealed that 8.9 percent and 13.6 percent of hot- and cold-smoked fish, respectively, were contaminated with L. monocytogenes (Ref. 142). Cold-smoked fish may pose a significant health risk, particularly when stored for extended periods. When raw salmon was inoculated with known populations of L. monocytogenes and smoked at 78.8 to 86 ○F (26 to 30 ○C) for 6 hours, and the finished product stored at 39.2 and 50 ○F (4 and 10 ○C) for up to 30 days, investigators observed substantial increases in L. monocytogenes populations at both incubation temperatures (Ref. 143). No known cases of listeriosis have been linked to smoked seafood consumption in the United States. In contrast, studies have shown that properly controlled hot-smoking processes effectively eliminate L. monocytogenes contamination (Ref. 144). In raw trout inoculated with high doses of L. monocytogenes , stored for 12 hours in a marinade containing 10 percent NaCl, and then subjected to a hot-smoke process (dried for 30 minutes at 140 ○F (60 ○C), cooked at 230 ○F (110 ○C) until an internal temperature of 149 ○F (65 ○C) was maintained for 20 minutes, and finally smoked for 45 minutes at 140 ○F), L. monocytogenes did not survive the smoking process. However, when fish were inoculated after smoking and stored at 46.4 to 50 ○F (8 to 10 ○C), a significant increase in L. monocytogenes populations was observed after up to 20 days of storage. These findings further emphasize the importance of preventing the contamination of processed fish. Studies have also shown the importance of controlling the salt concentration in smoked fish. Although L. monocytogenes can survive in environments containing up to 20 percent NaCl (Ref. 145), it has been demonstrated that the organism becomes increasingly more sensitive to NaCl when it is exposed to heat processing (Ref. 146). Because of the prevalence of L. monocytogenes in the environment, it may be impossible to completely eliminate the organism from all foods. However, use of the sanitary practices and processing practices proposed in this document should prevent cross-contamination and growth of the organism in smoked and smoke-flavored seafoods. Smoking fish is a delicate process, involving a number of interrelated variables including times, temperatures, and exposure to smoke, salt, and sodium nitrite, when used. However, FDA believes that, by its very nature, this process involves certain inherent risks, risks that, if not attended to, can have very significant consequences. For example, the times/temperatures involved in the ``hot process'' can injure but not kill C. botulinum spores while killing spoilage microorganisms. Thus, during the period when the spoilage microorganisms are becoming reestablished, surviving C. botulinum spores would be presented with an optimum growth environment because of the lack of competition. Yet, because of the absence of spoilage microorganisms, spoilage odors that would warn consumers away from potentially dangerous products would not be present. Botulism toxin alone is not detectable by sensory examination. In addition, because of the number and types of steps involved, the processing of smoked fish involves an unusual amount of handling of the product relative to other seafood processing procedures. Increased handling presents increased opportunities for contamination during the process than would otherwise be the case.
