FR940621-0-00027 FR940621-0-00013 33 CFR Part 165 [CGD 13&hyph;94&hyph;012] Safety Zone Regulations; Airshow, Commencement Bay, Tacoma, WA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a safety zone for the Independence Day Airshow to be held on July 4, 1994 from 3 p.m. (PDT) until 6 p.m. (PDT). The airshow will occur over Commencement Bay, Tacoma, Washington. This safety zone is necessary to control spectator craft and to provide for the safety of life and property on and in the vicinity of navigable waters during the event. EFFECTIVE DATE: These regulations become effective on July 4, 1994 at 3 p.m. (PDT) and terminate on July 4, 1994 at 6 p.m. (PDT). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: ␣ LT S. Workman, Assistant Operations Officer, Coast Guard Group, Seattle, Washington, (206) 217&hyph;6009. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking has not been published for these regulations and good cause exists for making them effective in less than 30 days from the date of publication. Following normal rulemaking procedures would have been impracticable. The application to hold the event was just recently received leaving insufficient time to publish proposed rules in advance of the event or to provide for a delayed effective date. Drafting Information The drafters of this temporary final rule are LT Andrew W. Connor, project officer, and LT Laticia J. Argenti, project attorney, Coast Guard District Thirteen Legal Office. Discussion of Regulations The Tacoma Airshow is being held as part of the celebration for the Fourth of July Independence Day in Tacoma, Washington. This event is sponsored by the Fourth of July Extravaganza Commission. The airshow is conducted over the waters of Commencement Bay, Tacoma, Washington. This one day event attracts a large number of spectators gathered on the waters below the airshow. To promote the safety of both the spectators and participants, this safety zone is required to keep spectators away from the waters below the airshow. Regulatory Evaluation This proposed rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Federalism Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principals and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the proposed rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federal Assessment.
