FR940603-1-00212 FR940603-1-00009 b. The term Engineer shall mean the engineer employed by the Owner, with the approval of the Administrator, to provide engineering services for the Project and said Engineer's duly authorized assistants and representatives. c. The term Supervisor shall mean the person, if any, appointed by the Administrator as the representative of the Government under the provisions of the Loan Contract providing for such appointment in special cases. The term is limited to such special representative of the Government, if any, who is responsible exclusively to the Administrator and does not refer to the Manager or any other person employed by the Owner and responsible to it. d. The term Project shall mean the rural electric system, or portion thereof, described in the Plans and Specifications, Construction Drawings and maps attached hereto. e. The term Completion of Construction shall mean full performance by the Bidder of the Bidder's obligations under the Contract and all amendments and revisions thereof except the Bidder's obligations in respect of (1) Releases of Liens and Certificate of Contractor under Article III, section 2 hereof, (2) the inventory referred to in Article III, section 1 hereof, and (3) other final documents. The term Completion of the Project shall mean full performance by the Bidder of the Bidder's obligations under the Contract and all amendments and revisions thereof. The Certificate of Completion, signed by the Engineer and approved in writing by the Owner and the Administrator, shall be the sole and conclusive evidence as to the date of Completion of Construction and as to the fact of Completion of the Project. Section 2. Materials and Supplies. In the performance of this contract there shall be furnished only such unmanufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been mined or produced in the United States, Mexico, or Canada, and only such manufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been manufactured in the United States substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced or manufactured, as the case may be, in the United States, Mexico, or Canada; provided that other articles, materials, or supplies may be used in the event and to the extent that the Administrator shall expressly in writing authorize such use pursuant to the provisions of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938, being Title IV of Public Resolution No. 122, 75th Congress, approved June 21, 1938. The Seller agrees to submit to the Purchaser such certificates with respect to compliance with the foregoing provision as the Administrator from time to time may require. Section 3. Patent Infringement. The Bidder shall save harmless and indemnify the Owner from any and all claims, suits and proceedings for the infringement of any patent or patents covering any materials or equipment used in construction of the Project. Section 4. Permits for Explosives. All permits necessary for the handling or use of dynamite or other explosives in connection with the construction of the Project shall be obtained by and at the expense of the Bidder. Section 5. Compliance with Statutes and Regulations. The Bidder shall comply with all applicable statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining to the work. The Bidder acknowledges that it is familiar with the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, the so-called Kick-Back Statute thereto, and 18 U.S.C. §§287, 1001, as amended. The Bidder understands that the obligations of the parties hereunder are subject to the applicable regulations and orders of Governmental Agencies having jurisdiction in the premises. Section 6. Equal Opportunity Provisions. a. Bidder's Representations. The Bidder represents that: It has XXXX , does not have XXXX , 100 or more employees, and if it has, that it has XXXX , has not XXXX , furnished the Equal Employment Opportunity-Employers Information Report EEO&hyph;1, Standard Form 100, required of employers with 100 or more employees pursuant to Executive Order 11246 and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Bidder agrees that it will obtain, prior to the award of any subcontract for more than $10,000 hereunder to a subcontractor with 100 or more employees, a statement, signed by the proposed subcontractor, that the proposed subcontractor has filed a current report on Standard Form 100.
