FR940324-0-00002 FR940324-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Federal Grain Inspection Service 7 CFR Part 800 Official Testing Service for Vomitoxin AGENCY: Federal Grain Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS) is adopting without change the provisions of an interim final rule to offer official vomitoxin testing services for grain under the authority of the United States Grain Standards Act and to establish a fee to recover the cost of this service. Due to the widespread occurrence of scab this year and the market's demand for rapid, onsite testing capabilities, FGIS decided it is in the best interest of the grain industry to offer vomitoxin testing as an official service at field locations using quick test kits under the authority of the United States Grain Standards Act (USGSA). This action permits FGIS, delegated States, and designated agencies to provide the grain industry with official service to facilitate the orderly and timely marketing of grain. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 25, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: George Wollam, FGIS, USDA, room 0624&hyph;S, P.O. Box 96454, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6454, Telephone (202) 720&hyph;0292. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order 12866 We are issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This rule has been determined to be not-significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by OMB. Executive Order 12778 This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This action is not intended to have retroactive effect. The United States Grain Standards Act provides in section 87g that no State or subdivision may require or impose any requirements or restrictions concerning the inspection, weighing, or description of grain under the Act. Otherwise, this final rule will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification David R. Shipman, Acting Administrator, FGIS, has determined that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Most users of the official inspection and weighing services and those persons who perform those services do not meet the requirements for small entities as defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Information Collection Requirements In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. chapter 35), the information collection requirements contained in the rule being amended have been previously approved by OMB under control number 0580&hyph;0013. Background The Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS) published an interim rule in the Federal Register on September 23, 1993, (58 FR 49421), announcing the immediate availability of official vomitoxin testing services for grain as official criteria under the authority of the United States Grain Standards Act. This service is available upon request. Wheat scab, also known as head blight, pink mold, white heads, and tombstone scab, is a disease caused by certain fungal species in the genus Fusarium. This disease occurs in wheat and other grains; the severity of the infection depends on weather conditions. This year's weather was favorable for scab infection in wheat, resulting in its more prevalent occurrence. Wheat infected with scab has a tendency to have lighter weight kernels, some of which are removed during normal harvesting and some during normal cleaning operations. The Fusarium may cause the occurrence of the mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (more commonly known as vomitoxin or DON).
