FR940407-2-00062 FR940407-2-00036 In addition to expanding the Federal role, failure to approve Tribal programs would deny Tribes the option available to approved States of granting their MSWLF owners and operators flexibility in meeting the requirements of 40 CFR part 258. The revised Federal Criteria (40 CFR part 258) would be implemented without benefit of an EPA approved permit process and EPA would take enforcement actions as appropriate. All MSWLFs on Indian Lands, whether Tribal or private, would be in a disadvantaged position relative to other MSWLFs, being unable to take advantage of the flexibility that Congress built into Sections 4005 and 4010 and that EPA has incorporated into 40 CFR part 258. By approving Tribal permit programs, however, MSWLFs on Indian Lands would be under the jurisdiction of the closest sovereign with sufficient permitting authority, i.e. the Tribe, rather than the Federal government. In the case of other environmental statutes (e.g., the Clean Water Act), EPA, in accord with its Indian Policy, has worked to ensure that Congress revises them at the earliest opportunity to define explicitly the role for Tribes under these programs. Yet, EPA also has stepped in on at least two occasions to allow Tribes to seek program approval despite the lack of an explicit Congressional mandate. Most recently, EPA recognized Indian Tribes as the appropriate authority under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), despite silence on the Tribal role under EPCRA. 55 FR 30632 (1990). EPA reasoned that since EPCRA has no Federal role to backup State planning activities, failure to recognize Tribes as the authority under EPCRA would leave gaps in emergency planning on Indian lands. 54 FR 13000&hyph;13001 (1989). EPA filled such a statutory gap much earlier as well, even before development of its formal Indian Policy. In 1974, EPA promulgated regulations which authorized Indian Tribes to redesignate the level of air quality applicable to Indian lands under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program of the Clean Air Act in the same manner that States could redesignate for other lands. See Nance v. EPA, 645 F.2d 701 (9th Cir. 1981) (upholding regulations). EPA promulgated this regulation despite the fact that the Clean Air Act at that time made no reference whatsoever to Indian Tribes or their status under the Act. 2 2 Congress ratified EPA's regulation in 1977 by explicitly authorizing Tribes to make PSD redesignations; the 1990 Amendments to the Act authorize EPA to allow Tribes to apply for approval to implement any programs EPA deems appropriate. One Court already has recognized the reasonableness of EPA's actions in filling such regulatory gaps on Indian lands. In Nance, supra , the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed EPA's PSD redesignation regulations described in the previous paragraph. The Court found that EPA could reasonably interpret the Clean Air Act to allow for Tribal redesignation, rather than allowing the States to exercise that authority or exempting Indian lands from the redesignation process. Id. at 713. The Court noted that EPA's rule was reasonable in light of the general existence of Tribal sovereignty over activities on Indian lands. Id. at 714. Today's tentative determination to approve the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe's MSWLF permit program is analogous to the rule upheld in Nance . EPA is proposing to fill a gap in jurisdiction on Indian lands. As with the redesignation program, without recognition of Tribal MSWLF programs, there would be no acceptable way to implement at the Federal level a key statutory provision, i.e., the MSWLF permitting process. Furthermore, the case law supporting EPA's interpretation is even stronger today than at the time of the Nance decision. First, the Supreme Court reaffirmed EPA's authority to develop reasonable controlling interpretations of environmental statutes. Chevron, supra . Second, the Supreme Court emphasized since Nance that Indian Tribes may regulate activities on reservations, including those of non-Indians, where the conduct directly threatens the health and safety of the Tribe or its members. Montana v. United States, 450 U.S. 544, 565 (1981). In the case of MSWLFs, EPA believes that improperly maintained MSWLFs would not be protective of human health (including that of Tribal members) and the environment (including Indian lands). Tribes are likely to be able to assert regulatory authority over landfills on tribal lands to protect these interests. Allowing Tribes to seek adequacy would reflect general principles of Federal Indian law. Thus, as in Nance , EPA believes that allowing Tribes to apply for program approval reflects the sovereign authority of Tribes under Federal law.
