FR940104-2-00060 FR940104-2-00040 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In No. 32133, Union Pacific Corporation, and its subsidiary railroads Union Pacific Railroad and Missouri Pacific Railroad (collectively, UP), seek to acquire control of CNW and its corporate parent, Chicago and North Western Holdings Corp. Notice of acceptance of the UP application was published in the Federal Register on February 26, 1993, at 58 FR 11626. On November 29, 1993, pursuant to the Commission's revised procedural schedule set forth in Union Pacific Corp., Et Al._Control_CNW, 9 I.C.C.2d 939 (1993), the following responsive applications were filed: Finance Docket No. 32133 (Sub-No. 1). KCS seeks the imposition of the following protective conditions designed to ``renovate'' its current ``north end'' haulage rights over UP between Kansas City and Omaha, NE/Council Bluffs, IA, Lincoln, NE, Atchison, KS, and Topeka, KS: 1 1 These rights were negotiated with UP as a result of the Commission's decisions in Union Pacific_Control_Missouri Pacific, Western Pacific, 366 I.C.C. 459, 566&hyph;572 (1982); and Union Pacific Corp. et al._Control_MO-KS-TX Co., et al., 4 I.C.C.2d 409, 452&hyph;458 (1988). (1) A new, cost-based, haulage charge, based upon UP's current, actual costs, with periodic adjustments; (2) Elimination of all restrictions as to local service and interlining at Kansas City of traffic moving pursuant to those haulage rights; (3) A guarantee by UP of ``most favored nation'' treatment being extended to KCS on all UP switching charges and practices at Omaha/Council Bluffs; and (4) A guarantee by UP of minimum transit time, between the receipt or delivery of cars for shipment under the haulage rights, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the interchange of those cars to KCS, with penalty provisions for any default. KCS also seeks new haulage rights over CNW: (5) Haulage rights, convertible to trackage rights at KCS's option, over CNW lines between Council Bluffs and Sheldon, IA; between Council Bluffs-Fort Dodge, IA, and the surrounding area; and between Kansas City, MO, and Des Moines, IA; and certain related conditions. Finance Docket No. 32133 (Sub-No. 2). SP seeks denial of the application, but alternatively, requests the imposition of the following conditions: (1) Access by such trackage and haulage rights as would be most efficient in the circumstances to provide full service to all shippers served by CNW and its existing affiliates (except those in Michigan and northeast Wisconsin). SP may hold out service in its own name, and quote rates and contracts without the concurrence of CNW; CNW shall furnish the underlying rail transportation as an independent contractor for mutually agreed upon compensation (or Commission prescribed compensation in the event of a failure to agree); and CNW shall give such traffic equal handling and priority as its own traffic; (2) Access by such trackage and haulage rights as would be most efficient in the circumstances (a) to serve origins and destinations exclusively served by UP via Missouri Pacific Railroad (MP) and former Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad lines (MKT); and (b) to bridge between the CNW in the North and the SP in the South. SP may hold out service in its own name, and quote rates and contracts without the concurrence of CNW; MP shall furnish the underlying rail transportation as an independent contractor for mutually agreed upon compensation (or Commission prescribed compensation in the event of a failure to agree); and MP shall give such traffic equal handling and priority as its own traffic; (3) Such changes in compensation, ownership and responsibility for maintenance, dispatch and other operations, and terminal rights and access to certain intermediate points, as will permit efficient and effective competition by SP utilizing the trackage rights granted in Finance Docket No. 30,000: (a) to SSW between Kansas City, MO, and East St. Louis, IL; and (b) to DRGW between Pueblo, CO, and Kansas City. Such changes include various measures to insure that SP trains are to be given equal treatment with UP trains; (4) Provisions designed to provide access to CNW facilities at the Chicago Switching District that will allow SP to provide service and competition on terms and conditions no less favorable than those available to UP today, including reciprocal switching; and (5) Access to and participation in each of the marketing and operational coordinations of the type described at pages 372&hyph;376 of Volume 1 of the Application, which are entered into by UP and CNW with each other subsequent to the effective date of any control authority granted in this proceeding, on terms and conditions that are substantially equivalent to the terms and conditions of UP's access or participation. Finance Docket No. 32133 (Sub-No. 3). CC&P and CCP Holdings request: (1) Overhead trackage rights for CC&P over UP's Council Bluffs Subdivision between the connection of CC&P's rail line at CC&P milepost 512.2 (Council Bluffs, IA) and the KCS/Soo Line Joint Agency Yard and UPRR Neff Yard in Kansas City, MO, and Kansas City, KS, with the right to interchange with all connecting carriers at Kansas City, and to handle directly inbound movements of grain to all existing grain receivers located on UP and CNW at Kansas City; (2) Overhead trackage rights over CNW's Sioux City Subdivision between the connection of CC&P's line with CNW's line at CNW milepost 76.3 (Sioux City, IA) and the connection with CC&P's line at Council Bluffs, with the right to directly handle inbound movements of soybeans and outbound movements of soybean meal, oil, and other soybean products to and from the Ag Processing, Inc., plant located on CNW at Sergeant Bluff, IA; (3) Overhead trackage rights for CC&P over CNW's Fort Dodge Subdivision between the connection of CC&P's line to CNW's line at CNW milepost 372.5 (Fort Dodge, IA) and milepost 354.2, at the private tracks of Ag Processing, Inc., at Eagle Grove, IA, for the limited purpose of handling inbound shipments of soybeans and coal and outbound movements of grain products to/from the Ag Processing, Inc., plant located on CNW at Eagle Grove, IA.
