FR940118-0-00053 FR940118-0-00014 (2) Assurances that these resources will be made available to the area upon designation. The plan must address changes needed in Federal rules and regulations necessary to implement the plan, including: (1) Specific paperwork or other Federal program requirements that need to be altered to permit effective implementation of the strategic plan; and (2) Specific regulatory and other impediments to implementing the strategic plan for which waivers are requested, with appropriate citations and an indication whether waivers can be accomplished administratively or require statutory changes. The plan must demonstrate how State and local governments will reinvent themselves to help implement the plan, by: (1) Identifying the changes that will be made in State and local organizations, processes and procedures, including laws and ordinances, to facilitate implementation of the plan; and (2) Explaining how different agencies in State and local governments will work together in new responsive ways to implement the strategic plan. The plan must provide details as to the manner in which the plan will be implemented and indicate what benchmarks will be used to measure progress, by: (1) Identifying the specific tasks necessary to implement the plan; (2) Describing the partnerships that will be established to carry out the plan; (3) Explaining how the strategic plan will be regularly revised to reflect new information and opportunities; and (4) Identifying the baselines, benchmarks and goals that will be used in evaluating performance in implementing the plan. III. Justification for Interim Rule It is the policy of this Department that rules relating to public property, loans, grants, benefits, or contracts shall be published for comment notwithstanding the exemption of 5 U.S.C. 553 with respect to such rules. However, exemptions are permitted where an agency finds, for good cause, that compliance would be impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to public interest. The Department finds that good cause exists to publish this rule for effect without first soliciting public comment, in that prior public comment would be contrary to the public interest. The statute requires that communities prepare a comprehensive strategic plan to submit their applications. For many communities, such planning can take up to 5 months. Several additional months will be required to evaluate the applications and make designations. Section 1391(c) of the legislation requires that designations be made only after 1993 and before 1996. Given the statutory mandate to make all designations within a two-year time period, the extra time required to publish a proposed rule for a 60-day comment period before development of a final rule for effect would be contrary to congressional intent and the purpose of the legislation. The longer time period would unduly postpone an economic recovery for those communities and their residents for which this program is intended. Further, the Department finds that good cause exists in that prior public comment is unnecessary because the legislation being implemented by this rule is very prescriptive, with little room for discretion on the part of the Secretary. The Department is interested, however, in the public reaction to the rule, and invites the public to comment. The Department is limiting the comment period to 30 days to permit adequate time for review of public comments and development of a final rule. IV. Notice USDA is simultaneously publishing in this issue of the Federal Register a Notice Inviting Applications that contains more specific guidance on submission deadlines and the process of submission of applications. V. Other Matters National Environmental Policy Act This document has been reviewed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1940, subpart G, ``Environmental Program.'' It is the determination of USDA that this action does not constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Public Law 91&hyph;190, an Environmental Impact Statement is not required. Executive Order 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review This rule was reviewed and approved by the Office of Management and Review as a significant rule, as that term is defined in Executive Order 12866, which was signed by the President on September 30, 1993. The economic analysis required by Executive Order 12866 will be retained in the public file with the Department's Rule Docket Clerk. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Secretary, in accordance with The Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this rule before publication and by approving it certifies that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The Act is intended to encourage Federal agencies to utilize innovative administrative procedures in dealing with individuals, small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental bodies that would otherwise be unnecessarily adversely affected by Federal regulations. To the extent that this rule affects those entities, its purpose is to reduce any disproportionate burden by providing for the waiver of regulations and by affording other incentives directed toward a positive economic impact. Therefore, no regulatory flexibility analysis under the Act is necessary. Executive Order 12611, Federalism The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12611, Federalism, has determined that the policies contained in this rule will not have substantial direct effects on States or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the Federal government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. The purpose of this rule is to provide a cooperative atmosphere between the Federal government and the States and local governments, and to reduce any regulatory burden imposed by the Federal government that impedes the ability of State and local governments to solve pressing economic, social, and physical problems in their communities. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 25 Community development, Empowerment zones, Enterprise communities, Economic development, Housing, Indians, Intergovernmental relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
