FR940727-1-00057 FR940727-1-00015 354.7␣Failure to pay. Authority: Sec. 109, Pub. L. 96&hyph;295, 94 Stat. 780; Sec. 2901, Pub. L. 98&hyph;369, 98 Stat. 494; Title XX , Pub. L. 104&hyph; XX , Stat. XX ; EO 12148, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 412 (50 U.S.C. App. 2251 note); EO 12657, 3 CFR, 1988 Comp., p. 611. [Authority citation to be inserted if enacted] §354.1 Purpose. This part establishes the methodology for FEMA to assess and collect user fees from Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) licensees of commercial nuclear power plants to recover at least 100 percent of the cost of services provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) through its Radiological Emergency Preparedness (REP) Program as authorized under Title XX , Public Law 104&hyph; XX , XX Stat. XX [Authority citation to be inserted if enacted]. As stipulated by Public Law 104&hyph; XX [Authority citation to be inserted if enacted], the methodology for assessment and collection of fees shall be fair and equitable, and shall reflect the full amount of costs of providing radiological emergency planning, preparedness, response and associated services. Such fees will be assessed in a manner that reflects the use of agency resources for classes of regulated persons and the administrative costs of collecting such fees. Fees received pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts. Assessment and collection of such fees are only authorized during fiscal year (FY) 1995. §354.2 Scope. The regulation in this part applies to all persons or licensees who have applied for or have received from NRC: (a) A license to construct, operate or decommission a commercial nuclear power plant; (b) A possession-only license for a commercial nuclear power plant; (c) An early site permit for a commercial nuclear power plant; (d) A combined construction permit and operating license for a commercial nuclear power plant; or (e) Any other NRC licensee that is now or may become subject to requirements for offsite radiological emergency planning and preparedness. §354.3 Definitions. As used in this part, the following terms and concepts are defined: (a) FEMA means the Federal Emergency Management Agency. (b) NRC means the U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. (c) Technical assistance means services provided by FEMA to facilitate offsite radiological emergency planning and preparedness, including but not limited to, provision of support for the preparation of offsite radiological emergency response plans and procedures, and provision of advice and recommendations for specific aspects of radiological emergency planning and preparedness, such as alert and notification and emergency public information. (d) Persons or Licensee means the utility or organization that has applied for or has received from the NRC: (1) A license to operate or decommission a commercial nuclear power plant; (2) A possession-only license for a commercial nuclear power plant; (3) An early site permit for a commercial nuclear power plant; (4) A combined construction permit and operating license for a commercial nuclear power plant; or (5) Any other NRC license that is now or may become subject to requirements for offsite radiological emergency planning and preparedness activities. (e) RAC means Regional Assistance Committee chaired by FEMA with representatives from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Energy, Department of Agriculture, Department of Transportation, Department of Commerce, Department of Interior, and other Federal departments and agencies as appropriate. (f) REP means Radiological Emergency Preparedness as in FEMA's REP Program.
