FR940223-2-00220 FR940223-2-00102 Instructions for Part III_Application Narrative Before preparing the Application Narrative, an applicant should read carefully the description of the program, the information regarding the priorities, and the selection criteria the Secretary uses to evaluate applications. CFDA No. 84.203A␣Star Schools_Distance Education Projects The narrative should encompass each function or activity for which funds are being requested and should_ 1. Begin with an Abstract that is a summary of the proposed project. 2. Describe how the proposed project will meet one or more of the absolute priorities, and the competitive priority, if appropriate, in the light of each of the selection criteria in the order in which the criteria are listed in this notice. Requirements_Distance Education Projects The legislation authorizing the Star Schools Program requires that all applications address each of the following: 1. Describe the telecommunications facilities and equipment and technical assistance for which assistance is sought which may include_ A. The design, development, construction, and acquisition of State or multistate educational telecommunications networks and technology resource centers; B. Microwave, fiber optics, cable, and satellite transmission equipment or any combination thereof; C. Reception facilities; D. Satellite time; E. Production facilities; F. Other telecommunications equipment capable of serving a wide geographic area; G. The provision of training services to instructors who will be using the facilities and equipment for which assistance is sought; and in using such facilities and equipment, and in integrating programs into the class curriculum; and H. The development of educational programming for students, or for educational personnel, or both, to be used on the telecommunications network; 2. Describe the types of programming that will be acquired or developed to enhance instruction and training and provide assurances that such programming will be designed in consultation with professionals who are experts in the applicable subject matter and grade level. 3. Demonstrate that the eligible telecommunications partnership has engaged in sufficient survey and analysis of the area to be served to ensure that the services offered by the telecommunications partnership will increase the availability of courses of instruction in the subjects to be offered. 4. Describe the manner in which traditionally underserved students (such as students who are disadvantaged, limited-English proficient, disabled or illiterate) will participate in the benefits of the telecommunications facilities, equipment, technical assistance, and programming assisted under this proposed project, and the extent to which existing telecommunications equipment will be used where available. 5. Describe the training policies for teachers and other school personnel to be implemented to ensure the effective use of the telecommunications facilities and equipment for which assistance is sought. 6. Describe the activities or services for which assistance is sought including activities and services such as_ A. Providing facilities, equipment, training, services, and technical assistance; B. Making programs accessible to individuals with disabilities through mechanisms such as closed captioning and descriptive video services; C. Linking networks together, for example, around an issue of national importance such as elections; D. Sharing curriculum materials among networks; E. Providing teacher and student support services; F. Incorporating community resources such as libraries and museums into instructional programs; G. Providing teacher training to early childhood development and Head Start teachers and staff; H. Providing teacher training to vocational education teachers and staff, and I. Providing programs for adults at times other than the regular school day in order to maximize the use of the telecommunications facilities and equipment.
