FR941219-2-00056 FR941219-2-00040 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted an agreement to a proposed consent order from Gateway Educational Products, Ltd. (``Gateway''), and John Shanahan and John Herlihy, officers of Gateway. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement or make final the agreement's proposed order. This matter concerns the ``Hooked on Phonics'' reading program (``HOP''). The Commission's proposed complaint alleges that the respondents represented in their advertisements and promotional materials that HOP will quickly and easily teach persons with reading problems or disabilities to read, regardless of the nature of the problem or disability; is effective for teaching persons with learning disabilities, including dyslexia and attention deficit disorders, to read; will cause users with reading problems or disabilities to achieve significant improvement in reading levels and classroom grades; is effective for teaching persons in a home setting to read, without the need for additional assistance such as a teacher or tutor; is effective for teaching reading comprehension skills; has helped nearly one million students to learn to read at home; and that testimonials or endorsements appearing in the HOP advertising reflect consumers' typical or ordinary experiences using HOP. The complaint alleges that the respondents falsely represented that they relied upon a reasonable basis for these representations. The proposed consent order contains provisions designed to prevent the respondents from engaging in similar acts and practices in the future. Part I requires respondents to possess adequate substantiation for the HOP efficacy claims alleged in the complaint, as well as for any claims that any educational program or product will be effective for teaching reading or provides any other educational benefit. The substantiation level required is competent and reliable evidence, which when appropriate must be competent and reliable scientific evidence. Part II of the proposed order prohibits the respondents, in advertising any educational program or product, from representing that any endorsement represents the typical experience of consumers who use the program or product, unless the claim is substantiated. Parts III through VII relate to the respondents' obligations to retain substantiation materials; to notify the Commission of changes in corporate identity, or in the case of the individuals, employment; to distribute copies of the order to certain employees; and to file compliance reports with the Commission. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed order, and it is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31128 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
