FR940525-0-00041 FR940525-0-00021 C. Sanctions Comment: Commenters requested HCFA's position regarding the penalties assessed against a provider for failing to file its cost report electronically. Response: Sections 1815(a) and 1833(e) of the Act provide that no payments will be made to a hospital unless it has furnished the information requested by the Secretary needed to determine the amount of payments due the hospital under the Medicare program. Section 405.371(d) provides for suspension of Medicare payments to a hospital by the intermediary if the hospital fails to submit a cost report, submits an incomplete cost report, or fails to furnish other needed information. Section 2409.1(A)(1) of the Provider Reimbursement Manual (PRM 15&hyph;I) addresses the procedures an intermediary will follow when a provider fails to submit a cost report or when the cost report is overdue. Unless the provider has received a waiver from electronic cost reporting, the intermediary will consider a timely filed cost report that is not filed electronically as an overdue cost report for purposes of section 2409.1(A)(1). We will update this section of the manual to reflect our position regarding sanctions for failure to file cost reports electronically. D. Cost of Implementation Comment: A commenter disagreed with our statement in the impact analysis of the proposed rule that hospitals would not be significantly affected by electronic cost reporting. The commenter stated that some hospitals had to make expensive changes in personnel or software to comply with the regulations and that the cost of maintaining the required software was an additional burden on providers. The commenter suggested that HCFA pay providers for the cost of implementing the electronic cost reporting requirement including the cost of equipment, software, additional personnel, external consultants, and any related overhead costs. Response: Section 1886(f)(1)(B) of the Act does not authorize HCFA to subsidize any of the costs hospitals incur in implementing electronic cost reporting. However, it does authorize the waiver or delay of the implementation of the electronic format in cases of financial hardship. As discussed above, if computer support required for electronic cost reporting will cause financial hardship, the hospital may request a waiver from electronic filing. V. Provisions of the Final Regulations In this final rule with comment, we are revising the provisions set forth in the proposed rule. Based on public comment, we are eliminating the requirement that providers file a hard copy cost report in addition to the electronic file. Also based on public comment, we are adding a new paragraph (iii) to §413.24(f)(4) to provide that in addition to the electronic file, a hospital must submit hard copies of a settlement summary, a statement of certain worksheet totals found in the electronic file, and a signed statement certifying the accuracy of the electronic file or the manually prepared cost report. In addition to the changes made based on public comment, we are adding a new paragraph (ii) to §413.24(f)(4) to provide the following: •All cost reporting software must be able to disclose that changes have been made to the electronic file after the provider has submitted its cost report to the intermediary. •The intermediary may not alter the cost report once it has been filed by the provider. •The intermediary rejects any cost report that does not pass all specified edits and returns it to the provider for correction. As a result of the above changes to the regulations text, proposed §413.24(f)(4)(ii) has been redesignated as §413.24(f)(4)(iv). VI. Collection of Information Requirements Section 413.24 of this final rule with comment contains information collection and recordkeeping requirements that are subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). These information collection and recordkeeping requirements are not effective until they have been approved by OMB. We have submitted a copy of this final rule with comment to OMB for review of the information collection requirements. Approximately 90 percent of hospitals participating in Medicare have filed electronic cost reports before the effective date of this regulation, that is with cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1989. These providers will now have to file a diskette containing the required cost report data in a standard format. This diskette will contain input data only. We believe that minimal time would be needed for hospitals to become familiar with the revised software furnished by their cost reporting vendor. The remaining 10 percent of the hospitals previously filed manually prepared cost reports. While these hospitals will initially experience an additional reporting burden, we believe that once they are familiar with electronic reporting, there will no longer be an additional burden and there may even be a decrease in burden since the time needed to compute the cost report will no longer be required.
