FR940407-2-00159 FR940407-2-00081 Part VI_Instructions for Completing Application Package (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0970&hyph;0062 date of expiration 09&hyph;30&hyph;93.) The standard forms attached to this announcement shall be used to apply for funds under this program announcement. It is suggested that you reproduce single-sided copies of the SF&hyph;424 and SF&hyph;424A, and type your application on the copies. Please prepare your application in accordance with instructions provided on the forms as well as with the OCS specific instructions set forth below: A. SF&hyph;424_Application for Federal Assistance Top of Page. Please enter the single priority area number under which the application is being submitted. An application should be submitted under only one priority area. Item 1. For the purposes of this announcement, all projects are considered Applications; there are no Pre-Applications. Prepare your application in accordance with the standard instructions given in Attachments B and C corresponding to the forms, as well as the OCS specific instructions set forth below: Item 2. Date Submitted and Applicant Identifier _Date application is submitted to ACF and applicant's own internal control number, if applicable. Item 3. Date Received by State _N/A Item 4. Date Received by Federal Agency _Leave blank. Items 5 and 6. The legal name of the applicant must match that listed as corresponding to the Employer Identification Number. Where the applicant is a previous Department of Health and Human Services grantee, enter the Central Registry System Employee Identification Number (CRS/EIN) and the Payment Identifying Number, if one has been assigned, in the Block entitled Federal Identifier located at the top right hand corner of the form. Item 7. If the applicant is a non-profit corporation, enter N in the box and specify non-profit corporation in the space marked Other. Proof of non-profit status, such as IRS determination, Articles of Incorporation, or By-laws, must be included as an appendix to the project narrative. Item 8. Type of Application _Please indicate the type of application. Item 9. Name of Federal Agency _Enter DHHS-ACF/OCS. Item 10. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number for OCS programs covered under this announcement is 93.561. The title is Job Opportunities for Low-Income Individuals Program (Demonstration Projects). Item 11. In addition to a brief descriptive title of the project, indicate the priority area for which funds are being requested. Use the following letter designations: JO_General Project JS_Community Development Corporation Set-Aside Item 12. Areas Affected by Project _List only the largest unit or units affected, such as State, county or city.
