FR941021-2-00066 FR941021-2-00046 In accordance with Executive Order 12866, this final notice was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. III. Overview of FY 1995 National Medicare Contractor Budget A. Data, Standards, and Methodology The FY 1995 national Medicare contractor budget request was submitted to the Congress in February 1994. The workload for the FY 1995 request is expressed in terms of work processed. For Part A, the FY 1995 estimated workload (129.2 million bills) is 9.2 percent more than the FY 1994 estimate. For Part B, the estimated workload (655.6 million claims) results in a 4.2 percent increase over the FY 1994 estimate. Our estimates involved the use of a regression model that uses the last 36 months of actual contractor workload data. For the FY 1995 projections, we used November 1993 data, which were the latest available to us at the time. The resulting projections will be updated monthly to assure that the most timely data are available for budgeting purposes. The FY 1995 unit costs for processing bills and claims were calculated based on the FY 1994 level adjusted for savings achieved due to productivity, Electronic Media Claims, and reduced funding for incremental workload. This calculation resulted in a new unit cost, which, when multiplied by the Part A or Part B workloads, determines the total amount required for bill and claim processing in FY 1995. Feedback received from contractors and ROs during the past several years has led us to believe that contractors can make major improvements in performance if given the authority to manage their budgets. The FY 1994 BPRs gave the ROs the authority to set a budget and the contractors the authority to manage their budgets on a bottom-line basis. Once funding was issued, each contractor had the flexibility to optimally manage the budget consistent with the statement of work contained in the BPRs. Prior to FY 1993, contractors were not allowed to ``shift'' more than 5 percent of funds from one line item to another in their budget, as determined by the lesser of the two line items. This restriction was intended to give contractors some latitude with regard to reporting their costs, yet still allow HCFA to maintain control over the national budget. With the exception of the ``Payment Safeguards,'' ``Productivity Investments,'' and ``Other'' line items, contractors now have total flexibility in the use of funds. There is a 5 percent limitation on the amount of funds that may be shifted out of individual ``Payment Safeguards,'' with unlimited shifting into ``Payment Safeguards.'' Shifting into or out of ``Productivity Investments'' and ``Other'' line item funding, not governed by contract modifications, may not exceed 5 percent. Each ``Other'' line item is treated separately. The ``Productivity Investment'' line item is treated as a whole and not by a separate project. Funding that is governed by contract modifications may not be shifted to other functions or line items. B. Medicare Contractor Functional Areas The Medicare contractor budget consists of functional areas of responsibility that are performed by the fiscal intermediaries for Part A and the carriers for Part B. The eight functional areas of responsibility for fiscal intermediaries under Part A are: •Bill Payment; •Reconsideration and Hearing; •Medicare Secondary Payer; •Medical Review and Utilization Review; •Provider Audit (Desk Review, Field Audit, and Provider Settlement); •Provider Reimbursement; •Productivity Investments; and •Benefits Integrity.
