FR941007-1-00055 FR941007-1-00009 Like the December proposal, the revised proposal would allow institutions, at their option, to include affiliate and third-party lending in their lending record but would make certain changes to the December proposal in this regard. First, the revised proposal would consider indirect lending by any of an institution's affiliates_regardless of whether the affiliate is chartered or how it is funded. The revised proposal would not impose restrictions on the corporate structures of institutions and their affiliates. Second, the rules regarding the allocation of loans among affiliates have been simplified. The revised proposal would also include several new provisions designed to prevent an institution from selectively including (or excluding) its affiliate lending. Under the revised proposal, the agencies would evaluate an institution's affiliate lending when assessing the institution's overall lending performance, provided the institution (or its affiliate) chooses to collect and report the data pertaining to such lending. If an institution chooses to report some of its affiliate loans in a service area for a particular lending category, such as home mortgages, or small business loans, it would be required to report all of its affiliate loans of that category for that specific service area. An agency would be able to consider the lending of an institution's affiliate, notwithstanding whether the institution wants the agency to consider its affiliate lending, if the agency were to determine that such lending is integral to the institution's business. An affiliate's lending would be integral to an institution's business if the institution's operations closely involve or support the marketing, management, or other operation of the affiliate's lending. Lending would not be considered integral to an institution's business merely because the institution had a financial interest in the affiliate. Third, the revised proposal would no longer allow an institution to include third party loans with its direct and affiliate loans for purposes of assessing the geographic distribution of the institution's lending or the distribution of its lending across borrower characteristics. Under the revised proposal, third party loans could be attributed to an institution only if they meet the definition of community development loans. This change responds to comments from community and consumer groups who expressed concern that institutions could use third-party lending to avoid their direct lending obligations and, in effect, ``buy out'' of their CRA obligations. The revised proposal also would operate to relieve third party lenders of the burden of reporting the geographic location of their loans that could have been placed on them by the December proposal. The Investment Test In the December proposal, retail institutions as well as wholesale or limited purpose institutions would have been evaluated under the investment test based on the amount of assets they had devoted to ``qualified investments'' in comparison to their risk-based capital. The focus of the investment test would have been on the ultimate impact of an institution's investment rather than the investment per se. Therefore, qualified investments would not have been credited under the test unless they had a demonstrable impact, e.g., in providing loans or community development projects that benefit low- and moderate-income individuals and geographies. Qualified investments would have included lawful investments that benefit low- and moderate-income geographies or individuals in an institution's service area. Examples of such investments would have included those: (1) in support of local affordable housing and community, economic, or small business development; (2) in community development financial institutions, community development corporations, community development projects, small business investment companies (including specialized small business investment companies), and minority- and women-owned financial institutions and other community development financial intermediaries; (3) in consortia or other entities serving low- and moderate-income individuals and areas; and (4) in state and local government agency housing bonds or state and local government revenue bonds specifically aimed at helping low- and moderate-income areas and individuals. Eligible grants and the donation or sale on favorable terms of branches to minority- or women-owned financial institutions also would have counted as qualifying investments.
