FR940303-2-00203 FR940303-2-00098 Foreign Language and Area Studies_U.S. Students and Scholars; Request for Proposals ACTION: Notice; request for proposals. SUMMARY: The United States Information Agency (ASCI) requests proposals from non-profit organizations for programs or projects under the rubric of the FY 1994 ``Near and Middle East Research and Training'' program. Organizations shall conceive, develop and administer programs in cooperation with USIA that will assist American graduate students and post-doctoral scholars in North African, Middle Eastern and South Asian Studies. Activities permitted under this program include foreign language training, foreign area studies and foreign area research for periods ranging from two months to a full academic year abroad. For the purpose of this program, the geographic area refers to the region consisting of countries and peoples covered by the Bureau of Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs of the U.S. Department of State as of October 1991. Current eligible locales for overseas research are: Mauritania, Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Yemen, Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. Proposals for Turkey will be accepted subject to final Congressional approval on pending appropriation bills. The funding of proposals for the above countries is subject to official security and/or travel restrictions. DATES: Deadline for proposals: One original and 14 copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on Friday, April 15, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on April 15, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that its proposals are received by the above deadline. Grants should begin September 1, 1994 and end August 31, 1995. ADDRESSES: The original and fourteen (14) copies of the completed proposal, including required forms and a budget should be submitted by the deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, Reference: NMERTA, Office of Grants Management (E/XE), room 357, 301 4th St. SW., Wahsington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested U.S. organizations should write or call Ms. Janey Cole or Ms. Nada Gunnoe, North Africa, Near East and South Asia Branch (E/AEN room 212), Academic Exchange Programs Division, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th St. SW., Washington, DC 20547, telephone (202) 619&hyph;5368 to request detailed application packets which include award criteria, all necessary forms, and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific budget preparation information. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Overview Authority for this activity is the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, Public Law 87&hyph;256 Fulbright-Hays Act. Through the Fulbright program USIA seeks to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and people of other countries. Pursuant to the Agency's authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. Support is offered for two categories. Organizations may address one or both categories, but must submit a separate proposal for each category. Special emphasis will be given to social sciences and humanities.
