FR940725-2-00073 FR940725-2-00045 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Marine Fisheries Service DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Bonneville Power Administration Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement To Examine the Impacts of Artificial Production on Columbia River Fish To Facilitate Management Decisions Regarding Existing or Proposed Fish Hatchery Programs AGENCIES: U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, National Marine Fisheries Service, Bonneville Power Administration. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice advises the public that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), and the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) intend to gather information necessary for the preparation of a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS). The purpose of the PEIS is to assess the relative risks associated with alternative hatchery operating scenarios and to identify opportunity for maintaining biological diversity, promoting the integrated operation of Columbia River anadromous fish hatcheries, minimizing risks to long-term fitness of stocks, fulfilling Federal treaty trust responsibilities to Native Americans, accomplishing mitigation obligations to provide for other fisheries, and protecting and recovering fish stocks listed under the Endangered Species Act. This notice is being furnished pursuant to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for Implementing The Procedural Provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Regulations (40 CFR 1508.22). To satisfy Federal environmental policy requirements, the USFWS, NMFS, and BPA are conducting a joint scoping process for the preparation of the PEIS. Interested agencies, organizations, and individuals are encouraged to provide written comments of the issues which should be addressed in the PEIS. DATES: Public meetings concerning the scope of issues to be addressed in the PEIS will be held: August 2, 1994, at the Red Lion, 1800 Fairview, Boise, ID. August 3, 1994, at the Red Lion-Hanford House, 802 George Washington Way, Richland, WA. August 4, 1994, at the Red Lion, Seattle Airport, 18740 Pacific Highway South, Seattle, WA. August 9, 1994, at the Red Lion, 400 Industry Street, Astoria, OR. August 10, 1994, at the Red Lion-Downtown, 310 SW Lincoln, Portland, OR. All meetings are scheduled from 7&hyph;9:30 p.m. ADDRESS: Comments regarding the scope of the PEIS should be addressed to Sampsel Consulting Services, P.O. Box 1249, Ocean Park, WA, 98640 and should be received by September 9, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Contact Roy Sampsel (Sampsel Consulting) at the above address or telephone 206/665&hyph;6051 or Brian Kinnear (Columbia Basin Fish and Wildlife Authority) at 503/326&hyph;7031. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: USFWS, NMFS, and BPA need a better understanding of the cumulative effects of the interaction between anadromous fish produced under current fish hatchery programs and naturally spawning salmon and steelhead in the Columbia River Basin. The need for a comprehensive analysis has arisen because: •There are approximately 90 Federally operated and/or funded anadromous fish hatcheries in the Columbia River system and more facilities are planned. •Most of these hatcheries and facilities were designed and constructed to augment the naturally spawning salmon and steelhead runs that were severely depleted by Federally funded or licensed water development throughout the Columbia River Basin. •The augmentation was intended to mitigate for fisheries losses experienced by non-Indian sport and commercial fisheries as well as to meet treaty trust responsibilities to Native Americans.
