FR941125-2-00130 FR941125-2-00086 In contrast, as noted previously, the broad condition imposed here has not worked well. Before Wisconsin Central can dispose of any of the properties it obtained from Soo in 1987, it must complete the historic preservation process for each particular property. This requirement usually results in a lengthy delay for each property. Moreover, as things now stand, this situation would continue indefinitely; unless amended, the condition will continue to cover all of Wisconsin Central's properties as long as it remains a railroad. 6 6 We would note that the problem relates to sales of properties that are not part of a line for which abandonment authority is sought. In abandonment proceedings, historic structures would be documented anyway. More than seven years have passed since Wisconsin Central acquired these properties. Accordingly, it seems to us that from this point forward, Wisconsin Central's sale or demolition of properties should no longer be considered to be the result of the original purchase from the Soo. Rather, because of the passage of time, these decisions more appropriately should be considered the normal result of the carrier's continuing ownership and management of these properties. It seems inappropriate to continue to impose a greater burden on Wisconsin Central than it would face if its acquisition proceeding took place now. We may modify conditions we have imposed in our proceedings, and we preliminarily conclude that it is appropriate to do so here. Accordingly, we are reopening this proceeding and proposing to modify the condition to require completion of the historic review process only with regard to specific properties for which that process is already underway or of which the carrier has informed SEA that it plans to dispose. The disposal of other properties would be presumed to be outside the scope of the proceeding in which we authorized the rail line sale. This action will not significantly affect either the quality of the human environment or the conservation of energy resources. This proposal should not have any adverse impact on small entities. Decided: November 7, 1994. By the Commission, Chairman McDonald, Vice Chairman Phillips, and Commissioners Simmons, Morgan, and Owen. Vice Chairman Phillips recused herself in this proceeding. Vernon A. Williams, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29065 Filed 11&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
