FR940607-2-00053 FR940607-2-00041 Notice of Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Endangered and Threatened Fishes of the Rio Yaqui for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for endangered and threatened fishes of the Rio Yaqui. Four species are included in the recovery plan: Yaqui catfish ( Ictalurus pricei ), and beautiful shiner ( Cyprinella formosa ), both listed by the Service as threatened species on August 31, 1984 (49 FR 34494); Yaqui chub ( Gila purpurea ), listed by the Service as endangered on August 31, 1984 (49 FR 34494); and Yaqui topminnow ( Poeciliopsis occidentalis sonoriensis ), listed by the Service as endangered on March 11, 1967 (32 FR 4001). Historically, the headwaters of the Rio Yaqui that occur in the United States may not have provided sufficient habitat for large populations of the Yaqui catfish, however the other three species were widely distributed throughout the upper reaches of the Rio Yaqui system. Loss of habitat, plus competition and predation from nonnative fish threaten the continued survival of these fish within the United States. The Service solicits review and comments from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before August 8, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the Refuge Manager, San Bernardino National Wildlife, 1408 10th Street, Douglas, Arizona 85607. Comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the Refuge Manager. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Kevin Cobble, Refuge Manager, (602) 364&hyph;2104 or at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened plant or animal to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe site-specific management actions considered necessary for conservation and survival of the species, establish objective, measurable criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting species, and estimate time and cost for implementing recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988 requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan preparation. The Service considers all information during a public comment prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. Loss of habitat and competition with, and or predations from, nonnative fish are threats to the continued survival of the listed fish of the Rio Yaqui. In addition, the Yaqui catfish hybridizes with channel catfish ( Ictalurus punctatus ) thereby encountering an additional threat. The recovery plan addresses protection of existing populations, restoration of depleted populations, and protection and restoration of habitat as elements that must be achieved if the species is to survive in the wild. The recovery plan also recognizes the need to work with Mexican Government and Mexican biologists to conserve habitat and fish populations that occur in Mexico. Expansion of these species into historic habitat in Mexico will need to be accomplished before delisting of these species can occur. The plan will be finalized and approved following incorporation of comments and materials received during this comment period. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to the approval of the plan. Authority The Authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: May 27, 1994. John G. Rogers, Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13758 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
