FR940803-0-00059 FR940803-0-00019 ยง518.34 Equipment. (a) Title to equipment acquired by a recipient with Federal funds shall vest in the recipient, subject to conditions of this section. (b) The recipient shall not use equipment acquired with Federal funds to provide services to non-Federal outside organizations for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services, unless specifically authorized by Federal statute, for as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the equipment. (c) The recipient shall use the equipment in the project or program for which it was acquired as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by Federal funds and shall not encumber the property without approval of the Federal awarding agency. When no longer needed for the original project or program, the recipient shall use the equipment in connection with its other federally-sponsored activities, in the following order or priority: (1) Activities sponsored by the Federal awarding agency which funded the original project, then (2) Activities sponsored by other Federal awarding agencies. (d) During the time that equipment is used on the project or program for which it was acquired, the recipient shall make it available for use on other projects or programs if such other use will not interfere with the work on the project or program for which the equipment was originally acquired. First preference for such other use shall be given to other projects or programs sponsored by the Federal awarding agency that financed the equipment; second preference shall be given to projects or programs sponsored by other Federal awarding agencies. If the equipment is owned by the Federal Government, use on other activities not sponsored by the Federal Government shall be permissible if authorized by the Federal awarding agency. User charges shall be treated as program income. (e) When acquiring replacement equipment, the recipient may use the equipment to be replaced as trade-in or sell the equipment and use the proceeds to offset the costs of the replacement equipment subject to the approval of the Federal awarding agency. (f) The recipient's property management standards for equipment acquired with Federal funds and federally-owned equipment shall include all of the following. (1) Equipment records shall be maintained accurately and shall include the following information. (i) A description of the equipment. (ii) Manufacturer's serial number, model number, Federal stock number, national stock number, or other identification number. (iii) Source of the equipment, including the award number. (iv) Whether title vests in the recipient or the Federal Government. (v) Acquisition date (or date received, if the equipment was furnished by the Federal Government) and cost. (vi) Information from which one can calculate the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the equipment (not applicable to equipment furnished by the Federal Government).
