FR941230-2-00063 FR941230-2-00046 III Applicability This Final Judgment applies to each defendant and to each of their officers, administrators, agents, servants, representatives, employees, successors, and assigns and to all other persons in active concert or participation with any of them who receive actual notice of this Final Judgment by personal notice or otherwise. IV Prohibited Conduct Unless permitted to engage in activities relating to conduct as set forth in Paragraphs V., VI. and VII. of this Final Judgment: A. Each defendant is enjoined and restrained from: 1. Directly or indirectly entering into any agreement with any hospital in the Long Island area concerning: (a) the negotiation, selection, approval, acceptance or refusal of any contract with any third-party payer for the delivery of hospital services, (b) the terms or amounts of any fee to nay third-party payer, or (c) the utilization of per diem-based fees in any agreement with any third-part payer; and 2. Directly or indirectly communicating any negotiated fee, or any refusal to grant discounts off any fee to any third-party payer, to any hospital in the Long Island area. B. Each defendant hospital is enjoined and restrained from directly or indirectly utilizing the defendant Classic Care or any other agent to set, maintain or determine any fee of any hospital in the Long Island area. C. Defendant Classic Care is enjoined and restrained from directly or indirectly: (1) entering into any agreement with any hospital in the Long Island area to hold itself out as an exclusive negotiating agent with any third-party payer; (2) entering into any agreement with any hospital in the Long Island area to hold itself out as an exclusive negotiating agent with any third-party payer; (3) developing, adopting or distributing any fee schedule for use with any third-party payer; and (4) recommending that any hospital withdraw from or refuse to enter into any agreement with any third-party payer. D. Each defendant shall terminate any agreement or portion thereof entered into with any other defendant that conditions any actual or possible agreement relating to fees between a hospital and a third-party payer on the formal or informal approval, review or acquiescence of any other defendant. V Bona Fide Joint Ventures A. Nothing in this Final Judgment shall prohibit a defendant from continuing to be or becoming a member of an integrated joint venture before or after the entry of this Final Judgment so long as the integrated joint venture in no way discourages, impedes or prohibits any participating hospital from negotiating or entering into any agreement independently with any third-party payer. Each individual defendant shall promptly inform plaintiff of the name and address of any integrated joint venture it joins after the entry of this Final Judgment. B. Each defendant may seek plaintiff's approval for any other type of joint venture in the Long Island area in which it seeks to engage. In such event, the defendant shall promptly report the details of the proposed venture, together with the relevant underlying documentation and a statement identifying the proposed implementation date, to plaintiff. Plaintiff may make reasonable requests for additional information relating thereto. The defendant will not consummate the proposed venture for at least 30 days following the submission of any information requested by plaintiff or, if no information is requested, for at least 30 days following its reporting of the proposed venture to plaintiff.
