FR940314-0-00053 FR940314-0-00012 One commenter recommended that the Postal Service reduce or eliminate the 50-piece minimum for qualifying 3-digit mail as a way to reduce the residual volume. This mailer proposed that the Postal Service eliminate the 3-digit qualifying minimum for automated mail if it is prepared in trays on SCF pallets and reduce the minimum to 10 pieces for mail that is 100 percent delivery point barcoded. The result, according to this mailer, would be a significant reduction in the amount of residual mail requiring processing at the origin plant. Relaxation of the 50-piece minimum for qualifying 3-digit mail under package-based preparation is not being considered at the present time. Under tray-based preparation options, second- and third-class mail in SCF trays is not required to meet a 50-piece minimum for a 3-digit area. However, this rule gives mailers an option to prepare the residual portion of package-based mailings by 3-digit area with no minimum package size. Limit Residual Preparation to Full AADC Trays One commenter suggested that the Postal Service test the feasibility of limiting the preparation of residual mail to full AADC trays. Residual mail that remained after full AADC trays were prepared would not require sortation. The commenter contended that this limited approach might solve the processing problems caused by residual mail volumes. Limiting residual preparation to full AADC trays would not adequately address the problem of excessive volumes of working residual mail at origin. Most AADC areas contain five or fewer 3-digit ZIP Code areas, making it very unlikely that full trays of residual mail could be prepared for these AADCs given that 3-digit packages must be prepared at 50 pieces. In order to relieve the problems associated with processing residual mail at origin, a more substantial presortation of the residual portion of a mailing than that suggested by this commenter is necessary. Allocate Barcode Sorters to Residual Mail Processing One commenter suggested that each of the 10 processing and distribution areas set up a centralized facility for processing residual mail. Under this scenario, origin processing plants would divert the residual portion of automation rate mailings to this centralized site for processing. Equipment deployment decisions are based on originating and destinating volumes for all classes of mail within a processing and distribution plant's service area. Allocating equipment based on originating residual volumes of second- and third-class letters would result in sub-optimal utilization of automated equipment. The Postal Service believes that presortation of residual volumes, as described in this rule, is a reasonable and effective way to deal with the processing problems caused by piece processing of residual mail. Summary of Changes The following is a summary of the changes, by preparation option in DMM Module M. ZIP+4 Presort and Barcoded Tray-Based Mailings (DMM M812 and M814) This rule will require presortation of the residual portion of second- and third-class mailings by AADC area. These changes are optional for First-Class mailings. Changes in residual preparation are as follows: •Full AADC trays must be prepared if enough pieces exist to fill a tray. Packaging is not required in full AADC trays. •AADC packages must be prepared if 10 or more residual pieces destinate to an AADC area. •Less-than-full AADC trays are not permitted except for optional overflow trays. •AADC packages of 10 or more pieces not placed in a full AADC tray must be banded, labeled, and placed in a mixed-AADC tray. •AADC packages must bear a pink Label A or optional endorsement line (OEL).
