FR940202-2-00073 FR940202-2-00055 OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET Office of Federal Procurement Policy Management Oversight of Service Contracting AGENCY: Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP). ACTION: OFPP is requesting comments on proposed changes to OFPP Policy Letter 93&hyph;1, ``Management Oversight of Service Contracting'' which are set forth in Supplement No. 1 to the Policy Letter. SUMMARY: OFPP Policy Letter 93&hyph;1, ``Management Oversight of Service Contracting,'' was signed by the former OFPP Administrator on November 19, 1993 and published in the Federal Register on December 2, 1993 (58 FR 63593). The Policy Letter is now being revised with a goal of establishing a more ``results-oriented'' approach to providing agencies with best practices to use in managing and administering service contracts. The initial guidance neither prescribes specific improvements that agencies can make in this area nor ways that results can be measured. During this Administration, OFPP's activities will focus on two major objectives: streamlining the procurement process and achieving excellence in contractor performance. We believe that one way to improve contractor performance is to improve contract management and administration. In this regard, we plan to work with the agencies and industry to develop practices that represent best value in contract management and administration. This approach is in keeping with the National Performance Review principle of providing guiding principles rather than rigid rules. Hence, we are revising the Policy Letter, in particular sections 8a and 8b, to reflect this new approach. Agencies are encouraged to begin developing implementation strategies and initiating staff training to ensure effective implementation of the provisions of this revised Policy Letter until the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) is changed. Since the December 2, 1993 Federal Register notice which also included the rescission of OMB Circular No. A&hyph;120, some agencies have raised concerns that the rescission of the Circular was effective immediately but the Policy Letter was not effective until 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . (OFPP has a statutory requirement to allow 30 days before any procurement policy can become effective.) We understand the concern, but it was our intent to make the rescission of Circular A&hyph;120 effective immediately, although we realize that it takes time to have the FAR guidance changed. In the interim, agencies are encouraged to review their internal procedures for managing and controlling the use of advisory and assistance services and determine what changes may be needed to ensure compliance with this revised Policy Letter. Some agencies may elect to use their existing management control procedures for all services covered by the Policy Letter until the FAR guidance is in place. We are issuing the following changes to the Policy Letter which are included in the attached Supplement No. 1: 1. The second sentence under section 4 (Definition) is being revised to clarify that only nonpersonal services obtained under contract from the private sector (i.e., business firms, educational institutions, non-profits, and state and local governments) are covered. Services obtained through the use of interagency agreements are not covered by this Policy Letter. 2. The second paragraph under section 5 (Exclusions) is revised to delete reference to the management oversight responsibilities which will be consistent with the revised paragraphs 8a. and 8b. 3. The second introductory paragraph under section 7 (Good Management Practices) is being revised to delete reference to the requirement for individual and class reviews, and the reference to the responsible management official. Agencies must ensure that they are in compliance with appropriate OFPP Policy Letters applicable to service contracting and use good management practices and contract administration techniques when contracting for services.
