FR940318-0-00059 FR940318-0-00012 The commentator suggested that the final regulations provide that, for purposes of determining whether certain stock is preferred stock for purposes of the regulations, preferred stock that is convertible into common stock should be considered participating stock if the conversion right represents, in substance, a meaningful right to participate in corporate growth. This suggestion is adopted in the final regulations. In addition, the commentator suggested that a conversion right permitting a holder to receive common stock should always be treated as affording such holder a meaningful right to participate in corporate growth. The Service and Treasury have rejected this suggestion, because a conversion right does not necessarily afford the holder a meaningful right to participate in corporate growth. Whether a conversion right affords a meaningful right to participate in corporate growth must be determined on a case-by-case basis. The preamble to the proposed regulations requested comments on the treatment of contingent liabilities under section 108(e)(8). No comments, however, were received on this issue. Although the regulations contain no provision for the treatment of contingent liabilities, contingent liabilities may not be used to increase the denominator inappropriately for purposes of meeting the proportionality tests. For example, the mere assertion by a claimant that it is owed a specific amount does not by itself warrant inclusion of the asserted liability in the denominator for purposes of determining the group ratios. Special Analyses It has been determined that this treasury decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, the notice of proposed rulemaking was submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these final regulations is Annette M. Ahlers, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Corporate), Office of Chief Counsel, Internal Revenue Service. However, other personnel from the IRS and the Treasury Department participated in their development.
