FR940128-1-00120 FR940128-1-00006 5. Use of vacuum- and modified atmosphere-packaging. As explained above, vacuum- or modified atmosphere-packaged smoked, smoke-flavored, and salted fish products represent an increased public health hazard over conventionally packaged products because these types of packaging provide the ideal environment for spore outgrowth and toxin production. Based on the discussion above, the agency states in section 3 of Example 6 of this appendix that these types of packaging should be used only when: (1) As provided in section 5.a.2. of Example 6 of this appendix the product is a hot-process smoked or smoke-flavored product, is vacuum-packed or modified atmosphere-packed, and contains at least 3.5 percent water-phase salt in the finished product, or 3.0 percent salt and 100 to 200 ppm of sodium nitrite in the finished product (section 4.a.1. of Example 6 of this appendix); (2) as provided in section 5.a.4. of Example 6 of this appendix, the product is a cold-process smoked or smoke-flavored product, is vacuum-packed or modified atmosphere- packed, and contains at least 3.5 percent water-phase salt in the finished product or 3.0 percent salt and 100 to 200 ppm of sodium nitrite. The agency is providing in Appendix C, section 8.a. that all vacuum- or modified atmosphere-packaging should be conducted within the processing plant where the product is manufactured (Ref. 180). FDA considers this limitation appropriate to prevent any postprocessing contamination of the product from bacterial pathogens and to ensure that the fish will be packaged immediately after processing to protect its overall quality. 6. Process monitoring. Section 7 of Example 6 of this appendix, the agency is recommending specifications for temperature indicating and recording devices where they are recommended elsewhere in this appendix. These proposed specifications are the same as those proposed in Appendix A for cooked, ready-to-eat fishery products (Appendix A, section 7). A full discussion of these controls is provided in section VII.J.4. of the preamble to this document. Temperature indicating and recording devices are specifically recommended in section 5.j. and 5.k. of Example 6 of this appendix for the control of the smoking temperature. At section 5.b. of Example 6 of this appendix, the agency is recommending specific controls to ensure that the appropriate water-phase salt and sodium nitrate levels are achieved. The significance of these attributes has already been discussed in this document. In section 5.b. of Example 6 of this appendix, the agency recommends that a processor perform or obtain a study that shows that under certain processing conditions the desired water phase salt or sodium nitrite level will reliably be achieved. The processor should monitor those processing conditions identified by the study as having an impact on the ability of the product to achieve the desired level. The study should provide critical limits for each of the relevant processing conditions (e.g. maximum fish size, minimum soak time, minimum salt to product ratio). Because of the existence of numerous variables that affect the ability of fish to uniformly take up salt and sodium nitrite, it may be appropriate for a processor to perform periodic finished product water phase salt or sodium nitrite analyses as a verification step. The purpose of such analyses would be to identify any variables that have an impact on salt or nitrite absorption that were not identified by the study. 7. Corrective actions. At section 9 of Example 6 of this appendix, the agency is recommending corrective action procedures. These proposed procedures are the same as those proposed in the cooked, ready-to-eat section of this document (Appendix A, section 8). A full discussion of the procedures is provided in section VII.J.5 of the preamble to this document. 8. Sanitary zones. At section 10 of Example 6 of this appendix, the agency is recommending the institution of sanitary zones. This proposed control procedure is the same as that proposed in the cooked, ready-to-eat section of this document (Appendix A, section 9). A full discussion of the control procedure is provided in section VII.J.6 of the preamble to this document. To further ensure the safety of the product during distribution and storage, FDA is considering adopting specific package labeling requirements for smoked and smoke-flavored fish products to reduce the opportunity of temperature abuse of the finished product. The agency requests comments on whether it should require that the label of all shipping containers and retail packages state that the product is perishable, and, more specifically, that the product must be kept refrigerated. FDA tentatively finds that such labeling is extremely important to ensuring the safe handling of these products, and, therefore, it considers it likely that it will require this labeling in the final rule. The agency requests comment on whether it should do so. The agency also requests comment on whether, if it decides to require such a label statement, the statement should specify a temperature at which the product should be refrigerated (e.g. 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below). The agency is also considering requiring that the label of all frozen smoked products state that the product must remain frozen, that if the product needs to be thawed, it must be thawed at refrigerated temperatures, and that the product must not be refrozen. FDA has authority to adopt these labeling requirements under sections 201(n), 403(a), and 701(a) of the act because these sections require the inclusion of facts on the food label that are material with respect to consequences that may result from use of the product under conditions of use prescribed in the label or that are otherwise customary or usual. The agency requests comments on whether it is necessary to do so.
