FR940617-0-00126 FR940617-0-00026 EPA is implementing the proposed restrictions on the importation of nonconforming nonroad engines. Today's action will permit independent commercial importers (ICIs) who hold valid certificates of conformity issued by EPA to import nonconforming nonroad engines. Under this program, the ICI must certify the engine to applicable U.S. regulations via the certification process before an engine is imported. ICIs will be responsible for assuring that subsequent to importation, the nonroad engines are properly modified and/or tested to comply with EPA's emission and other requirements over their useful lives. The ICIs will also be responsible for recalls, maintenance instructions, emission warranties, engine emission labeling, and maintaining adequate records in the same manner as an engine manufacturer. Today's action also provides certain exceptions to the restrictions on importing nonconforming nonroad engines. These exceptions are similar to the existing regulations on importing nonconforming motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines and include exemptions for repairs and alterations, testing, precertification, display, national security, hardship, nonroad engines greater than 20 original production years old, and certain nonroad engines proven to be identical, in all material respects, to their corresponding U.S. versions. These exceptions also include the exclusion of nonconforming engines used solely for competition. 6. In-Use Enforcement EPA is adopting the proposed regulations subjecting nonroad engine manufacturers to the requirements of section 207 of the CAA. Under the adopted regulations EPA has the authority to recall engines which do not comply with emission standards in-use. As proposed, the in-use testing liability period will be up to seven years or 6,000 hours, which ever occurs first. The actual repair period for which a manufacturer must remedy nonconformities would not be limited by actual years or hours, thus any resulting recall will apply to all engines of the recall family, regardless of the years or hours of an individual engine. In-use compliance with emission standards will be determined based on test results using the same test procedure as that used in certification. EPA is modeling its large nonroad CI engine recall program after section 207 of the CAA and therefore the Administrator may require manufacturers to recall applicable engines if a substantial number of properly maintained and used engines are found to be out of conformity with the regulations issued under section 213 of the CAA. 7. Defect Reporting EPA is adopting the proposed emission defect reporting regulations which require manufacturers to report to EPA emission-related defects that affect a given class or category of engines. The emission defect reporting regulations also specify procedural and reporting requirements for manufacturers that initiate voluntary emission recalls. 8. Exemptions EPA is adopting the proposed regulations which allow manufacturers and other persons, where appropriate, to request exemptions from regulation for certain purposes. These purposes include testing, display, national security, export, and for manufacturer-owned and precertification nonroad engines. VI. Public Participation and Discussion of Comments EPA held a public hearing on June 25, 1993 at which testimony was given by 14 individuals, including representatives from equipment and engine manufacturers and states. The public comment period was open until July 27, 1993. EPA received over 80 written comments during this time. In addition, meetings were requested by two organizations and held during the comment period. As mentioned previously, the public comment period was reopened from October 4, 1993 through October 25, 1993. During this period, EPA received additional comments which were given further consideration in developing the final rule. The discussion of major comments and EPA's responses are divided into general categories. More detailed Agency responses to comments may be found in the ``Response to Comments'' document in the docket for this rulemaking. In addition, a related rule concerning preemption of state nonroad regulations was proposed at 56 FR 45866, September 6, 1991. A public hearing was conducted on September 20, 1991. Many industries presented comments through an association or individually. Represented at the hearing and in written comments are the following: engine manufacturers; manufacturers and dealers of various types of equipment including agricultural, construction, mining, utility, and lawn and garden; manufacturers of emission controls; railroads; manufacturers of industrial trucks; the San Diego Country Air Pollution Control District; and the State of California. EPA considered these comments in promulgating this final rule. A. Conversion of Standards and Measures to Metric Units EPA's proposed regulation presented standards and measures in non-metric units, with metric units given parenthetically. Comments were received requesting that, for purposes of harmonization with Europe, EPA present all standards and measures in metric units, forgoing the non-metric units altogether. EPA has the authority to do so under the Metric Conversion Act of 1975 and Executive Order of July 25, 1991. Therefore, EPA is adopting metric units in the final rule.
