FR940505-1-00447 FR940505-1-00012 (4) Reporting. Fleet operators which control 10 or more vehicles which operate at any time in the South Coast Air Basin Nonattainment Area for Ozone as defined in 40 CFR 81.305 shall submit the following information to the Administrator by January 1 of each year beginning January 1999: (i) Total number of vehicles operated in the covered area; (ii) Numbers of vehicles by class (e.g., LDV, LDT) and fueling characteristics (e.g., centrally fueled) acquired during the previous calendar year; (iii) Numbers of vehicles by class and fueling characteristics expected to be acquired in the coming calendar year; (iv) Numbers of enhanced ILEVs purchased during the previous calendar year and expected during the coming calendar year; (v) Vehicle Information Numbers (VINs) and engine family designations (see 40 CFR 86.092&hyph;24) for each of the vehicles reported in paragraphs (g)(4)(ii) through (iv) of this section. (vi) The identity of the responsible party which has control of vehicle acquisition decisions; and (vii) The covered fleet operator's calculated minimum purchase requirement from paragraph (g)(2) of this section. (5) Violations. The following shall be considered violations of the enhanced ILEV fleet program: (i) Failure to submit required data to the Administrator; (ii) Failure to meet the appropriate purchase requirements; or (iii) Counterfeiting or commerce in counterfeit enhanced ILEV purchase credit documents. (6) Penalties. Any person which the Administrator finds in violation of the provisions of paragraph (g)(4)(v) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $25,000. ยง52.2963 Enhanced inspection/maintenance program. (a) Applicability of 40 CFR part 51, subpart S. For the purposes of this section, except as otherwise provided, the definitions and requirements of 40 CFR part 51, subpart S (Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements) apply. (b) Additional definitions. Centralized inspection network means a network of vehicle inspection facilities owned and operated by a single, identifiable entity, such as a state or other governmental entity, or an agreed upon agent of a state or other governmental entity. Certificate of compliance means a serially numbered instrument (either paper-based or electronic) indicating that a vehicle has met the requirements of this section, either by passing all applicable emission tests, or by being granted a waiver (see ``Waiver'' in paragraph (b) of this section. Certified emission inspector means a person who has successfully completed all necessary training and who is certified by the Administrator or his/her designee as qualified to perform emission inspections on subject vehicles. Such certification must be periodically renewed, and is subject to suspension and permanent revocation as a result of violating the requirements of this section. Emission inspection means the full range of emission-related inspections a vehicle is subject to as a result of participating in an I/M program, including the sampling and analysis of tailpipe exhaust, purge and pressure testing of the evaporative system, and any visual inspections for the presence and proper connection of specific emission control devices. Emission inspection test report means an automated report of a vehicle's emission inspection results, coded to a specific vehicle through the use of unambiguous vehicle identifiers, such as the license plate number and vehicle identification number (VIN). The emission inspection test report is a separate document and distinguished from the certificate of compliance by virtue of the fact that a test report shall not be accepted as valid for registration purposes.
