FR940711-2-00043 FR940711-2-00025 Western Area Power Administration Revised Provo River Project Marketing Proposal AGENCY: Western Area Power Administration, DOE. ACTION: Revised Provo River Project marketing proposal summary. SUMMARY: In December 1993, Western Area Power Administration (Western) proposed to change the way it markets power and energy produced by the Provo River Project (PRP) and to include it as one of the Salt Lake City Area/Integrated Projects (Integrated Projects). During the comment period on the proposal, comments were received which indicated that customers of Western's Integrated Projects would not support inclusion of the PRP in the Integrated Projects. Western has decided to modify its original proposal to market this power and energy independent of the Integrated Projects. Capacity and energy produced by the PRP will be allocated to those members of Intermountain Consumers Power Association (ICPA) and Utah Municipal Power Agency (UMPA) located in Utah and Wasatch Counties in Utah. ICPA and UMPA are hereafter referred to as potential contractors. Power would be allocated to these potential contractors proportional to their load. Separate power sales contracts would be offered to the potential contractors. Potential contractors would pay all of the annual powerplant expenses of the PRP including an amount to assist the Provo River Water Users Association (Water Users) repayment of the United States original investment in the PRP. In return, potential contractors would receive all of the marketable output of the PRP. DATES: Comments on Western's revised proposal must be received on or before August 10, 1994. A similar notice appears in today's Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. John Harrington, Acting Area Manager, Salt Lake City Area Office, Western Area Power Administration, P.O. Box 11606, Salt Lake City, UT 84147&hyph;0606, (801) 524&hyph;5497, or Mr. Edmond Chang, Assistant Area Manager for Power Marketing, Salt Lake City Area Office, Western Area Power Administration, P.O. Box 11606, Salt Lake City, UT 84147&hyph;0606, (801) 524&hyph;5493 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background In a Federal Register notice dated December 13, 1993 (58 FR 65180&hyph;65181), Western proposed to include the PRP with the Integrated Projects and to market the power and energy produced by the PRP to members of ICPA and UMPA within a marketing area comprised of Utah and Wasatch Counties, Utah. Western accepted comments on its proposal until January 12, 1994. A public information/comment/scoping meeting was held in Spanish Fork, Utah, on January 4, 1994. As a result of comments received, at both the meeting and in writing, Western is revising its proposed marketing plan for the PRP. Marketing Issues One of the commentors, the Colorado River Energy Distributor's Association (CREDA), an organization of many Integrated Projects customers, commented that CREDA believes ``the same principles commonly used in other Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) water projects having power generation features should be applied to the extent lawful in the instance of PRP.'' Western's review of the appropriate laws shows that construction of the PRP and the methods of repaying the United States for its investment in the project were first established in 1936, under Contract No. Ilr-874 dated June 27, 1936 (1936 Contract). The 1936 Contract states that surplus revenue from the sale of surplus water and power shall be applied to the repayment obligation of the Water Users. No distinction was made in the contract that this payment was to be for irrigation investment or for investment beyond the irrigators' ability to pay as is common in other Reclamation projects. In fact, from the beginning, almost three-fourths of the water developed by the project was for municipal and industrial use. Western has agreed to pay from power revenues $1.623 million toward the Water Users' obligation by 2008. Of this amount, $191,587 has been paid. CREDA also stated that it did not believe Western had adequately supported the need to integrate the projects. When Western established the Integrated Projects in 1986, it intended to include the Colorado River Storage Project (CRSP), the Collbran Project, the Rio Grande Project, and the PRP. The PRP was not included because of uncertainty associated with commitments to the Water Users. Western's intent was to bring PRP into the Integrated Projects on an equal basis with the rest of the projects. Western has agreed that it is not necessary to include the PRP in the Integrated Projects.
