FR940830-0-00093 FR940830-0-00013 (j) ACC Amendment. After HUD approval of each year's Annual Submission, HUD and the IHA shall enter into an ACC amendment to obtain modernization funds. The ACC amendment shall require low-income use of housing for not less than 20 years from the date of the ACC amendment (subject to sale of homeownership units in accordance with the terms of the ACC). (k) Declaration of Trust. As HUD may require, the IHA shall execute and file for record a Declaration of Trust as provided under the ACC to protect the rights and interests of HUD throughout the 20-year period during which the IHA is obligated to operate its developments in accordance with the ACC, the Act, and HUD regulations and requirements. A Declaration of Trust is not required for Mutual Help units. (Information collections requirements have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577&hyph;0157) 11. Section 905.681 is amended by revising paragraph (a) introductory text and paragraph (b), to read as follows: §905.681 Conduct of modernization activities. (a) Initiation of activities. After HUD has approved a Five-Year Action Plan and entered into an ACC amendment with the IHA, the IHA shall undertake in a timely, efficient and economical manner, the modernization activities and expenditures set forth in its approved Annual Statement or substitute work categories from within the approved Five-Year Action Plan, subject to the following requirements: * * * * * (b) Fund requisitions. To request modernization funds against the approved Annual Statement for year one, the IHA shall comply with requirements prescribed by HUD. * * * * * 12. Section 905.684 is amended by revising the section heading and paragraphs (a) and (b)(2); by removing paragraph (b)(3); by redesignating paragraphs (b)(4) through (b)(7) as paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(6), respectively; and by revising newly redesignated paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(6), to read as follows: §905.684 IHA Performance and Evaluation Report. (a) Submission. For any FFY in which an IHA has received assistance under this subpart, the IHA shall submit a Performance and Evaluation Report, in a form and at a time to be prescribed by HUD, describing its use of assistance in accordance with the approved Annual Statement. The IHA shall make reasonable efforts to notify residents and officials of the appropriate governing body of the availability of the draft report, make copies available to residents in the development office, and provide residents with at least 30 calendar days in which to comment on the report. (b) *␣*␣* (2) An explanation of how the IHA has used the CGP funds to address the needs identified in its Comprehensive Plan and to carry out the activities identified in its approved Five-Year Action Plan, and shall specifically address: (i) Any funds used for emergency needs not set forth in its Five-Year Action Plan; and (ii) Any changes to the Annual Statement under §905.678(h); * * * * * (4) The current status of the IHA's obligations and expenditures and specifying how the IHA is performing with respect to its implementation schedules, and an explanation of any necessary revision to the planned target dates; * * * * * (6) A resolution by the IHA Board of Commissioners approving the Performance and Evaluation Report and containing a certification that the IHA has made reasonable efforts to notify residents in the development(s) and local government officials of the opportunity to review the draft report and to comment on it before its submission to HUD, and that copies of the report were provided to residents in the development office and to local government officials, or furnished upon their request. 13. Section 905.687 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(2)(i)(A), and (a)(3)(ii); by adding a new paragraph (a)(3)(iii); by revising paragraph (e) (2) and (4); by redesignating (e)(7) to read paragraph (e)(8); and by adding a new paragraph (e)(7), to read as follows:
