FR940114-1-00087 FR940114-1-00018 By allowing a filing of a claim on the date ``collection of the loan is stayed''_the date of the filing of the petition by the borrower, or, in a Chapter 13 case, by the endorser or the borrower_rather than the date a borrower receives a discharge, the statute might be read to permit claims to be submitted if an endorser files, rather than, as under prior law, only in borrower bankruptcies. Nothing in the amendments suggested that such a result was intended, and the proposed regulations would permit the submission of a bankruptcy claim only in the case of a borrower bankruptcy. The proposed regulations would continue to require lenders to file proofs of claim in the bankruptcy proceeding, unless the guaranty agency directs otherwise or the holder is officially notified by the court that no assets are available for distribution. If the guaranty agency later receives notice that assets have become available, the guarantor must file a proof of claim at that point. Participants in the negotiated rulemaking proceedings noted that a growing number of discharges were being received by borrowers who file sequential bankruptcy petitions, particularly those who first file for relief in Chapter 13. During the pendency of the prior bankruptcy case, loans in repayment less than seven years are non-dischargeable without proof of undue hardship, yet cannot be enforced by the holder according to their original terms; little or nothing may be paid on those loans during the proceeding. Rather than attempting to show that repayment would constitute an undue hardship, or negotiating an income-sensitive repayment arrangement with the holder, borrowers who complete their Chapter 13 proceeding may then file a second bankruptcy petition, making sure that the second is filed more than seven years after the loan entered repayment. The Bankruptcy Code excludes the period of ``any applicable suspension of the repayment period'' from the seven-year period during which loans are dischargeable only for undue hardship. 11 U.S.C. 523(a)(8)(A). If the term ``suspension of the repayment period'' is read, as these borrowers contend, to include only forbearance or deferments granted by the holder of the loan, the reality of the forbearance imposed by virtue of the automatic stay in the prior bankruptcy_which barred enforcement of the loan according to its terms during the pendency of the bankruptcy_would be ignored, and borrowers who have neither made the required seven-year attempt to repay nor demonstrated undue hardship would obtain a discharge in the second bankruptcy. The Secretary does not consider this interpretation of the statute to be consistent with its purpose, and the only court that has addressed this precise issue has concluded that the period during which enforcement of a loan is stayed in a prior bankruptcy is an ``applicable suspension of the repayment period'' for purposes of computing the seven-year period for a subsequent bankruptcy. In re Saburah, 136 B.R. 246, 254 (Bankr. C.D. Cal. 1992). In light of the above discussion, the Secretary proposes to interpret the term ``applicable suspension of the repayment period'' to include periods during which the automatic stay in a bankruptcy proceeding is in effect. The Secretary further recognizes that a borrower who in fact meets his or her obligation under the original repayment agreement during the bankruptcy has acted in a manner consistent with the intent of the statute, and this proposed interpretation would not regard the period of the first bankruptcy as a period of suspension of repayment for the borrower. The death and bankruptcy requirements in proposed ยง682.402 are taken directly from the HEA. There is no change to the current disability cancellation. Closed School Cancellations The closed school cancellation provision is taken, in large part, directly from the mandates of the HEA, although the proposed regulations reflect some areas of necessary interpretation. The discussion that follows is grouped into three major areas where the Secretary and the negotiators had discretion to interpret the statutory closed school cancellation provision: 1. Student Withdrawal Prior to the Closing of the School There was unanimous agreement among the negotiators and the Secretary that it would be inequitable to strictly limit a closed school cancellation to only those students who were in attendance at the school on the date that the school officially closed. As discussed earlier, conditions at the school immediately preceding its closing may have caused a deterioration in the educational program that would have prompted a student to withdraw. Such a student should not lose entitlement to a loan cancellation because of his or her prescience or inability to tolerate the school's deterioration. To balance the interests of students and the federal taxpayers (who ultimately must pay the cost of each cancelled loan), the Secretary proposes to limit this withdrawal period to not more than 90 days prior to the date the school closed. 2. Student Use of Teach-out or Transfer of Academic Credits As discussed earlier, the Secretary does not believe that a student who completed the educational program for which the loan was intended, even though the completion occurred through a teach-out at another school or by the student's transfer of academic credits earned at the closed school, should be able to avoid repaying that loan. The student is not required to transfer those credits or make use of a teach-out opportunity, but if the student chooses to do so, then the Secretary believes that, because the student was able to complete the educational program, it would be unfair to require the Federal taxpayer to pay the student's loan. 3. Student Statement Requirement The Secretary believes that a statement made by the student under penalty of perjury demonstrating eligibility for a closed school discharge should be obtained from the student to assist the Secretary or the Secretary's designees in pursuing claims against the closed school. Without this statement, the Secretary's ability to protect the interests of the Federal taxpayer would be frustrated.
