FR941219-2-00157 FR941219-2-00081 II. Comments In March 1994, MSRB requested comment on a draft of the amendment to Rule G&hyph;34 (``Draft Amendment''). The Draft Amendment included exemptions for issues not meeting the criteria set by depositories for eligibility and for new issues under $1 million in par value. MSRB received eleven comment letters in response to the draft amendments. 6 The comments generally supported the MSRB's proposal. Five commenters felt that the proposed rule change could facilitate T+3 settlement. 7 Two commenters noted that settlement through a depository was more efficient and provided greater cost savings than settlement with physical certificates. 8 Some commenters, however, suggested modifications to the draft amendments. In response to these comments, the MSRB amended their proposal prior to filing the proposed rule change with the Commission. 9 6 Comment letters are set forth supra note 3. 7 Dean Witter letter, Cashiers letter, NYCH letter, PSA letter, and SIA letter. 8 Cashiers letter and Goldman letter. 9 The MSRB amended the proposed rule to require that the application to a depository be made within one business day of the date of sale of the issue instead of ten days prior to closing. The MSRB also added the exemption for issues maturing in sixty days or less. A. Exemption Until July 1, 1996, for Issues Under $1 Million in Par Value The Draft Amendment included exemptive language for issues under $1 million in par value. 10 Nine commenters urged the MSRB to include issues under $1 million in par value within the scope of the rule with most citing the need for increased settlement efficiencies offered by book-entry when T+3 becomes effective. 11 Two commenters noted that ultimately all issues should be included within the scope of the rule but suggested a temporary exemption for small issues because of their belief that some underwriters of small issues may need time to adjust their procedures for book-entry distribution. 12 Only the Summers letter stated that a permanent exemption for small issues should be included. In response to these comments, the MSRB amended its proposal prior to filing with the Commission to include issues under $1 million in par value but to provide a temporary exemption for such issues until July 1, 1996. 13 10 This exemption was included because some dealers believed physical settlements should be permissible for small issues with limited distribution. 11 A.G. Edwards letter, Cashiers letter, Dean Witter letter, Fleet letter, Goldman letter, NYCH letter, PSA letter, RMOA letters, and SIA letter. 12 Dean Witter and NYCH letters. 13 Four commenters suggested that a reduction in depository application fees would reduce the need for an exemption for small issues. A.G. Edwards letter, RMOA letters, Summers letter, and NYCH letter.
