FR940203-2-00005 FR940203-2-00004 International Trade Administration [A&hyph;351&hyph;605] Frozen Concentrated Orange Juice From Brazil; Preliminary Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review and Intent To Revoke Order in Part AGENCY: International Trade Administration, Import Administration, Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice of preliminary results of antidumping duty administrative review and intent to revoke in part. SUMMARY: In response to timely requests for an administrative review by the respondents, Branco Peres Citrus (Branco Peres), Citropectina, S.A., and Frutropic, S.A., the Department of Commerce (the Department) is conducting an administrative review of the antidumping duty order on frozen concentrated orange juice (FCOJ) from Brazil. The review covers three manufacturers/exporters of this merchandise to the United States and the period May 1, 1991 through April 30, 1992. We preliminarily determine the dumping margins for Branco Peres, Citropectina, and Frutropic to be zero or de minimis during this period. The Department intends to revoke the antidumping duty order with respect to Frutropic because we have reason to believe that Frutropic has sold the subject merchandise at not less than foreign market value for a period of at least three consecutive years and is not likely to sell the subject merchandise at less than foreign market value in the future. We invite interested parties to comment on these preliminary results. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Mason or Rick Herring, Office of Countervailing Compliance, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230; telephone: (202) 482&hyph;2786. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On May 5, 1987, the Department published in the Federal Register an antidumping duty order on frozen concentrated orange juice (FCOJ) from Brazil (52 FR 16426). On May 31, 1992, pursuant to the Department's notice of ``Opportunity to Request Administrative Review'' (57 FR 19412) of the antidumping duty order on FCOJ from Brazil for the period May 1, 1991 through April 30, 1992, Branco Peres, Citropectina, and Frutropic requested an administrative review for this period. Accordingly, the Department initiated this administrative review on June 18, 1992 (57 FR 27212). In addition, Frutropic submitted a timely request for revocation of the antidumping duty order, accompanied by the certification required by ยง353.25(b)(1) of the Department's regulations. The Department has now conducted this review in accordance with section 751(a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act). Scope of Review Imports covered by the administrative review are shipments of frozen concentrated orange juice (FCOJ) from Brazil. The merchandise is currently classifiable under item 2009.11.00 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS). The HTS item number is provided for convenience and Customs purposes. The written description remains dispositive. The review covers three manufacturers/exporters of the subject merchandise to the United States for the period May 1, 1991 through April 31, 1992: Branco Peres, Citropectina, and Frutropic. United States Price In calculating the United States price, we used both purchase price and exporter's sales price (ESP) as defined in section 772 of the Tariff Act. Purchase price was used for those sales to the United States which were made prior to importation, while ESP was used for those sales which were made after importation. Purchase price was based on the packed f.o.b. price to unrelated purchasers in the United States. For purchase price sales, where applicable, we made deductions for foreign inland freight, Brazilian port charges, export taxes, commissions, packing, and credit expenses. ESP was based on the packed delivered price to the first unrelated purchaser in the United States. For ESP sales, we made deductions for brokerage and handling expenses, foreign inland freight, ocean freight and marine insurance, U.S. duty, U.S. Customs' fees and harbor maintenance fees, U.S. inland freight and insurance, packing, commissions, discounts, rebates, credit expenses and indirect selling expenses. No other adjustments were claimed or allowed. Foreign Market Value In calculating foreign market value (FMV), the Department based FMV on third country f.o.b. prices for all respondents, in accordance with section 773 of the Act. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, marine insurance, foreign and brokerage and handling, and export taxes. Where applicable, we deducted foreign packing expenses and added U.S. packing to third country price (packing costs were not incurred on bulk sales). We adjusted FMV, where applicable, for differences in credit expenses, and post-sale warehousing expenses. In the case of comparisons to ESP sales, we made an adjustment for indirect selling expenses, limited by the amount of indirect selling expenses incurred in the United States. No other adjustments were claimed or allowed.
