FR940812-2-00192 FR940812-2-00068 5. Operational Leakage Limits 5.a␣The operational leakage limit should be reduced to 150 gallons per day (gpd) through each steam generator. 5.b␣Licensees should review their leakage monitoring measures to ensure that should a significant leak be experienced in service, it will be detected and the plant shut down in a timely manner to reduce the likelihood of a potential rupture. Specifically, the effectiveness of these procedures for ensuring the timely detection, trending, and response to rapidly increasing leaks should be assessed. This should include consideration of the appropriateness of alarm set points on the primary-to-secondary leakage detection instrumentation and the various criteria for operator actions in response to detected leakage. 5.c␣Steam generator tubes with known leaks should be repaired prior to returning the steam generators to service following a steam generator inspection outage. 6. Reporting Requirements 6.a␣Threshold Criteria for Requiring Prior Staff Approval To Continue With Voltage-Based Criteria This guidance allows licensees to implement the voltage-based repair criteria on a continuing basis after the NRC staff has approved the initial TS amendment. However, there are several situations for which the NRC staff must receive prior notification before a licensee can continue with the implemtation of the voltage-based repair criteria: 6.a.1␣If the actual measured voltage distribution would have resulted in an estimated leakage during the previous operating cycle greater than the leakage limit (determined from the licensing basis calculation), then the licensee should notify the NRC of this occurrence and provide an assessment of its significance prior to returning the steam generators to service. 6.a.2␣If (1) indications are identified that extend beyond the confines of the TSP or (2) indications are identified that appear to be circumferential in nature, then the NRC staff should be notified prior to returning the steam generators to service. 6.a.3␣If the calculated conditional probability of burst based on the projected EOC voltage distribution exceeds 1X10 -2 , licensees should notify NRC and provide an assessment of the significance of this occurrence prior to returning the steam generators to service. This assessment should address the safety significance of the calculated conditional probability. 6.b␣Information To Be Provided Following Each Restart The following information should be submitted to the NRC staff within 90 days of each restart following a steam generator inspection: (a) The results of metallurgical examinations performed for tube intersections removed from the steam generator. (b) The following distributions should be provided in both tabular and graphical form. This information is to enable the staff to assess the effectiveness of the methodology, determine whether the degradation is changing significantly, determine whether the data supports higher voltage repair limits, and to perform confirmatory calculations: (i) EOC voltage distribution_all indications found during the inspection regardless of MRPC confirmation (ii) Cycle voltage growth rate distribution (i.e., from BOC to EOC) (iii) Voltage distribution for EOC repaired indications_distribution of indications presented in (i) above that were repaired (i.e., plugged or sleeved) (iv) Voltage distribution for indications left in service at the beginning of the next operating cycle regardless of MRPC confirmation_obtained from (i) and (iii) above (v) Voltage distribution for indications left in service at the beginning of the next operating cycle that were confirmed by MRPC to be crack-like or not MRPC inspected (vi) Non-destructive examination uncertainty distribution used in predicting the EOC (for the next cycle of operation) voltage distribution (c) The results of the tube integrity evaluation described in Section 2. Note that these calculations must be completed prior to restart to ensure that an adequate number of tubes have been repaired to meet the leakage limit and ensure continued tube integrity. 7. References 1. Letter dated April 22, 1994, to Jack Strosnider, NRC, from David A. Steininger, EPRI, ``Exclusion of Data from Alternate Repair Criteria (ARC) Databases Associated with 7/8 inch Tubing Exhibiting ODSCC''. 2. Letter dated June 9, 1994, to Brian Sheron, NRC, from David J. Modeen, Nuclear Energy Institute. 3. EPRI TR&hyph;100407, Revision 1, Draft Report August 1993, ``PWR Steam Generator Tube Repair Limits-Technical Support Document for Outside Diameter Stress Corrosion Cracking at the Tube Support Plates''. 4. WCAP&hyph;12985, Revision 1. ``Kewaunee Steam Generator Tube Plugging Criteria for ODSCC at Tube Support Plates,'' Westinghouse Electric Corporation, January 1993, Westinghouse Proprietary Class 2. 5. WCAP&hyph;13522, ``V.C. Summer Steam Generator Tube Plugging Criteria for Indications at Tube Support Plates,'' Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Westinghouse Proprietary Class 2. 6. J.P. Adams and C.L. Atwood, ``The Iodine Spike Release Rate During a Steam Generator Tube Rupture,'' Vol. 94, pg. 361, (1991).
