FR940318-0-00199 FR940318-0-00023 (5) Other chlorinated solvents. Other chlorinated solvents such as perchloroethylene, trichloroethylene, and methylene chloride can be used to replace CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;113, and MCF in solvent applications in aerosol and pressurized containers. These chlorinated solvents are extremely effective and can dissolve compounds which are difficult to dissolve in other solvents, such as fluorinated polymers used in water and oil repellants. However, due to toxicity concerns associated with these substances, their use is likely to be limited, especially in products sold to the general public or in products used frequently by workers. In addition, pesticide aerosols formulated with these chlorinated solvents must adhere to applicable requirements under FIFRA. Because they are strong solvents and nonflammable, however, chlorinated solvents are promising substitutes in cleaning applications for electronic equipment or electric motors where safeguards could protect workers from the potentially toxic fumes. These compounds are readily available from chemical distributors at prices comparable to those for MCF. (6) Water-based formulations. Water-based formulations provide a replacement for the use of CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;113, and MCF as solvents in aerosols and pressurized dispensers. These reformulated products usually contain new components/active ingredients that are water soluble. The overall function of the reformulated product remains the same, but the product's substituents are changed. Most formulations are nonflammable, yet may be difficult to use around sources of electricity because they may short out electrical equipment. Such products may also have short shelf-lives because the active ingredient may decompose in an aqueous environment. Also, these products when sprayed do not evaporate quickly, resulting in product accumulation. This may create problems in certain applications, such as where the accumulation of a water-based product contributes to rust or corrosion. The possibility of reformulating products is product-specific, depending on the feasibility of finding active ingredients that are water soluble. (7) Monochlorotoluene/benzotrifluorides. Monochlorotoluenes and benzotrifluorides are of commercial interest as solvent substitutes for aerosols. These compounds can be used either in isolation or in various mixtures, depending on desired chemical properties. The Agency has not yet completed its review of these formulations, which will be included in the next SNAP update. (8) HFC&hyph;4310. HFC&hyph;4310mee will soon be commercially available as a solvent cleaning agent and may be useful in aerosol products. The Agency has not completed review of preliminary data on this chemical. This chemical will be undergoing review under the Premanufacture Notice program of the Toxic substances Control Act. Other HFCs are also currently in development for solvent usage, although their composition is still proprietary. (9) Perfluorocarbons (C6F14). The Agency recently received a request to evaluate the perfluorocarbon C 6 F 14 as a substitute solvent in aerosols. While this agent has been reviewed as a substitute for use in solvent cleaning, the Agency has not completed review in this sector. 3. Comment Response Public comments on the aerosols decisions focused principally on technical issues, such as the flammability of various propellants or the length of hydrocarbons used as propellants. Several commenters noted that chlorinated solvents may be appropriate for use in consumer products where a nonflammable aerosol is necessary, such as for brake cleaners. The Agency recognizes this as a valid concern and has amended the comment made in the Notice of Proposed Rule-Making that stated that chlorinated solvents are not suitable for consumer applications. However, EPA still encourages manufacturers to formulate products with solvents of lower toxicity, where possible. A number of commenters requested clarification of the relationship between the section 612 SNAP program and the section 610 nonessential use ban. The Agency has added clarification to the relevant discussion of listing decisions. 4. Listing Decisions a. Acceptable Substitutes. (1) Propellants. (a) Saturated light hydrocarbons (C3&hyph;C6). Saturated light hydrocarbons (C3&hyph;C6) are acceptable substitutes for CFC&hyph;11, HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;142b as propellants in the aerosols sector. These hydrocarbons have several environmental advantages over other substitutes. For example, they have zero ozone depletion potential, and because of their extremely short atmospheric residence times they are estimated to contribute little to global warming. Yet their reactivity contributes to formation of tropospheric ozone. However, use of VOCs is already subject to stringent regulatory controls at the federal, state, and local level, and the Agency's risk screen suggests that these controls preclude the need for additional regulation of aerosols formulated with VOCs. Saturated light hydrocarbons have a long history of use, and the increase in use due to replacement of CFCs as aerosol propellants represents a fraction of current consumption. Hydrocarbon propellants acquired industrial importance in the U.S. in the early 1950s. By 1978, when the ban on CFC propellants in the U.S. was promulgated, nearly half of all aerosol units being produced in the U.S were already using hydrocarbon propellants. This percentage grew to nearly 90 percent in 1979 as a result of the CFC ban. Most of the hydrocarbon propellants are essentially non-toxic. Very high concentrations of hydrocarbons are necessary to alter normal body functions. No temporary or permanent physiological malfunctions are produced by these chemicals; however, very high concentrations of hydrocarbons may result in asphyxiation because of lack of oxygen. ’
