FR940223-2-00199 FR940223-2-00100 (b) an individual who is under consideration for appointment as a member of a panel pursuant to Annex 1901.2 or Article 1903, 1904 or 2011, or (c) an individual who is under consideration for appointment as a member of a committee pursuant to Annex 1904.13 or Article 1905; ``member'' means (a) a member of a panel constituted pursuant to Annex 1901.2 or Article 1414, 1903, 1904, 2008 or 2011, (b) a member of an extraordinary challenge committee constituted pursuant to Annex 1904.13, or (c) a member of a special committee constituted pursuant to Article 1905; ``participant'' has the meaning assigned in the Rules of Procedure for Article 1904 Binational Panel Reviews; ``Party'' means a Party to the Agreement; ``proceeding'', unless otherwise specified, means (a) a panel review under Article 1903 or 1904, (b) an extraordinary challenge proceeding under Annex 1904.13, (c) a special committee proceeding under Article 1905, (d) a panel proceeding under Chapter 20, or (e) a proceeding in a dispute arising under Chapter 11 or 14 to which Chapter 20 applies; ``Secretariat'' means the Secretariat established pursuant to Article 2002; and ``staff'', in respect of a member, means persons under the direction and control of the member, other than assistants. B. Any reference made in this Code of Conduct to an Article, Annex or Chapter is a reference to the appropriate Article, Annex or Chapter of the Agreement. I. Responsibilities to the Process Every candidate, member and former member shall avoid impropriety and the appearance of impropriety and shall observe high standards of conduct so that the integrity and impartiality of the dispute settlement process is preserved. II. Disclosure Obligations [ Introductory Note: The governing principle of this Code of Conduct is that a candidate or member must disclose the existence of any interest, relationship or matter that is likely to affect the candidate's or member's independence or impartiality or that might reasonably create an appearance of impropriety or an apprehension of bias. An appearance of impropriety or an apprehension of bias is created where a reasonable person, with knowledge of all the relevant circumstances that a reasonable inquiry would disclose, would conclude that a candidate's or member's ability to carry out the duties with integrity, impartiality and competence is impaired. These disclosure obligations, however, should not be interpreted so that the burden of detailed disclosure makes it impractical for persons in the legal or business community to serve as members, thereby depriving the Parties and participants of the services of those who might be best qualified to serve as members. Thus, candidates and members should not be called upon to disclose interests, relationships or matters whose bearing on their role in the proceeding would be trivial. Throughout the proceeding, candidates and members have a continuing obligation to disclose interests, relationships and matters that may bear on the integrity or impartiality of the dispute settlement process. This Code of Conduct does not determine whether or under what circumstances the Parties will disqualify a candidate or member from being appointed to, or serving as a member of, a panel or committee on the basis of disclosures made. ] A. A candidate shall disclose any interest, relationship or matter that is likely to affect the candidate's independence or impartiality or that might reasonably create an appearance of impropriety or an apprehension of bias in the proceeding. To this end, a candidate shall make all reasonable efforts to become aware of any such interests, relationships and matters. The candidate shall disclose such interests, relationships and matters by completing an Initial Disclosure Statement provided by the Secretariat and sending it to the Secretariat.
