FR940803-1-00042 FR940803-1-00010 In 1989, RSPA distributed to each state pipeline safety agency a set of 10 VHS cassettes prepared by the Pipeline Safety Section of the Arizona Corporation Commission for training small gas distribution operators in that state. The cassettes can be used by operators of small distribution systems in all the states to augment the training of their employees. The cassettes present fundamental theory and practical application of gas distribution plus the basics of the Federal pipeline safety regulations. Another RSPA training aid is the ``Guidance Manual for Operators of Small Gas Systems,'' which is available (in single copy) to pipeline operators at no cost from the Transportation Safety Institute, Pipeline Safety Division, DTI&hyph;60, Post Office Box 25082, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125&hyph;5050. The manual was developed by RSPA with the assistance of state pipeline safety representatives and gas distribution trade association members. The manual has recently been revised and updated. It provides a broad overview of compliance responsibilities under parts 191, 192, and 199 of the Federal pipeline safety regulations and is designed for use by non-technically trained operator personnel working on small gas distribution systems, including master meter systems. Since the publication of the first edition in 1982, some 50,000 copies have been disseminated to gas operator personnel. Covered Functions The proposed regulations apply to personnel who perform regulated operation, maintenance, and emergency-response functions ( covered functions ) on a ``pipeline,'' as that term is defined in §§192.3 and 195.2 of the pipeline safety regulations. Additionally, the proposed regulations would apply to ``supervisory persons'' (defined in §§192.803 and 195.503, as operators, managers, supervisors, foremen, co-workers, and other personnel) who directly oversee persons performing these same covered functions. Lack of qualified personnel to perform regulated pipeline design and construction functions that are unrelated to pipeline operation, maintenance, or emergency response has not been identified as a significant safety problem. Thus, at this time, no new requirements are proposed for these areas. Nonetheless, if regulated design or construction functions are required to properly accomplish regulated operation, maintenance, or emergency-response work, then persons performing those related design or construction functions must be qualified as proposed in this notice. However, persons with pipeline expertise and registered as professional engineers in the state where the pipeline work is located are qualified for any such engineering design under the proposed requirements. Covered functions are those operation, maintenance, and emergency-response functions that are regulated by the pipeline safety regulations. However, covered functions are not limited to those under Part 192, Subpart L_Operations and Subpart M_Maintenance or Part 195, Subpart F_Operation and Maintenance. The covered functions are much broader and are generally identified as having all three of the following characterics: •Characteristic No. 1_The function is performed by persons either in direct contact, or in close association with pipelines regulated by parts 192 or 195. •Characteristic No. 2_The function performed applies to the operation or maintenance of pipelines, or the response to an emergency involving pipelines. These functions are performed on pipelines that are or have been in service, as opposed to new pipelines that have not yet been readied for service. Operating functions include, among other things, the control of pressure, movement, or storage of gas under part 192 and hazardous liquids or carbon dioxide under part 195. Maintenance functions keep a pipeline in proper condition or preserve a pipeline for future use. They include, among other things, functions involved in inspection, protection, repair, replacement, and integrity testing. Emergency-response functions are steps an operator takes to recognize emergency conditions; control or mitigate their harmful effects to persons, property, or the environment; and then return the pipeline to normal operating conditions. •Characteristic No. 3_The function is regulated by a provision contained in part 192 or 195. A function is regulated in instances where a provision: (1) contains a rule that governs the conduct of the function, or (2) requires that the function be done according to a plan or procedure. Proposed Subparts Because the training and testing of pipeline personnel may be an expanding requirement, the qualification regulations under this proposal would be placed in new subpart N of part 192 and new subpart G of part 195. The current §195.403 (Training) would be deleted. Under the proposed §§192.805(a) and 195.505(a), operators would have to assure that personnel (both experienced and inexperienced) who perform, or directly oversee persons performing, regulated operation, maintenance, or emergency-response functions (covered functions) have been qualified by completion of all the requirements for qualification. Persons qualified to perform certain covered functions may need additional training and testing before performing other covered functions to which they are upgraded, promoted, or transferred. The personnel affected by this proposal may be operators themselves; regular, part-time, or temporary employees of the operator; independent contractors and subcontractors engaged by the operator; and regular, part-time, or temporary employees of contractors and subcontractors. Under §§192.805(b) and 195.505(b), functions required to be performed by qualified persons may (except for the specified functions) also be performed by persons without such qualification if, while performing the function, those persons are accompanied and directed by a qualified supervisory person. This provision is intended to permit on-the-job training of persons not yet qualified. The supervisory person involved would not only have to directly oversee performance of the covered function, but accompany and direct the trainee (or unqualified person) while he or she performs the function. Moreover, supervisory persons directly overseeing qualified persons performing covered functions would, themselves, be required to be qualified or required to be qualified administratively for those covered functions as required in §§192.805(c) and 195.505(c). The term ``qualified administratively'' is defined in §§192.803 and 195.503.
