FR940812-0-00064 FR940812-0-00019 ยง2541.110 State plans. (a) Scope. The statutes for some programs require States to submit plans before receiving grants. Under regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 197), ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' States are allowed to simplify, consolidate and substitute plans. This section contains additional provisions for plans that are subject to regulations implementing the Executive order. (b) Requirements. A State need meet only Federal administrative or programmatic requirements for a plan that are in statutes or codified regulations. (c) Assurances. In each plan the State will include an assurance that the State shall comply with all applicable Federal statutes and regulations in effect with respect to the periods for which it receives grant funding. For this assurance and other assurances required in the plan, the State may: (1) Cite by number the statutory or regulatory provisions requiring the assurances and affirm that it gives the assurances required by those provisions; (2) Repeat the assurance language in the statutes or regulations; or (3) Develop its own language to the extent permitted by law. (d) Amendments. A State will amend a plan whenever necessary to reflect: New or revised Federal statutes or regulations; or a material change in any State law, organization, policy, or State agency operation. The State will obtain approval for the amendment and its effective date but need submit for approval only the amended portions of the plan. ยง2541.120 Special grant or subgrant conditions for ``high-risk'' grantees. (a) A grantee or subgrantee may be considered ``high risk'' if an awarding agency determines that a grantee or subgrantee: (1) Has a history of unsatisfactory performance; or (2) Is not financially stable; or (3) Has a management system which does not meet the management standards set forth in this part; or (4) Has not conformed to terms and conditions of previous awards; or (5) Is otherwise not responsible; and if the awarding agency determines that an award will be made, special conditions and/or restrictions shall correspond to the high risk condition and shall be included in the award. (b) Special conditions or restrictions may include: (1) Payment on a reimbursement basis; (2) Withholding authority to proceed to the next phase until receipt of evidence of acceptable performance within a given funding period; (3) Requiring additional, more detailed financial reports; (4) Additional project monitoring; (5) Requiring the grantee or subgrantee to obtain technical or management assistance; or (6) Establishing additional prior approvals. (c) If an awarding agency decides to impose such conditions, the awarding official will notify the grantee or subgrantee as early as possible, in writing, of: (1) The nature of the special conditions/restrictions; (2) The reason(s) for imposing them; (3) The corrective actions which must be taken before they will be removed and the time allowed for completing the corrective actions; and (4) The method of requesting reconsideration of the conditions/restrictions imposed.
