FR941230-1-00020 FR941230-1-00004 Q. Section 1.150&hyph;1␣General Definitions for Purposes of All Tax-Exempt Bond Rules The proposed regulations revise the existing definition of issue that applies for all purposes of sections 103 and 141 through 150 to clarify the circumstances under which taxable and tax-exempt bonds are treated as part of a single issue. R. Section 1.1394&hyph;1␣Enterprise Zone Facility Bonds 1. In general. The proposed regulations provide guidance on certain aspects of the provisions of section 1394, relating to enterprise zone facility bonds. 2. Limit on amount of bonds. Guidance is provided on the application of section 1394(c), which contains a $3 million and a $20 million limitation on the amount of outstanding tax-exempt enterprise zone facility bonds. These limitations are applied on the basis of the issue price of an issue. The proposed regulations also provide that in applying these limitations, the lender in a loans-to-lenders program may be disregarded. 3. Good faith compliance. Under the proposed regulations, an issue is treated as satisfying certain of the requirements of section 1394 if the issuer and each principal user in good faith attempt to meet those requirements throughout the term of the issue, and any failure to comply with these requirements is corrected within a reasonable period after the failure is first discovered. The proposed regulations provide guidance on the application of this good faith standard. Generally, correction of noncompliance within one year of discovery is reasonable if the issuer and principal user are using their best efforts to correct the noncompliance. 4. Other rules. The proposed regulations also provide guidance on the definition of qualified zone property, including the original use requirement. Finally, the proposed regulations provide special rules for purposes of applying the maturity limitation of section 147 to these bonds. Effective Dates The regulations are proposed to apply to bonds issued on or after the date 60 days after the adoption of final regulations. The regulations do not apply to bonds issued on or after the effective date to refund a bond that was not subject to these private activity bond regulations unless the refunding issue extends the weighted average maturity of the financing. Under various transition rules, issuers may apply certain of the proposed rules on earlier dates. Before the adoption of the regulations, the Service will continue to consider requests for rulings in the case of changes of use in which the safe harbors provided in Rev. Proc. 93&hyph;17 are not satisfied. Special Analyses It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, this notice of proposed rulemaking will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Comments and Public Hearing Before these proposed regulations are adopted as final regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments that are submitted timely (preferably a signed original and eight copies) to the IRS. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying. A public hearing has been scheduled for Thursday, June 8, 1995, at 10 a.m. in the Auditorium, Internal Revenue Building, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. Because of access restrictions, visitors will not be admitted beyond the Internal Revenue Building lobby more than 15 minutes before the hearing starts. The rules of 26 CFR 601.601(a)(3) apply to the hearing. Persons that wish to present oral comments at the hearing must submit written comments by May 1, 1995 and submit an outline of the topics to be discussed and the time to be devoted to each topic by May 18, 1995. A period of 10 minutes will be allotted to each person for making comments.
