FR940106-0-00102 FR940106-0-00021 (B) Other possible steps. The Act indicates that the five steps described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i)(A) ( 1 ) through ( 5 ) of this section are not an exclusive list of timely and significant steps which might qualify. Facilities are encouraged to be innovative in devising other timely and significant steps, but these shall be of timeliness and significance comparable to those in paragraphs (g)(1)(i)(A) ( 1 ) through ( 5 ) of this section to qualify. A facility may attest that it has taken and is taking other such steps and explain in its attestation what these steps are, their nature and scope, how they are effected and how they meet the statutory test of timeliness and significance comparable to those Steps One through Five described above. A facility choosing alternative steps shall attest that its program(s) meet(s) the statutory requirements of timeliness and significance in promoting the development, recruitment and retention of U.S. nurses, explaining how these requirements are satisfied by such program(s). In addition, the attesting facility shall maintain and make available for inspection (as described in ยง XXX .350(b)) documentation which provides a complete description of the nature and operation of its program(s) sufficient to substantiate its attestation and full compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (g)(1)(i)(B). Examples of such steps which_depending on the circumstances, the size and nature of the attesting facility, the nature and scope of the step(s) described, the number of persons affected, and other such factors_may meet these requirements are: ( 1 ) Monetary incentives _providing monetary incentives to nurses, through bonuses and merit pay plans not included in the base compensation package, for additional education, and for efforts leading to increased recruitment and retention of U.S. nurses. Such monetary incentives can be based on actions by nurses such as: Innovations to achieve better patient care, increased productivity, reduced waste, better safety; obtaining additional certification in a nursing specialty; unused sick leave; recruiting other U.S. nurses; staying with the facility for a given number of years; taking less desirable assignments (other than shift differential); participating in professional organizations, on task forces and on special committees; or contributing to professional publications. Facilities attesting to this step shall have a documented system for providing significant financial rewards in the form of bonuses or salary advancement to nurses participating in the activities described in this paragraph. ( 2 ) Special perquisites _providing nurses with special perquisites for dependent care or housing assistance of a nature and/or extent that constitute a ``significant'' factor in inducing employment and retention of U.S. nurses. ( 3 ) Work schedule options _providng nurses with non-mandatory work schedule options for part-time work, job-sharing, compressed work week or non-rotating shifts (provided, however, that H&hyph;1A nurses are employed only in full-time work) of a nature and/or extent that constitute a ``significant'' factor in inducing employment and retention of U.S. nurses. ( 4 ) Other training options _providing training opportunities to become registered nurses to U.S. workers not currently in health care occupations by means of financial assistance ( e.g., scholarship, loan or pay-back programs) to such persons. (ii) Unreasonableness of second step. The steps described in this paragraph (g)(1) shall not be considered to be an exclusive list of the significant steps that may be taken to meet the conditions of this paragraph (g)(1). Nothing in this subpart or subpart E of this part shall require a facility to take more than one step, if the facility can demonstrate that taking a second step is not reasonable. However, a facility shall make every effort to take at least two steps. A facility taking only one step shall provide an explanation with its attestation, and maintain documentation at the facility, relating to why taking a second step is not reasonable. The taking of a second step may be considered unreasonable if it would result in the facility's financial inability to continue providing the same quality and quantity of health care or if the provision of nursing services would otherwise be jeopardized by the taking of such a step. If the single step which is taken is one of the statutorily defined steps described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i)(A)( 1 ) through (g)(1)(i)(A)( 5 ) of this section, the facility shall explain with its attestation, and maintain documentation at the facility, with respect to each of the four statutory steps (described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i)(A)( 1 ) through (g)(1)(i)(A)( 5 ) of this section) not taken, relating to why it would be unreasonable for the facility to take such step and also shall explain with its attestation, and shall maintain and make available for inspection (as described in ยง XXX .350(b)) documentation demonstrating why it would be unreasonable for the facility to take any other steps designed to recruit, develop and retain sufficient U.S. nurses to meet its staffing needs. If the single step which is taken is not one of the five statutory steps described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i)(A)( 1 ) through (g)(1)(i)(A)( 5 ) of this section, the facility shall, with respect to each of the five statutory steps not taken, explain with its attestation, and maintain documentation and make available for inspection (as described in ยง XXX .350(b)) documentation, demonstrating why it would be unreasonable for the facility to take such step; the facility also shall explain with its attestation, and make available for inspection (as described in ยง XXX .350(b)) documentation demonstrating why it would be unreasonable for the facility to take any other steps designed to recruit and retain sufficient U.S. nurses to meet its staffing needs. On the basis of the explanation submitted by the facility, the Certifying Officer shall determine whether the requirements of this paragraph (g)(1)(ii) have been met. See paragraph (m) of this section regarding such determinations and administrative appeals therefrom.
