FR940119-2-00079 FR940119-2-00057 [Release No. 34&hyph;33455; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;1] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., Relating to a Waiver of ITS/CAES Service Fees for November and December 1993 January 11, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on January 6, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The purpose of the proposed rule change is to authorize the waiver of member service fees associated with the operation of the NASD's Intermarket Trading System/Computer Assisted Execution System (``ITS/CAES'') for November and December 1993. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is submitting this rule filing to authorize the waiver of member service fees associated with the operation of the NASD's ITS/CAES for November and December 1993. Specifically, the service fees proposed to be waived are contained in NASD's By-Laws, Schedule D, Part VIII, Section A.4. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change This rule change reflects the NASD's determination to temporarily waive the collection of ITS/CAES service fees for November and December 1993. 1 Such action has resulted from the positive financial and operational developments experienced in the equities marketplace generally in 1993, including members' increased usage of ITS/CAES. 2 The waiver of ITS/CAES service fees for November and December of 1993 will maintain total revenue from ITS/CAES at levels believed to be reasonable in relation to recovery of the development and ongoing operational costs associated with the system. 1 The NASD only is proposing to waive the ITS/CAES service fees; the equipment related charges noted in section A.4. are not being waived for November and December 1993. 2 See also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33143 (November 3, 1993), 58 FR 59773. The NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with and in furtherance of section 15A(b)(5) of the Act. Section 15A(b)(5) requires that the rules of a national securities association provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees and other charges among members and issuers and other persons using any facility or system which the association operates or controls. By waiving ITS/CAES service fees for a limited two-month period, the NASD believes that the total fees assessed for ITS/CAES usage by members will remain at levels sufficient to ensure satisfaction of the statutory mandate that these fees be reasonably and equitably allocated. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD believes that the proposed rule change will not result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change has become effective pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder because the proposal establishes or changes a due, fee, or other charge imposed by the NASD. At any time within 60 days of the filing of such rule change, the Commission may summarily abrogate such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by February 9, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1169 Filed 1&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
