FR940906-2-00126 FR940906-2-00083 Federal Response Plan (FRP) _A plan designed to address the consequences of any disaster or emergency situation in which there is a need for Federal assistance under the authorities of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93&hyph;288, as amended). FRMAC Director _The person designated by DOE or EPA to manage operations in the FRMAC. Joint Information Center (JIC) _A center established to coordinate the Federal public information activities onscene. It is the central point of contact for all news media at the scene of the incident. Public information officials from all participating Federal agencies should collocate at the JIC. Public information officials from participating State and local agencies also may collocate at the JIC. Joint Operations Center (JOC) _Established by the LFA under the operational control of the OSC, as the focal point for management and direction of onsite activities, coordination/establishment of State requirements/priorities, and coordination of the overall Federal response. Joint U.S. Government/Foreign Government Space Venture _Any space venture conducted jointly by the U.S. Government (DOD or NASA) with a foreign government or foreign governmental entity that is characterized by an ongoing U.S. Government interest in the successful completion of the mission, active involvement in mission operations, and uses radioactive sources and/or classified components, regardless of which country owns or provides said sources or components, within the space vehicle. For the purposes of this plan, in a situation whereby the U.S. Government simply sells or supplies radioactive material to a foreign country for use in a space vehicle and otherwise has no active mission involvement, it shall not be considered a joint venture. Lead Federal Agency (LFA) _The agency which is responsible for leading and coordinating all aspects of the Federal response is referred to as the LFA and is determined by the type of emergency. In situations where a Federal agency owns, authorizes, regulates, or is otherwise deemed responsible for the facility or radiological activity causing the emergency and has authority to conduct and manage Federal actions onsite, that agency normally will be the LFA. License _An authorization issued to a facility owner or operator by the NRC pursuant to the conditions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (as amended), or issued by an Agreement State pursuant to appropriate State laws. NRC licenses certain activities under section 170(a) of that Act. Local Government _Any county, city, village, town, district, or political subdivision of any State, and Indian tribe or authorized tribal organization, or Alaska Native village or organization, including any rural community or unincorporated town or village or any other public entity. Monitoring _The use of sampling and radiation detection equipment to determine the levels of radiation. National Defense Area (NDA) _An area established on non-Federal lands located within the United States, its possessions or its territories, for safeguarding classified defense information or protecting DOD equipment and/or material. Establishment of a National Defense Area temporarily places such non-Federal lands under the effective control of the Department of Defense and results only from an emergency event. The senior DOD representative at the scene shall define the boundary, mark it with a physical barrier, and post warning signs. The landowner's consent and cooperation shall be obtained whenever possible; however, military necessity shall dictate the final location, shape, and size of the NDA. National Security Area (NSA) _An area established on non-Federal lands located within the United States, its possessions or territories, for safeguarding classified information, and/or restricted data or equipment and material belonging to DOE or NASA. Establishment of a National Security Area temporarily places such non-Federal lands under the effective control of DOE or NASA and results only from an emergency event. The senior DOE or NASA representative having custody of the material at the scene shall define the boundary, mark it with a physical barrier, and post warning signs. The landowner's consent and cooperation shall be obtained whenever possible; however, operational necessity shall dictate the final location, shape, and size of the NSA. Nuclear Facilities _Nuclear installations that use or produce radioactive materials in their normal operations. Offsite _The area outside the boundary of the onsite area. For emergencies occurring at fixed nuclear facilities, ``offsite'' generally refers to the area beyond the facility boundary. For emergencies that do not occur at fixed nuclear facilities and for which no physical boundary exists, the circumstances of the emergency will dictate the boundary of the offsite area. Unless a Federal agency has the authority to define and control a restricted area, the State or local government will define an area as ``onsite'' at the time of the emergency, based on required response activities. Offsite Federal Support _Federal assistance in mitigating the offsite consequences of an emergency and protecting the public health and safety, including assistance with determining and implementing public protective action measures. Onscene _The area directly affected by radiological contamination and environs. Onscene includes onsite and offsite areas. Onscene Commander (OSC) _The lead official designated at the scene of the emergency to manage onsite activities and coordinate the overall Federal response to the emergency. Onsite _The area within (a) the boundary established by the owner or operator of a fixed nuclear facility, or (b) the area established by the LFA as a National Defense Area or National Security Area, or (c) the area established around a downed/ditched U.S. spacecraft, or (d) the boundary established at the time of the emergency by the State or local government with jurisdiction for a transportation accident not occurring at a fixed nuclear facility and not involving nuclear weapons. Onsite Federal Support _Federal assistance that is the primary responsibility of the Federal agency that owns, authorizes, regulates, or is otherwise deemed responsible for the radiological facility or material being transported, i.e., the LFA. This response supports State and local efforts by supporting the owner or operator's efforts to bring the incident under control and thereby prevent or minimize offsite consequences.
