FR940919-2-00072 FR940919-2-00044 Response: Section 340B(b) of the PHS Act refers to section 1927(k) of the Social Security Act for the definition of ``covered outpatient drug.'' This definition does not include any limitations on outpatient settings, and there is no requirement that the covered drug be used in a ``traditional'' outpatient setting. Any outpatient facility included on an eligible DSH's Medicare cost report can access PHS pricing if it is included on the master list of eligible entities. Comment: There are certain circumstances which might prevent an otherwise eligible outpatient facility from billing under the DSH's provider number (e.g., State or local laws requiring a facility or pharmacy to bill all third party payers directly). In these instances, the facility should be permitted to access PHS discount pricing if the eligible DSH facility can demonstrate that the pharmacy would meet the proposed Medicare test but for the unique circumstances. Response: The test used to determine the eligibility of hospital outpatient facilities must incorporate criteria that form an independent and objective basis. This will provide fair and easy administration. To include a ``but for'' test would create a difficult standard to administer. If an outpatient facility is not included on the eligible DSH's Medicare cost report, it will not meet the requirements for eligibility. Comment: The effective date of this notice should be made retroactive to December 1, l992. Further, the June 13 deadline for requesting retroactive rebates or credits should be extended. Response: In a Federal Register notice, dated May 13, l994, a deadline was announced for requesting retroactive discounts. Eligible and potentially eligible covered entities could request these discounts until June 13, 1994. See 59 FR 25112. The notice permits an off-site outpatient DSH facility to receive retroactive discounts if it meets the following requirements: (1) is included on an eligible DSH's Medicare cost report, (2) has not participated in a group purchasing arrangement for covered outpatient drugs, (3) has not billed Medicaid for the covered outpatient drugs for which retroactive discounts are being requested, and (4) has preserved its right to such discounts by sending manufacturers a letter requesting such refunds and providing adequate documentation of drug purchases by June 13, l994. After this date, the right to retroactive discounts ceased. See 59 FR 25112. (``Any DSH outpatient clinic which is or will be eligible for retroactive discounts may preserve its right by sending manufacturers a letter requesting such refunds and providing adequate documentation of purchases.'') Comment: There is no definition of the term ``patient,'' thereby permitting a DSH to distribute discounted drugs to virtually anyone it can argue is a patient without running afoul of the drug resale prohibition of section 340B(a)(5)(B) of the PHS Act. Response: PHS will address this issue in a future Federal Register notice which will request public comment. All comments concerning the definition of ``patient'' will be addressed at that time. Comment: PHS has approved a contracted pharmacy service model without public notice and an opportunity to comment. Response: PHS will discuss the contracted pharmacy service model in a future Federal Register notice which will invite public comment. All comments concerning this issue will be addressed at that time. (C) DSH Outpatient Facility Guidelines Set forth below are the final guidelines regarding the inclusion of DSH outpatient facilities: The outpatient facility is considered an integral part of the ``hospital'' and therefore eligible for section 340B drug discounts if it is a reimbursable facility included on the hospital's Medicare cost report. For example, if a hospital with one Medicare provider number meets the disproportionate share criteria and this hospital has associated outpatient clinics whose costs are included in the Medicare cost report, these clinics would also be eligible for section 340B drug discounts. However, free-standing clinics of the hospital that submit their own cost reports using different Medicare numbers (not under the single hospital Medicare provider number) would not be eligible for this benefit.
