FR940223-2-00183 FR940223-2-00098 (b) the proceedings leading to the issuance of the order or decision were conducted in whole or in part in both English and French. (2) Where (a) an order or decision issued by a committee is not required by subrule (1) to be made available simultaneously in English and French, or (b) an order or decision is required by subrule (1)(a) to be made available simultaneously in both English and French but the committee is of the opinion that to make the order or decision available simultaneously in both English and French would occasion a delay prejudicial to the public interest or result in injustice or hardship to any participant, the order or decision, including the reasons therefor, shall be issued in the first instance in either English or French and thereafter at the earliest possible time in the other language, each version to be effective from the time the first version is effective. (3) Nothing in subrule (1) or (2) shall be construed as prohibiting the oral delivery in either English or French of any order or decision or any reasons therefor. (4) No order or decision is invalid by reason only that it was not made or issued in both English and French. 26. (1) Any oral proceeding conducted in both English and French shall be translated simultaneously. (2) Where a participant requests simultaneous translation of an extraordinary challenge proceeding, the request shall be made as early as possible in the proceedings. (3) Where a committee is of the opinion that there is a public interest in the extraordinary challenge proceedings, the committee may direct the responsible Secretary to arrange for simultaneous translation of the oral proceedings, if any. Part II_Written Proceedings 27. Where these rules require that notice be given, it shall be given in writing. Filing, Service and Communications 28. (1) No document is filed with the Secretariat until one original and five copies of the document are received by the responsible Secretariat during its normal business hours and within the time period fixed for filing. (2) The responsible Secretariat shall accept, date and time stamp and place in the appropriate file every document submitted to the responsible Secretariat. (3) Receipt, date and time stamping or placement in the file of a document by the responsible Secretariat does not constitute a waiver of any time period fixed for filing or an acknowledgement that the document has been filed in accordance with these rules. 29. (1) All documents filed by a participant, other than documents required by rule 58 to be served by the responsible Secretary and documents referred to in subrule 38(2), rule 39, subrule 40(2)(a) and rule 41 shall be served by the participant on the counsel of record of each of the other participants or, where another participant is not represented by counsel, on the other participant. (2) Subject to subrule 34(a), a document may be served by (a) delivering a copy of the document to the service address of the participant; (b) sending a copy of the document to the service address of the participant by facsimile transmission or by expedited delivery courier or expedited mail service, such as express mail in the United States or Priority Post in Canada; or (c) personal service on the participant. (3) A proof of service shall appear on, or be affixed to, all documents referred to in subrule (1). (4) Where a document is served by expedited delivery courier or expedited mail service, the date of service set out in the affidavit of service or certificate of service shall be the day on which the document is consigned to the expedited delivery courier or expedited mail service. 30. (1) Where, under these rules, a document containing proprietary information, privileged information or personal information is required to be filed under seal with the Secretariat or is required to be served under seal, the document shall be filed of served in accordance with this rule and, where applicable, in accordance with rule 32. (2) A document filed or served under seal shall be (a) bound separately from all other documents; (b) clearly marked (i) with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review of a final determination made in Canada, (A) in the case of a document containing proprietary information, ``Proprietary'', ``Confidential'', ``De nature exclusive'' or ``Confidentiel'', and (B) in the case of a document containing privileged information, ``Privileged'' or ``Protégé'', and (C) in the case of a document containing personal information, ``Personal Information'' or ``Renseignements personnels'', (ii) with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review of a final determination made in Mexico, (A) in the case of a document containing proprietary information, ``Confidencial'', (B) in the case of a document containing privileged information, ``Privilegiada'', and (C) in the case of a document containing personal information, ``Información Personal'', and (iii) with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review of a final determination made in the Untied States,
