FR940506-2-00012 FR940506-2-00004 Comment 15: Petitioner states that certain costs incurred by Akzo N.V. prior to the POI and recorded in Arami's 1992 audited financial statements in accordance with GAAP should be included in the COP. Petitioner states that this expense should be either charged to U.S. sales as a selling expense or to all sales as a general and administrative expense. Akzo argues that these costs incurred by Akzo N.V. do not represent true costs for Arami during the POI. The accrual on Arami's books for this cost has not been paid to Akzo N.V. and the expense will no longer be charged in 1994. Therefore, this intercompany transaction should be excluded from the submitted cost of manufacturing. DOC Position: Since this expense relates to the general production activity of Arami, we included it in Arami's general and administrative expense calculation for COP and CV purposes. This expense represents an actual cost recorded on Arami's books during the POI and the fact that the expense will no longer be charged in 1994 is not relevant. Comment 16: Petitioner asserts that the Department should disallow a certain adjustment to Arami's fixed overhead costs for grants because it is not recorded in Arami's cost accounting system and the reduction in costs attributed to this adjustment distorts Arami's true cost of manufacturing. Petitioner notes that if the Department allows this reduction, we should self-initiate a countervailing duty investigation. Arami claims that it properly adjusted its fixed overhead costs by a certain amount because this adjustment is recorded in Arami's financial accounting system, and is included in its audited financial statements. Arami notes that inclusion of this adjustment in no way distorts Arami's costs, because it reflects amounts actually incurred. Additionally, Akzo notes that because not all grants are countervailable, the Department should resist petitioner's statements requesting self-initiation of a countervailing duty investigation. DOC Position: This adjustment reflects actual costs incurred by Arami as recorded on its books in accordance with GAAP, and was properly included in its submitted COP and CV. We believe subsidies are more properly handled in the context of the countervailing duty law. Petitioner is free to submit a countervailing duty petition. Should such a petition be submitted and meet the requirements of the countervailing duty regulations (19 CFR 355.12), the Department would initiate such an investigation. However, no justification has been presented here for a departure from the Department's general policy of not self-initiating countervailing duty investigations. Comment 17: Petitioner claims that several other non-operating expense items should be included in G&A costs because each of these expenses relate to the aramid fibers business. Petitioner asserts all G&A expenses related to the subject merchandise should be included in cost of production and constructed value. Arami claims that no additional adjustment to G&A expense for non-operating expenses is warranted. Arami asserts that two of the expenses noted by petitioner are already included in the submitted G&A calculation. Additionally, Arami contends that the related party provision included in other non-operating expenses is an intracompany payment and has no relevance in the context of this dumping investigation. DOC Position: We adjusted the G&A calculation to include the related party payment and two other non-operating expense items noted in the cost verification report which were associated with the general operations of Arami. The related party payment is an actual cost incurred by Arami and recorded on its books in accordance with GAAP. Two of the other non-operating expenses mentioned by the petitioner are already included in submitted G&A costs, thus no adjustment is necessary. Comment 18: Arami contends that for purposes of constructed value, the Department should calculate a weighted-average profit figure for pulp sales in Japan and yarn and staple sales in Germany. DOC Position: We disagree with Arami. We believe that it is appropriate to calculate all selling expenses and profit specific to the market in which the products in question were sold rather than average profit across two or more countries. Consequently, we calculated one average profit for pulp sold in Japan and another for yarn and staple sold in Germany. However, we corrected a clerical error in the calculation of profit noted by Arami which resulted in double counting. Continuation of Suspension of Liquidation We are directing the Customs Service to continue to suspend liquidation of all entries of PPD&hyph;T aramid fiber from the Netherlands that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after December 16, 1993, the date of publication of our preliminary determination in the Federal Register. The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated amount by which the FMV of the merchandise subject to this investigation exceeds the U.S. price, as shown below. This suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows: ␣ 1Producer/manufacturer exporter 1Weighted-average margin Akzo 55.84 All Others 55.84 ITC Notification In accordance with section 735(d) of the Act, we have notified the U.S. International Trade Commission of our determination. Notification to Interested Parties This notice also serves as the only reminder to parties subject to administrative protective order (APO) of their responsibility concerning the return or destruction of proprietary information disclosed under APO in accordance with 19 CFR 353.34(d). Failure to comply is a violation of the APO. This determination is published pursuant to section 735(d) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.20(a)(4). Dated: May 2, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10993 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
