FR941004-1-00014 FR941004-1-00001 (ii) The reembrittlement rate of both RT NDT and Charpy upper-shelf energy must be estimated, and must be monitored using a surveillance program which conforms to Appendix H of this part, ``Reactor Vessel Material Surveil- lance Program Requirements.'' (c) Certification of the Annealing Effectiveness. (1) Upon completion of the anneal and prior to re-start of the nuclear power plant, the licensee shall certify to the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, that the thermal annealing was performed in accordance with the approved application required by paragraph (a) of this section, and meets the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section. In this certification, the licensee shall establish the period for which the reactor vessel will satisfy the requirements of §50.60 and §50.61, and shall provide: (i) The post-anneal RT NDT and Charpy upper-shelf energy values of the reactor vessel materials for use in subsequent reactor operation; (ii) The projected reembrittlement trends for both RT NDT and Charpy upper-shelf energy; and (iii) The projected values of RT PTS and Charpy upper-shelf energy at the end of the proposed period of operation addressed in the application. (2) If the licensee cannot certify that the thermal annealing was performed in accordance with the approved application and the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the licensee shall submit a justification for subsequent operation for approval by the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. (d) Procedures for Determining the Recovery of Fracture Toughness. The procedures of this paragraph must be used to determine the percent recovery of DRT NDT , R t , and percent recovery of Charpy upper-shelf energy, R u . In all cases, R t and R u may not exceed 100. (1) For those reactors with surveillance programs which have developed credible surveillance data as defined in §50.61, percent recovery due to annealing (R t and R u ) must be evaluated by testing surveillance specimens that have been withdrawn from the surveillance program and that have been annealed under the same time and temperature conditions as those given the beltline material. (2) Alternatively, the percent recovery due to annealing (R t and R u ) may be determined from the results of a verification test program employing materials removed from the beltline region of the reactor vessel 1 and that have been annealed under the same time and temperature conditions as those given the beltline material. 1For those cases where materials are removed from the beltline of the pressure vessel, the stress limits of the applicable portions of the ASME Code Section III must be satisfied, including consideration of fatigue and corrosion, regardless of the Code of record for the vessel design. (3) Generic computational methods may be used to determine recovery if adequate justification is provided. 4. In 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix G is revised to read as follows: Appendix G to Part 50_Fracture Toughness Requirements Table of Contents I. Introduction and Scope II. Definitions III. Fracture Toughness Tests IV. Fracture Toughness Requirements I. Introduction and Scope This appendix specifies fracture toughness requirements for ferritic materials of pressure-retaining components of the reactor coolant pressure boundary of light water nuclear power reactors to provide adequate margins of safety during any condition of normal operation, including anticipated operational occurrences and system hydrostatic tests, to which the pressure boundary may be subjected over its service lifetime. The ASME Code forms the basis for the requirements of this appendix. ``ASME Code'' means the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. If no section is specified, the reference is to Section III, Division 1, ``Rules for Construction of Nuclear Power Plant Components.'' ``Section XI'' means Section XI, Division 1, ``Rules for Inservice Inspection of Nuclear Power Plant Components.'' If no edition or addenda are specified, the ASME Code edition and addenda and any limitations and modifications thereof, which are specified in §50.55a, are applicable. The sections, editions and addenda of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code specified in §50.55a have been approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register . A notice of any changes made to the material incorporated by reference will be published in the Federal Register . Copies of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code may be purchased from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, United Engineering Center, 345 East 47th St., New York, NY 10017 and are available for inspection at the NRC Library, 11545 Rockville Pike, Two White Flint North, Rockville, Maryland 20852&hyph;2738. The requirements of this appendix apply to the following materials: A. Carbon and low-alloy ferritic steel plate, forgings, castings, and pipe with specified minimum yield strengths not over 50,000 psi (345 MPa), and to those with specified minimum yield strengths greater than 50,000 psi (345 MPa) but not over 90,000 psi (621 MPa) if qualified by using methods equivalent to those described in paragraph G&hyph;2110 of Appendix G of Section XI of the latest edition and addenda of the ASME Code incorporated by reference into §50.55a(b)(2). B. Welds and weld heat-affected zones in the materials specified in paragraph I.A. of this appendix. C. Materials for bolting and other types of fasteners with specified minimum yield strengths not over 130,000 psi (896 MPa). Note: The adequacy of the fracture toughness of other ferritic materials not covered in this section must be demonstrated to the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, on an individual case basis. II. Definitions A. Ferritic material means carbon and low-alloy steels, higher alloy steels including all stainless alloys of the 4xx series, and maraging and precipitation hardening steels with a predominantly body-centered cubic crystal structure. B. System hydrostatic tests means all preoperational system leakage and hydrostatic pressure tests and all system leakage and hydrostatic pressure tests performed during the service life of the pressure boundary in compliance with the ASME Code, Section XI. C. Specified minimum yield strength means the minimum yield strength (in the unirradiated condition) of a material specified in the construction code under which the component is built under §50.55a. D. RT NDT means the reference temperature of the material, for all conditions. (i) For the pre-service or unirradiated condition, RT NDT is evaluated according to the procedures in the ASME Code, Paragraph NB&hyph;2331. (ii) For the reactor vessel beltline materials, RT NDT must account for the effects of neutron radiation. E. D RT NDT means the transition temperature shift, or change in RT NDT , due to neutron radiation effects, which is evaluated as the difference in the 30 ft-lb (41 J) index temperatures from the average Charpy curves measured before and after irradiation. F. Beltline or Beltline region of reactor vessel means the region of the reactor vessel (shell material including welds, heat affected zones, and plates or forgings) that directly surrounds the effective height of the active core and adjacent regions of the reactor vessel that are predicted to experience sufficient neutron radiation damage to be considered in the selection of the most limiting material with regard to radiation damage.
