FR941006-0-00055 FR941006-0-00012 Appendix A to Part 806_Glossary of Terms Appellate Authority _The Office of the General Counsel to the Secretary of the Air Force, who decides FOIA appeals. Commercial Request _A category 1 request from, or on behalf of, one who seeks information that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interest of the requester or the person represented. Denial _A determination by a denial authority not to disclose requested records in its possession and control. Determination _The decision to grant or deny all or part of a request from the public for records. Disclosure _Providing access to, or one copy of, a record. Disclosure Authority _Official authorized to release records. Education Institution Request _A category 2 request from a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education that operates one or more scholarly research programs. Electronic Data _Records or information created, stored, and retrieved by electronic means. Electronic records do not include computer software used as a tool to create, store, or retrieve electronic data. FOIA Manager _The person who manages the FOIA Program at each organizational level. FOIA Request _A written request for records from the public that cites or implies the FOIA. Functional Request _A request for records that does not specifically cite or imply the FOIA. Glomar Response _A reply that neither confirms nor denies the existence or nonexistence of the requested record. A ``Glomar'' response may be used with FOIA exemptions 1, 6, and 7(C). Initial Denial Authority (IDA) _Persons in authority positions who may withhold records under the FOIA. News Media Request _A category 2 request from a person whose job is gathering news for a publishing or broadcasting organization that supplies news to the public. News media also includes free lance journalists who can prove they have good reason for expecting a news organization to publish their work. Noncommercial Scientific Institution Request _A category 2 request from a noncommercial institution that operates solely to conduct scientific research not intended to promote a particular product or industry. Other Request _A category 3 request from anyone who does not fit into the Commercial category or the Noncommercial Scientific or Educational Institutions or News Media category. Partial Denial _Decision to withhold part of a requested agency record. Public Interest _When releasing official information sheds light on how an agency performs its statutory duties and informs citizens about what their government is doing or reveals an Air Force official's conduct. Normally there is no public interest in personal information if it does not reveal a person's conduct in their job. Records _The products of data compilation, such as all books, papers, maps, and photographs, machine readable materials or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an agency of the U.S. Government in connection with the transaction of public business and in the agency's possession and control at the time it receives the request. Records such as notes, working papers, and drafts kept as historical evidence of actions are subject to the FOIA, and may be exempt from release under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(5) if an identifiable harm exists by their release. Computer software rarely qualifies as an agency record. Evaluate each case. Two examples of software as a record are: a. Data embedded in the software cannot be extracted without the software. b. Software that reveals information about DoD organization, policies, functions, decisions, or procedures, such as computer models used to forecast budget outlays, to calculate retirement system costs, or to optimize models on travel costs. Search _To look for a requested record or a specific section of a record. You can search over the telephone, manually, or with computer searches. Statutory Time Limits _The 10 workdays after receiving the request to tell the requester whether the records are released or denied. This term also covers the additional 10-workday extension allowed for reasons in ยง806.15(a)(12). The 10 days begin when the FOIA manager receives a properly filed request with a reasonable description of the requested records and with the requester's stated willingness to pay fees or fees paid. If the requester disagrees with his or her category or wants fees reduced or waived, the 10 days begin after resolving these issues. Technical Data _Information (including computer software documentation) that is scientific or technical in nature and recorded on any medium.
