FR941104-2-00019 FR941104-2-00012 (D) an aggregate calculation of greenhouse gas emissions by each reporting entity. Such guidelines shall also establish procedures for taking into account the differential radiative activity and atmospheric lifetimes of each greenhouse gas. (2) REPORTING PROCEDURES. The Administrator of the Energy Information Administration shall develop forms for voluntary reporting under the guidelines established under paragraph (1), and shall make such forms available to entities wishing to report such information. Persons reporting under this subsection shall certify the accuracy of the information reported. (3) CONFIDENTIALITY. Trade secret and commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential shall be protected as provided in section 552 (b)(4) of title 5, United States Code. (4) ESTABLISHMENT OF DATABASE. Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary through the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration shall establish a database comprised of information voluntarily reported under this subsection. Such information may be used by the reporting entity to demonstrate achieved reductions of greenhouse gases. II. Current Actions Form EIA&hyph;1605 and its shorter version Form EIA&hyph;1605EZ are consistent with the Guidelines established by the Secretary of Energy under Section 1605(b), entitled Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases under Section 1605(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992: General Guidelines and Supporting Documents. III. Request for Comments Prospective reporters and other interested parties should comment on the actions discussed in Items I and II above. The following general questions are provided to assist in the preparation of responses. As a potential respondent: A. Are the instructions and definitions clear and sufficient? If not, which instructions require clarification? B. Can the data be submitted using the definitions included in the instructions? C. Assuming the typical long-form reporter files only domestic data and uses Schedules I, III, IV and three sections of Schedule II, the reporting burden for Form EIA&hyph;1605 is estimated to average 20 hours per response. The estimate for the typical EZ reporter is 2 hours per response. How much time, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information, do you estimate it will require you and/or the typical reporter described above to complete and submit Form EIA&hyph;1605? Please answer this same question for the typical reporter using Form EIA&hyph;1605EZ. D. What is the estimated cost of completing this form, including the direct and indirect costs associated with the data collection? Direct costs should include all costs, such as administrative costs, directly attributable to providing this information. Please provide separate cost estimates for Form EIA&hyph;1605, ``Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases,'' and Form EIA&hyph;1605EZ, ``Short Form for Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases.'' E. How can the forms be improved? F. Do you know of any other Federal, state, or local agency that collects similar data? If you do, specify the agency, the data element(s), and the means of collection. As a potential user: A. Can you use data at the levels of detail indicated on the form(s)? B. For what purpose would you use the data? Be specific. C. How could the form(s) be improved to better meet your specific needs? D. Are there alternate sources of data and do you use them? What are their deficiencies and/or strengths? Comments submitted in response to this notice will be summarized and/or included in the request for Office of Management and Budget approval of the form. Written comments received in response to this notice will be available for public inspection in the Department of Energy's Freedom of Information Office. Statutory Authority: Section 2(a) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Public Law No. 96&hyph;511), which amended Chapter 35 of Title 44 of the United States Code (See 44 U.S.C. 3506(a) and (c)(1)). Issued in Washington, D.C., October 31, 1994. Yvonne M. Bishop, Director, Office of Statistical Standards, Energy Information Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27409; Filed 11&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
