FR940303-2-00007 FR940303-2-00006 Forest Service Sheppard-Griffin, Flathead National Forest, Tally Lake Ranger District, Flathead and Lincoln Counties, State of Montana; Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to analyze and disclose the environmental effects of watershed and fisheries restoration activities in Sheppard and Griffin Creeks and their tributaries. The area is located in the area west of Whitefish, Montana and north of the town of Marion, Montana. The need for this proposal stems from vegetative conditions that have deteriorated due to insect and weather events and will have slow recovery if no action is taken. Current watershed and fisheries conditions do not fully support cold-water fisheries and aquatic life. These conditions, taken in combination with the vegetative conditions, will persist in the long-term. The purpose of the project is to restore watershed and fisheries conditions in Sheppard and Griffin Creeks. The proposals's actions to regenerate predominantly dead lodgepole pine stands and wind damaged stands, construct temporary roads and recondition roads necessary to access these stands, correct chronic sediment sources primarily by rehabilitation of roads not needed for future land management activities, remove sediment from stream pools, and stabilize stream channels are being considered together because they represent either connected or cumulative actions as defined by the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR 1508.25). This EIS will tier to the Flathead National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (LRMP) and EIS of January, 1986, which provide overall guidance of all land management activities on the Flathead National Forest. Extensive scoping has been done for this project during the initial stages of preparation of an Environmental Assessment, and during the analysis of alternatives over the past fourteen months. The Forest Service has determined that an EIS will be prepared for this project. The Forest Service is seeking information and comments from Federal, State, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may now be interested in or affected by the proposed actions. These comments will be used in preparing the Draft EIS. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received on or before April 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and suggestions or a request to be placed on the project mailing list to Bert Stout, District Ranger, Tally Lake Ranger District, Highway 93 West, Whitefish, MT 59937. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Doug Berglund, EIS Team Leader, Phone (406) 862&hyph;2508. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The need of the proposal is a result of a mountain pine beetle outbreak which has caused significant mortality and stands damaged by an intense storm which caused significant blowdown. In both conditions, if no action is taken, regeneration of conifers would occur slowly over several decades. This slow rate of vegetative recovery would result in slow recovery of watershed and fisheries conditions. Also, several chronic sources of sediment in Sheppard and Griffin Creeks are causing degradation of cold-water fisheries. Sections of many of the tributaries of Sheppard and Griffin Creeks are deficient in woody debris and native shrubs which is important in stabilizing stream channels and protecting fisheries habitat. The purpose of the proposal is to restore watershed and fisheries conditions by a variety of management practices where existing conditions are not fully supporting identified beneficial uses of cold-water fisheries and aquatic life. Specifically, the purpose is to: (1) Accelerate regeneration of conifer species in stands with high amounts of lodgepole pine mortality caused by mountain pine beetle and in stands with significant amounts of blowdown. (2) Reduce chronic sediment sources in Sheppard and Griffin Creeks and their tributaries by rehabilitation and revegetation of existing roads. (3) Improve fisheries habitat by sediment removal from pools. (4) Stabilize stream channels lacking woody debris and native shrubs. (5) Conduct management practices in a manner to provide economic opportunity and to provide a timber supply to the local lumber manufacturing industry.
