FR940404-2-00017 FR940404-2-00014 Availability of Exclusive, Partially Exclusive or Non-Exclusive Licensing of U.S. Patent Concerning Explosive Stemming Device AGENCY: U.S. Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station, DOD. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: In accordance with 37 CFR 404.7(a)(1)(i), announcement is made of the availability of U.S. Patent Number 5,092,245 awarded March 3, 1992 for licensing. This patent will be assigned to the United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army, Washington, DC. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Waterways Experiment Station, ATTN: CEWES&hyph;CT&hyph;C, Vicksburg, MS 39180&hyph;6199. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Norma E. Logue, (601) 634&hyph;3076. DATES: Proposals will be accepted until July 5, 1994. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This patent concerns a device for stemming explosives in a borehole to obtain improved coupling of the energy of the explosives into the soil or rock adjacent to the borehole. The device includes a cylindrical member having a flexible sleeve-like liner that conforms to the interior of the cylinder. One end of the liner is turned around an end of the cylindrical member so that the inner flexible sleeve will evert and empty, thus dropping the granular material that is prepackaged in the tube around the detonating line and on top of the explosive charge. The stemming device can be lifted to the surface or can remain in the shothole. The system has potential use in placing explosive or priming charges for subsurface seismic investigation or quarrying. The device is considered to be useful in that it improves coupling and can be pre-packaged with selected stemming materials. The unit should reduce the probability of having the stemming material bridge the borehole and produce a cavity above the explosive charge. Under the authority of section 11(a)(2) of the Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99&hyph;502) and section 207 of Title 35, U.S. Code, the Department of the Army as represented by the U.S. Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station wishes to license the above-mentioned technology in an exclusive, partially exclusive or non-exclusive manner to any parties interested in manufacturing and selling devices covered by the above-mentioned patent. Each interested party is requested to submit a proposal for an exclusive, partially exclusive or non-exclusive license. The proposals for manufacturing and selling the device covered by the above-mentioned patent will be evaluated using the following criteria: demonstrated knowledge and capability to manufacture materials used in blasting operations, evaluation of the applicant's plan to construct the explosive stemming device employing the patent technology, time required to bring device to market and production rate, royalty offered, technical capability of applicant's staff in mechanical and explosives engineering as judged by resumes of full time staff, and small business. Proposals will be accepted for a period of 90 calendar days from the date of notice in the Federal Register . Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7998 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
