FR940706-2-00149 FR940706-2-00089 (iii) Staffing Guidelines. Under normal circumstances, a full-time service coordinator should be able to serve about 50 frail elderly participants. (2) Eligible Applicants Only the following PHAs, which received Section 8 rental voucher funding and funding for supportive services under the FY 1992 or FY 1993 HOPE for Elderly Independence Program competitions, are eligible to apply for funds under this NOFA: West Hartford Housing Authority, CT City of Westbrook Housing Authority, ME Lynn Housing Authority, MA Sommerville Housing Authority, MA New Hampshire Housing Finance Authority New Jersey Department of Community Affairs Erie County, NY Fayette County Housing Authority, PA Jefferson County Housing Authority, KY Kentucky Housing Corporation Fayette Metropolitan Housing Authority, OH Eau Claire County Housing Authority, WI White River Regional Housing Authority, AK Miami Housing Authority, OK Oklahoma City Housing Authority, OK El Paso Housing Authority, TX Des Moines Housing Authority, IA Waterloo Housing Authority, IA Boulder County, CO Jefferson County Housing Authority, CO Mesa City, AZ Tucson City, AZ Alameda County Housing Authority, CA Los Angeles City Housing Authority, CA Redding City, CA Everett Housing Authority, WA Richland Housing Authority, WA Seattle Housing Authority, WA (d) Selection Process Applications will be reviewed to determine whether or not they are technically adequate based on the requirements of this NOFA. All technically adequate applications will be funded to the extent funds are available. If HUD receives applications for funding greater than the amount made available under this NOFA, HUD will reduce the amount of funds to be provided to each PHA in direct proportion to the funds available. II. Application Process Application Submission_Place and Time: Applications are due in the local HUD State or Area Office on August 5, 1994 by 3:00 p.m. local time. This application deadline is firm as to date and hour. HUD will not accept applications via facsimile (fax) transmission. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, HUD will treat as ineligible for consideration any application that is not received on or before the application deadline. Applicants should take this practice into account and make early submission of their materials to avoid any risk of loss of eligibility brought about by unanticipated delays or other delivery-related problems. III. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements
