FR940512-2-00169 FR940512-2-00078 Part D, section 342 of the RHY Act authorizes the Department to make grants to statewide and regional nonprofit organizations to provide training and technical assistance (T&TA) to organizations that are eligible to receive service grants under the Act. Organizations eligible to receive this T&TA include the Basic Centers authorized under Part A of the Act and the Transitional Living grantees authorized under Part B. In addition, section 3511 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, which authorized the Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth (DAPP), authorizes support for T&TA to runaway and homeless youth service providers. The purpose of this T&TA is to strengthen the programs and to enhance the knowledge and skills of youth service workers. In FY 1991, the Family and Youth Services Bureau awarded ten Cooperative Agreements, one in each of the ten Federal Regions, to provide T&TA to agencies funded under the three Federal programs for runaway and homeless youth (the Basic Center Program, the Transitional Living Program, and the Drug Abuse Prevention Program). Each Cooperative Agreement was unique, being based on the characteristics and different T&TA needs in the respective Regions. Each of the Cooperative Agreements has a three-year project period that will expire in FY 1994. This announcement solicits applications for new five-year Cooperative Agreements to be supported with FY 1994 funds. Specific application information and evaluation criteria are addressed in Part III, Section D. (2) National Clearinghouse on Runaway and Homeless Youth. In June 1992, a five-year contract was awarded to establish and operate the National Clearinghouse on Runaway and Homeless Youth to serve as a central information point for professionals and agencies involved in the development and implementation of services to runaway and homeless youth. The Clearinghouse is in full operation and is currently collecting materials and responding to requests for information. Non-competitive continuation funding will be awarded to sustain the Clearinghouse in FY 1994. (3) Management Information System (MIS). In FY 1992, a three-year contract was awarded to implement the Runaway and Homeless Youth Management Information System (MIS) across three FYSB programs: The Runaway and Homeless Youth Basic Center Program, the Transitional Living Program, and the Drug Abuse Prevention Program. The MIS, now a mandatory data collection system, is designed to be used as a management tool for individual programs. In addition, FYSB uses the data generated by the system to produce reports, to conduct analyses regarding the programs, and to provide information for required reports to Congress on efforts to serve runaway and homeless youth. Non-competitive continuation funding will be awarded to sustain the MIS in FY 1994. (4) Monitoring Support for FYSB Programs. In FY 1993, FYSB developed a comprehensive monitoring instrument and set of site visit protocols, including a peer-monitoring component, for the Runaway and Homeless Youth Basic Center Program, the Transitional Living Program, and the Drug Abuse Prevention Program. Additionally in FY 1993, a contract to provide logistical support for the peer monitoring system was awarded. The new peer monitoring system will improve Federal oversight of the RHY programs and will identify program innovations along with program strengths and weaknesses. The findings will be used to direct the provision of technical assistance and to inform policy development. Continuation funding for the logistical contractor will be provided in FY 1994. d. Research and Demonstration Initiatives. Section 343 of the Act authorizes the Department to make grants to States, localities, and private entities to carry out research, demonstration, and service projects designed to increase knowledge concerning and to improve services for runaway and homeless youth. These activities are important in order to identify emerging issues and to develop and test models which address such issues. In FY 1993, first-year funding was awarded to eight grantees to develop models of services to youth in rural areas. These grants are expected to produce written descriptions of the proposed service models, to identify issues related to model implementation, and to generate information on youth and program outcomes. The models will also incorporate formal collaboration with other major youth-serving agencies in the rural areas. Continuation funding of these eight grants will be provided in FY 1994. e. Evaluation Study.
