FR941130-2-00062 FR941130-2-00038 FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION Delegation of Authority AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission (FTC). ACTION: Delegation of authority. SUMMARY: The Commission is delegating certain functions in matters wherein a majority of the members of the Commission are unable to resolve or dispose of a matter as a result of recusals. This delegation shall expire at such time as the Commission has a full complement of five members. It is limited to actions affecting parties or interveners that have waived their right to review by the full Commission, or where no such right would be involved. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bruce G. Freedman, Acting Assistant General Counsel, Office of General Counsel, FTC, 6th Street & Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326&hyph;2464; Marc L. Winerman, Attorney, (202) 326&hyph;2451; John T. Murphy, Attorney, (202) 326&hyph;2457; Alex Tang, Attorney, (202) 326&hyph;2447. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Commission Rule 0.7, 16 CFR 0.7, provides that the Commission, pursuant to Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1961 (75 Stat. 837, 26 FR 6191), may delegate, by published order or rule, certain of its functions to a division of the Commission, an individual Commissioner, or others within the Commission. As noted in section 1(a) of the Plan, this authority supplements the Commission's inherent authority to delegate its functions. The Commission has determined that there may be instances in which it would be unable to resolve or dispose of certain matters because recusals result in the absence of a quorum for the transaction of business. See Commission Rule 4.14(a), 16 CFR 4.14(a) (Commission quorum). Under these circumstances, the Commission believes that delegation of its authority to act to the remaining Commissioner or Commissioners eligible to participate in the matter would be appropriate. Accordingly, the Commission has determined to delegate its functions, subject to certain limitations, when no quorum is available for the transaction of business. First, the delegate or delegates is authorized to act in matters in which no party or intervener would be adversely affected by the Commission's action and entitled to seek review by the full Commission, as provided by section 1(b) of the Plan. Second, the delegate or delegates is authorized to act in matters where a party or intervener would be adversely affected and entitled to seek such review, but the affected party or intervener has waived such right. In either instance, the delegation would not adversely affect the procedural rights of the relevant party or intervener. This delegation is not subject to re-delegation, and is not intended to alter or affect existing delegations to Commission staff. The delegation shall expire at such time as the Commission has a full complement of five members. By direction of the Commission, Commissioner Azcuenaga abstaining with a separate statement. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. Separate Statement of Commissioner Mary L. Azcuenaga Delegation of Authority in Absence of Quroum Today the Commission announces a new procedure to delegate ``certain functions in matters wherein a majority of the members of the Commission are unable to resolve or dispose of a matter as a result of recusals.'' Although I have considered the merits of the new delegation procedure, I abstain from expressing a view because the factual context in which the procedure was proposed and debated makes clear to me that the delegation is intended to affect the merits of one or more matters on which I am not participating by reason of recusal. Specifically, it seems clear that the Commission's intention in adopting the delegation is to make possible before judicial review certain changes in two final orders recently issued by the Commission following full adjudicative proceedings. Although the delegate or delegates will decide what changes, if any, to make in these orders, it is also clear to me what those changes now are expected to be. I have received advice that it would not be inappropriate for me to vote on the merits of the new delegation procedure. I have considered the merits of the new delegation in a manner consistent with my recusal in the cases to which I have alluded, but in my view, given the context and timing of the motion, a substantive vote on the delegation would be inconsistent with those recusals. I have chosen, therefore, to abstain. I regret that I am constrained from expressing a view on the merits of today's action. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29566 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
