FR940426-2-00130 FR940426-2-00078 The Secretary shall propose or implement rules governing activities under this Act only in accordance with this section except for routine matters and matters having no significant impact. The Secretary's most recent semi-annual agenda of rulemaking activities was published on October 25, 1993 (58 FR 56632). As the agenda indicates, it was based on reports submitted by the Department's initiating offices in July 1993, five months prior to the publication of the Notice and well before the agency had formulated its proposal. We do not believe that the publication requirement serves to foreclose FTA's ability to proceed with proposals to amend rules or guidance that were developed subsequent to the most recently published agenda and prior to the next. Moreover, as the agenda itself notes, its purpose is to ``enable the public to be more aware of and allow it to more effectively participate in the Department's regulatory activity.'' This objective has been clearly met, as an extraordinarily large number of commenters have participated in this proceeding. FTA has complied with the public participation requirement by providing prior notice and a 60-day public comment period. FTA believes that in this proceeding it has met the requirements of section 12(i). Two commenters in particular objected to the path FTA has followed, arguing that FTA should instead conduct a rulemaking proceeding under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. 553, that would entail a notice of proposed rulemaking and provide for public comment. FTA finds this essentially semantical argument to be without merit. These commenters identified no procedural defects in the process FTA has followed, nor did they assert any prejudice to their ability to meaningfully participate. In short, these commenters simply argue that FTA's action is legally defective because it titled its November notice, ``Notice of Proposed Recision *␣*␣*,'' instead of ``Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.'' FTA believes that since it has followed the notice and comment procedure of section 12(i), the labels used are irrelevant. We note also that, although the APA requires prior notice and comment, that requirement does not apply to a matter relating to a Federal grant program. 5 U.S.C. 553(a)(2). The objection of these commenters would have been more valid in the context of the process used to adopt the current policies. In 1984 and 1986, FTA did not provide prior notice and opportunity for comment. If these commenters believed the policies then issued in final form without prior notice or comment to constitute a ``binding norm,'' they could have gone to court asserting the consequent invalidity of the 1984/1986 guidance. In the past, FTA has issued guidance in the form of statements of policy and circulars. For example, FTA has issued circulars addressing third-party procurement, cross-border leasing, and suspension and debarment. Thus, FTA's 1984/1986 guidance was consistent with its general practice. Even if FTA wanted to use the label favored by these commenters_thus agreeing that action to rescind the 1984/1986 guidance constitutes rulemaking_it would have faced a certain awkwardness. Issuing a notice of proposed rulemaking to propose the amendment of a rule generally refers to something codified in the Code of Federal Regulations. Here, no such target exists; accordingly, FTA judged that a proposal to rescind the current nonregulatory guidance, especially when providing prior notice and comment, would be appropriate and would adequately serve the evident public interest in this issue. 2. Objections Based on the Record&hyph; Two commenters argued that the Notice fails to state a rationale for recision of the guidance and is thus legally defective. They cited Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association v. State Farm Mutual Insurance, 463 U.S. 29, 42 (1983), in which the Court held that ``an agency changing its course by rescinding a rule is obligated to supply a reasoned analysis for the change beyond that which may be required when an agency acts in the first instance.'' They pointed out that FTA based its proposal, in part, on its belief that some grant recipients have found elements of the policy to be burdensome. They noted that in response to a request for documents under the Freedom of Information Act, FTA produced few such written grantee complaints. They concluded that FTA has acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner, since it has not supplied the ``reasoned analysis for the change'' required by State Farm. We note, however, that elsewhere in State Farm, which involved the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's (NHTSA) recision of a passive restraint requirement for automobiles, the Court stated: Recision of the passive restraint requirement would not be arbitrary and capricious simply because there was no evidence in direct support of the agency's conclusion. It is not infrequent that the available data do not settle a regulatory issue, and the agency must then exercise its judgment in moving from the facts and probabilities on the record to a policy conclusion. &hyph;&hyph;&hyph; Id. at 44. The question, then, is not whether FTA has evidence in support of its belief that grantees find the current policy burdensome. Indeed, the Court invalidated NHTSA's finding that the passive restraint requirement was unnecessary not because it lacked supporting evidence, but because there was substantial evidence to contradict that finding. Moreover, State Farm involved review of a final rule, and no court has held that an agency proposal is somehow invalid for lack of a sufficient record. FTA believes that the record it has developed in this proceeding fully supports the action it is here announcing.
