FR940111-0-00091 FR940111-0-00019 (k) Immediate burial. An ``immediate burial'' is a disposition of human remains by burial, without formal viewing, visitation, or ceremony with the body present, except for a graveside service. (l) Memorial service. A ``memorial service'' is a ceremony commemorating the deceased without the body present. (m) Funeral ceremony. A ``funeral ceremony'' is a service commemorating the deceased with the body present. (n) Outer burial container. An ``outer burial container'' is any container which is designed for placement in the grave around the casket including, but not limited to, containers commonly known as burial vaults, grave boxes, and grave liners. (o) Person. A ``person'' is any individual, partnership, corporation, association, government or governmental subdivision or agency, or other entity. (p) Services of funeral director and staff. The ``services of funeral director and staff'' are the basic services, not to be included in prices of other categories in ยง453.2(b)(4), that are furnished by a funeral provider in arranging any funeral, such as conducting the arrangements conference, planning the funeral, obtaining necessary permits, and placing obituary notices. ยง453.2 Price Disclosures. (a) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices. In selling or offering to sell funeral goods or funeral services to the public, it is an unfair or deceptive act or practice for a funeral provider to fail to furnish accurate price information disclosing the cost to the purchaser for each of the specific funeral goods and funeral services used in connection with the disposition of deceased human bodies, including at least the price of embalming, transportation of remains, use of facilities, caskets, outer burial containers, immediate burials, or direct cremations, to persons inquiring about the purchase of funerals. Any funeral provider who complies with the preventive requirements in paragraph (b) of this section is not engaged in the unfair or deceptive acts or practices defined here. (b) Preventive requirements. To prevent these unfair or deceptive acts or practices, as well as the unfair or deceptive acts or practices defined in ยง453.4(b)(1), funeral providers must: (1) Telephone price disclosure. Tell persons who ask by telephone about the funeral provider's offerings or prices any accurate information from the price lists described in paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section and any other readily available information that reasonably answers the question. (2) Casket price list. (i) Give a printed or typewritten price list to people who inquire in person about the offerings or prices of caskets or alternative containers. The funeral provider must offer the list upon beginning discussion of, but in any event before showing caskets. The list must contain at least the retail prices of all caskets and alternative containers offered which do not require special ordering, enough information to identify each, and the effective date for the price list. In lieu of a written list, other formats, such as notebooks, brochures, or charts may be used if they contain the same information as would the printed or typewritten list, and display it in a clear and conspicuous manner. Provided, however, that funeral providers do not have to make a casket price list available if the funeral providers place on the general price list, specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the information required by this paragraph. (ii) Place on the list, however produced, the name of the funeral provider's place of business and a caption describing the list as a ``casket price list.'' (3) Outer burial container price list. (i) Give a printed or typewritten price list to persons who inquire in person about outer burial container offerings or prices. The funeral provider must offer the list upon beginning discussion of, but in any event before showing the containers. The list must contain at least the retail prices of all outer burial containers offered which do not require special ordering, enough information to identify each container, and the effective date for the prices listed. In lieu of a written list, the funeral provider may use other formats, such as notebooks, brochures, or charts, if they contain the same information as the printed or typewritten list, and display it in a clear and conspicuous manner. Provided, however, that funeral providers do not have to make an outer burial container price list available if the funeral providers place on the general price list, specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the information required by this paragraph. (ii) Place on the list, however produced, the name of the funeral provider's place of business and a caption describing the list as an ``outer burial container price list.'' (4) General price list. (i)(A) Give a printed or typewritten price list for retention to persons who inquire in person about the funeral goods, funeral services or prices of funeral goods or services offered by the funeral provider. The funeral provider must give the list upon beginning discussion of any of the following: (1) The prices of funeral goods or funeral services; (2) The overall type of funeral service or disposition; or (3) Specific funeral goods or funeral services offered by the funeral provider. (B) The requirement in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section applies whether the discussion takes place in the funeral home or elsewhere. Provided, however, that when the deceased is removed for transportation to the funeral home, an in-person request at that time for authorization to embalm, required by ยง453.5(a)(2), does not, by itself, trigger the requirement to offer the general price list if the provider in seeking prior embalming approval discloses that embalming is not required by law except in certain special cases, if any. Any other discussion during that time about prices or the selection of funeral goods or services triggers the requirement under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section to give consumers a general price list. (C) The list required in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section must contain at least the following information: (1) The name, address, and telephone number of the funeral provider's place of business; (2) A caption describing the list as a ``general price list''; and (3) The effective date for the price list; (ii) Include on the price list, in any order, the retail prices (expressed either as the flat fee, or as the price per hour, mile or other unit of computation) and the other information specified below for at least each of the following items, if offered for sale: (A) Forwarding of remains to another funeral home, together with a list of the services provided for any quoted price; (B) Receiving remains from another funeral home, together with a list of the services provided for any quoted price; (C) The price range for the direct cremations offered by the funeral provider, together with: (1) A separate price for a direct cremation where the purchaser provides the container; (2) Separate prices for each direct cremation offered including an alternative container; and (3) A description of the services and container (where applicable), included in each price; (D) The price range for the immediate burials offered by the funeral provider, together with: (1) A separate price for an immediate burial where the purchaser provides the casket; (2) Separate prices for each immediate burial offered including a casket or alternative container; and (3) A description of the services and container (where applicable) included in that price;
