FR940429-0-00070 FR940429-0-00010 With regard to the suggestion for including various time frames in this section, the Secretary appreciates the concerns that led commenters to request time frames and, consequently, agrees to include them in this section. The Secretary does not believe that agencies should have the right to receive a written report after every monitoring activity conducted by the designated Department official as these activities are conducted for the general purpose of gathering information about an agency's compliance with the requirements for recognition and, in that sense, are ``predecisional.'' Finally, it is already a requirement, under the Federal Advisory Committee Act, that the Secretary must publish an announcement of each Advisory Committee meeting, including those at which accrediting agencies are considered for recognition, but the Secretary acknowledges the importance of making that practice clear in these regulations. The Secretary also acknowledges the importance of notifying the State postsecondary review entities whenever an agency is being considered for recognition. Changes: Time frames have been added for providing analyses and supporting documentation to an accrediting agency before the Advisory Committee meets on that agency's application for recognition. A provision for notifying State postsecondary review entities and other appropriate organizations of an agency's application for recognition has also been added. Finally, a provision has been added requiring the Secretary to publish a notice of the Advisory Committee meeting in the Federal Register and to invite interested parties to make presentations before the Advisory Committee. Section 602.13␣Review and Decision by the Secretary Comments: Some commenters objected to the provision that the Secretary could decide to recognize an agency even if it did not meet all of the requirements for recognition, provided the Secretary determined that the noncompliance did not impair the agency's effectiveness. These commenters were particularly concerned that an accrediting agency that failed to meet a particular requirement might be recognized even though the reasons it failed to meet that requirement were within its control to correct. Other commenters, however, commended the Secretary's willingness to determine the appropriateness of a waiver when an agency's noncompliance with one or more requirements for recognition did not limit the effectiveness of the agency. To these commenters, the Secretary's flexibility was a demonstration that the Secretary sought a working partnership with accrediting agencies that was based on performance and trust. With regard to an appeal of an Advisory Committee recommendation, some commenters felt that the 30-day time frame was too short. Other commenters requested that, in addition to the designated Department official and the agency, third parties be allowed to contest an Advisory Committee's recommendation concerning the recognition of an agency. Finally, several commenters felt that the regulations should contain a time frame for the Secretary to make a decision regarding an agency's application for recognition. Discussion: While the Secretary appreciates the concern of the commenters about granting recognition to an agency that does not meet all of the requirements for recognition, the Secretary believes that some flexibility is needed so that the Secretary may grant recognition to an agency that fails to meet all of the requirements, even if the circumstances are within the agency's ability to control. The Secretary understands the concerns raised about the 30-day time frame for appealing an Advisory Committee recommendation. However, the Secretary wishes to note that an agency already has two opportunities prior to the Advisory Committee's recommendation during which it may state its case as to why a negative recommendation concerning its application for recognition is unwarranted. First, the agency may respond in writing to a negative recommendation by the designated Department official before that recommendation is forwarded to the Advisory Committee. Second, agency representatives have an opportunity to appear in person before the Advisory Committee to argue against a negative recommendation. Because of these two opportunities, the Secretary does not believe the 30-day time frame after the Advisory Committee makes its formal recommendation is unrealistic. With regard to third parties appealing an Advisory Committee recommendation, the Secretary believes that the appropriate place for third-party comment is before the Advisory Committee reaches its decision on a recommendation, not after. With regard to a time frame for the Secretary's decision, the Secretary believes that this is appropriately a management issue and does not need to be specified in regulation. Change: None. Section 602.14␣Limitation, Suspension, or Termination of Recognition
