FR941213-2-00051 FR941213-2-00039 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA Training Institute Education Centers AGENCY: Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Labor. ACTION: Request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) conducts short-term technical training in occupational safety and health through the OSHA Training Institute in Des Plaines, Illinois. In recent years, the number of private sector personnel and Federal personnel from agencies other than OSHA requesting training has increased beyond the capacity of the OSHA Training Institute to meet the demand. In October 1992, OSHA began a project to test the feasibility of using other training or educational institutions to conduct OSHA Training Institute courses for private sector personnel and for Federal personnel from agencies other than OSHA. Based on the success to date of this project, OSHA is expanding the program. This notice announces the opportunity for interested organizations to submit applications to become OSHA Training Institute Education Centers. Applications will be rated on a competitive basis and two organizations will be selected to participate in the project. Complete application instructions are contained in this notice. Authority for this program may be found in sections 21 (b) and (c) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 670). DATES: Applications must be received by February 24, 1995. ADDRESSES: Applications must be submitted to the Division of Training and Educational Programs, Office of Training and Education, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 1555 Times Drive, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ronald Mouw, Chief, Division of Training and Educational Programs, or Zigmas Sadauskas, Director, OSHA Training Institute, Office of Training and Education, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 1555 Times Drive, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018, telephone (708) 297&hyph;4810. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The OSHA Training Institute conducts 82 short-term technical training courses in OSHA standards, policies and procedures for persons responsible for enforcing or directly supporting the OSH Act, private sector employers and employees, and Federal personnel from agencies other than OSHA. Its primary responsibility is to the first group: Federal and State compliance officers and State consultation program staff. Private sector and Federal personnel from agencies other than OSHA receive training on an ``as available'' basis. In recent years the demand for training has increased from all three groups. Resources of the OSHA Training Institute have not increased at a rate that can keep up with the demand. As the number of Federal and State personnel engaged in enforcement or consultation being trained has increased, opportunities for training for private sector personnel and Federal personnel from agencies other than OSHA have remained static or decreased. In order to meet the increased demand for its courses, the OSHA Training Institute has selected eight educational institutions to conduct OSHA Training Institute courses for private sector personnel and Federal personnel from agencies other than OSHA. These OSHA Training Institute Education Centers, which were selected through nationwide competitive processes, are: Keene State College, Manchester, New Hampshire; Niagara County Community College, Lockport, New York; West Virginia University/National Resource Center for Construction Safety and Health, Morgantown, West Virginia; Georgia Tech Research Institute, Atlanta, Georgia; Texas Engineering Extension Service/Texas Safety Association, Arlington, Texas; Maple Woods Community College, Kansas City, Missouri; Red Rocks Community College/Trinidad State Junior College, Lakewood, Colorado; and the University of California, San Diego, California. The OSHA Training Institute now proposes to expand the number of OSHA Training Institute Education Centers from eight to ten. Scope OSHA will enter into nonfinancial agreements with two colleges, universities or other nonprofit training organizations to conduct OSHA courses for private sector personnel and Federal personnel from agencies other than OSHA. The two new OSHA Training Institute Education Centers will be located in two OSHA Regions, one per region. The two OSHA Regions contain the following states.
