FR940406-2-00002 FR940406-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Program Changes Improving the Actuarial USDA. Soundness of the Federal Crop Insurance Program AGENCY: Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (OBRA) directed the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) to make program changes as necessary to improve actuarial soundness of the Federal crop insurance program and to achieve, by the fiscal year beginning October 1, 1995, a projected overall loss ratio not to exceed 1.10 (110 percent) (section 1501(a)). Section 1501(c)(2) further directed the Department to issue for public comment a comprehensive plan or ``blueprint'' that identifies, among other things: •Steps FCIC intends to take to achieve a projected overall loss ratio of no greater than 1.10 on and after October 1, 1995. •Additional steps if further action is required, based upon actual program experience or unforeseen external circumstances. •Modifications to be considered if initial actions to improve actuarial soundness work better than anticipated. •Projections, assumptions, and analyses which underlie the FCIC conclusions that the above actions will achieve the required loss ratio within the stated deadline while maintaining fairness and effective coverage to agricultural producers, and which thereby demonstrate FCIC's compliance with the performance standard identified in section 1501(a). The following notice outlines such a plan. Readers are requested to identify additional issues other than those outlined herein that they believe are relevant and important in assisting FCIC in its actions to manage the program to achieve the target loss ratio. This notice encourages comment and participation from the affected public. Comments and inquiries should be sent to the address listed below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mari Dunleavy, Regulatory and Procedural Development Staff, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Washington, DC 20250, telephone (202) 254&hyph;8314. NOTICE: The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation's ``Blueprint for Financial Soundness'' reads as follows: Blueprint for Financial Soundness Scope and Purpose Actions identified herein result from internal analysis by FCIC and information previously provided to FCIC by numerous interested parties. These include the Commission for the Improvement of Crop Insurance (a Congressionally established work group in 1989 and 1990), various crop insurance industry organizations, members of Congress, agricultural producers, crop insurance agents and insurance companies, the General Accounting Office, and others. Information was not solicited specifically for this draft but was compiled from previous recommendations. Not all of the specific recommendations made by any or all of these groups are included herein. This document establishes initiatives to achieve the above actions. Estimates of the financial impact of an action, based on available data and professional judgment, are provided whenever possible. Readers should recognize that these estimates are fluid due to the nature of the data and the ever-changing program. In particular, since FCIC does not have a single aggregate mathematical or statistical model that describes its programs, estimates of financial impact are based on partial analysis which considers the effect of one particular action in the absence of any other action or initiative. Also, the exact steps to be taken under this Blueprint depend in part upon the public comment and recommendations received before investing resources in detailed studies of potential impacts. Readers are encouraged to provide information, rationale, and where possible, estimates of costs or potential savings. In some cases the financial impact of an action may not be quantified. This does not mean the action is not important or that it cannot contribute to achievement of the goal. For example, enhanced management reporting systems do not produce a measurable financial impact. However, such systems can enhance FCIC's ability to estimate the potential impacts of program changes and assure that ongoing management decisions recognize the impact of the decision on future actions. This document is divided into four main sections, which describe: (1) Crop insurance program to provide context and background; (2) Actions FCIC proposes as part of this plan to achieve the target loss ratio; (3) Additional actions that FCIC may take if those described in section II are not effective or that cannot be implemented due to unforeseen circumstances; and (4) Changes FCIC will consider once the projected loss ratio achieves the targeted level of 1.10. I. Background of the Crop Insurance Program A. Overview of Program Operations Crop insurance is delivered primarily by commercial insurance companies that have entered into a cooperative financial arrangement [the Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA)] with FCIC. Under this arrangement, the company agrees to deliver an FCIC designed and priced product to eligible buyers. The company is responsible for all aspects of customer service, and guarantees payment of the insured person's share of the premium to FCIC. In return, FCIC reimburses the company for administrative expenses and requires the company (on a state basis) to share in insurance experience whether favorable or unfavorable. FCIC also provides stop loss reinsurance that limits the maximum loss the company can sustain. A small and decreasing portion of the total sales is managed directly by FCIC through sales and service contractors. These contractors agree to sell an FCIC designed and priced product and to perform certain servicing functions related to the sale (such as determining the average yields). FCIC reimburses the contractor for administrative expenses associated with selling and servicing the product; however, FCIC is directly responsible for premium collection, loss adjustment, and payment of losses. These latter functions are the responsibility of the reinsured company under that delivery system. FCIC intends to eliminate direct sales after the 1994 crop year because this system now delivers less than 10 percent of the total business, and maintaining a nationwide capability for delivery at an acceptable cost is difficult. The crop insurance plan for most crops indemnifies insured persons for losses in yield exceeding a predetermined threshold amount. To establish this threshold an average yield is determined based on the individual's production history. The first portion of the loss (deductible of the insurance), equal to 25, 35, 50, or 65 percent of the average yield, must be sustained by the insured person. These are the choices of deductibles now offered by FCIC, and typically are described by the maximum loss in yield covered by the insurance; e.g., 75 percent coverage, 65 percent, etc. The 50 and 75 percent coverage levels are required by the Act to be available to all persons. The level of coverage is chosen by the insured individual. The insured person also must choose a price at which the yield is valued for the purposes of computing the amount of premium and any applicable amount of loss; this variable is called the price election. FCIC must offer a price election that is not less than the anticipated market price at time of harvest. This determination is made well before the possibility of loss is known during the crop year. Otherwise, insured persons would choose low price elections if no loss is sustained (minimizes premium payments) the highest possible price election if a loss occurs (maximizes indemnities).
