FR940906-0-00065 FR940906-0-00019 (b) Fee assessment _(1) Fee assessments applicable from January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1995. (i) NMFS will calculate bimonthly fee assessments for each processor of Research Plan fisheries based on the best available information received by the Regional Director since the last bimonthly billing period on the amount of fish retained by the processor from Research Plan fisheries. Fee assessments will not be calculated for the retained amounts of whole fish processed into meal product. (ii) The bimonthly fee assessment calculated by NMFS for each shoreside processor or mothership processor vessel retaining groundfish shall equal the sum of: (A) The round weight or round-weight equivalent of retained catch of each groundfish species delivered by catcher vessels equal to and greater than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA determined by the best available information received by the Regional Director since the last bimonthly billing period, multiplied by the standard exvessel price established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year, multiplied by one-half the fee percentage established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year; plus (B) The round weight or round-weight equivalent of retained catch of each groundfish species delivered by catcher vessels less than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA determined by the best available information received by the Regional Director since the last bimonthly billing period, multiplied by the standard exvessel price established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year, multiplied by the fee percentage established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year. (iii) The bimonthly fee assessment calculated by NMFS for each processor retaining king or Tanner crab shall equal the sum of: (A) The round weight or round-weight equivalent of retained catch of Chionoecetes tanneri Tanner crab, C. angulatus Tanner crab, and Lithodes cousei king crab determined by the best available information received by the Regional Director since the last bimonthly billing period, multiplied by the standard exvessel price established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year, multiplied by one-half the fee percentage established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year; plus (B) The round weight or round-weight equivalent of retained catch of king or Tanner crab, except for those species listed under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, determined by the best available information received by the Regional Director since the last bimonthly billing period, multiplied by the standard exvessel price established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year, multiplied by the fee percentage established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year. (iv) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the bimonthly fee assessment calculated by NMFS for each processor that retains groundfish or halibut is the round weight or round-weight equivalent of retained catch of these species determined by the best available information received by the Regional Director since the last bimonthly billing period, multiplied by the standard exvessel price established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year, multiplied by the fee percentage established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year. (2) Fee assessments applicable after December 31, 1995. The bimonthly fee assessment calculated by NMFS for each processor of Research Plan fisheries is the round weight or round-weight equivalent of retained catch for each species from Research Plan fisheries determined by the best available information received by the Regional Director since the last bimonthly billing period, multiplied by the standard exvessel price established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year, multiplied by the fee percentage established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year. Fee assessments will not be calculated for the retained amounts of whole fish processed into meal product. (c) Fee assessment payments. NMFS will bill each processor of Research Plan fisheries for bimonthly fee assessments calculated under paragraph (b) of this section. Each processor must collect and pay the bimonthly fee assessments. Bimonthly fee assessment payments must be in the form of certified check, draft, or money order payable in U.S. currency to ``The Department of Commerce/NOAA.'' Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, payment in full must be received by the financial institution authorized by the U.S. Treasury to receive these funds within 30 calendar days from the date of issuance of each bimonthly fee assessment bill. Payments will be deposited in the North Pacific Fishery Observer Fund within the U.S. Treasury. (d) Credit for observer coverage costs incurred from January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1995 _(1) General. Subject to the limitations set out in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, each processor may subtract from its portion of the processor's billed fee assessment the cost of observer coverage paid by the processor to an observer contractor(s) for the processor's compliance with observer coverage requirements at §677.10(a). (2) Limitations. (i) Only those payments to observer contractors for observer coverage required under §677.10(a) of this part that are received by observer contractors prior to April 1, 1996, will be credited against a processor's billed fee assessment under this paragraph (d). (ii) The amount that may be subtracted from a catcher/processor's billed fee assessment for retained catch of groundfish is limited to the actual cost of observer coverage required under §677.10(a) of this part up to an amount equal to the fee assessment calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section. (iii) The amount that may be subtracted from a shoreside processor's or mothership processor vessel's billed fee assessment for retained catch of groundfish is limited to the actual cost of observer coverage required under §677.10(a) of this part up to an amount equal to the sum of the fee assessment calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section plus one-half the fee assessment calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section. (iv) The amount that may be subtracted from a catch/processor or mothership processor vessel's billed fee assessment for retained catch of king or Tanner crab is limited to the actual cost of observer coverage required under §677.10(a) of this part up to an amount equal to the sum of the fee assessment calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section plus one-half the fee assessment calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section. (3) Processor Account Status _(i) Credit applied by NMFS to bimonthly fee assessments. If a processor's cost for observer coverage required under §677.10(a) during a bimonthly period exceeds the calculated fee assessment for that period, the Regional Director will credit the processor's next bimonthly fee assessment up to an amount equal to the remaining observer coverage costs as reported to the Regional Director under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, or the bimonthly fee assessment, whichever is less. (ii) Refunds. As soon as practicable after April 1, 1996, NMFS will issue a refund to a processor for any portion of the processor's costs for observer coverage required under §677.10(a) and reported to the Regional Director under paragraph (d)(4) of this section up to an amount equal to the sum of the bimonthly fee assessments paid by the processor for retained catch during 1995, provided that:
