FR940720-0-00044 FR940720-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;07; Amendment 39&hyph;8972; AD 94&hyph;15&hyph;01] Airworthiness Directives; General Electric Aircraft Engines CT7 Series Turboprop Engines AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule, request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to General Electric Aircraft Engines (GE) CT7 series turboprop engines. This action requires a one-time ultrasonic inspection of a suspect population of propeller shafts for metallurgical defects, and if necessary, replacement with a serviceable part. This amendment is prompted by a report of an inflight propeller separation due to a metallurgical defect. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent failure of the propeller shaft, which can result in separation of the propeller from the propeller shaft and possible damage to the aircraft. DATES: Effective August 4, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of August 4, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before September 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;07, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from General Electric Aircraft Engines, 1000 Western Avenue, Lynn, MA 01910. This information may be examined at the FAA, New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Daniel Kerman, Aerospace Engineer, Engine Certification Office, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299; telephone (617) 238&hyph;7130, fax (617) 238&hyph;7199. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has determined that certain propeller shafts on General Electric Aircraft Engines (GE) CT7 series turboprop engines may have a metallurgical defect that could cause separation of the propeller from the propeller shaft. The FAA's investigation has revealed this population of propeller shafts may contain a metallurgical defect known as a pipe inclusion, which developed during manufacture of the shaft. This defect typically forms during the process of melting the ingot used to form the shaft and positions itself at either end of the ingot. During this phase of the manufacturing process cropping both ends of the ingot normally ensures complete removal of such defects. The FAA has determined, however, that for five heat lots of material, pipe inclusions may not have been completely removed from the material used to form the propeller shaft. The FAA has determined that suspect material was used to manufacture approximately 326 propeller shafts. The FAA received a report of a propeller separating from a SAAB&hyph;SCANIA SF340 series aircraft inflight following severe vibration. The FAA's investigation revealed that the propeller shaft separated due to a pipe inclusion defect positioned in a high stress location of the propeller shaft. That defect initiated a crack which propagated to failure. This condition, if not corrected, could result in failure of the propeller shaft, which can result in separation of the propeller from the propeller shaft and possible damage to the aircraft. The FAA has reviewed and approved the technical contents of GE (CT7&hyph;TP Series) Service Bulletin (SB) No. A72&hyph;350, Revision 3, dated June 9, 1994, that describes procedures for a one-time ultrasonic inspection of the propeller shaft flange outer diameter (OD) fillet radius and inner diameter (ID) bore for detection of subsurface defects. In addition, Table 3 of this SB lists by propeller gearbox serial number (S/N) a certain population of suspect propeller shafts to be identified by internal markings during a one-time borescope inspection. Those propeller shafts with markings identified as suspect in accordance with this SB must be ultrasonically inspected prior to further flight.
