FR940323-0-00080 FR940323-0-00020 (c) Availability of report. Reports submitted under paragraph (a) of this section must be made available to the public on request. ยง2540.310 Must programs that receive Corporation assistance establish standards of conduct? Yes. Programs that receive assistance under this title must establish and stringently enforce standards of conduct at the program site to promote proper moral and disciplinary conditions. ยง2540.320 How are participant benefits treated? Section 142(b) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1552(b)) shall apply to the programs conducted under this chapter as if such programs were conducted under the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq .). Subpart D_Suspension and Termination of Corporation Assistance ยง2540.400 Under what circumstances will the Corporation suspend or terminate a grant or contract? (a) Suspension of a grant or contract. In emergency situations, the Corporation may suspend a grant or contract for not more than calendar 30 days. Examples of such situations may include, but are not limited to: (1) Serious risk to persons or property; (2) Violations of Federal, State or local criminal statutes; and (3) Material violation(s) of the grant or contract that are sufficiently serious that they outweigh the general policy in favor of advance notice and opportunity to show cause. (b) Termination of a grant or contract. The Corporation may terminate or revoke assistance for failure to comply with applicable terms and conditions of this chapter. However, the Corporation must provide the recipient reasonable notice and opportunity for a full and fair hearing, subject to the following conditions: (1) The Corporation will notify a recipient of assistance by letter or telegram that the Corporation intends to terminate or revoke assistance, either in whole or in part, unless the recipient shows good cause why such assistance should not be terminated or revoked. In this communication, the grounds and the effective date for the proposed termination or revocation will be described. The recipient will be given at least 7 calendar days to submit written material in opposition to the proposed action. (2) The recipient may request a hearing on a proposed termination or revocation. Providing five days notice to the recipient, the Corporation may authorize the conduct of a hearing or other meetings at a location convenient to the recipient to consider the proposed suspension or termination. A transcript or recording must be made of a hearing conducted under this section and be available for inspection by any individual. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6580 Filed 3&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;BA&hyph;P
