FR940830-2-00178 FR940830-2-00082 Remediation The National Sediment Inventory will be used by EPA's Office of Water, Office of Emergency and Remedial Response, Office of Solid Waste, and Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance to help target sites for enforcement action requiring contaminated sediment remediation. EPA's standard sediment toxicity and bioaccumulation tests will be used to identify sites for remediation, assist in determining clean-up goals for contaminated sites, and to monitor the effectiveness of remedial actions. Dredged Material Management The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that a small percentage of the total volume of sediment dredged for navigational channel maintenance requires special handling due to the presence of toxics. The National Sediment Inventory will be used to identify sites where dredged material may be contaminated. EPA standard sediment toxicity and bioaccumulation tests are now used in dredged material testing. Research EPA's Office of Research and Development, through its Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program, will continue to collect new chemical and biological data on sediment quality. These data will be included in the Agency's National Sediment Inventory. EPA's Office of Research and Development will also develop: new biological methods to assess the ecological and human health effects of sediment contaminants, chemical-specific sediment quality criteria, methods to conduct sediment toxicity identification evaluations, dredged material disposal fate and transport models, sediment wasteload allocation models, and technologies for remediation of contaminated sediment. Outreach EPA will undertake a program of outreach and technology transfer to educate target audiences about contaminated sediment risk management. Target audiences will include: other Federal agencies, State and Local agencies, the regulated community, the scientific community, environmental advocacy groups, the news media, and the general public. Technical and nontechnical information will be provided to these audiences by developing a range of outreach products. The National Contaminated Sediment Task Force will develop Federal recommendations on contaminated sediment that will also be included in outreach materials. Dated: August 22, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21369 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
