FR940318-2-00186 FR940318-2-00108 Thermal plume studies conducted in the fall, winter, and spring of 1986&hyph;87 indicated a maximum temperature rise of 1 ○F within an 80 foot mixing zone from the diffuser pipe. Present Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources water quality criteria states that ambient river temperature rise from thermal discharges shall not cause the temperature in the receiving water body to rise more than 2 ○F in one hour. The thermal discharges from the cooling tower blowdown from power uprate will not exceed this water quality criteria. Chemical composition of the blowdown after power uprate will not exceed the NPDES permit limits. The staff reviewed the potential effect of power uprate on plant makeup water usage. There will be no significant increase in makeup water requirements for any plant systems as a result of power uprate. This includes the reactor coolant system, the condensate, feedwater and steam systems, the emergency service water system, the reactor and turbine building closed cooling water systems or any of the normal service water systems. The only effect of power uprate on the component cooling water system and turbine plant cooling water system from power uprate is an increased heat load. The service water system removes heat from the heat exchangers in the turbine, reactor and radwaste buildings and transfers this heat to the cooling towers where it is dissipated. The increased heat load on intermediate systems is reflected in the discussion of potential impacts from increased cooling tower blowdown and thermal discharges remain acceptable. Inventory makeup is not affected. Makeup requirements for the auxiliary boiler, the fire protection system or other auxiliary systems are unaffected by power uprate. The licensee has stated that there are no changes required to the SSES Environmental Protection Plan as a result of operation at uprated power. Specifically, the licensee stated: Chapter 3, Consistency Requirements, section 3.1, Plant Design Operations, of this plan discusses how proposed changes need to be addressed. Through the PP&L Unreviewed Environmental Question Program, changes such as that of power uprate will be reviewed. An ``Unreviewed Environmental Question'' evaluation was conducted in accordance with each unit's ``Environmental Protection Plan'' to determine if power uprate could cause any significant environmental impacts. This included a review of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit and other environmental permits, and indicated that power uprate should not contribute to any new noncompliances. No significant increase in generation of hazardous or nonhazardous waste is expected, except for a 3 to 5% increase in sediment removed from the cooling tower. Nor is any change expected in the load on the sewage treatment plant. River water use will remain within the existing agreement with the Susquehanna River Basi[n] Commission. PP&L has determined that power uprate is not an ``unreviewed environmental question.'' The proposed power uprate therefore requires no change to the ``Environmental Protection Plans'' since it does not involve: (a) A significant increase in any adverse environmental impact previously evaluated in the ``Environmental Report_Operating License Stage,'' or the ``Final Environmental Statement,'' or in any decision of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board; (b) A significant change in effluents or power levels, or (c) A matter not previously reviewed and evaluated in the documents specified in paragraph (a) which might have a significant adverse environmental impact. Radiological Environmental Assessment As discussed previously, the licensee addressed potential radiological impacts attributable to operation at uprated power conditions in Sections 8, 9, and 11 of the initial Topical Report. The licensee concluded: Adequate margin also exists for the proposed power uprate without exceeding regulatory limits for radiological effects. Current operating experience indicates that actual releases and waste disposal after power uprate will continue to be significantly less than the original estimates. For these reasons, power uprate is not expected to have an adverse effect on the routine operation ``dose commitment'' estimated by previous radiological environmental analyses, and no revision of these analyses is required.
