FR940720-1-00029 FR940720-1-00009 Accordingly, the Postal Service undertook a review of the standards that pertain to the content of second-class mail. This included review of the terminology involved (e.g., supplements, enclosures, attachments, novelty pages, independent publications), the substantive rules concerning eligibility of these materials for second-class rates, the clarity of the existing rules, and the organization of these rules in the DMM. The result of this review is the instant proposal for substantive and editorial changes to, and deletion of a number of, existing rules with the renumbering and reorganizing of these rules for clarity and ease of use. The Postal Service believes that the proposed rules, if adopted, will reduce the costs of mail acceptance and training, and facilitate timely collection of the appropriate postage on second-class mailings. The Postal Service also believes that the proposed elimination of a number of restrictions on publication design will promote publishers' continued use of the Postal Service for delivery of their periodical publications. Moreover, the proposed changes are not expected to have any adverse operational effect on the Postal Service. To provide clarity and improve the organization of the mailing standards governing the contents and characteristics of second-class mail, Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) C200 has been completely reorganized and renumbered under four main headings: 1.0 Permissible Mailpiece Components, 2.0 Impermissible Components, 3.0 Mailpiece Construction, and 4.0 Printed Features. Within these sections are subsections that specifically identify what may and may not be included in a mailpiece claimed at second-class rates. The following discussion identifies the significant changes being proposed in C200. The reference to pages of a second-class publication in proposed C200.1.1 is new and describes those printed sheets that form the second-class mailpiece. Rather than addressing advertising and ``novelty pages'' in separate standards (as is currently done in C200.5.0 and 6.0), this proposed section sets forth a general rule that provides that the pages in a second-class publication, whether they contain advertising or nonadvertising matter or both, may be prepared with novel or unusual characteristics, i.e., different size, shape, or construction. This proposed change would limit the number of these pages to a minor portion of the publication so that the general appearance of the material as a ``periodical publication'' is maintained. In proposing this greater latitude on the preparation of pages to a publication, the Postal Service is concerned that publishers might create publications whose physical characteristics would encumber efficient postal processing. Therefore, this provision includes a requirement that no page may have dimensions (when folded) that exceed the dimensions of the cover of the publication. In another change from current standards, this new pages section would allow the use of grommets, string, rubber bands, and similar types of fastening materials in minor amounts in the production of printed sheets. The Postal Service has concluded that allowing the use of minor amounts of these fastening materials in the preparation of pages is consistent with the existing practice of allowing second-class publications to be bound with staples, saddle stitching, or spiral binding. The mailing standards governing the preparation of parts and sections in proposed C200.1.2 remain unchanged, although current C200.2.0, 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3 have been condensed into one paragraph. The provision governing parts or sections produced by someone other than the publisher has been retained in 1.2 to preserve the distinction between parts and sections of a publication and supplements to a publication. Nonincidental enclosures at First- and third-class rates are covered in proposed C200.1.3, which is composed of former 8.1, 8.3b, 8.4, 8.6, and 10.2. The wording has been changed for clarity. Proposed C200.1.4 incorporates current sections (C200.3.2, 3.3, 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3) governing enclosures and attachments mailable at second-class rates. The last sentence of current 3.2f (proposed C200.1.4b) is deleted to remove the single-fold limitation on a printed sheet accompanying a receipt, request, or order for a subscription. The Postal Service does not believe that it is necessary to limit the method used by publishers in producing this material.
