FR940720-1-00028 FR940720-1-00009 39 CFR Part 111 Contents of Second-Class Mail AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposal would revise the present standards in the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) on materials eligible for mailing at second-class rates with authorized second-class publications. The proposal would remove the current advertising limitation on loose supplements to bound publications and adopt a more objective test for determining what material can be mailed as a supplement. The proposal would revise the regulations on pages with ``novel'' characteristics, giving publishers more latitude in page design. The provisions concerning the mailing of products and product samples have been liberalized. A new provision has been added specifying how advertising content of second-class publications is to be measured. A provision has also been added defining public service announcements. Finally, the proposal would reorganize and clarify a number of additional standards for second-class mail concerning addressing, mailpiece construction, rate eligibility, and postage payment. These additional changes are editorial rather than substantive in nature. DATES: Comments on this proposal must be received on or before September 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be mailed or delivered to the Manager, Business Mail Acceptance, U.S. Postal Service, 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW, Room 8430, Washington, DC 20260&hyph;6808. Copies of all written comments will be available for inspection and photocopying between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jerome M. Lease, (202) 268&hyph;5188, or Alixe Johnson, (312) 765&hyph;5487. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the mid-1980s the Postal Service undertook an extensive review of the regulations governing what could be mailed as part of a periodical publication at second-class postage rates, with a special focus on supplements to second-class publications. Beginning in September 1986, the Postal Service published four proposed rules, culminating in a final rule that was published 2 years later. 53 FR 35813 (September 15, 1988). The final rule explained that then-recent changes in technology_specifically the introduction of equipment making it practical to insert a publication into a sealed plastic wrapper (polybag)_made it possible for publishers of bound second-class publications to include with their publications additional materials that are separate and distinct from the publication. A number of publishers were in favor of taking advantage of this new technology, but others were concerned that allowing separately prepared material to be enclosed loose in a polybag at second-class rates would cause an undesirable movement of printed advertising materials from third-class mail to second-class mail. The Postal Service noted the difficulty in reaching an appropriate balance between the conflicting concerns and interests in this area, and was hopeful that the rulemaking would resolve these issues. To counter arguments that second-class mail would be harmed by the inclusion of too much advertising in the form of loose supplements riding along with bound second-class publications, the final rule adopted, among other things, requirements that a loose second-class supplement and its host bound publication must be enclosed in an envelope or wrapper, that the supplement must contain a minimum of 25 percent nonadvertising content, and that the supplement must be marked ``Supplement to'' followed by the name of the publication or the publisher. Although that rulemaking was at least partially successful in achieving its goals, experience over the past 6 years indicates that further revisions may be appropriate. Technological advancements, such as selective binding, continue to affect the design of publications, and publishers continue to seek to include materials with second-class publications that were not contemplated at the time the current regulations were adopted. Many publishers consider the 25 percent nonadvertising rule for loose supplements to be burdensome and inappropriate as a means of curbing the influx of advertising in second-class mail. Many publishers also consider the current restrictions on the use of pages with ``novel'' characteristics and the inclusion of products and product samples to limit unduly their creativity in designing publications that appeal to their readers and advertisers. These publishers also point out that private delivery companies do not impose similar restrictions on their delivery of publications. The most significant problem with the current regulations from the Postal Service's perspective is the difficulty in applying these standards. This problem is not limited to customers, but exists for postal personnel as well, as is demonstrated by the relatively large number of revenue deficiencies and decisions overturned on administrative appeal that concern the mailing of supplements, novelty pages, and products with second-class publications. This difficulty of application creates additional expense for the Postal Service in training and in mail acceptance, and it compromises the ability of the Postal Service to collect consistently the correct postage on second-class mailings.
