FR941219-2-00010 FR941219-2-00004 Preliminary Results of Review We have preliminarily determined that the following margin exists for the period February 1, 1993, through January 31, 1994: ␣ 1Manufacturer/Exporter 1Margin (percent) Equine Forgings Limited 0.01 The Department shall determine, and the Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. Upon completion of this review, the Department will issue appraisement instructions directly to the U.S. Customs Service. Furthermore, the following deposit requirements will be effective for all shipments of the subject merchandise, entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the publication date of the final results of this administrative review, as provided for by section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act: (1) The cash deposit rate for the reviewed firm will be that firm's rate established in the final results of this administrative review. If the rate in the final results of review for Equine Forgings Limited is de minimis, there will be no cash deposits required on shipments from this firm. (2) For previously reviewed or investigated companies not listed above, the cash deposit rate will continue to be the company-specific rate published for the most recent period. (3) If the exporter is not a firm covered in this review, a previous review, or the original less than fair value (LTFV) investigation, but the manufacturer is, the cash deposit rate will be the rate established for the most recent period for the manufacturer of the merchandise. On May 25, 1993, the Court of International Trade, in Floral Trade Council v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;79, and Federal-Mogul Corporation and the Torrington Company v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;83, decided that once an ``all others'' rate is established for a company, it can only be changed through an administrative review. The Department has determined that in order to implement these decisions, it is appropriate to apply the original ``all others'' rate from the LTFV investigation (or that rate as amended for correction of clerical errors or as a result of litigation) in proceedings governed by antidumping duty orders for the purposes of establishing cash deposits in all current and future administrative reviews. In proceedings governed by antidumping findings, unless we are able to ascertain the ``all others'' rate from the Treasury LTFV investigation, the Department has determined that it is appropriate to adopt the ``new shipper'' rate established in the first final results of administrative review published by the Department (or that rate amended for correction of clerical errors or as a result of litigation) as the ``all others'' rate for the purpose of establishing cash deposits in all current and future administrative reviews. Because this proceeding is governed by an antidumping finding and we are unable to ascertain the ``all others'' rate from the Treasury LTFV investigation, the ``all others'' rate for purposes of this review will be 6.77 percent, the ``new shipper'' rate established in the final results of administrative review published by the Department (47 FR 51779, November 17, 1982). These deposit requirements, when imposed, shall remain in effect until publication of the final results of the next administrative review. Interested parties may request disclosure within 5 days of the date of publication of this notice, and a hearing within 10 days of the date of publication. Any hearing requested will be held as early as convenient for parties but no later than 44 days after the date of publication, or the first workday thereafter. Case briefs, or other written comments, from interested parties may be submitted not later than 30 days after the date of publication of this notice. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttal comments, limited to issues raised in the case briefs, may be filed not later than 37 days after the date of publication. The Department will publish the final results of review, including its results of its analysis of issues raised in any such written comments or at a hearing. This notice serves as a preliminary reminder to importers of their responsibility under 19 CFR 353.26 to file a certificate regarding the reimbursement of antidumping duties prior to liquidation of the relevant entries during this review period. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in the Secretary's presumption that reimbursement of antidumping duties occurred and the subsequent assessment of double antidumping duties. This administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)) and 19 CFR 353.22. Dated: December 7, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31139 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
