FR940920-2-00077 FR940920-2-00035 Program Requirements The following are applicant requirements: A. A principal investigator who has conducted research, published the findings, and has specific authority and responsibility to carry out the proposed project. B. Demonstrated experience in conducting, evaluating, and publishing injury control research on the applicant's project team. C. Effective and well-defined working relationships within the performing organization and with outside entities which will ensure implementation of the proposed activities. D. An explanation of how research findings could lead to the development of injury control interventions within 3&hyph;5 years of project start-up. Furthermore, how the research findings might be disseminated and implemented through organizations (such as public health agencies) or systems, both public and private. E. The ability to carry out injury control research projects. F. The overall match between the applicant's proposed theme and research objectives, and the program priorities as described under the heading ``Programmatic Interests'' and in Injury Control in the 1990s: A National Plan for Action. Atlanta: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1993, and Healthy People 2000. Note: Grant funds will not be made available to support the provision of direct care services. Eligible applicants may enter into contracts, including consortia agreements (as set forth in the PHS Grants Policy Statement) as necessary to meet the requirements of the program and strengthen the overall application. Programmatic Interests The grants should concentrate on the need to prevent the morbidity, mortality, and disability which results from interpersonal violence and suicidal behavior, in order to reduce their devastating social and economic impact on the nation. Applicants are encouraged to propose research which either: (1) Rigorously evaluates the outcomes of violence prevention strategies currently in use, or (2) identifies modifiable risk factors which can lead to the development of effective interventions. Examples of possible projects listed under the priority areas below are by no means exhaustive, and innovative approaches are encouraged. Because of time constraints, comments were not solicited from the general public regarding funding priorities and special considerations. (1) Evaluating the outcomes of violence prevention strategies: In prevention, there is specific interest in research which evaluates the effectiveness of interventions in preventing violent injuries or reducing their impact and develops the basic sciences of injury (i.e., social and behavioral science, biomechanics, and epidemiology). This research might evaluate one or more different approaches to implementing a specific intervention strategy. In addition, there is a need to examine intervention strategies for which evidence of effectiveness is either sparse or totally lacking. Interventions chosen for evaluation should have a significant potential for reduction in violent injury morbidity, mortality, disability, or cost. Special consideration will be given to grants which target populations at high risk for violence-related injuries and their consequences, including adolescents, women, and children, racial and ethnic minorities, urban residents, and people with low incomes. Prevention strategies for youth suicide whose effectiveness should be assessed include: •school or community ``gatekeeper'' training; •screening for high-risk youth; •peer support programs; •suicide education of the general population; •crisis centers and hotlines; •limiting access to lethal means of suicide, such as firearms, prescription drugs, and high places; •intervention after a suicide or attempted suicide to prevent imitation due to the effects of ``contagion''.
