FR940204-1-00042 FR940204-1-00003 Special conditions, as appropriate, are issued in accordance with §11.49 of the FAR after public notice and opportunity for comment, as required by §§11.28 and 11.29(b), and become part of the type certification basis in accordance with §21.101(b)(2). Conclusion This proposed action affects only certain novel or unusual design features on one model engine. It is not a rule of general applicability, and it affects only the manufacturer who applied to the FAA for approval of these features on the engine. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 33 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety. The authority citations for these special conditions continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421, 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.49 and 21.16. The Proposed Special Conditions Accordingly, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) proposes the following special conditions as part of the type certification basis for the Soloy Dual Pac, Inc., Model Soloy Dual Pac engine: (a) Safety Analysis It must be shown by analysis that any probable malfunction, or any probable single or multiple failure, or any probable improper operation of the Dual Pac engine will not cause the Dual Pac engine to_ (1) Catch fire; (2) Burst (release hazardous fragments through the engine case); (3) Generate loads greater than those ultimate loads specified in §33.23(a); (4) Lose the capability of being shut down; or (5) Lose the capability of providing controllable 50 percent of rated power. (b) Uncontained Engine Failure Design precautions must be taken to minimize the damage to one P&W PT6 engine, in the event of uncontained engine failure of the other P&W PT6 engine, in order for the unfailed engine to be capable of continued torque production after such a failure. (c) Gearbox Design, Functioning, and Endurance Testing (1) Propulsion Drive System Design. Propulsion drive systems, as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i), must meet the requirements as set forth in paragraphs (c) (1) through (6). (i) The propulsion drive system includes all parts necessary to transmit power from the engines to the propeller shaft. This includes couplings, universal joints, drive shafts, supporting hearings for shafts, brake assemblies, clutches, gearboxes, transmissions, any attached accessory pad or drives, and any cooling fans that are attached to, or mounted on, the propulsion drive system. (ii) Each propulsion drive system, powered by more than one engine, must be arranged so that the propeller shaft and its control will continue to be powered by the remaining engine(s) if any engine fails. (iii) Each multiengined propulsion drive system must incorporate a device to automatically disengage any engine from the propeller shaft, it that engine fails. (iv) The oil for components of the propulsion drive system that require continuous lubrication must be sufficiently independent of the lubrication systems of the engine(s) to ensure operation with any engine inoperative. The propulsion drive system must be able to operate at zero oil pressure and 100 percent output speed for at least 15 seconds without damage to the components and without seizure. (v) Torque limiting means must be provided on all accessory drives that are located on the propulsion drive system, in order to prevent the torque limits established for those drives from being exceeded. (vi) There must be means to provide continued propulsion system control and operation, following the failure of an engine to transmission drive shaft.
