FR940513-1-00038 FR940513-1-00009 (e) Calculating payments. Subject to adjustments under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, incentive payments under this part to the owner or operator of any qualified renewable energy facility shall be calculated by multiplying the number of kilowatt-hours of electricity generated through the use of renewable energy sources and sold to another entity during the payment period by 1.5 cents per kilowatt-hour. (f) Adjustments. The amount of the incentive payment to any owner or operator under this section shall be adjusted for inflation for each fiscal year beginning after calendar year 1993 in the same manner as provided in section 29(d)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, except that in applying such provisions the calendar year 1993 shall be substituted for calendar year 1979. (g) If there are insufficient appropriations available to make incentive payments for all approved applications, DOE shall_ (1) On a priority (and if necessary on a pro rata) basis, make incentive payments first with respect to qualified renewable energy facilities using wind, solar, geothermal, and closed-loop biomass technologies; (2) In the event there are insufficient funds for full incentive payments to applicants other than those specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, reduce the amount of incentive payments to these other applicants on a prorated basis by the ratio of appropriated funds remaining after payments under paragraph (g)(1) to the total approved incentive payments for the other applicants; and (3) Treat the number of kilowatt-hours attributable to the portion of any incentive payment which is reduced under this paragraph as accrued energy that may be combined with energy subsequently produced from the same source for which subsequent application for incentive payment is made. (h) After calculating the amount of the incentive payment under paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section, the DOE Deciding Official shall then issue a notice of the determination to the applicant_ (1) Approving the application as appropriate for payment and forwarding a copy to the DOE Finance Office with a request to pay; (2) Setting forth the calculation of the approved amount; and (3) Stating the amount of accrued kilowatt-hours, if any, and the energy source for same. (i) If the application does not meet the requirements of this part or some of the kilowatt-hours claimed in the application meriting an incentive payment are disallowed as unqualified, the Deciding Official shall issue a notice denying the application in whole or in part with an explanation of the basis for denial. ยง451.10 Administrative appeals. (a) In order to exhaust administrative remedies, an applicant who receives a notice denying an application in whole or in part shall appeal, on or before 30 days from date of the notice issued by the DOE Deciding Official, to the Office of Hearings and Appeals, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, D.C. 20585, in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart H of 10 CFR part 205. (b) If an applicant does not appeal under paragraph (a) of this section, the determination of the DOE Deciding Official shall become final for DOE and judicially unreviewable. (c) If an applicant appeals on a timely basis under paragraph (a) of this section, the decision and order of the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall be final for DOE. (d) If the Office of Hearings and Appeals orders an incentive payment, the DOE Deciding Official shall send a copy of such order to the DOE Finance Office with a request to pay. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11738 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
