FR941004-1-00022 FR941004-1-00003 The drafters of this regulation are Mr. John Wachter, project officer, and LT Elisa Holland, project attorney. Background and Purpose LDOTD has requested the 4-hour difference in the time the bridgeowner is required to have an attendant on duty, because of a decline in vessel traffic that passes the Mermentau River bridge at Grand Chenier. The four-hour difference would allow the bridge owner relief from having a person available at the bridge site, thereby, creating a savings to the taxpayer while still serving the reasonable needs of navigational interest. Discussion of Proposed Rules The Mermentau River bridge is a 1049 foot structure. Navigational clearances provided by the bridge are 16-feet vertical above mean high water in the closed position and unlimited in the open position. Horizontal clearance is 69.5 feet. The depth of the waterway at the bridge site is approximately 20 feet. Navigation on the waterway consists of mainly small and large fishing boats, tugs with tows and work boats. Data provided by LDOTD show that from January 1, through December 31, 1993, the number of vessels that passed the bridge totaled 2929 for the year. This breaks down to about 240 vessels per month or 8.0 vessels per 24-hour period. Alternate routes are available. They are the Calcasieu Ship Channel and the Intracoastal Canal. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential cost and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal, if adopted, will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' may include (1) small business and not-for-profit organizations that are independently owned and operated and are not dominant in their fields and (2) governmental jurisdictions with populations of less than 50,000. Since the proposed rule also considers the needs of local commercial fishing vessels, the economic impact is expected to be minimal. Therefore, the Coast Guard certified under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This proposal contains no collection-of-information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ).
