FR940118-1-00030 FR940118-1-00006 §251.72 Determination of controversy. (a) Cable television. After the first day of August each year, the Librarian of Congress shall determine whether a controversy exists among the claimants of cable television compulsory license royalty fees. In order to determine whether a controversy exists, and to facilitate agreement among the claimants as to the proper distribution, the Librarian may request public comment or conduct public hearings, whichever he or she deems necessary. All requests for information and notices of public hearings shall be published in the Federal Register , along with a description of the general structure and schedule of the proceeding. (b) Satellite carriers. After the first day of August of each year, the Librarian shall determine whether a controversy exists among the claimants of the satellite carrier compulsory license royalty fees. In order to determine whether a controversy exists, and to facilitate agreement among the claimants as to the proper distribution, the Librarian may request public comment or conduct public hearings, whichever he or she deems necessary. All requests for information and notices of public hearings shall be published in the Federal Register , along with a description of the general structure and schedule of the proceeding. (c) Digital audio recording devices and media. Within 30 days after the last day of February each year, the Librarian of Congress shall determine whether a controversy exists among the claimants of digital audio recording devices and media royalty payments as to any Subfund of the Sound Recording Fund or the Musical Works Fund as set forth in 17 U.S.C. 1006(b) (1) and (2). In order to determine whether a controversy exists, and to facilitate agreement among the claimants as to the proper distribution, the Librarian may request public comment or conduct public hearings, whichever he or she deems necessary. All requests for information and notices of public hearings shall be published in the Federal Register , along with a description of the general structure and schedule of the proceeding. §251.73 Declaration of controversy: Initiation of arbitration proceeding. If the Librarian determines that a controversy exists among the claimants to either cable television, satellite carrier, or digital audio recording devices and media royalties, the Librarian shall publish in the Federal Register a declaration of controversy along with a notice of initiation of an arbitration proceeding. Such notice shall, to the extent feasible, describe the nature, general structure and schedule of the proceeding. §251.74 Deduction of costs of distribution proceedings. Pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 802(h)(1), the Librarian of Congress and the Register of Copyrights may, before any distributions of cable television royalty fees are made, deduct the reasonable costs incurred by the Library of Congress and the Copyright Office as a result of the distribution proceedings. 3. Part 302 of chapter III is removed. 3a. A new part 252 is added to subchapter B of chapter II to read as follows: PART 252_FILING OF CLAIMS TO CABLE ROYALTY FEES Sec. 252.1␣Scope. 252.2␣Time of filing. 252.3␣Content of claims. 252.4␣Compliance with statutory dates. 252.5␣Proof of fixation of works. Authority: 17 U.S.C. 111(d)(4), 801, 803. §252.1 Scope. This part prescribes procedures under 17 U.S.C. 111(d)(4)(A), whereby parties claiming to be entitled to cable compulsory license royalty fees shall file claims with the Copyright Office. §252.2 Time of filing. During the month of July each year, any party claiming to be entitled to cable compulsory license royalty fees for secondary transmissions of one or more of its works during the preceding calendar year shall file a claim to such fees with the Copyright Office. No royalty fees shall be distributed to a party for secondary transmissions during the specified period unless such party has timely filed a claim to such fees. Claimants may file claims jointly or as a single claim.
