FR940208-1-00060 FR940208-1-00011 3. Periodic Reports Periodic Reports are required to ensure that the standards continue to be met and that vapor control systems are operated and maintained properly. Generally, periodic reports would be submitted semiannually or quarterly. However, if monitoring results show that the parameter values for the vapor processing system exceed or fail to maintain, as appropriate, the operating parameter value for more than 1 percent of the operating time in a quarterly reporting period, or the monitor is out of service for more than 5 percent of the time, the Administrator may request that the owner or operator submit more frequent reports. After 1 year, the facility may return to quarterly reporting if approved by the regulatory authority. The Agency has established this reporting system to provide an incentive (less frequent reporting) for good performance. Due to uncertainty about the periods of time over which sources are likely to experience exceedences or failures to maintain, as appropriate, the operating parameter value or monitoring system failures, the Agency is seeking comment on the 1 percent and 5 percent criteria triggering the potential for more frequent reporting. In particular, data are requested on both the frequency of exceedences and monitoring system downtime. As discussed in section VI.F.2, records must be kept of the parameter value. Owners and operators are also required to keep records of monthly or quarterly leak detection and repair, and to furnish reports on program results, as specified in §63.428(f). These reports can be made a part of the Periodic Report, unless the frequency of the reports exceeds that of the Periodic Report. Facilities must also retain records and submit reports of annual inspections of storage vessels, in accordance with §63.428(e). These reports may also be included in the appropriate Periodic Report. 4. Other Reports There are also a limited number of other reports required under the proposed standards. Where possible, subpart R is structured to allow information to be reported in the semiannual (or quarterly) Periodic Report. However, in a few cases, it is necessary for the facility to provide information to the regulatory authority shortly before or after a specific event. For example, notification before a performance test or a storage vessel inspection is required to allow the regulatory authority the opportunity to have an observer present (as specified in the proposed General Provisions). This type of reporting must be done separately from the Periodic Reports because some situations require a shorter term response from the reviewing authority. Reports of start of construction, anticipated and actual startup dates, and modifications, as required under §63.5 and §63.9 of the proposed General Provisions, are entered into the Agency's Aerometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS) and are used to determine whether emission limits are being met. Records required under the proposed standards are generally required to be kept for 5 years. General recordkeeping requirements are contained in the proposed General Provisions under §63.10(b). These requirements include records of malfunctions and maintenance performed on the vapor processing system and the parameter monitoring system. At bulk gasoline terminals, vapor tightness (annual test) documentation for each gasoline tank truck and railcar using the terminal is required. Continuous monitoring data from the parameter monitor on the vapor processor and the pressure monitor on the vacuum assist vapor collection system will provide a record of continuous compliance with the emission standards. Records of storage vessel inspections, operating plans, and other details of controlled storage vessels at terminals and pipeline stations are to be kept as specified under §60.115b. Records documenting the LDAR program at subject facilities must be kept in accordance with §60.486 (b) through (j). H. Selection of Compliance Deadlines The Agency proposes to allow affected sources the following time periods after promulgation for compliance, as provided for in Clean Air Act section 112(i). All sources, whether uncontrolled or having in place control systems or measures requiring upgrading to meet the new standards, would be required to reach full compliance within 3 years after promulgation of the standards. All sources must implement an LDAR program as soon as practical, but not later than 180 days after promulgation of this rule. These compliance deadlines allow a reasonable time for replacement of operating equipment at existing sources, for construction and installation of vapor control devices and piping, and for retrofit of storage tanks. I. Solicitation of Comments The Administrator welcomes comments from interested persons on any aspect of the proposed standards, and on any statement in the preamble or the referenced supporting documents. The proposed standards were developed on the basis of information available. The Administrator is specifically requesting factual information that may support either the approach taken in the proposed standards or an alternate approach. To receive proper consideration, documentation or data should be provided.
