FR940722-2-00088 FR940722-2-00058 Occupational Safety and Health Administration [Docket No. NRTL&hyph;1&hyph;93] Wyle Laboratories; Recognition as a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory AGENCY: Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor. ACTION: Notice of Recognition as a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory. SUMMARY: This notice announces the Agency's final decision on the application of Wyle Laboratories for recognition as a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL) under 29 CFR 1910.7. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Office of Variance Determination, NRTL Recognition Program, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N3653, Washington, DC 20210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Notice of Final Decision Notice is hereby given that Wyle Laboratories, which made application pursuant to 29 CFR 1910.7, has been recognized as a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory for the equipment or material listed below. The address of the laboratory covered by this application is: Wyle Laboratories, 7800 Governors Drive, P.O. Box 077777, Huntsville, Alabama 35807. Background Wyle Laboratories (WL), a publicly-held corporation, was founded in 1949 in El Segundo, California, as an independent test laboratory to support the aerospace industry. In 1959, Wyle expanded to a new location in Norco, California and created the Huntsville facility in 1962 to support the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the establishment of the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) in Huntsville, Alabama, with testing, engineering, and research capabilities. Of the three major operations at the Huntsville facility, the one of interest to the NRTL Accreditation program is the Test Operations Division, which includes the Product Safety Department. The Product Safety Testing and Certification Department of the Test Operations Division is responsible for the testing, certification, and factory follow-up inspections of the products. Wyle Laboratories applied to OSHA for recognition as a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory in April 1992. An on-site evaluation was conducted from November 2&hyph;6, 1992, and the results discussed with the applicant who responded [Ex. 3A(2)] with appropriate actions and clarifications to recommendations made as a result of the survey [Ex. 3A(1)]. These actions were accomplished prior to the preparation of the final report. The final on-site review report (Ex. 3A) consisting of the on-site evaluation of WL's testing facilities and administrative and technical practices, and the corrective actions taken by WL in response to these evaluations, and the OSHA staff recommendation, were subsequently forwarded to the Assistant Secretary for a preliminary finding on the application. A notice of WL's application together with a positive preliminary finding was published in the Federal Register on January 6, 1994 (59 FR 783&hyph;785). There were eight responses, all of a positive nature, to this Federal Register notice of the WL application and preliminary finding (Docket No. NRTL&hyph;1&hyph;93). The Occupational Safety and Health Administration has evaluated the entire record in relation to the regulations set out in 29 CFR 1910.7 and makes the following findings: Capability Section 1910.7(b)(1) states that for each specified item of equipment or material to be listed, labeled or accepted, the laboratory must have the capability (including proper testing equipment and facilities, trained staff, written testing procedures, and calibration and quality control programs) to perform appropriate testing. The on-site review report indicates that WL does have testing equipment and facilities appropriate for the areas of recognition it seeks. The laboratory has available all the general test equipment required to perform the testing required by the particular standards for which accreditation is sought. If any unique pieces of additional equipment are necessary, WL will obtain them as required.
