FR940325-1-00090 FR940325-1-00008 ยง1784.6&hyph;2 Rangeland resource teams. Multiple resource advisory councils may form rangeland resource teams for the purposes of providing local level input and serving as fact-finding teams in response to a petition from local citizens or on the motion of the council. Rangeland resource teams provide input and recommendations to the multiple resource advisory council on concerns pertaining to grazing administration on public lands within the area for which the rangeland resource team is formed, not to exceed the geographical area or scope of management actions for which the multiple resource advisory council provides advice. (a) Rangeland resource teams shall consist of 5 members selected by the multiple resource advisory council. Membership shall include 2 persons holding Federal grazing permits or leases within the area for which input is sought and who have resided within the jurisdiction of the rangeland resource team for at least two years prior to their selection, 1 representative of the local public-at-large who has resided within the jurisdiction of the rangeland resource team for at least two years prior to selection who is not a Federal grazing permittee or lessee, 1 representative of a nationally or regionally recognized environmental organization who is not a Federal grazing permittee or lessee, and 1 representative of national, regional or local wildlife or recreation interests who is not a Federal grazing permittee or lessee. At least one rangeland resource team member must also be a member of the multiple resource advisory council. Persons may qualify for selection as rangeland resource team members by virtue of their knowledge or experience of the lands, resources, and communities that fall within the area for which they are formed. Nominations for membership shall be accompanied by letters of recommendation from local interests which the nominee will be representing. (b) Members of rangeland resource teams shall attend a course of instruction in the management of rangeland ecosystems that has been approved by the responsible Bureau of Land Management State Director. (c) Established rangeland resource teams shall remain intact until such time as they are terminated by the multiple resource advisory council, or until the charter of the multiple resource advisory council expires. (d) Rangeland resource teams shall have opportunities to raise any matter of concern with the multiple resource advisory council and to request that the multiple resource advisory council form a technical review team pursuant to ยง1784.6&hyph;3 to conduct fact-finding and to prepare options for the council's consideration. 14. A new ยง1784.6&hyph;3 is added to read as follows: ยง1784.6&hyph;3 Technical review teams. (a) A multiple resource advisory council may establish, on an as needed basis, a technical review team in response to a petition of an involved rangeland resource team or on their own motion. Technical review teams may also be established by a rangeland resource team chartered as an advisory committee. The function of technical review teams shall be limited to tasks assigned by the parent advisory committee relating to fact finding within the geographical area and scope of management actions for which the parent advisory committee provides advice. (b) Members of technical review teams shall be selected by the multiple resource advisory council on the basis of their knowledge of resource management or their familiarity with the specific issues for which the technical review team has been formed. The technical review team shall include at least 1 member of the parent advisory committee. (c) Technical review teams shall terminate upon completion of the task assigned by the parent advisory committee. PART 4100_GRAZING ADMINISTRATION_EXCLUSIVE OF ALASKA
