FR940804-0-00127 FR940804-0-00024 (i) Waived the presence of counsel and that such waiver is voluntary, knowing, and informed; or (ii) Obtained substitute counsel or has received substitute counsel by court appointment, and substitute counsel has consented to the communication. (d) Waivers at the time of arrest . The communication is made at the time of the arrest of the represented party and he or she is advised of his or her rights under Miranda v. Arizona , 384 U.S. 436 (1966), and voluntarily and knowingly waives them. (e) Investigation of additional, different or ongoing crimes or civil violations. The communication is made in the course of an investigation, whether undercover or overt, of additional, different or ongoing criminal activity or other unlawful conduct. Such additional, different or ongoing criminal activity or other unlawful conduct may include, but is not limited to, the following: (1) Additional, different or ongoing criminal activity or other unlawful conduct that is separate from or committed after the criminal activity for which the represented party has been arrested or charged or for which the represented party is a defendant in a civil law enforcement proceeding; or (2) Criminal activity that is intended to impede or evade the administration of justice including, but not limited to, the administration of justice in the proceeding in which the represented party is a defendant, such as obstruction of justice, subornation of perjury, jury tampering, murder, assault, or intimidation of witnesses, bail jumping, or unlawful flight to avoid prosecution. (f) Threat to safety or life . The attorney for the government in good faith believes that there may be a threat to the safety or life of any person; the purpose of the communication is to obtain or provide information to protect against the risk of injury or death; and the attorney for the government in good faith believes that the communication is necessary to protect against such risk. §77.7 Represented persons; investigations. Except as otherwise provided in this part, an attorney for the government may communicate, or cause another to communicate, with a represented person in the process of conducting an investigation, including, but not limited to, an undercover investigation. §77.8 Represented persons and represented parties; plea negotiations and other legal agreements. An attorney for the government may not initiate or engage in negotiations of a plea agreement, settlement, statutory or non-statutory immunity agreement, or other disposition of actual or potential criminal charges or civil enforcement claims, or sentences or penalties with a represented person or represented party who the attorney for the government knows is represented by an attorney without the consent of the attorney representing such person or party; provided, however, that this restriction will not apply if the communication satisfies §77.6(c). §77.9 Represented persons and represented parties; respect for attorney-client relationships. When an attorney for the government communicates, or causes a law enforcement agent or cooperating witness to communicate, with a represented person or represented party pursuant to any provision of these regulations without the consent of counsel, the following restrictions must be observed: (a) Deference to attorney-client relationship. (1) An attorney for the government, or anyone acting at his or her direction may not, when communicating with a represented person or represented party: (i) Inquire about information regarding lawful defense strategy or legal arguments of counsel; (ii) Disparage counsel for a represented person or represented party or otherwise seek to induce the person to forego representation or to disregard the advice of the person's attorney; or (iii) Otherwise improperly seek to disrupt the relationship between the represented person or represented party and counsel. (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, the Associate Attorney General, an Assistant Attorney General or a United States Attorney finds that there is a substantial likelihood that there exists a significant conflict of interest between a represented person or party and his or her attorney; and that it is not feasible to obtain a judicial order challenging the representation, then an attorney for the government with prior written authorization from an official identified above may apprise the person of the nature of the perceived conflict of interest, unless the exigencies of the situation permit only prior oral authorization, in which case such oral authorization shall be memorialized in writing as soon thereafter as possible. (b) Attorney-client meetings. An attorney for the government may not direct or cause an undercover law enforcement agent or cooperating witness to attend or participate in lawful attorney-client meetings or communications, except when the agent or witness is requested to do so by the represented person or party, defense counsel, or another person affiliated or associated with the defense, and when reasonably necessary to protect the safety of the agent or witness or the confidentiality of an undercover operation. If the agent or witness attends or participates in such meetings, any information regarding lawful defense strategy or trial preparation imparted to the agent or witness shall not be communicated to attorneys for the government or to law enforcement agents who are directly participating in the ongoing investigation or in the prosecution of pending criminal charges, or used in any other way to the substantial detriment of the client. §77.10 Organizations and employees. This section applies when the communication involves a former or current employee of an organization that qualifies as a represented party or represented person, and the subject matter of the communication relates to the business or other affairs of the organization.
