FR941220-0-00025 FR941220-0-00005 Visits (ยง409.48) Comment: One commenter requested clarification of Medicare coverage when a nurse provides a skilled nursing service and a home health aide service in the course of a single visit. The commenter suggested that the HHA should receive two payments for this visit: one payment for a skilled nursing visit and one for a home health aide visit. Response: If a nurse furnishes several services that fall within the normal scope of a nurse's practice in the course of a single visit, that constitutes only one visit. Because the visit involved only a single nurse providing home health services during the course of a single visit, the fact that the nurse also provided incidental unskilled services (which can be safely and effectively provided by a licensed nurse) in addition to the skilled nursing care does not mean that the service could be covered as two visits. We consider this situation to involve only a single episode of personal contact between the HHA staff and the beneficiary and, therefore, covered only as a single visit under the requirements of ยง409.48(c). Comment: One commenter requested clarification of Medicare coverage when two individuals are needed to provide a service. The commenter specifically cited a situation in which a nurse and a home health aide are required to furnish a service. Response: As stated in ยง409.48(c)(3) of this section, Medicare will pay for two visits when two individuals are needed to furnish a service (e.g., a bath, wound care, or a certain exercise). Because each patient's situation is unique, we have not established a specific guideline for which combinations of HHA personnel can furnish services that are covered as two visits. The personnel, however, must be appropriate for the service to be performed (for example, it would not require the services of two licensed nurses to give a routine bath to a heavy beneficiary). Although coverage of these services does not require the HHA to submit any additional documentation, the clinical notes should describe why it is necessary for two individuals to furnish the service (patient's weight, nature of required equipment, etc.). Comment: One commenter opposed the coverage of two visits when the HHA staff cannot provide the reasonable and necessary care in the course of a single visit but remain in the beneficiary's home between the provision of the services. The commenter stated that claims for coverage in this situation would be too difficult for the intermediary to review. Another commenter requested that we rescind this coverage until its impact can be studied. Response: We have not accepted either of these comments. We believe that, in those situations in which the HHA cannot provide the necessary services in the course of a single visit (e.g., wound dressing changes), it is fair and reasonable to cover two separate visits even though the individual furnishing the care has remained in the home between visits (e.g., to provide companionship or other non- covered care). Abandonment of this policy would simply result in HHA staff leaving the home for a token period of time or having a different HHA staff member provide the second service to create an artificial ``second visit.'' Although coverage of these visits may be more demanding for the intermediary to review, the removal of this coverage would inevitably result in HHAs allocating staff less efficiently to secure coverage of two visits. In summary, if the two services cannot feasibly be provided in a single visit, we do not believe what the provider does between those services is relevant to the coverage decision. With regard to delaying implementation of this coverage, Medicare has covered two visits in this situation for some time without discernible effect. This rule codifies current coverage.
