FR940428-2-00089 FR940428-2-00052 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated has not been created. The proposed change in operating cycle length due to an increased surveillance interval will not result in a channel statistical allowance which exceeds the current margin between the existing Technical Specification limit and the Safety Analysis limit. Plant equipment, which will be set at (or more conservatively than) Technical Specification limits, will provide protective functions to assure that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. This will prevent the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated from occurring. 3. A significant reduction in a margin of safety is not involved. The above change in surveillance interval resulting from an increased operating cycle will not result in a channel statistical allowance which exceeds the margin which exists between the current Technical Specification limit and the licensing basis Safety Analysis limit. This margin, which is equivalent to the existing margin, is necessary to assure that protective safety functions will occur so that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. [(13) Plant Vent Noble Gas Effluent Monitor (R&hyph;27):] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. There is no significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the Plant Vent Noble Gas Effluent Monitor (R&hyph;27) be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). R&hyph;27 is a high range noble gas monitor intended for use after an accident to provide information about the magnitude of radioactive releases. It serves no purpose during normal operation. It provides no function to prevent or mitigate an accident but does provide a role in assessing the consequences of an accident. As the monitor is a high range monitor, an estimate of the magnitude of release rather than accuracy is important. Accordingly, continued operability of the instrument during an extended operating cycle is more important than the device exhibiting minimal drift characteristics. Malfunction of the instrument would be detected by the shift checks and functional tests performed during the extended operating cycle. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed has not been created. Since the monitor provides no preventive or mitigating action in the event of an accident, no new or different type of accident has been created by extending the operating cycle. In terms of post accident assessment capability, alternate means exist to assess offsite releases in the event of failure of this instrument. 3. There has been no reduction in the margin of safety. Since the instrument provides no safety function and alternate means exist for post accident assessment purposes, there will be no impact on safety due to an extended period between calibrations. [(14) Refueling Water Storage Tank Level:] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. A significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated will not occur. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the RWST instrumentation be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to quarterly (once every 3 months). A statistical analysis of channel uncertainty for a 3 month surveillance has been performed. Based upon this analysis it has been concluded that sufficient margin exists between the existing Technical Specification limit and the licensing basis Safety Analysis limit to accommodate the channel statistical error resulting from a 3 month quarterly surveillance. The existing margin between the Technical Specification limit and the Safety Analysis limit provides assurance that plant protective actions will occur as required. It is therefore concluded that changing the surveillance interval from 18 months (+25%) to quarterly will not result in a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated has not been created. The proposed change in surveillance interval will result in a channel statistical allowance which provides the necessary margin between the existing Technical Specification limit and the Safety Analysis limit. Plant equipment, which will be set at (or more conservatively than) Technical Specification limits, will provide protective functions to assure that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. This will prevent the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated from occurring. 3. A significant reduction in a margin of safety is not involved. The above change in surveillance interval will result in a channel statistical allowance which is necessary between the current Technical Specification limit and the licensing basis Safety Analysis limit. This margin is necessary to assure that protective safety functions will occur so that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue, White Plains, New York 10610. Attorney for Licensee: Brent L. Brandenburg, Esq., 4 Irving Place, New York, New York 10003. NRC Project Director: Robert A. Capra. Duke Power Company, et al., Docket Nos. 50&hyph;413 and 50&hyph;414, Catawba Nuclear Station, Units 1 and 2, York County, South Carolina Date of Amendment Request: March 24, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: The changes are in support of the forthcoming Cycle 7 for Catawba, Unit 2. The proposed Technical Specification (TS) changes reflect: (1) An increase from 2000 parts per million (ppm) to 2175 ppm in the required spent fuel storage pool minimum boron concentration during Modes 1&hyph;3 operation, (2) An increase from 2000 ppm to 2175 ppm in the required reactor coolant system (RCS) and refueling canal minimum boron concentration during Mode 6 operation, (3) The inclusion of two reload related topical reports into TS 6.9.1.9, and (4) The revision of an administrative nature to correct errors in nomenclature and to remove obsolete footnotes.
