FR941031-2-00044 FR941031-2-00039 The proposed suitability evaluation process calls for the separate and sequential evaluation of individual technical issues or groups of related technical issues. Evaluations of technical issues would be conducted as site characterization data and analyses become available. For each issue or group of issues, DOE would first develop the technical basis that will be used for the assessment of regulatory compliance. DOE desires to have peer reviews of the manner in which scientific information has been collected, analyzed and interpreted in the development of the technical bases. Toward this end, DOE proposes to contract with the NAS to manage a process of external expert peer review of this aspect of the technical bases. This approach would address only the technical or scientific analyses and not address regulatory compliance. II. Proposed Methodology A. Oversee the Required Peer Review Process OCRWM considers the peer review process to have three important steps: (1) Select the peer review committees (2) manage the peer reviews, and (3) oversee development of the peer review reports. (1) Select the peer review committee: For a peer review of a given technical basis report, the BRWM would determine the expertise needed and the size of the committee, establish and make available to the public minimum qualifications for peer reviewers, solicit nominations for qualified peer reviewers from the public, and recommend a slate of nominees for selection through the established National Research Council process, including the following: Minimize the potential for bias on the review committee; ensure that diverse scientific views on the technical issues central to the material are encompassed; consider minority representation and geographic sensitivities including the unique interest the citizens of Nevada have in the process; and ensure the availability of committee members to meet a predetermined schedule. The BRWM would be prepared to discuss with the public how the process addresses these concerns. The size and technical composition of the committee would be determined by the BRWM according to the nature and complexity of the information to be reviewed. To the extent possible, peer review committees would be established well in advance of the availability of the documents for review. DOE would provide recommendations regarding the size of the peer review committees and length of time required for each review, but the BRWM shall make the final decisions of these parameters within the following limits: Maximum committee size_ten members, maximum time to deliver peer review report_six months. (2) Manage the review: Reviewers would evaluate the validity of the data and interpretations and the adequacy of the treatment of uncertainties in describing the current state of understanding. Reviewers would address, at a minimum the following questions: (a) Has the data been collected and analyzed in a technically acceptable manner? (b) Does the data, given the associated error and analytical and conceptual uncertainties, support the technical interpretations and conclusions made within the report? (c) Are there credible alternative interpretations that would significantly alter the conclusions reached? (d) What testing, if any, would discriminate between alternative technical interpretations? (e) If such testing is recommended, how effective would it be at reducing significant uncertainties? In accordance with BRWM policy, all interactions between the peer review committees, report authors and OCRWM would occur in open session and all documents submitted to the committees would be publicly available. The review committee would request that the public provide information on relevant technical issues that they determine should be brought to the attention of the committee. As is standard practice for National Research Council committees, however, Executive Sessions of the committee, when only committee members and NAS staff are present, may precede and/or follow all public meetings. In these sessions the committee would attend to internal administrative and ``housekeeping'' details, deliberations and discussions about the issues and information, plans for future meetings, development of report outlines, and writing of the reports. On occasion, full-day executive session meetings would take place. No private meetings with federal, state, or other parties external to the NAS would ever be held. This is standard practice for the BRWM. The length of time required for peer review would depend on the nature and complexity of the information being reviewed. Because OCRWM is accountable for measurable progress, all reviews would be completed in four to six months.
