FR940426-1-00147 FR940426-1-00018 (2) Implementing and carrying out projects in accordance with the provisions of the grant agreement; and (3) Assuring, to the extent feasible, that such projects will serve the needs of minority, eligible individuals who have the greatest economic need, at least in proportion to their numbers in the State, and take into consideration their rates of poverty and unemployment based on best available information, limited English-speaking, and Indian eligible individuals. [Section 502(b)(1)(M).] (b) The recipient periodically shall monitor the performance of grant-supported activities to assure that project goals are being achieved and that the requirements of the Act and this part are being met. (c) The recipient or subrecipient shall obtain and record the personal information necessary for a proper determination of eligibility for each individual and maintain documentation supporting the enrollment of eligible persons. (d) Each recipient or subrecipient shall make efforts to provide equitable services among substantial segments of the population eligible for participation in SCSEP. Such efforts shall include, but not be limited to: outreach efforts to broaden the composition of the pool of those considered for participation, to include members of both sexes, various race/ethnic groups and individuals with disabilities. §641.303 Cooperative relationships. (a) Each recipient or subrecipient shall, to the maximum extent feasible, cooperate with other agencies, including activities conducted under the JTPA to provide services to elderly persons and to persons with low incomes, and with agencies providing employment and training services. (b) The cooperation described in paragraph (a) of this section shall include, but not be limited to: (1) Selection of community service employment occupational categories, work assignments, and host agencies to provide a variety of community service opportunities for enrollees and to produce a variety of federally funded services which respond to the community's total needs and initiatives. (2) Establishment of cooperative relations with the State agency on aging designated under section 305(a)(1) of the Act and with area agencies on aging designated under section 305(a)(2) of the Act for the purpose of obtaining services as authorized under titles III, IV, and VI of the Act to increase the likelihood of receipt of employment opportunities and supportive services that are available. Existing services provided under the authority of section 321(a) of the Act shall be used first by recipients or subrecipients. (3) Cooperative relations shall be established with other employment and training organizations including the State and local JTPA and the Carl D. Perkins Act programs to insure that project enrollees can benefit from such cooperative activities as dual eligibility, shared assessments, training and referral. (4) Establishment of cooperative relations with State employment security agencies to insure that enrollees are made aware of services available from these agencies. (5) In order to insure efficient and effective coordination of programs under this part, recipients or subrecipients shall consult and submit project descriptions among themselves as well as with affected area agencies on aging. [Section 502(d)(1).] §641.304 Recruitment and selection of enrollees. Recipients and subrecipients shall use methods of recruitment and selection (including listing of vacancies with the State employment security agency) which will assure that the maximum number of eligible individuals will have an opportunity to participate in the program. Recruitment efforts shall be designed, to the extent feasible, to assure equitable distribution of services to groups described in §641.302(e). [Section 402(b)(1)(H).] §641.305 Enrollment eligibility. (a) General. Eligibility criteria set forth in this section apply to all SCSEP applicants and enrollees, including the following individuals: (1) Each individual seeking initial enrollment; (2) Each individual seeking reenrollment after termination from the SCSEP; and (3) Each enrollee seeking recertification for continued enrollment. (b) Eligibility criteria. To be eligible for initial enrollment, each individual shall meet the following criteria for age, income, and place of residence: (1) Age. Each individual shall be no less than 55 years of age. No person whose age is 55 years or more shall be determined ineligible because of age, and no upper age limit shall be imposed for initial or continued enrollment. [Section 502.] (2) Income. The income of an individual, or of the family of which the individual is a member, shall not exceed the low-income standards defined in §641.103 and issued by the Department. (3) Residence. Each individual, upon initial enrollment, shall reside in the State in which the project is authorized. (c) No additional eligibility requirement. Recipients and subrecipients shall not impose any additional condition or requirement for enrollment eligibility. (d) Dual eligibility. Individuals eligible under title V shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of title II&hyph;A of the JTPA, when a written financial or non-financial agreement to jointly operate programs for older workers is established with a JTPA service delivery area.
