FR940922-2-00108 FR940922-2-00074 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34678; International Series Release No. 713; File No. SR&hyph;ISCC&hyph;94&hyph;3] Self-Regulatory Organizations; International Securities Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing of a Proposed Rule Change Relating To a Data Transmission Link With Caja de Valores, S.A. September 15, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 1 notice is hereby given that on August 9, 1994, the International Securities Clearing Corporation (``ISCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by ISCC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change consists of a data transmission link agreement with Caja de Valores, S.A. (``CVSA''). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, ISCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the place specified in Item IV below. ISCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change ISCC's Rule 40 provides that ISCC may establish links with foreign financial institutions and may make available for the benefit or on behalf of the foreign financial institution's participants and members such services of ISCC which ISCC in its sole discretion shall determine to provide. Pursuant to the authority granted by Rule 40, ISCC has entered into a link with CVSA. 2 This link is similar to the links ISCC has previously established with the Japan Securities Clearing Corporation and the Central Depository (Pte.) Ltd. of Singapore. 2 CVSA is the sole central depository acting in Argentina. Under the link, CVSA will be able to hold securities in The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') through ISCC. Pursuant to the terms of the service agreement dated December 2, 1993, between ISCC and CVSA, CVSA will be bound by DTC rules applicable to the DTC services that CVSA will utilize through ISCC. While monetary obligations under the link are expected to be limited to payments for fees, CVSA will be required to collateralize its obligations to ISCC. Such collateral will be available to cover any assessments made by DTC to ISCC based on CVSA's use of DTC's services. ISCC's auditors will be able to consult with CVSA's auditors with regard to CVSA's financial condition and the activity arising under the link, and CVSA will furnish ISCC with CVSA's financial statements. CVSA has agreed that before the link becomes operational, CVSA will appoint a registered agent in the U.S. for service of process and will provide ISCC with proof of such appointment. CVSA also has agreed that it will be subject to jurisdiction in New York for the resolution of disputes under or arising from the link. Operationally, CVSA will be assigned one number for use on behalf of its members. ISCC will apply to DTC on CVSA's behalf to establish CVSA as an ISCC-sponsored DTC participant. ISCC on behalf of CVSA will initiate book-entry deliveries for no value. ISCC on behalf of CVSA also will accept receives of securities by book-entry for no value. Both the receive and deliver functions will be pursuant to instructions received from CVSA, and such instructions will identify, among other items, which CVSA member for whom the receipt or delivery is being effected. In special circumstances and at ISCC's discretion, DTC's withdrawal-by- transfer service also may be utilized. In such case, the securities will be delivered as directed by CVSA. Relevant DTC notices and corporate action data relating to the issues held in the CVSA/ISCC account at DTC will be provided to CVSA. To the extent that any money settlement is required, ISCC will receive payment in the form of an official bank check or a wire transfer through the CVSA designated correspondent bank. ISCC will receive dividend and possibly interest payments from DTC with respect to shares on deposit. Dividend and interest credited to CVSA's account at DTC will be reflected in CVSA's ISCC settlement statement. 3 The settlement statement also will reflect a debit for the total dividends and interest paid to CVSA's account as its withholding bank. 4 3 On each Business day, ISCC will transmit to CVSA a settlement statement detailing the net amount due to ISCC from CVSA or from ISCC to CVSA. 4 A withholding bank is a bank approved by the Internal Revenue Service that withholds and pays the tax applicable to dividends and interest on U.S. issues paid to non-U.S. entities. The proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder in that it will promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. ISCC believes that the provision by ISCC to CVSA of the services described above will further the purposes of Section 17A of the Act. Specifically, it will promote the delivery and safekeeping of certain U.S. issues through a book- entry environment thus avoiding the need to move securities physically to settle trades. It also will standardize in accordance with U.S. practices and procedures the processing of U.S. securities traded on a foreign exchange. In addition, the interests of the U.S. investing public and the U.S. financial community will be served by the performance of such services by ISCC, a registered clearing agency subject to Commission supervision. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition ISCC does not believe that the proposed rule changes will have an impact or impose a burden on competition.
