FR940511-2-00087 FR940511-2-00058 Item 16. Enter ``No'' under Item b. Item 17. This question applies to the applicant organization, not the person who signs as the authorized representative. Categories of debt include delinquent audit disallowances, loans and taxes. Item 18. To be signed by an authorized representative of the applicant organization. A document attesting to that sign-off authority must be on file in the applicant's office. 2. SF 424A_Budget Information This form (SF424A) is designed to apply for funding under more than one grant program; thus, for purposes of this WHCoA program, most of the budget item columns/blocks are superfluous and should be regarded as not applicable. The applicant should consider and respond to only the budget items for which guidance is provided below. Section A_Budget Summary and Section B_Budget Categories should include both Federal and non-Federal funding for the proposed project. Section A_Budget Summary On line 5, enter total Federal Costs in column (e) and total Non-Federal Costs (including third party in-kind contributions but not program income) in column (f). Enter the total of columns (e) and (f) in column (g). Section B_Budget Categories Use only the last column under Section B, namely the column headed Total (5), to enter the total requirements for funds (combining both the Federal and non-Federal shares) by object class category. A brief budget justification should be appended to this Section which shows the breakdown of budget cost items by Federal and non-Federal shares and justifies each of the major items, personnel, travel, other, etc. Line 6a_Personnel: Enter total costs of salaries and wages of applicant/grantee staff. Do not include the costs of consultants, which should be included under 6h_Other. Line 6b_Fringe Benefits: Enter the total costs of fringe benefits. Line 6c_Travel: Enter total costs of out-of-town travel (travel requiring per diem) for staff of the project. Do not enter costs for consultant's travel or local transportation. Line 6d_Equipment: Enter the total cost of all equipment to be acquired by the project. The threshold for equipment is $500 or more per unit. Line 6e_Supplies: Enter the total costs of all tangible expendable personal property (supplies) other than those included on line 6d. Line 6f_Contractual: Enter of total costs of all contracts, if applicable. Do not include payments to individuals on this line. Line 6g_Construction: Not applicable. Line 6h_Other: Enter the total of all other costs. Such costs, where applicable, may include, but are not limited to: insurance, medical and dental costs; noncontractual fees and travel paid directly to individual consultants; local transportation (all travel which does not require per diem is considered local travel); space and equipment rentals; printing and publication; computer use; training cost, including tuition and stipends, training service costs including wage payments to individuals and supportive service payments; and staff development costs. Line 6i_Total Direct Charges: Show the totals of Lines 6a through 6h. Line 6j_Indirect Charges: Not applicable. Line 6k_Total: Enter the total amounts from Line 6i. Section C_Non-Federal Resources Line 12_Totals: As applicable, enter amounts of non-Federal resources that will be used in carrying out the proposed project. If third-party in-kind contributions are included, provide a brief explanation in the budget justification section. Section D_Forecasted Cash Needs: Not applicable. Section E_Budget Estimate of Federal Funds Needed for Balance of the Project Line 20_Totals: Not applicable. Section F_Other Budget Information Line 21_Direct Charges: Not applicable Line 22_Indirect Charges: Not applicable Line 23_Remarks: Provide any other explanations or comments deemed necessary. 3. SF 424B_Assurances Applicants are required to file an SF 424B, Assurances_Non-Construction Programs. Please note that a duly authorized representative of the applicant organization must certify that the applicant is in compliance with these assurances. With the possible exception of an Assurance of Protection of Human Subjects, no other assurances are required. For research projects in which human subjects may be at risk, an Assurance of Protection of Human Subjects may be needed. If there is a question regarding the applicability of this assurance, contact the Office for Protection from Research Risks of the National Institutes of Health at (301) 496&hyph;7041. 4. Certification Forms Certifications are required of the applicant regarding: (1) Lobbying; (b) debarment, suspension, and other responsibility matters; and (3) drug-free workplace requirements. Please note that a duly authorized representative of the applicant organization must attest to the applicant's compliance with these certifications. 5. Project Summary Description On a separate page, provide a project summary description headed by the name of the applicant organization as shown in SF 424, item 5. Please limit the summary description to a maximum of 1,200 characters, including words, spaces and punctuation.
