FR940602-1-00038 FR940602-1-00013 (i) Broken, split or missing rungs, cleats or steps; (ii) Broken or split side rails; (iii) Missing or loose bolts, rivets or fastenings; (iv) Defective ropes; or (v) Any other structural defect. (2) Ladders shall be inspected for defects prior to each day's use, and after any occurrence, such as a fall, which could damage the ladder. (j) Ladder usage. (1) Ladders made by fastening rungs or devices across a single rail are prohibited. (2) Ladders shall not be used: (i) As guys, braces or skids; or (ii) As platforms, runways or scaffolds. (3) Metal and wire-reinforced ladders with wooden side rails may not be used when employees on the ladder might come into contact with energized electrical conductors. (4) Individual sections from different multi-sectional ladders or two or more single straight ladders shall not be tied or fastened together to achieve additional length. (5) Except for combination ladders, self-supporting ladders shall not be used as single straight ladders. (6) Unless intended for cantilever operation, non-self-supporting ladders shall not be used to climb above the top support point. (7) Ladders shall be securely positioned on a level and firm base. (8) Ladders shall be fitted with slip-resistant bases or lashed in place to prevent slipping or shifting while in use. Subpart D_Working Surfaces ยง1918.31 Hatch coverings. (a) No cargo, dunnage, or other material shall be loaded or unloaded by means requiring the services of employees at any partially opened intermediate deck unless either the hatch at that deck is sufficiently covered or an adequate landing area suitable for the prevailing conditions exists. Except, that in no event shall such work be done unless the working area available for such employees extends for a distance of 10 feet (3.05 m) or more fore and aft and athwartships. (b) Cargo shall not be landed on or handled over a covered hatch or 'tween-deck unless all hatch beams are in place under the hatch covers. (c) Missing, broken, or poorly fitting hatch covers that would jeopardize the safety of employees shall be reported at once to the officer in charge of the vessel. Pending replacement or repairs by the vessel, work shall not be performed in the section containing the unsafe covers or in adjacent sections unless the flooring is made safe. (d) Hatch covers and hatch beams not of uniform size shall be placed only in the hatch, deck, and section in which they fit properly. (e) Small trimming hatches located in intermediate decks shall be securely covered or guarded while work is proceeding in the hatch in which they are located, unless they are actually in use. ยง1918.32 Stowed cargo and temporary landing surfaces. (a) Temporary surfaces on which loads are to be landed shall be of sufficient size and strength to permit employees to work safely. (b) When the edge of a hatch section or of stowed cargo (excluding intermodal freight containers) is more than 8 feet (2.4 m) high and so exposed that it exposes an employee to fall hazards, the edge shall be guarded by a vertical safety net, or other means providing equal protection, to prevent an employee from falling. When the employer can demonstrate that vertical nets or other equally effective means of guarding cannot be used due to the type of cargo, cargo stowage, or other circumstances, a trapeze net shall be rigged at the top edge of the elevation or other means shall be taken to prevent injury if an employee falls. Safety net systems and their use shall comply with the appropriate provisions of the American National Standard for Personnel and Debris Nets (ANSI A10.11&hyph;1989). (c) When two gangs are working in the same hatch on different levels, a safety net shall be rigged and securely fastened so as to prevent employees or cargo from falling. ยง1918.33 Deck loads. (a) Employees shall not be permitted to pass over or around deck loads unless there is a safe passage.
