FR940830-0-00096 FR940830-0-00013 * * * * * Fungibility. Fungibility is a concept which permits a PHA to substitute any work item from the latest approved Five-Year Action Plan to any previously approved CIAP budget or CGP Annual Statement and to move work items among approved budgets without prior HUD approval. * * * * * Work Statements. Work Statements cover the second through the fifth years of the Five-Year Action Plan and set forth the major work categories and costs by development or PHA-wide which the PHA intends to undertake in each year of years two through five. In preparing these Work Statements, the PHA shall assume that the current FFY formula amount will be available in each year of years two through five. * * * * * 18. Section 968.310 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (f)(1)(iii), (b), (c) and (m); by removing the reference to ``paragraph (g)'' in paragraph (a)(3) and adding in its place ``paragraph (f)'', by revising (d)(1) and (d)(3)(i), by removing (d)(3)(iii), and by adding paragraph (g)(4) to read as follows: §968.310 Eligible costs. (a) *␣*␣* (1) Undertaking activities described in its approved Five-Year Action Plan under §968.320(d)(5); (2) Carrying out emergency work, whether or not the need is indicated in the PHA's approved Comprehensive Plan (including Five-Year Action Plan) or Annual Statement; * * * * * (b) Demonstration of viability. Except in the case of emergency work, a PHA shall only expend funds on a development for which the PHA has demonstrated that completion of the improvements and replacements identified in the comprehensive plan will reasonably ensure the long-term physical and social viability of the development at a reasonable cost or for essential non-routine maintenance needed to keep the property habitable until residents are relocated. (c) Physical improvement costs. Eligible costs include alterations, betterments, additions, replacements, and non-routine maintenance that are necessary to meet the modernization and energy conservation standards prescribed in §968.115. These mandatory standards may be exceeded only when the PHA determines that it is necessary or highly desirable for the long-term physical and social viability of the individual development. If demolition or disposition is proposed, the PHA shall comply with 24 CFR part 970. Additional dwelling space may be added to existing units. (d) Costs for Turnkey III developments _(1) General . Eligible physical improvement costs for existing Turnkey III developments are limited to work items which are not the responsibility of the homebuyer families and which are related to health and safety, correction of development deficiencies, physical accessibility, energy audits and cost-effective energy conservation measures, and lead-based paint testing and abatement. In addition, management improvements are eligible modernization costs for existing Turnkey III developments. (2) *␣*␣* (3) *␣*␣* (i) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a PHA may substantially rehabilitate a Turnkey III unit whenever the unit becomes vacant or is occupied by a non-homebuyer family. A PHA that intends to use funds under this paragraph must identify in its needs assessment the estimated number of units that the PHA is proposing for substantial rehabilitation and subsequent sale. In addition, a PHA must demonstrate in its needs assessment that the PHA has homebuyers who are both eligible for homeownership, in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 904, and who have demonstrated their intent to be placed into each of the Turnkey III units proposed to be substantially rehabilitated; * * * * * (f) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (iii) A management improvement requires more funds than the PHA may use under its 20% limit for management improvements (except as provided in paragraph (m)(1) of this section), and the PHA needs to save a portion of its annual grant in order to combine it with a portion of subsequent year(s) grants, to fund the work item; * * * * * (g) *␣*␣* (4) Preventive maintenance system. The establishment of a preventive maintenance system or improvement of an existing system is strongly encouraged. A preventive maintenance system must provide for regular inspections of building structures, systems and units and determine the applicability of work eligible for operating funds (routine maintenance) and work eligible for CGP funding (non-routine maintenance). * * * * * (m) Cost limitation. (1) Notwithstanding the full fungibility of work items in §968.325(c), a PHA shall not use more than a total of 20 percent of its annual grant for management improvement costs in account 1408, unless specifically approved by HUD or the PHA has been designated as both an over-all high performer and mod-high performer under the PHMAP. PHAs are encouraged to use management improvement funds to train residents in carrying out activities related to the modernization-funded physical and management improvements. (2) Notwithstanding the full fungibility of work items in §968.325(c), a PHA shall not use more than a total of 10 percent of its annual grant on administrative costs in account 1410, excluding any costs related to lead-based paint or asbestos testing (whether conducted by force account employees or by a contractor), in-house architectural/engineering (A/E) work, or other special administrative costs required by State or local law, unless specifically approved by HUD; * * * * * 19. Section 968.312 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) to read as follows: §968.312 Reserve for emergencies and disasters. (a) Emergencies _(1) Eligibility for assistance . A PHA (including a PHA that has been designated as mod troubled under PHMAP) may obtain funds at any time, for any eligible emergency work item as defined in §968.305 (for PHAs participating in CGP) or for any eligible emergency work item (described as emergency modernization in §968.205) (for PHAs participating in CIAP), from the reserve established under §968.103(b). However, emergency reserve funds may not be provided to a PHA participating in CGP that has the necessary funds available from any other source, including its annual formula allocation under §968.103 (e) and (f), other unobligated modernization funds, and its replacement reserves under §968.310(a)(3). A PHA is not required to have an approved comprehensive plan under §968.320 before it can request emergency assistance from this reserve. Emergency reserve funds may not be provided to a PHA participating in CIAP unless it does not have the necessary funds available from any other source, including unobligated CIAP, and no CIAP modernization funding is available from HUD for the remainder of the fiscal year.
