FR940616-0-00067 FR940616-0-00009 20. Section 1.1161 is added to read as follows: §1.1161 General exemptions from regulatory fees. No regulatory fee established in §§1.1152 through 1.1155 of this subpart, unless otherwise qualified in this section shall be required for: (a) Applicants, permittees or licensees in the Amateur Radio Service, except that any person requesting a vanity call-sign, following July 18, 1994 shall be subject to the payment of a regulatory fee, as prescribed in §1.1152 of this Subpart. (b) Applicants, permittees, or licensees who qualify as government entities. For purposes of this exemption, a government entity is defined as any state, possession, city, county, town, village, municipal corporation, or similar political organization or subpart thereof controlled by publicly elected or duly appointed public officials exercising sovereign direction and control over their respective communities or programs. (c) Applicants, permittees or licensees who qualify as nonprofit entities. For purposes of this exemption, a nonprofit entity is defined as an organization possessing nonprofit, tax exempt status under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 501. (d) Applicants, permittees or licensees in the Special Emergency Radio and Public Safety Radio services. (e) Applicants, permittees or licensees of noncommercial educational broadcast stations in the FM or TV services, as well as AM applicants permittees or licensees operating in accordance with §73.503 of this chapter. (f) Applicants, permittees or licensees qualifying under §1.1161(e) requesting Commission authorization in any other mass media radio service (except the international broadcast (HF) service), private radio service, or common carrier communications service requiring payment of a regulatory fee, if the service is used in conjunction with their noncommercial educational broadcast station on a noncommercial educational basis. (g) Other applicants, permittees or licensees providing, or proposing to provide, a noncommercial educational or instructional service, but not qualifying under §1.1161(e), may be exempt from regulatory fees, or be entitled to a refund, in the following circumstances: (1) The applicant, permittee or licensee is an organization that, like the Public Broadcasting Service or National Public Radio, receives funding directly or indirectly through the Public Broadcasting Fund, 47 U.S.C. 396(k), distributed by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, where the authorization requested will be used in conjunction with the organization on a noncommercial educational basis; (2) An applicant, permittee or licensee of a translator or low power television station operating proposing a noncommercial educational service who, after grant, provides proof that it has received funding for the construction of the station through the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) or other showings as required by the Commission; or (3) An applicant, permittee, or licensee provided a fee refund under §1.1159 and operating as a noncommercial education station, is exempt from fees for broadcast auxiliary stations (Part 74, Subparts D, E, and F, of this chapter) or stations in the private radio or common carrier services where such authorization is to be used in conjunction with the noncommercial educational translator or low power station. (h) An applicant, permittee or licensee that is the licensee of an instructional television fixed station is exempt from regulatory fees where the authorization requested will be used by the applicant in conjunction with the provision of the instructional service. (i) Applications filed in the private radio service for the sole purpose of modifying an existing authorization (or a pending application for authorization). However, if the applicant also requests a renewal or reinstatement of its license or other authorization for which the submission of a regulatory fee is required, the appropriate regulatory fee for such additional request must accompany the application. 21. Section 1.1162 is added to read as follows: §1.1162 Adjustments to regulatory fees. (a) For Fiscal Year 1994, the amounts assessed for regulatory fees are set forth in §§1.1152 through 1.1155. (b) For Fiscal Year 1995 and thereafter, the Schedule of Regulatory Fees, contained in §§1.1152 through 1.1155, may be adjusted annually by the Commission pursuant to section 9 of the Communications Act. 47 U.S.C. 159. Adjustments to the fees established for any category of regulatory fee payment shall include of projected cost increases or decreases of the in volume of licensees or units upon which the regulatory fee is calculated. (c) The fees assessed shall: (1) Be derived by determining the full-time equivalent number of employees performing enforcement activities, policy and rulemaking activities, user information services, and international activities within the Private Radio Bureau, Mass Media Bureau, Common Carrier bureau, Cable Services Bureau and other offices of the Commission, adjusted to take into account factors that are reasonably related to the benefits provided to the payor of the fee by the Commission's activities, including such factors as service coverage area, shared use versus exclusive use, and other factors that the Commission determines are necessary in the public interest; (2) Be established at amounts that will result in collection, during each fiscal year, of an amount that can reasonably be expected to equal the amount appropriated for such fiscal year for the performance of the activities described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (d) The Commission shall by rule amend the Schedule of Regulatory Fees by proportionate increases or decreases that reflect, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section changes in the amount appropriated for the performance of the activities described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for such fiscal year. Such proportionate increases or decreases shall be adjusted to reflect unexpected increases or decreases in the number of licensees or units subject to payment of such fees and result in collection of an aggregate amount of fees that will approximately equal the amount appropriated for the subject regulatory activities. (e) The Commission shall, by rule, amend the Schedule of Regulatory Fees if the Commission determines that the Schedule requires amendment to comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. In making such amendments, the Commission shall add, delete or reclassify services in the Schedule to reflect additional deletions or changes in the nature of its services as a consequence of Commission rulemaking proceedings or changes in law. (f) In making adjustments to regulatory fees, the Commission will round such fees to the nearest $5.00 in the case of fees under $1,000.00, or to the nearest $25.00 in the case of fees of $1,000.00 or more.
