FR940810-0-00223 FR940810-0-00021 Modification for purposes of paragraph (g)(6)(2), means a changed or altered procedure, material or component of a control system, which replaces a procedure, material or component of a required system. Omitting a procedure or component, or reducing or diminishing the stringency or strength of a material or component of the control system is not a ``modification'' for purposes of paragraph (g)(6)(ii) of this section. Negative Initial Exposure Assessment means a demonstration by the employer, which complies with the criteria in paragraph (f)(iii) of this section, that employee exposure during an operation is expected to be consistently below the PELs. PACM means ``presumed asbestos containing material''. Presumed Asbestos Containing Material means thermal system insulation and surfacing material found in buildings, vessels, and vessel sections constructed no later than 1980. The designation of a material as ``PACM'' may be rebutted pursuant to paragraph (k)(4) of this section. Project Designer means a person who has successfully completed the training requirements for an abatement project designer established by 40 U.S.C. ยง763.90(g). Qualified person means, in addition to the definition in 29 CFR 1926.32(f), one who is capable of identifying existing asbestos hazards in the workplace and selecting the appropriate control strategy for asbestos exposure, who has the authority to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them, as specified in 29 CFR 1926.32(f); in addition, for Class I, II, III, and IV work, who is specially trained in a training course which meet the criteria of EPA's Model Accreditation Plan (40 CFR Part 763) for project designer or supervisor, or its equivalent. Regulated area means an area established by the employer to demarcate areas where Class I, II, and III asbestos work is conducted, and any adjoining area where debris and waste from such asbestos work accumulate; and a work area within which airborne concentrations of asbestos, exceed or can reasonably be expected to exceed the permissible exposure limit. Requirements for regulated areas are set out in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. Removal means all operations where ACM and/or PACM is taken out or stripped from structures or substrates, and includes demolition operations. Renovation means the modifying of any existing vessel, vessel section, structure, or portion thereof. Repair means overhauling, rebuilding, reconstructing, or reconditioning of vessels, vessel sections, structures or substrates, including encapsulation or other repair of ACM or PACM attached to structures or substrates. Surfacing material means material that is sprayed, troweled-on or otherwise applied to surfaces (such as acoustical plaster on ceilings and fireproofing materials on structural members, or other materials on surfaces for acoustical, fireproofing, and other purposes).
