FR940803-0-00117 FR940803-0-00040 (ii) Which is manufactured primarily for use on public streets, roads, or highways (except any vehicle operated on a rail or rails); (iii) Which is rated at not more than 8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight, which has a curb weight of not more than 6,000 pounds, and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of not more than 45 square feet; or (iv) Is a type of vehicle which the Secretary determines is substantially used for the same purposes. (5) Passenger automobile means any automobile which the Secretary determines is manufactured primarily for use in the transportation of no more than 10 individuals. (6) Model year means the manufacturer's annual production period (as determined by the Administrator) which includes January 1 of such calendar year. If a manufacturer has no annual production period, the term ``model year'' means the calendar year. (7) Federal emission test procedure refers to the dynamometer driving schedule, dynamometer procedure, and sampling and analytical procedures described in Part 86 for the respective model year, which are used to derive city fuel economy data. (8) Federal highway fuel economy test procedure refers to the dynamometer driving schedule, dynamometer procedure, and sampling and analytical procedures described in Subpart B of this part and which are used to derive highway fuel economy data. (9) Fuel means: (i) Gasoline and diesel fuel for gasoline- or diesel-powered automobiles; or (ii) Electrical energy for electrically powered automobiles; or (iii) Alcohol for alcohol-powered automobiles; or (iv) Natural gas for natural gas-powered automobiles. (10) Fuel economy means: (i) The average number of miles traveled by an automobile or group of automobiles per volume of fuel consumed as computed in §600.113 or §600.207; or (ii) The equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy for an electrically powered automobile as determined by the Secretary of Energy. (11) City fuel economy means the fuel economy determined by operating a vehicle (or vehicles) over the driving schedule in the Federal emission test procedure. (12) Highway fuel economy means the fuel economy determined by operating a vehicle (or vehicles) over the driving schedule in the Federal highway fuel economy test procedure. (13) Combined fuel economy means: (i) The fuel economy value determined for a vehicle (or vehicles) by harmonically averaging the city and highway fuel economy values, weighted 0.55 and 0.45 respectively. (ii) For electric vehicles, the term means the equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy value as determined by the calculation procedure promulgated by the Secretary of Energy. (14) Average fuel economy means the unique fuel economy value as computed under §600.510 for a specific class of automobiles produced by a manufacturer that is subject to average fuel economy standards. (15) Certification vehicle means a vehicle which is selected under §86.084&hyph;24(b)(1) of this chapter and used to determine compliance under §86.084&hyph;30 of this chapter for issuance of an original certificate of conformity. (16) Fuel economy data vehicle means a vehicle used for the purpose of determining fuel economy which is not a certification vehicle. (17) Label means a sticker that contains fuel economy information and is affixed to new automobiles in accordance with subpart D of this part. (18) Dealer means a person who resides or is located in the United States, any territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia and who is engaged in the sale or distribution of new automobiles to the ultimate purchaser. (19) Model type means a unique combination of car line, basic engine, and transmission class. (20) Car line means a name denoting a group of vehicles within a make or car division which has a degree of commonality in construction (e.g., body, chassis). Car line does not consider any level of decor or opulence and is not generally distinguished by characteristics as roof line, number of doors, seats, or windows, except for station wagons or light-duty trucks. Station wagons and light-duty trucks are considered to be different car lines than passenger cars. (21) Basic engine means a unique combination of manufacturer, engine displacement, number of cylinders, fuel system (as distinguished by number of carburetor barrels or use of fuel injection), catalyst usage, and other engine and emission control system characteristics specified by the Administrator. For electric vehicles, basic engine means a unique combination of manufacturer and electric traction motor, motor controller, battery configuration, electrical charging system, energy storage device, and other components as specified by the Administrator. (22) Transmission class means a group of transmissions having the following common features: Basic transmission type (manual, automatic, or semi-automatic); number of forward gears used in fuel economy testing (e.g., manual four-speed, three-speed automatic, two-speed semi-automatic); drive system (e.g., front wheel drive, rear wheel drive; four wheel drive), type of overdrive, if applicable (e.g., final gear ratio less than 1.00, separate overdrive unit); torque converter type, if applicable (e.g., non-lockup, lockup, variable ratio); and other transmission characteristics that may be determined to be significant by the Administrator. (23) Base level means a unique combination of basic engine, inertia weight class and transmission class. (24) Vehicle configuration means a unique combination of basic engine, engine code, inertia weight class, transmission configuration, and axle ratio within a base level. (25) Engine code means a unique combination, within an engine-system combination (as defined in Part 86 of this chapter), of displacement, carburetor (or fuel injection) calibration, distributor calibration, choke calibration, auxiliary emission control devices, and other engine and emission control system components specified by the Administrator. For electric vehicles, engine code means a unique combination of manufacturer, electric traction motor, motor configuration, motor controller, and energy storage device. (26) Inertia weight class means the class, which is a group of test weights, into which a vehicle is grouped based on its loaded vehicle weight in accordance with the provisions of part 86 of this chapter. (27) Transmission configuration means the Administrator may further subdivide within a transmission class if the Administrator determines that sufficient fuel economy differences exist. Features such as gear ratios, torque converter multiplication ratio, stall speed, shift calibration, or shift speed may be used to further distinguish characteristics within a transmission class.
