FR940114-1-00089 FR940114-1-00018 There are minimal burdens, if any, that will be associated with including a warning about possible wage garnishment in the delinquency letters that are already required to be sent to borrowers. Executive Order 12866 These proposed regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the proposed regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently, as discussed in those sections of the preamble that relate to specific sections of the regulations. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements, if any, are identified and explained elsewhere in this preamble under the heading Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these proposed regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the proposed regulations justify the costs, and do not interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. To assist the Department in complying with the specific requirements of Executive Order 12866, the Secretary invites comment on whether there may be further opportunities to reduce any potential costs or increase potential benefits resulting from these proposed regulations without impeding the effective and efficient administration of the program. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Secretary certifies that these proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Certain reporting, recordkeeping, and compliance requirements are imposed on guaranty agencies, lenders, and schools by the regulations. These requirements, however, would not have a significant impact because they would not impose excessive regulatory burdens or require unnecessary Federal supervision. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Sections 682.208, 682.402, and 682.410 contain information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of these sections to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)) These regulations affect the following types of entities that participate in the FFEL Program: Guaranty agencies, lenders, and schools. The Department needs and uses this information to properly carry out its responsibility to administer certain aspects of the HEA. Annual public reporting burden for this collection of information is not expected to significantly increase. The collection and reporting of the information in §§682.208 and 682.410 reflect normal business practice, whereas the closed school cancellation provision of §682.402 essentially substitutes a closed school claim for a default claim that normally would have occurred if the student did not repay a loan made for attendance at a school that closed. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Invitation To Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed regulations. All comments submitted in response to these proposed regulations will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in ROB&hyph;3, room 4310, 7th and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 682 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Education, Loan programs-education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid, Vocational education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: 84.032 Federal Family Education Loan Program) Dated: January 11, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
