FR940603-1-00219 FR940603-1-00009 Section_6 XXXX $ XXXX Section_7 XXXX $ XXXX Section_8 XXXX $ XXXX Total XXXX $ XXXX Acceptance Subject to the approval of the Administrator, the Owner hereby accepts the foregoing Proposal of the Bidder, XXXX for the construction of the following: Transmission Construction Units: Sections: XXXX The total contract price is $ XXXX XXXX Owner By XXXX President XXXX Secretary XXXX Date of Contract [End of Clause] §§1726.353&hyph;1726.399 [Reserved]. Subpart J_Contract Closeout §1726.400 Final contract amendment. As needed, a final contract amendment will be prepared and processed in accordance with §1726.24(b) prior to or in conjunction with the closeout of the contract. §1726.401 Material contract closeout. This section is applicable to contracts executed on REA Form 173. (a) Delivery inspection. The borrower, acting through the engineer, will verify that all materials are delivered in proper quantities, in good condition, and in compliance with applicable specifications. (b) Closeout documents. The borrower, acting through its engineer, will obtain from the supplier a ``Buy American'' certificate, REA Form 213, any manufacturer's guarantee(s) and, if applicable, a copy of REA Form 224, Waiver and Release of Lien. Closeout documents for materials contracts need not be submitted to REA unless specifically requested by REA on a case by case basis. (c) Final payment. Upon completion of the actions required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the borrower shall make final payment to the supplier in accordance with the provisions of the material contract or purchase order. §1726.402 Equipment contract closeout. This section is applicable to contracts executed on REA Form 198. (a) Final inspection and testing of equipment. The borrower, acting through its engineer, will perform the final inspection and testing of equipment as appropriate for the specific equipment. The borrower, acting through its engineer, will schedule such inspection and testing at a time mutually agreeable to the borrower, engineer, and the supplier or manufacturer. Within thirty (30) days after completion of the inspection and testing, the borrower, acting through its engineer, will prepare a report of the inspection and testing, obtain a copy of the report from the engineer, and submit a copy to the supplier or manufacturer. This report must include a detailed description of the methods of conducting the test(s), observed data, comparison of guaranteed and actual performance, and recommendations concerning acceptance. The borrower will obtain from the engineer a written certification stating that the equipment has been installed, placed in satisfactory operation and tested, and meets the contract requirements. Where more than one-hundred and eighty (180) days have elapsed since the delivery of the equipment and the equipment has not been installed or tested, the contract may be closed out upon certification by the engineer that the equipment has been inspected and appears to be in accordance with the contract requirements. (b) Closeout documents. (1) The borrower, acting through its engineer, will obtain the following executed documents: (i) Certification by the project engineer in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. (ii) All guarantees or warranties. (iii) A ``Buy American'' certificate from the supplier or manufacturer. (2) Closeout documents for materials contracts need not be submitted to REA unless specifically requested by REA. (c) Final payment. Upon completion of the actions required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the borrower will make final payment to the supplier or manufacturer in accordance with the provisions of the equipment contract. §1726.403 Project construction contract closeout.
