FR940418-1-00012 FR940418-1-00004 e. Calculation of volumes for vessels without an International Tonnage Certificate 1969 (ITC 69) through an alternative tonnage estimating formula. Subpart A contains general provisions concerning the uses of the Panama Canal Universal Measurement System (PC/UMS) Net Tonnage for the purpose of calculating tolls and admeasurement fees. It provides for the presentation of an ITC 69 or suitable substitute or the application of alternative measurement procedures. It retains provision for Commission control over the measurement determination, verification of tonnage certificates and the administration of these rules. Subpart B establishes the PC/UMS. Under it, tolls will be assessed on the basis of the PC/UMS Net Ton. The Commission will apply a mathematical formula to the total volume in order to determine the PC/UMS Net Tonnage. This formula has been established so as to produce tonnage and, hence, revenues that in the aggregate are equal to those produced under the current system annually. Relevant definitions are set forth in this subpart. The subpart also establishes the rules concerning measurement and calculations. Finally, the subpart addresses measurement rules in the event of a total volume change. Subpart C continues without substantive change the present rules for the measurement of warships, dredges and floating drydocks. Tolls for these vessels will continue to be based on their tonnage of actual displacement. Subpart D provides transitional relief measures for vessels which previously transited the Canal and have not had a significant structural change. Subpart E sets forth the measurement procedures the Commission will use when it becomes necessary for the Commission to determine the total volume of a vessel. In addition to the changes to 35 CFR part 135, certain administrative changes to 35 CFR part 133 (Tolls for Use of Canal) are required. These changes will reconcile the language of part 133 with new part 135 by allowing for the use of the ITC 69 to obtain the required total volume information. Section 1604 of the Panama Canal Act of 1979, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 3794, establishes the procedures that the Commission must follow in proposing changes in the rules for measurement of vessels. Those procedures have been supplemented by regulations in 35 CFR part 70, which provide interested parties with instructions for participating in the process governing changes in the measurement rules. The statute and regulations require this advance notice of proposed rulemaking in order for the Commission to announce the proposed changes and afford interested parties an opportunity to submit written data or comments and to participate in the public hearing on May 25, 1994. A written analysis is also made available to the public showing the basis of and justification for the revision. All pertinent data or comments presented in writing, or orally at the hearing, will be considered, along with other relevant information, before the Commission publishes a notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register and forwards a complete record and its final recommendation to the President of the United States. In considering the proposal, the President has the authority to approve, disapprove, or modify any recommendation of the Commission. The final rule, approved and published by the President, shall be effective October 1, 1994, or 30 days from the date of publication in the Federal Register , whichever occurs later. The Commission has been exempted from Executive Order 12866 and, accordingly, the provisions of that directive do not apply to this proposed rule. Even if the Order were applicable, the proposed regulation, which concerns ``rates'' and ``practices relating'' thereto, would not constitute a ``rule'' as that term is defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601(2)) and would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities under that Act. A review of the environmental effect of the proposed measurement rule changes concludes that the proposed change will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. An environmental impact statement is not required under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Finally, the Administrator of the Panama Canal Commission certifies that these proposed regulations meet the applicable standards provided in sections 2(a) and 2(b)(2) of Executive Order No. 12778. List of Subjects in 35 CFR Parts 133 and 135 Measurement, Navigation, Panama Canal, Vessels. Accordingly, it is proposed that 35 CFR parts 133 and 135 be amended as follows: PART 133_TOLLS FOR USE OF CANAL 3. The authority citation for part 133 continues to read as follows: Authority: Issued under authority of the President by 22 U.S.C. 3791, E.O. 12215, 45 FR 36043. 4. Section 133.1 is amended by revising the introductory text and paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: ยง133.1 Rates of toll. The following rates of toll shall be paid by vessels using the Panama Canal: (a) On merchant vessels, yachts, army and navy transports, colliers, hospital ships, and supply ships, when carrying passengers or cargo, $2.21 per PC/UMS Net Ton_that is, the net tonnage determined in accordance with part 135 of this chapter.
