FR940128-2-00020 FR940128-2-00006 Export Trade Certificate of Review ACTION: Notice of application. SUMMARY: The Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce, has received an application for an Export Trade Certificate of Review. This notice summarizes the conduct for which certification is sought and requests comments relevant to whether the Certificate should be issued. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Friedrich R. Crupe, Acting Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, (202) 482&hyph;5131. This is not a toll-free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title III of the Export Trading Company Act of 1982 (15 U.S.C. 4001&hyph;21) authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to issue Export Trade Certificates of Review. A Certificate of Review protects the holder and the members identified in the Certificate from state and federal government antitrust actions and from private, treble damage antitrust actions for the export conduct specified in the Certificate and carried out in compliance with its terms and conditions. Section 302(b)(1) of the Act and 15 CFR 325.6(a) require the Secretary to publish a notice in the Federal Register identifying the applicant and summarizing its proposed export conduct. Request for Public Comments Interested parties may submit written comments relevant to the determination whether a Certificate should be issued. An original and five (5) copies should be submitted no later than 20 days after the date of this notice to: Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce, room 1800H, Washington, DC 20230. Information submitted by any person is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). Comments should refer to this application as ``Export Trade Certificate of Review, application number 94&hyph;00001.'' A summary of the application follows. Summary of the Application Applicant: Northeast Florida Export Trading Company, Inc., Post Office Box 28136, Jacksonville, Florida 32226, Contact: Joseph Strain, Founder & President, Telephone: (904) 346&hyph;5435. Application No.: 94&hyph;00001. Date Deemed Submitted: January l4, 1994. Members (in addition to applicant): None. Northeast Florida Export Trading Company, Inc. seeks a Certificate to cover the following specific Export Trade, Export Markets, and Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operations. Export Trade 1. Products All products. 2. Services All services. 3. Export Trade Facilitation Services (as They Relate to the Export of Products and Services) All export trade facilitation services in connection with the export of Products and Services, including consulting, international market research, advertising, marketing, insurance, product research and design, legal assistance, transportation, trade documentation, freight forwarding, communication and processing of foreign orders, warehousing, foreign exchange and financing. Export Markets The Export Markets include all parts of the world except the United States (the fifty states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands) and the Republic of South Africa. Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation Northeast Florida Export Trading Company, Inc. may: 1. Require that exporters using its Export Trade Facilitation Services sign exclusive dealing contracts allowing Northeast Florida Export Trading Company, Inc. to be their sole Export Intermediary for sales to specified markets. 2. Require exporters using its Export Trade Facilitation Services to export through the Jacksonville Port Authority Aviation and Marine Facilities. 3. Sign exclusive distributorship agreements with other Export Intermediaries that prohibit such other Export Intermediaries from handling competing Products and Services. 4. Sign exclusive arrangements with its clients that prohibit Northeast Florida Export Trading Company, Inc. from representing competing companies. Definitions ``Export Intermediary'' means a person who acts as a distributor, sales representative, sales or marketing agent, or broker, or who performs similar functions, including providing or arranging for the provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services. Protection Provided by Certificate This Certificate will protect the Northeast Florida Export Trading Company, Inc. and its directors, officers, and employees acting on its behalf from private treble damage actions and government criminal and civil suits under Federal and State antitrust laws for the export conduct specified in the Certificate and carried out during its effective period in compliance with its Terms and Conditions. Dated: January 21, 1994. Jude Kearney, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Service Industries and Finance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1773 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;PR&hyph;P
