FR940328-2-00128 FR940328-2-00068 _Helping potential visitors determine if a visit would be of use to them, and helping them select an appropriate delegation to visit; _Preparing a visit schedule for each group of visitors that includes relevant aspects of the program they should see. Possible activities should include observing project work, talking with participants, staff and/or service sponsors and other community partners, attending program meeting or educational activities, etc.; _Facilitating a debriefing session or discussion in which the visitors may discuss questions or concerns regarding what they have seen and learned; and _Providing a small amount of follow-up contact with visitors, especially in cases where the visitor wishes to adopt a practice observed during the visit. Note that the host organization will not be expected to pay for the travel costs of the visitors. Requirements _Program activities to be exhibited to visitors must be consistent with the Corporation's program requirements and ``Principles for High Quality Programs.'' _The grantee must report regularly to the Corporation on visits: number of visits, who visited, what was presented, some assessment of the value gained by visitors, and any improvements planned for the visitation program. (F) Learn and Serve America K&hyph;12 Resource Publications The Corporation will fund development and publication of materials on critical subjects to the field. Amount and Duration of Funding Up to three grants totaling approximately $50,000 will be made available. Funding is for one year, with possibility of renewal subject to performance, continuing need, and availability of funds. Description of T/TA Activities Desired Focus areas may include service-learning evaluation models, case studies, linking service-learning to education reform or school restructuring efforts, integrating service-learning into school-to-work transition initiatives, integrating service-learning into academic curricula, and other topics that would be useful in advancing the service-learning field. T/TA providers will be expected to coordinate resources and activities with the National Service Learning Cooperative funded by the Commission on National and Community Service whenever possible. Training Initiatives on Service-Learning The Corporation will fund training in service-learning methodology for teachers, administrators, community-based organization personnel, potential trainers and other appropriate individuals. Amount and Duration of Funding Up to four grants totaling approximately $480,000 will be made available. Funding will be for one year, with possibility of renewal subject to performance, continuing need, and availability of funds. Description of Program Desired The Corporation is interested in a broad range of training opportunities that include regional seminars, introductory workshops, institutes with specific focus areas (i.e. engaging youth with disabilities in service-learning, linking service-learning to education reform or school-to-work transition initiatives, or service-learning as a vehicle for addressing specific educational, public safety, human, or environmental needs). (G) Learn and Serve America: Higher Education Summary The Corporation seeks to enhance the quality and sustainability of higher education service-learning programs, through T/TA activities that offer ready resources for effectively integrating service and education, that help strengthen institutional commitment to service-learning, that develop the ability of grantees to support one another, and that build capacity at state, regional, and national levels to support campus-based service-learning. The Corporation will make grants or cooperative agreements for the following activities: Higher Education Service Resource Center Summary The Corporation will fund T/TA activities that provide detailed, user-friendly resources and consultation to meet the needs of individual programs, Corporation staff, and State Commissions. This resource center should focus on service-learning in higher education, and should be flexible in its design so that its resources may be integrated eventually with the National Service Resource Center and/or the National Service Learning Cooperative funded by the Commission on National and Community Service. Amount and Duration of Funding One grant or cooperative agreement of approximately $100,000 will be made, with the possibility of renewal. Description of T/TA Activities Desired Specific tasks include but are not limited to_ _Actively collecting, selecting, organizing, and disseminating information on model programs, best practices, and innovations in the higher education service-learning field; _Developing resources on various subject areas, including service integrated with academic disciplines, service-learning programs addressing community needs in the national priorities, critical reflection, co-curricular service-learning, and evaluation of service-learning programs;
