FR941221-0-00065 FR941221-0-00018 (1) Minimum number of units to be reserved for non-elderly disabled families. The number of units in an elderly project required to be reserved for occupancy by non-elderly disabled families, shall be, at a minimum, the lesser of: (i) The number of units equivalent to the higher of_ (A) The percentage of units assisted under this part in the elderly project that were occupied by non-elderly disabled families on October 28, 1992; and (B) The percentage of units assisted under this part in the elderly project that were occupied by non-elderly disabled families upon January 1, 1992; or (ii) 10 percent of the number of units assisted under this part in the eligible project. (2) Option to reserve greater number of units for non-elderly disabled families. The owner, at the owner's option, and at any time, may reserve a greater number of units for non-elderly disabled families than that provided for in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The option to provide a greater number of units to non-elderly disabled families will not obligate the owner to always provide that greater number to non-elderly disabled families. The number of units required to be provided to non-elderly disabled families at any time in an elderly project is that number determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (d) Secondary preferences. An owner of an elderly project also may elect to establish secondary preferences in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section. (1) Preference for near-elderly disabled families in units reserved for elderly families. If the owner of an elderly project determines, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that there are an insufficient number of elderly families who have applied for occupancy to fill all the vacant units in the elderly project reserved for elderly families (that is, all units except those reserved for the non-elderly disabled families as provided in paragraph (c) of this section), the owner may give preference for occupancy of such units to disabled families who are near-elderly families. (2) Preference for near-elderly disabled families in units reserved for non-elderly disabled families. If the owner of an elderly project determines, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that there are an insufficient number of non-elderly disabled families to fill all the vacant units in the elderly project reserved for non-elderly disabled families as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the owner may give preference for occupancy of these units to disabled families who are near-elderly families. (e) Availability of units to families without regard to preference. An owner shall make vacant units in an elderly project generally available to otherwise eligible families who apply for housing, without regard to the preferences and reservation of units provided in this section if either: (1) The owner has adopted the secondary preferences and there are an insufficient number of families for whom elderly preference, reserve preference, and secondary preference has been given, to fill all the vacant units; or (2) The owner has not adopted the secondary preferences and there are an insufficient number of families for whom elderly preference, and reserve preference has been given to fill all the vacant units. (f) Determination of insufficient number of applicants qualifying for preference. To make a determination that there are an insufficient number of applicants who qualify for the preferences, including secondary preferences, provided by this section, the owner must: (1) Conduct marketing in accordance with ยง880.601(a) to attract applicants qualifying for the preferences and reservation of units set forth in this section; and (2) Make a good faith effort to lease to applicants who qualify for the preferences provided in this section, including taking all feasible actions to fill vacancies by renting to such families.
