FR940217-1-00070 FR940217-1-00014 The FFEL program regulations (34 CFR part 682) govern the Federal Stafford Loan Program, the Federal Supplemental Loans for Students (Federal SLS) Program, the Federal PLUS Program, and the Federal Consolidation Loan Program, collectively referred to as the Federal Family Education Loan programs (formerly the Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL) programs). With respect to 34 CFR part 682, the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal SLS, Federal PLUS, and Federal Consolidation Loan programs are hereinafter referred to as the Stafford, SLS, PLUS and Consolidation Loan programs. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;239), enacted December 19, 1989, amended the HEA to authorize the Secretary to promulgate regulations governing the limitation, suspension, or termination of the eligibility of an individual or organization to contract with an educational institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program. That act further amended the HEA to authorize the Secretary to promulgate regulations to take emergency action against or to fine such an individual or organization. The Higher Education Amendments of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;325), enacted July 23, 1992, amended the HEA to expand the Secretary's authority to regulate the activities of those individuals and organizations, now called third-party servicers. Further, Public Law 102&hyph;325 authorizes the Secretary to promulgate regulations that are applicable to third-party servicers to establish minimum standards with respect to sound management and accountability of the FFEL programs and include standards for financial responsibility and the assessment of liabilities for FFEL program violations. These proposed regulations would implement those statutory provisions. In addition, these proposed regulations would strengthen and clarify the procedures for fining an institution or limiting, suspending, or terminating its participation in any Title IV, HEA program, and make other minor changes. The Secretary believes that establishing accountability guidelines for an institution's continued participation and the participation of an institution's third-party servicer in the Title IV, HEA programs is an important element in the general effort for better and more accountable schools, as called for in the National Education Goals. Negotiated Rulemaking Section 492 of the HEA contains procedural requirements that the Secretary is to follow in developing proposed regulations for parts B, G, and H of Title IV of the HEA, as amended by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992. Section 492(a) requires the Secretary to convene regional meetings to gain input on the content of proposed regulations. Section 492(b) requires the Secretary, subsequent to these meetings, to draft and submit regulations implementing parts B, G, and H to a negotiated rulemaking process. In accordance with the requirements of section 492, the Secretary convened four regional meetings to discuss issues related to implementation of parts B, G, and H. The Secretary invited representatives of groups involved in student financial assistance programs, such as students, legal assistance organizations that represent students, institutions of higher education, guaranty agencies, lenders, secondary markets, loan servicers, guaranty agency servicers, and collection agencies. As a precursor to the regional meetings, the Secretary held a meeting in Washington, DC, in August 1992, to invite comments from interested parties as to the key issues that should be addressed at the regional meetings. At the four regional meetings, the Secretary provided participants with a list of issues, based upon those identified in the meeting in August 1992 that needed to be addressed in these proposed regulations. Regional meetings were held in New York, New York; San Francisco, California; Atlanta, Georgia; and Kansas City, Missouri during September 1992. Participants in the meetings were invited to nominate individuals to serve as participants in negotiated rulemaking sessions. The Secretary selected participants for the negotiations process from individuals nominated by groups participating in the regional meetings and attempted, to the extent possible, to have participants reflect the diversity of those participating in the student aid community. Negotiated rulemaking sessions were held in April, June, and August 1993 in and around the environs of Washington, DC. Taking into account views expressed at the regional meetings, the Department of Education prepared draft regulations on the main issues discussed. The draft served as the basis for the negotiated rulemaking process.
