FR941007-1-00108 FR941007-1-00009 (d) Investment performance rating. The Board shall rate a bank's investment performance as provided in Appendix A of this part. ยง228.24 Service test. (a) Scope of test. The service test evaluates a bank's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the bank's service area(s) by analyzing both the availability and responsiveness of a bank's systems for delivering retail banking services and the extent and innovativeness of its community development services. (b) Assessment criteria_retail banking services. The Board shall evaluate the availability and responsiveness of a bank's systems for delivering retail banking services, pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The current distribution of the bank's branches and ATMs among low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies; (2) In the context of its current distribution of the bank's branches and ATMs, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs, particularly branches and ATMs located in low- or moderate-income geographies or primarily serving low- or moderate-income individuals; (3) The availability of alternative systems for delivering retail banking services ( e.g., banking by telephone or computer, mobile branches and ATMs, ATMs not owned or operated by or operated exclusively for the bank, loan production offices, and bank-at-work or by-mail programs) in low- and moderate-income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals; and (4) The range of services provided in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies and the degree to which the services are tailored to meet the needs of those geographies. (c) Assessment criteria_community development services. (1) Community development services are services that: (i) Primarily benefit low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program; and (ii) Address affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs that are not being met by the private market. (2) The Board shall evaluate community development services pursuant to the following criteria: (i) The extent to which the bank provides community development services; and (ii) The innovativeness and responsiveness of community development services. (3) When evaluating a bank's overall service performance, the Board shall weigh the bank's community development services according to the characteristics and needs of the bank's service area(s), the capacity and constraints of the bank, and the opportunities available to the bank to provide community development services. (4) At a bank's option, the Board shall consider in its assessment of a bank's service performance a community development service provided by an affiliate of the bank, provided that the community development service is not claimed by any other institution. (d) Service performance rating. The Board shall rate a bank's service performance as provided in Appendix A of this part.
