FR941031-2-00069 FR941031-2-00054 In the Matter of Creative Aerosol Corp., a Corporation; Agreement Containing Consent Order to Cease and Desist [File No. 922&hyph;3197] The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Creative Aerosol Corp., a corporation (``proposed respondent''), and it now appears that proposed respondent is willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between Creative Aerosol Corp., by its duly authorized officer, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Creative Aerosol Corp. is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of New Jersey, with its principal office or place of business at 71 West Main Street, Freehold, New Jersey 07728&hyph;2114. 2. Proposed respondent admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 3. Proposed respondent waives: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) All claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This agreement shall not become a part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the draft of the complaint contemplated hereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify proposed respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in the attached draft complaint or that the facts as alleged in the attached draft complaint, other than the jurisdictional facts, are true. 6. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may without further notice to proposed respondent, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft complaint here attached and its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondent's address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondent waives any right it might have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or in the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order.
