FR941102-1-00085 FR941102-1-00018 The corresponding somatic cell adjustments for average producers under the four orders in addition to Chicago are: Upper Midwest, zero cents; Iowa, minus one cent; Nebraska-Western Iowa, minus six cents; and Eastern South Dakota, minus three cents. The formula results in an estimated range of forty-eight cents per hundredweight from a somatic cell count of 1,000 to a somatic cell count of 750,000, or a positive twenty-two cents to a minus twenty-six cents, although there is no limit on the deduction that may be made since there is no limit on the maximum SCC in this decision. The use of a neutral point was supported by various proponents of a somatic cell adjuster. Several others suggested a neutral range. The record contains numerous references to a neutral range or point around a somatic cell count of 400,000. One witness expressed the opinion that the base level for the somatic cell adjustment should be near the average for the five markets. Another witness explained that their proposal used 400,000 SCC because that is where their present quality program begins. Based on data included in the hearing record, the average SCC for producers whose milk is pooled under the five orders is 367,000. Therefore, a neutral point of 350,000 is appropriate. It is close to the average for the markets, and not substantially different from the values that witnesses found appropriate. Also, by using the formula included herein, proponents of both a neutral point or a neutral range are accommodated because the formula yields no value adjustment for approximately plus or minus 7,000 SCC around 350,000. The formula will give producers an incentive to reduce their SCCs while minimizing the effect of the somatic cell adjuster on those products in which somatic cells have a quality effect rather than a yield effect. The argument that a somatic cell adjuster will negate the forward pricing of Class I and Class II milk is also minimized by the proposed formula. Analysis shows that the month-to-month variation in the somatic cell adjustment at a particular somatic cell level is no more than one cent per hundredweight, with an approximate change of 1 cent for every increment of 15,000 somatic cells. This small variation from month to month should allow handlers to determine accurately the cost of milk for forward pricing. In fact, the variation in the somatic cell adjustment is significantly less than the month-to- month variation in the current butterfat differential, which is not known until after the end of the month. Since this decision applies an adjustment for somatic cells to all milk, there is no need to include the somatic cell adjustment in the computation of the producer price differential. There are only two reasons to include somatic cells in the producer price differential computation: (1) To exclude a particular class or classes of milk from being affected by a somatic cell adjustment, or (2) to redistribute the somatic cell adjustment money among all of the producers in the market. Since this decision applies the somatic cell adjustment to all milk the first reason is not relevant. There may be some merit for redistributing money from high somatic cell producers to low somatic cell producers marketwide. However, if such a provision were adopted, the producer price differential would also be affected with changes in the market average SCC. In fact, as the market average SCC decreased, the producer price differential would decline below the level of the producer price differential in the absence of a somatic cell count adjustment, decreasing the incentive for producers to reduce the somatic cell counts of their milk and defeating the objective of a somatic cell count adjustment. Therefore the somatic cell adjustment will be applied to all producer milk without being included in the pool or producer price differential computation.
