FR941012-2-00079 FR941012-2-00052 2. The background of the proposal, i.e., the basis for the present proposal, the critical evaluation of existing knowledge, and specific identification of the injury control knowledge gaps which the proposal is intended to fill; 3. The significance and originality from a scientific or technical standpoint of the specific aims of the proposed research, including the adequacy of the theoretical and conceptual framework for the research; 4. For competitive renewal and supplemental applications, the progress made during the prior project period. For new applications, (optional) the progress of preliminary studies pertinent to the application. 5. The adequacy of the proposed research design, approaches, and methodology to carry out the research, including quality assurance procedures, plan for data management, and statistical analysis plan. 6. The extent to which the evaluation plan will allow for the measurement of progress toward the achievement of the stated objectives. 7. Qualifications, adequacy, and appropriateness of personnel to accomplish the proposed activities. 8. The degree of commitment and cooperation of other interested parties (as evidenced by letters detailing the nature and extent of the involvement). 9. The reasonableness of the proposed budget to the proposed research and demonstration program. 10. Adequacy of existing and proposed facilities and resources. B. The second review will be conducted by the Advisory Committee for Injury Prevention and Control. The factors to be considered will include: 1. The results of the peer review. 2. The significance of the proposed activities in relation to the priorities and objectives stated in Injury Control in the 1990s: A National Plan for Action and Healthy People 2000. 3. National needs. 4. Overall distribution among: •The three phases of injury control: prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation; •The major disciplines of injury control: biomechanics and epidemiology; •Populations addressed (e.g., adolescents, children, racial and ethnic minorities, rural residents, farm families, and people with low incomes); and 5. Budgetary considerations (e.g., preference may be given to applicants who submit proposals requesting funding for research projects of one to two year's duration).
