FR940706-0-00022 FR940706-0-00001 (2) If any party or other person refuses to obey an order made under this section requiring an answer to designated questions or production of documents, the ALJ may order that the matters regarding which questions were asked or the contents of the document or documents or any other designated facts should be taken to be established for the purposes of the proceeding in accordance with the claim of the party obtaining the order. (i) Postponements or delays . No hearing, proceeding or other matter under this part shall be postponed or otherwise delayed pending the response or resolution of issues pertaining to a request for information pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. ยง283.13 Subpoenas. (a) Issuance of subpoenas . The attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence from any place in the United States on behalf of any party to the appeal may be required by subpoena at the designated place of hearing. Except for cause shown, requests for subpoenas shall be filed at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. Subpoenas shall be issued by the ALJ, over the facsimile signature of the Secretary, upon a reasonable showing by the applicant of the grounds, necessity and reasonable scope thereof. (b) Service of subpoenas . (1) When the ALJ issues a subpoena under this section, the party who requested such subpoena shall serve all other parties with a copy of the subpoena, notice of the names and addresses of the individuals subpoenaed and specify any documents required to be produced. (2) Subpoenas may be served: (i) By a U.S. Marshal or deputy marshal, (ii) By any other person who is not less than 18 years of age, or (iii) By registering and mailing a copy of the subpoena addressed to the person to be served at the last known principal place of business or residence. (3) Proof of service may be made: (i) By the return of service on the subpoena by the U.S. Marshal or deputy marshal, (ii) If served by an employee of the Department, by a certificate stating that he personally served the subpoena upon the person named therein, (iii) If served by another person, by an affidavit of such person stating that he personally served the subpoena upon the person named therein, or (iv) If service was by registered mail, by an affidavit made by the person mailing the subpoena that it was mailed as provided herein and by the signed return post-office receipt. Where the subpoena is issued on behalf of the Secretary and service is by mail, the return receipt without an affidavit or certificate of mailing shall be sufficient proof of service.
