FR940127-0-00054 FR940127-0-00012 (3) Have at least one year of satisfactory experience in processing engineering work, in direct contact with the FAA, for type certification or major repair projects; and (4) Have at least eight years of aeronautical engineering experience (which may include the one year of experience in processing engineering work for type certification or major repair projects). (c) The holder of an authorization issued under this Special Federal Aviation Regulation shall notify the Administrator within 48 hours of any change (including a change of personnel) that could affect the ability of the holder to meet the requirements of this Special Federal Aviation Regulation. 6. Procedures Manual. (a) A certificate holder may not approve a product or article for return to service under section 2 of this Special Federal Aviation Regulation unless the holder__ (1) Has a procedures manual that has been approved by the Administrator as complying with paragraph (b) of this section; and (2) Complies with the procedures contained in this procedures manual. (b) The approved procedures manual must contain_ (1) The procedures for developing and determining the adequacy of technical data for major repairs; (2) The identification (names, signatures, and responsibilities) of officials and of each staff member described in section 5 of this Special Federal Aviation Regulation who_ (i) Has the authority to make changes in procedures that require a revision to the procedures manual; and (ii) Prepares or determines the adequacy of technical data, plans or conducts tests, and approves, on behalf of the authorization holder, test results; and (3) A ``log of revisions'' page that identifies each revised item, page, and date of revision, and contains the signature of the person approving the change for the Administrator. (c) The holder of an authorization issued under this Special Federal Aviation Regulation may not approve a product or article for return to service after a change in staff necessary to meet the requirements of section 5 of this regulation or a change in procedures from those approved under paragraph (a) of this section, unless that change has been approved by the FAA and entered in the procedures manual. 7. Duration of Authorization. Each authorization issued under this Special Federal Aviation Regulation is effective from the date of issuance until January 23, 1999, unless it is earlier surrendered, suspended, revoked, or otherwise terminated. Upon termination of such authorization, the terminated authorization holder must:
