FR941026-0-00063 FR941026-0-00020 3. Section 203.550 is amended by revising the last sentence in paragraph (a), removing and reserving paragraph (b), and revising paragraph (c), to read as follows: §203.550 Escrow accounts. (a) *␣*␣* The mortgagee shall use the procedures set forth in §3500.17 of this title, implementing Section 10 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (12 U.S.C. 2609), to compute the amount of the escrow, the methods of collection and accounting, and the payment of the bills for which the money has been escrowed. (b) [Reserved] (c) In the case of escrow accounts created for purposes of §203.52 or §234.64 of this chapter, mortgagees may estimate escrow requirements based on the best information available as to probable payments that will be required to be made from the account on a periodic basis throughout the period during which the account is maintained. * * * * * PART 234_CONDOMINIUM OWNERSHIP MORTGAGE INSURANCE 4. The authority citation for part 234 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1715b and 1715y; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Section 234.520(a)(2)(ii) is also issued under 12 U.S.C. 1707(a). 5. Section 234.38(a) is revised to read as follows: §234.38 Mortgage provisions for additional payments and covenants. (a) The mortgage shall provide for such equal monthly payments by the mortgagor to the mortgagee as will amortize any ground or lease rents and the estimated amount of any taxes, special assessments, and any property insurance premiums that may be required by the mortgagee. These payments shall be held in an escrow subject to §203.550 of this title, which is incorporated by reference in §234.800. * * * * * PART 3500_REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT 6. The authority citation for part 3500 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 2601 et seq . 7. Section 3500.8 is amended by adding a new paragraph (c), to read as follows: §3500.8 Use of HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A settlement statements. * * * * * (c) Aggregate Accounting At Settlement. (1) If the settlement agent uses a cushion in determining the initial entries for lines 1000&hyph;1008 of the HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A settlement statement, then the settlement agent shall make an adjustment to reflect the appropriate starting balance in the escrow account under the aggregate accounting method. The cushion using the aggregate accounting is computed according to the steps set out in §3500.17(d). The adjustment reflects the difference between the amounts collected as a cushion in the 1000 series for individual escrow items under the single-item accounting method and the permissible cushion under the aggregate accounting method. The servicer shall enter the aggregate adjustment amount on the last line in the 1000 series of the HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A statement. (2) During the phase-in period, as defined in §3500.17(b), an alternative procedure is available. The settlement agent may initially calculate the 1000 series deposits for the HUD&hyph;1 and HUD&hyph;1A settlement statement using single-item analysis with only a one-month cushion (unless the mortgage loan documents indicate a smaller amount). In the escrow account analysis conducted within 45 days of settlement, however, the servicer shall adjust the escrow account to reflect the aggregate accounting balance. Appendix F to this part sets out examples of aggregate analysis. Appendix A to this part contains instructions for completing the HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A settlement statements using an aggregate analysis adjustment and the alternative process during the phase-in period. 8. A new §3500.17 is added, to read as follows: §3500.17 Escrow accounts. (a) General. This section sets out the requirements for an escrow account that a lender establishes in connection with a federally related mortgage loan. It sets limits for escrow accounts using calculations based on monthly payments and disbursements within a calendar year. If an escrow account involves biweekly or any other payment period, the requirements in this section shall be modified accordingly. Appendix H to this part provides an example of the transposition from monthly to biweekly accounting and Appendix J to this part provides an example of a 3-year accounting cycle that may be used in accordance with paragraph (c)(9) of this section. (b) Definitions. As used in this section: Acceptable accounting method means an accounting method that a servicer uses to conduct an escrow account analysis for an escrow account subject to the provisions of §3500.17(c). Aggregate (or) composite analysis, hereafter called aggregate analysis, means an accounting method a servicer uses in conducting an escrow account analysis by computing the sufficiency of escrow account funds by analyzing the account as a whole. Appendix F to this part sets forth examples of aggregate escrow account analyses. Annual Escrow Account Statement means a statement containing all of the information set forth in §3500.17(i). As noted in §3500.17(i), a servicer shall submit an annual escrow account statement to the borrower within 30 calendar days of the end of the escrow account computation year, after conducting an escrow account analysis. Conversion date means the date three years after the publication date of the rule adding this section (i.e., October 27, 1997) by which date all servicers shall use aggregate analysis. Cushion or reserve (hereafter cushion) means funds that a servicer may require a borrower to pay into an escrow account to cover unanticipated disbursements or disbursements made before the borrower's payments are available in the account, as limited by §3500.17(c). Date of establishment of an escrow account means the date the servicer establishes the escrow account. Deficiency is the amount of a negative balance in an escrow account. As noted in §3500.17(f), if a servicer advances funds for a borrower, then the servicer must perform an escrow account analysis before seeking repayment of the deficiency. Delivery means the placing of a document in the United States mail, first-class postage paid, addressed to the last known address of the recipient. Hand delivery also constitutes delivery. Disbursement date means the date on which the servicer actually pays an escrow item from the escrow account. Section 3500.17(k) provides that the servicer shall use as the disbursement date a date on or before the earlier of the deadline to take advantage of discounts, if available, or the deadline to avoid a penalty. Escrow account means any account that a servicer establishes or controls on behalf of a borrower to pay taxes, insurance premiums (including flood insurance), or other charges with respect to a federally related mortgage loan, including charges that the borrower and servicer have voluntarily agreed that the servicer should collect and pay. The definition encompasses any account established for this purpose, including a ``trust account'', ``reserve account'', ``impound account'', or other term in different localities. An ``escrow account'' includes any arrangement where the servicer adds a portion of borrower's payments to principal and subsequently deducts from principal the disbursements for escrow account items. For purposes of this section, the term ``escrow account'' excludes any account that is under the borrower's total control. Escrow account analysis means the accounting that a servicer conducts in the form of a trial running balance for an escrow account to: (1) Determine the appropriate target balances; (2) Compute the borrower's monthly payments for the next escrow account computation year and any deposits needed to establish or maintain the account; and (3) Determine whether shortages, surpluses or deficiencies exist. Escrow account computation year is a 12-month period that a servicer establishes for the escrow account beginning with the borrower's initial payment date. The term includes each 12-month period thereafter, unless a servicer chooses to issue a short year statement under the conditions stated in 3500.17(i)(4). Escrow account item or separate item means any separate expenditure category, such as ``taxes'' or ``insurance'', for which funds are collected in the escrow account for disbursement. An escrow account item with installment payments, such as local property taxes, remains one escrow account item regardless of multiple disbursement dates to the tax authority. Federally related mortgage loan has the meaning set forth in §3500.2. Initial escrow account statement means the first disclosure statement that the servicer delivers to the borrower concerning the borrower's escrow account. The initial escrow account statement shall meet the requirements of §3500.17(g) and be in substantially the format set forth in §3500.17(h). Installment payment means one of two or more payments payable on an escrow account item during an escrow account computation year. An example of an installment payment is where a jurisdiction bills quarterly for taxes.
