FR940921-2-00075 FR940921-2-00065 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34673; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;46] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change by National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., Relating to the Pricing of Open Orders September 15, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on August 16, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing to amend Article III, Section 46 of the Rules of Fair Practice 1 to clarify that its provisions will not apply if an issuer does not notify the NASD of the declaration of a dividend or distributions. Below is the text of the proposed rule change. Proposed new language is italicized; proposed deletions are in brackets. 1 NASD Manual, Rules of Fair Practice, Art. III, Sec. 46 (CCH) ¶ 2200F. Adjustment of Open Orders Sec. 46. * * * * * (e) The provisions of this rule shall not apply to [orders]: (1) orders governed by the rules of a registered national securities exchange; (2) orders marked ``do not reduce''; (3) orders marked ``do not increase;'' (4) open stop orders to buy; [or] (5) open sell orders[.1] ; or (6) orders for the purchase or sale of securities where the issuer of the securities has not reported a dividend, payment or distribution pursuant to Rule 10b&hyph;17 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (17 CFR §240.10b&hyph;17). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item V below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Article III, Section 46 of the NASD Rules of Fair Practice, which is scheduled to go into effect on September 15, 1994, requires members to adjust open orders for securities when they are quoted ex-dividend, ex-rights, ex-distribution or ex-interest. 2 Most members are on notice that a particular security has gone ex-dividend, ex-rights, ex-distribution or ex-interest because Rule 10b&hyph;17 under the Act 3 generally requires an issuer to give notice to the Association 4 no later than ten days prior to the record date involved 5 of a dividend or other distribution in cash or in kind, a stock split or reverse split, or a rights or other subscription offering. However, if an issuer does not comply with Rule 10b&hyph;17, the member holding an open order may not have notice of the record date and permit the order to be executed when the security is quoted ex-dividend. Accordingly, the NASD is proposing an amendment to Article III, Section 46 to provide that it will not apply where the issuer has not provided the notice required by Rule 10b&hyph;17. 2 See NASD Notice to Members 94&hyph;9 (February 1994) and NASD Notice to Members 94&hyph;28 (April 1994). 3 17 CFR 240.10b&hyph;17 (1993). 4 If a security is listed on a national securities exchange or exchanges, the issuer of that security may give notice in accordance with the procedures of that exchange or exchanges in lieu of giving notice to the NASD. 5 An issuer may give notice on or before the record date in the event of a rights subscription or other offering if 10 days advance notice is not practical. The NASD has not noted a widespread Rule 10b&hyph;17 compliance problem among domestic issuers. However, NASD member firms that do a business in foreign securities are required by Article III, Section 46 to adjust the price of an open order for a foreign security traded on a foreign exchange. In some cases, issuers of such securities are not required by the laws of the issuers' country of domicile to announce a dividend, and often such issuers do not declare dividends in advance. In some cases, the markets find out about dividends when there is a significant, unexplained price change in the security and the issuer or exchange confirms, in response to inquiries, that a dividend has been declared. In such a situation the firm may find itself in violation of Article III, Section 46 by permitting an open order to be executed for such a security after the dividend has been declared. In order to resolve the problem faced by member firms dealing in foreign securities or in securities of domestic issuers who have not complied with Rule 10b&hyph;17, the NASD has determined that an exemption for open orders for such securities from the coverage of the new section is necessary. Accordingly, the NASD is amending subsection (e) to Section 46 of the NASD Rules of Fair Practice to state that the obligation to reprice open orders does not apply with respect to securities where the issuer has not provided the required Rule 10b&hyph;17 notice. Because Rule 10b&hyph;17 requires issuers to notify the NASD or national securities exchanges upon the declaration of a dividend or other distribution, using Rule 10b&hyph;17 as the basis for the exemption means that the obligations of Article III, Section 46 of the Rules of Fair Practice would attach only if an issuer has complied with Rule 10b&hyph;17. The NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of Section 15A(b)(6) of the Act, 6 which require that the rules of the association be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, promote just and equitable principles of trade, and protect investors and the public interest, in that the proposed rule preserves the current obligation to adjust open orders after the ex-date without imposing an obligation on members that would be difficult or impossible to meet if issuers did not announce dividends or distributions in advance of the ex-date. 6 15 U.S.C. §78 o &hyph;3. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD does not believe that the proposed rule change will result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, as amended. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The NASD has requested that the Commission find good cause pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) for approving the proposed rule change prior to the 30th day after publication in the Federal Register . The NASD notes that Section 46 is scheduled to go into effect on September 15, 1994; the Section requires members to adjust open orders for securities when they are quoted ex-dividend, ex-rights, ex-distribution or ex-interest; and that it is impracticable for members to fulfill the obligations imposed by the Section if an issuer has not complied with the requirements of Rule 10b&hyph;17. Based on the NASD's representations that: (1) the laws of the home jurisdiction(s) of many foreign issuers do not require such issuers to announce the declaration of a dividend or distribution; (2) often such issuers do not declare dividends in advance; (3) markets often find out about dividends only after there has been a significant, unexplained price change in the security and the issuer or exchange confirms, in response to inquiries, that a dividend has been declared; and (4) it is impracticable for members to fulfill the obligations imposed by the Section if an issuer, whether foreign or domestic, has not complied with the requirements of Rule 10b&hyph;17, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the NASD and, in particular, the requirements of Section 15A(b)(6). Section 15A(b)(6) requires, in part, that the rules of the NASD be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and to protect investors and the public interest. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposal on an accelerated basis to prevent NASD members from violating the provisions of Section 46 in circumstances in which such members cannot be expected to be able to comply with that Section. The Commission believes that the proposed rule change promotes the public interest by preserving a member's obligation to adjust open orders after the ex-date without imposing an obligation that would be difficult or impossible for that member to meet if an issuer does not announce dividends or distributions in advance of the ex-date. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the NASD and, in particular, the requirements of Section 15A and the rules and regulations thereunder. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20459. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;46 and should be submitted by October 12, 1994. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;46), be, and hereby is approved. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23344 Filed 9&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
