FR940104-1-00007 FR940104-1-00001 b. Apply the somatic cell adjustment to producers' protein price, rather than on a hundredweight basis. c. In calculating the protein price, subtract an appropriate make allowance per pound of barrel cheddar cheese from the cheese price before multiplying by 1.32. This modification may require creation of a separate residual ``component'' in addition to the butterfat, protein and other solids components, which would require a formula to determine the value of other milk solids (not protein). Proposed by the National Cheese Institute: Proposal No. 8 Adopt Proposal No. 4 with the following modifications: a. Calculate a ``residual fluid price'' instead of an ``other solids price'' by subtracting the values of butterfat and protein from the Minnesota-Wisconsin price. b. Instead of including in the order a somatic cell price per hundredweight, allow handlers to submit a plan for the market administrator's approval to pay premiums or make deductions based on somatic cell count or other quality considerations so long as the total payment to all producers reflects the monthly minimum pay price under the Order. c. Payouts to producers should be made on the basis of the same factors as determine the cost of milk to handlers. Proposed by the Trade Association of Proprietary Plants, Inc.: Proposal No. 9 Adopt a multiple component pricing plan that closely resembles Proposal No. 4, modified in the following ways: a. Protein value per hundredweight to be expressed as a protein differential. b. Protein value per hundredweight to be adjusted by a positive somatic cell adjustment of approximately 1 cent per 15,000 somatic cells as somatic cell counts decline below 300,000, and a negative adjustment of approximately 1 cent per 15,000 somatic cells as somatic cell counts increase above 350,000, up to a maximum adjustment of plus or minus 10 cents to the value of protein per hundredweight of milk. c. Sweetened condensed milk to be reclassified as Class III or exempted from the protein pool obligation. Proposed by the Galloway Company: Proposal No. 10 Milk used for the manufacture of ice cream, ice cream mixes, and various Class II sweetened condensed milks shall continue to be priced as under the current regulations and shall not be priced using multiple component pricing. Proposed by Dairy Division, Agricultural Marketing Service: Proposal No. 11 Make such changes as may be necessary to make the entire marketing agreement and order conform with any amendments thereto that may result from this hearing. Copies of this notice of hearing and the orders may be procured from the Market Administrator of each of the aforesaid marketing areas, or from the Hearing Clerk, room 1083, South Building, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or may be inspected there. Copies of the transcript of testimony taken at the hearing will not be available for distribution through the Hearing Clerk's Office. If you wish to purchase a copy, arrangements may be made with the reporter at the hearing. From the time that a hearing notice is issued and until the issuance of a final decision in a proceeding, Department employees involved in the decisional process are prohibited from discussing the merits of the hearing issues on an ex parte basis with any person having an interest in the proceeding. For this particular proceeding, the prohibition applies to employees in the following organizational units: Office of the Secretary of Agriculture Office of the Administrator, Agricultural Marketing Service Office of the General Counsel Dairy Division, Agricultural Marketing Service (Washington office only) Office of the Market Administrator, Chicago Regional, Nebraska-Western Iowa, Upper Midwest, Eastern South Dakota and Iowa Marketing Areas Procedural matters are not subject to the above prohibition and may be discussed at any time. Dated: December 22, 1993. Kenneth C. Clayton, Deputy Administrator for Marketing Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;56 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
