FR940207-1-00010 FR940207-1-00002 The scope of the discussion that follows is limited so that, for instance, examples listed in the commentary are not repeated below. Section 230.1_Authority, Purpose, Coverage, and Effect on State Laws (c) Coverage Comment 1(c)&hyph;1 clarifies that the scope of the regulation is all depository institutions (except credit unions) that offer accounts to residents of a ``state,'' such as accounts held in the United States, even though funds may be transferred periodically into an account held at a location outside the United States. An account located outside the United States is not covered, even if the funds are held by a U.S. resident. Section 230.2_Definitions (a) Account Comment 2(a)&hyph;1 provides examples of accounts subject to the regulation, including the example of a deposit account required as a condition of obtaining a credit card account (often referred to as a ``secured'' credit card account). The Board believes it is important for consumers to receive disclosures about the terms, monthly fees, or other charges that may apply to such accounts, since such information may not appear on disclosures given to card holders under the Truth in Lending Act and its implementing Regulation Z (12 CFR part 226). The proposed comment also includes examples of accounts not subject to the regulation. The Board's proposed comment narrows the scope of trust accounts covered by the regulation, a difference from guidance provided in supplementary material to the September 1992 rulemaking. The comment provides that trust accounts are not subject to the regulation with the exception of individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and simplified employee pension (SEP) accounts. (See proposed commentary to paragraph 2(h) of this section.) The ``trust'' for which the account is established is not a natural person, even though the trustee and beneficiary might be. In addition, the law of trusts imposes duties and responsibilities upon all trustees that the Board believes distinguish trust accounts from other accounts held by one individual for another solely for personal, family or household purposes. Finally, the Board believes that requiring an institution to identify both the purpose of the trust and whether the account has been established by someone in a professional capacity would present an undue compliance burden, with minimal benefits. The Board requests comment on whether any accounts established for trusts (other than IRAs and SEP accounts) should be subject to the regulation, particularly when both the beneficiary and the trustee are natural persons. (b) Advertisement Comment 2(b)&hyph;1 provides examples of commercial messages considered to be advertisements, such as messages on computer screens in bank lobbies and accompanying printouts. The Board believes these messages are similar to messages in traditional advertising media such as televisions and newspapers. The comment also provides examples of messages not considered to be advertisements, including direct oral discussions conducted in person_but not telephone conversations_regarding the negotiation of a specific account. The Board believes that the purpose of advertising disclosures_ensuring that prospective customers of consumer accounts know basic terms about the account_is adequately served by face-to-face discussions between employees of the institution and consumers seeking information about accounts. Also, this interpretation is similar to the approach taken in the Official Staff Commentary to the Board's Regulation Z (12 CFR part 226, Supp. I, 2(a)(2)&hyph;1). (f) Bonus Comment 2(f)&hyph;1 provides examples of bonuses. The comment also provides an example of an item that is not considered a bonus for purposes of the regulation_discount coupons offered by institutions for use at restaurants and stores. Comment 2(f)&hyph;2 clarifies the application of the de minimis rule ($10 value or less) by defining the calendar year as the time frame for determining whether the bonus requirements are triggered, to ease compliance. The comment also provides that institutions must aggregate per account the value of items contemplated to be given during the calendar year, even though an item's individual value is less than $10. Thus, if an institution offers in January to give a consumer an item valued at $7.00 each calendar quarter during the year if account balances in a NOW account exceed $10,000 for each calendar quarter, the bonus rules would be triggered. On the other hand, if the items are given for opening separate accounts_such as a $7.00 item for renewing a time account and another for opening a savings account_the value given for each account remains within the de minimis exception, and the bonus rules would not be triggered. Comment 2(f)&hyph;3 clarifies that the waiver or reduction of a fee or absorption of expenses is not a bonus. The Board solicits comment on this approach.
