FR940627-0-00087 FR940627-0-00015 Background 4. The Commission stated that it has taken several initiatives to increase competition in the long-distance market. First, in 1992, in the Special Access Expanded Interconnection Order , the Commission required Tier 1 LECs, except NECA pool members, to provide expanded interconnection for interstate special access to all interested parties. 1 The Commission also stated that in 1993, it adopted the Switched Transport Expanded Interconnection Order , in which the Commission required LECs providing expanded interconnection for special access to provide expanded interconnection for switched transport service as well. 2 In that order, the Commission opened the opportunity for interconnectors to provide alternative transmission services to LEC-provided direct-trunked transport and entrance facilities by collocating transmission facilities in LEC end offices, tandems, serving wire centers (SWCs), and certain remote nodes. The Commission stated that as a result of those two actions, interconnectors are now able to provide special access and switched transport transmission services in competition with the LECs. 1 Expanded Interconnection with Local Telephone Company Facilities , Report and Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 7 FCC Rcd 7369 (1992), 57 FR 54323 (November 18, 1992), vacated in part and remanded in part, Bell Atlantic v. FCC, No. 92&hyph;1619 (D.C. Cir. June 10, 1994), recon ., 8 FCC Rcd 127 (1992), recon ., 8 FCC Rcd 7341 (1991). 2 Expanded Interconnection with Local Telephone Company Facilities, Second Report and Order and Third Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 8 FCC Rcd 7374 (1993), 58 FR 48756 (September 17, 1993), appeal pending sub nom. Bell Atlantic v. FCC , No. 93&hyph;1743 (D.C. Cir., filed November 12, 1993). 5. The Commission stated that only LECs, however, currently can provide tandem switching functions. Third parties cannot now provide such functions because they generally do not have access to the signalling information necessary to switch and route traffic to IXCs. Thus, virtually all tandem-switched transport currently must be routed through LEC tandems and switched by the LECs at that point; interconnectors can provide only the link between the LEC tandem and the IXC point-of-presence (POP). 6. The Commission stated that in a Second Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ( Notice ), 3 which is the subject of this proceeding, it proposed to broaden the scope of its access initiatives to address this limitation. Specifically, the Commission proposed to require LECs to provide other parties to offer tandem switching functions. Under this proposal, interconnectors would be able to offer tandem-switched transport, using their own tandems, in competition with the LECs. In addition, third parties, such as IXCs, could obtain economies by aggregating their traffic from end offices on a single direct trunk, routing that traffic to a third-party tandem, and switching it at that point. 3 Expanded Interconnection with Local Telephone Company Facilities, Second Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 7 FCC Rcd 7740 (1991), 56 FR 52496 (October 21, 1991). Technical Requirements and Network Modifications 7. The Commission stated that the record identifies four types of signalling information used to provide switched transport: (1) The Carrier Identification Code (CIC), which identifies the caller's selected IXC; (2) the OZZ, which indicates the specific IXC trunk group that is to carry the call; (3) the Automatic Number Identification (ANI), which identifies the billed number; and (4) the Called Number Identification (CNI), which identifies the called telephone number. IXCs may use different trunk groups to carry different classes of calls. For example, 0+ calls may be carried on a different trunk group than direct-dialed domestic calls. The OZZ digits indicate the call type, and thus the trunk group, onto which a particular call should be routed. Requirement to Provide Signalling Information 8. The Commission stated that currently, LECs transmit ANI and CNI to their access customers on originating Feature Group D trunks from LEC end offices and tandems. They do not, however, transmit the CIC and OZZ codes to third parties because IXCs do not need this information to route and bill calls. Thus, these latter codes are dropped by the LECs from the signalling data stream after trunk selection has taken place. In the case of direct-trunked traffic, the CIC and OZZ codes are dropped at the originating end office; in the case of tandem-switched traffic, they are dropped at the tandem. Because the CIC and OZZ codes are needed for tandem switching and are not currently provided to third parties, these data are the focus of this proceeding.
