FR940725-0-00180 FR940725-0-00019 (3) An employee may not enter a space where the concentration of flammable vapors or gases is equal to or greater than 10 percent of the lower explosive limit. Exception: An employee may enter for emergency rescue or for a short duration for installation of ventilation equipment necessary to start work in the space, provided: (i) No ignition sources are present; (ii) The atmosphere in the space is monitored continuously; (iii) The atmosphere in the space is maintained above the upper explosive limit; and (iv) Respiratory protection and other appropriate personal protective equipment and clothing are provided in accordance with Subpart I of this part. Note 1 to paragraph (b): Additional provisions for work in IDLH atmospheres are located in Subpart I of this part. Note 2 to paragraph (b): Additional provisions for work in spaces containing a flammable substance which also has a permissible exposure limit, are located in Subpart Z of 29 CFR part 1915, and ยง1915.12(c). (c) Toxic, corrosive, irritant or fumigated atmospheres and residues. (1) The employer shall ensure that spaces or adjacent spaces that contain or have contained liquids, gases, or solids that are toxic, corrosive or irritant are: (i) Inspected visually by the competent person to determine the presence of toxic, corrosive, or irritant residue contaminants; and (ii) Tested by a competent person prior to initial entry by an employee to determine the air concentration of toxics, corrosives, or irritants within the space. (2) If a space contains an air concentration of a material which exceeds a part 1915 subpart Z permissible exposure limit (PEL) or is IDLH, the space shall be labeled ``Not Safe for Workers.'' Ventilation shall be provided at volumes and flow rates which will ensure that air concentrations are maintained within the PEL or, in the case of contaminants for which there is no established PEL, below the IDLH. The warning label may be removed when the concentration of contaminants is maintained within the PEL or below IDLH level. (3) If a space cannot be ventilated to within the PELs or is IDLH, a Marine Chemist or CIH must re-test until the space can be certified ``Enter with Restrictions'' or ``Safe for Workers.'' (4) An employee may not enter a space whose atmosphere exceeds a PEL or is IDLH. Exception: An employee may enter for emergency rescue, or for a short duration for installation of ventilation equipment provided: (i) The atmosphere in the space is monitored continuously; (ii) Respiratory protection and other necessary and appropriate personal protective equipment and clothing are provided in accordance with Subpart I of this part. Note to paragraph (c): Other provisions for work in IDLH atmospheres are located in Subpart I of this part. (d) Training of employees entering confined and enclosed spaces or other dangerous atmospheres. (1) The employer shall ensure that each employee that enters a confined or enclosed space and other areas with dangerous atmospheres is trained to perform all required duties safely. (2) The employer shall ensure that each employee who enters a confined space, enclosed space, or other areas with dangerous atmospheres is trained to: (i) Recognize the characteristics of the confined space; (ii) Anticipate and be aware of the hazards that may be faced during entry; (iii) Recognize the adverse health effects that may be caused by the exposure to a hazard; (iv) Understand the physical signs and reactions related to exposures to such hazards; (v) Know what personal protective equipment is needed for safe entry into and exit from the space; (vi) Use personal protective equipment; and (vii) Where necessary, be aware of the presence and proper use of barriers that may be needed to protect an entrant from hazards. (3) The employer shall ensure that each entrant into confined or enclosed spaces or other dangerous atmospheres is trained to exit the space or dangerous atmosphere whenever: (i) The employer or his or her representative orders evacuation; (ii) An evacuation signal such as a alarm is activated ; or (iii) The entrant perceives that he or she is in danger. (4) The employer shall provide each employee with training: (i) Before the entrant begins work addressed by this section; and
