FR940429-0-00195 FR940429-0-00015 Discussion: The language for this provision is statutory and may not be changed by the Secretary. In addition, the Secretary believes that any survey conducted as part of IPEDS is necessary and will provide valuable information to the Department. Those offices that collect IPEDS information work diligently to create consistent, easy-to-use forms and formats, not just because this makes data collection easier for the institutions, but also because it makes tabulating and sorting of the information easier. The Secretary does not believe this requirement is unduly burdensome to institutions. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter suggested that by not allowing institutions to impose penalties on students unable to meet their financial obligations due to disbursement delays for loan proceeds, this provision would force institutions to ``carry'' unpaid students indefinitely, creating a financial burden. One commenter suggested it was not the intent of the statute for an institution to allow an unpaid student to remain enrolled if the delay in disbursement of loan proceeds was caused by the student's failure to comply with a program requirement. One commenter recommended that the regulations stipulate that institutions would not be prohibited from withholding academic transcripts and other graduate services from students as the result of delayed disbursement of Title IV, HEA program funds. Discussion: The language of this requirement is for the most part statutory, and very clear in its intent. The Secretary does not believe this requirement will cause a financial burden to institutions as this situation should not frequently occur if an institution is complying with all applicable regulations. It is not probable that a student would deliberately cause the delay of his or her loan disbursement by not complying with the instructions of the institution or lender; nevertheless, if such a situation occurred, the institution would not be prohibited from imposing penalties on the student. The withholding of a student's academic transcript or other graduate services is considered a penalty by the Secretary. Changes: None. Comments: A very large number of commenters suggested that the proposed regulations went beyond the scope of the statute by prohibiting any type of incentive payments, particularly those based on ``retention.'' Most of those same commenters, plus another large group, felt that token gifts to students and alumni should be excluded from this requirement. Discussion: The Secretary believes that even in incentive payment structures based on retention there is room for abuse and, in fact, has seen evidence of such abuse. Since July of 1992 when the Amendments of 1992 were enacted, many institutions have opted to change to retention-based pay for admissions personnel. In that time, the Secretary has seen evidence of lowered satisfactory progress standards and in extreme cases, falsified attendance and leave of absence requests, all in an effort to keep students enrolled. In many cases, these practices were designed by admissions personnel who were duly paid after the student passed a retention mark. After that mark, the students were dropped. Furthermore, the Secretary has evidence that some of these students were admitted using falsified ability-to-benefit tests, which further ties the issue of retention to enrollment. The Secretary believes that reputable and conscientious institutions can develop other creative ways to reward their employees that will have no direct or indirect relationship to success in securing enrollments. Regarding token gifts for students and alumni who refer other students, the Secretary, after reviewing the comments, has decided that such practices are widespread and will cause no harm if the tokens are not monetary, and limits are placed both on their value and frequency of distribution. Changes: The Secretary has amended §668.14(b)(22) to allow that token gifts may be given to students or alumni for referring other students for admission to the institution, as long as: (1) the gift is not money, check or money order; (2) no more than one such gift is given to any student or alumnus; and (3) the value of the gift is no more than twenty-five dollars. Comments: Seven commenters asserted that most institutions that offer athletically related student aid are currently audited by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and that the regulations should be amended to state that compilations and audits which together satisfy NCAA and OMB also satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of the regulation. One commenter indicated that the proposed regulations paralleled NCAA audit requirements and compliance should not pose a problem for member institutions. One commenter pointed out that a ``compilation'' is a term defined under Statements on Standards for Accounting and Review Services No.1 and only provides a representation without any assurances on the statements. The commenter suggested that the Secretary require preparation of a schedule, and have that schedule audited. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the requirements of the statute and regulations stand on their own. It is up to each institution to determine if a particular audit or compilation prepared for a different organization satisfies the conditions specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of the regulation. The Secretary believes it is unwise to give blanket approval to audits and compilations which, although at present may satisfy the regulation, may not at a later date. Furthermore, the language of this provision, as written, covers all institutions, even those which are not NCAA members. Changes: None. Comments: Seven commenters indicated that by making the effective date for participation in the Title IV, HEA programs the date that the Secretary signs an institution's program participation agreement, there may well be a lapse of time from the expiration of the prior program participation agreement during which the institution may be ineligible. The commenters felt this may create financial problems for both institutions and students, and some recommended that program participation be made retroactive to the date of application. Some other commenters felt program participation should be made retroactive to the date of the certification review. Discussion: The language for this provision is statutory. The Secretary has no reason to believe that Congress had any other intent when the law was drafted. However, the Secretary understands the concern of commenters that an institution's program participation agreement might expire after an institution has submitted a renewal application but before the Secretary signs a new program participation agreement. The Secretary has modified §668.13 to address that concern. See the section of the Analysis of Comments and Changes that addresses certification procedures (§668.13). Changes: None. Section 668.15␣Factors of Financial Responsibility General . Comments : A few commenters supported all of the Secretary's proposed regulations in §668.15. One of the commenters recommended the inclusion of a debt to net worth ratio in considering an institution's financial responsibility. One commenter, who disagreed with the Secretary's rationale for increasing the current ratio requirement from 1:1 to 1.25:1, suggested that the Secretary consider other types of financial analysis such as a ``Z Score'' in evaluating an institution's financial resources. Another commenter, who also disagreed with the Secretary, believed that tangible net worth was not an appropriate indicator of financial responsibility and recommended that the Secretary consider cash flow statements in his evaluation. Discussion: The Secretary considered a number of alternative ratio tests that could be used to evaluate an institution's financial condition. While the Secretary does consider minimum capitalization an important factor in determining an institution's financial responsibility, he has elected not to put such a standard into regulation at this time. Based upon the limited information presented by in the commenters, the Secretary is not convinced that a ``Z Score'' would be an appropriate measure of financial responsibility for an institution. However, the Secretary will monitor the financial information gathered in accordance with these regulations to determine whether it would be appropriate to require either additional, or alternative cash flow statement criteria as a factor in determining financial responsibility. Changes : None.
