FR940919-0-00016 FR940919-0-00002 §1640.3 Procedure during initial 120-day marketing period. (a) Marketing. (1) The RTC shall market a single real property asset on an individual basis for 120 days or until such asset is sold in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section during the initial 120-day marketing period. Provided, however, nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit the RTC from promoting the sale on an individual basis, in accordance with paragraph (b), of this section, of more than one single real property asset in the same marketing materials. (2) Any actions, which otherwise satisfy the standards of this subpart, undertaken by the RTC to market a single real property asset prior to September 19, 1994 shall be used to determine compliance with this subpart. (b) Disposition. During the initial 120-day marketing period for a single real property asset, the RTC shall only sell or otherwise dispose of, such asset solely on an individual basis, and the RTC shall not dispose of such asset in connection with a portfolio sale or a multi-asset sales initiative. Provided, however, nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit the RTC from selling, or otherwise disposing of, a single real property asset during such period in an open or sealed-bid auction, or other multi-asset marketing program, in which bids are received and accepted only on an individual basis. §1640.4 Procedure after initial 120-day marketing period. With respect to a single real property asset which remains unsold after the initial 120-day marketing period for such asset, the RTC may only dispose of such asset in connection with a portfolio sale or a multi-asset sales initiative if the RTC determines in writing that such disposition of the asset would maximize the net recovery to the RTC. §1640.5 Exceptions. The provisions of this subpart and section 21A(w)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act shall not apply: (a) To single real property assets which are sold simultaneously with a resolution in which a buyer purchases a significant proportion of the assets and either assumes a significant proportion of the liabilities or acts as agent of the RTC for purposes of paying insured deposits of an institution described in section 21A(b)(3)(A) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act. (This exemption applies to any single real property asset for which the RTC has granted the buyer an option to purchase; provided, however, if at the expiration of such option the asset remains the property of the RTC, then the provisions of this subpart and section 21A(w)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act shall then apply to such asset.); or (b) To single real property assets which are transferred by the RTC to a new insured depository institution organized by the RTC pursuant to section 11(d)(2)(F) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or section 21A(b)(10)(A)(iv) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act. Subpart B_Disposition of Real Estate-Related Assets §1640.11 Purpose and scope. (a) This subpart establishes the methods of implementing section 21A(w)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, which establishes requirements regarding the disposition of real property with a book value of more than $400,000 and non-performing real estate-related loans with a book value of more than $1,000,000. (b) This subpart applies with respect to all real estate-related assets held by the RTC on or after December 17, 1993; provided, however, this subpart shall not apply with respect to any such assets which were the subject of a contract to sell or other disposition contract on December 17, 1993. (c) Any actions of the RTC, which otherwise satisfy the standards of section 21A(w)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act and this subpart, undertaken prior to September 19, 1994 shall be used to determine compliance with section 21A(w)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act and this subpart. §1640.12 Definitions. For purposes of this subpart and section 21A(w)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, the following definitions apply: (a) Bulk transaction shall_(1) With respect to a single real property asset, have the same meaning as given the terms portfolio sale and multi-asset sales initiative in 12 CFR 1640.2(e); and (2) With respect to a single non-performing real estate-related loan, mean a sale or other disposition in which the RTC permits the purchase, or other disposition, of two or more such loans for one indivisible price;
