FR940819-2-00046 FR940819-2-00022 CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE Flagship Television Stations AGENCY: Corporation for National and Community Service. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Corporation for National and Community Service (the Corporation) is announcing that it is seeking flagship television stations to assist AmeriCorps programs with recruitment and community awareness. ADDRESSES: Responses to this notice should be mailed to the Office of Public Affairs, 9th Floor, 1100 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC. 20525. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Office of Public Affairs at (202) 606&hyph;5000, ext. 262. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Corporation is a new government corporation that encompasses the work and staff of two previously existing federal agencies, the Commission on National and Community Service and ACTION. The Corporation's mission is to engage Americans of all ages and backgrounds in community-based service. This service will address the nation's education, public safety, human, and environmental needs to achieve direct and demonstrable results. In doing so, the Corporation will foster civic responsibility, strengthen the ties that bind us together as a people, and provide education opportunity for those who make a substantial commitment to service. The Corporation is establishing a new national service initiative called AmeriCorps that includes a wide variety of programs operated by grantees which will be local and national non-profits, state and local government agencies, Indian tribes and territories. The Corporation will also support service-learning initiatives for elementary and secondary schools and institutions of higher education called Learn and Serve America and operate the senior volunteers programs previously supported by ACTION. Some of the national service programs will be operating this summer, and most of the others will be operational by this fall. The Corporation is striving to build partnerships between AmeriCorps programs and television stations in order to promote national service. Through this partnership, television stations will help further national service by assisting AmeriCorps programs with community awareness and recruitment and educating the American public about the impact of national service via public service announcements and an educational documentary. To achieve this end, the Corporation requests that television stations nationwide volunteer to serve as flagship television stations to help promote AmeriCorps programs and national service. All interested television stations should contact Wendy Grassi at (202) 606&hyph;5000 extension 262. Ms. Grassi will provide further information about existing AmeriCorps programs and how to become a flagship television station for AmeriCorps programs. Dated: August 16, 1994. Terry Russell, General Counsel, Corporation for National Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20429 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 12:40 pm] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;BA&hyph;M
