FR940919-2-00199 FR940919-2-00083 In return for the repayment of their educational loans, participants must agree to (1) Engage primarily in qualified AIDS research as employees of the NIH for a minimum period of 2 years; (2) make payments to lenders on their own behalf for periods of Leave Without Pay (LWOP); (3) pay monetary damages as required for breach of contract; and (4) satisfy other terms and conditions of the Program's contract and application procedures. Applicants must submit a signed contract, prepared by the NIH, agreeing to obligated service at the time they apply for consideration under the Program. Substantial monetary penalties will be imposed for breach of contract. Since program participation is contingent upon employment with the NIH, an individual who wishes to apply must obtain a written commitment from an Institute, Center, or Division (ICD) Personnel Office of the NIH to be employed in a qualified AIDS research position. Current deadlines, sources for assistance, and additional details regarding application procedures are published in an annual Applicant Information Bulletin which is available from the Director, AIDS Research Loan Repayment Program. The Loan Repayment Committee (LRC), whose members are appointed by the Director, NIH, review, rank, and approve or disapprove the scientific portions of Loan Repayment Program applications. The LRC is composed of NIH scientific staff and chaired by the Associate Director for AIDS Research, NIH. Review and selection of applications for approval is based upon the following: (1) The appropriateness of the research assignment to qualified AIDS research; (2) The scientific merit of the research assignment; and (3) The credentials of both applicant and supervisor and other criteria the Secretary deems appropriate. Initial contracts will be executed to cover a two-year service period. At the conclusion of this initial contract, participants may be recommended for a one-year renewal contract, subject to review of their AIDS research accomplishments. These continuation contracts may be approved on a year-to-year basis. Funding of all contracts is contingent upon appropriation and/or allocation of funds from the U.S. Congress and/or the NIH. The NIH will repay lenders for the principal, interest, and related expenses (such as the required insurance premiums on the unpaid balances of some loans) of qualified Government (Federal, State, local) and commercial educational loans obtained by participants for the following: (1) Undergraduate, graduate, and health professional school tuition expenses; (2) Other reasonable educational expenses required by the school(s) attended, including fees, books, supplies, educational equipment and materials, and laboratory expenses; and (3) Reasonable living expenses, including the cost of room and board, transportation and commuting costs, and other reasonable living expenses as determined by the Secretary. Repayments will be authorized quarterly for direct payment to lenders, following receipt of (1) The supervisor's verification of completion of the prior period of obligated service and (2) lender verification of the crediting of prior loan repayments, including the resulting account balances and current account status. The NIH will repay loans in the following order unless significant savings would result from repaying loans in a different priority order: (1) Health Education Assistance Loans (HEAL); (2) Other loans guaranteed by the Federal Government; and (3) Other qualifying loans. The following loans are NOT repayable under the Program: (1) Loans not obtained from a Government entity or commercial lending institution, such as loans from friends and relatives, or other private individuals; (2) Loans for which contemporaneous documentation is not available; and (3) Loans, or those portions of loans, obtained for educational or living expenses which exceed a ``reasonable'' level as determined by a review of the standard school budget for the year in which the loan was made. In addition, for other programs which provide loans, scholarships, loan repayments, or similar awards in exchange for a future service obligation, the NIH will NOT repay any sums that may result from failure to serve as required or conversion of the obligation to a loan under these programs. This includes, but is not limited to the following: (1) Physicians Shortage Area Scholarship Program; (2) National Research Service Award Program; (3) Public Health Service and National Health Service Corps Scholarship Programs; (4) Armed Forces (Army, Navy, or Air Force) Health Professions Scholarship Programs; and (5) Indian Health Service Scholarship Program. Finally, payments will not be made under the Program for loans which participants have already repaid, delinquent loans, loans in default, loans not current in their payment schedule, or loans for which promissory notes have been signed after the program eligibility date. During lapses in loan repayments, due either to administrative complications or a break in service, Program participants are wholly responsible for making payments or other arrangements which maintain loans in a current payment status such that increases in either principal or interest do not occur. Penalties assessed participants as a result of NIH administrative complications may be considered for reimbursement. Activities Constituting AIDS Research The following parameters define whether a proposed research assignment meets the criteria for coverage under the NIH AIDS Research Loan Repayment Program_that is, whether the incumbent will be ``primarily'' engaged in AIDS research. ``Primarily'' engaged in AIDS research is defined as AIDS research activities that constitute at least 80% of a researcher's time. Clinical Associates, whose intent is to primarily engage in AIDS research, must engage in qualified AIDS research for at least three months in the first year of their program, with a total of fifteen months of qualified AIDS research during their two-year contract. AIDS researchers include registered nurses who are principal or associate investigators in AIDS research studies. (1) AIDS research includes studies of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the pathophysiology of HIV infection, the development of models of HIV infection and its sequelae, cofactors predisposing to HIV infection and AIDS, or its sequelae, and the development of vaccines and therapeutics. Specifically, the following research activities are included: a. Studies of HIV and related retroviruses; b. Studies of the mechanism(s) by which HIV and related retroviruses establish infection and infect host cells;
