FR940930-0-00071 FR940930-0-00012 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 100 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;136] RIN 2115&hyph;AE46 Special Local Regulation; Head of the Connecticut Regatta AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The special local regulations for the Head of the Connecticut Regatta are being permanently revised to improve the control of vessels transiting the Connecticut River near the regulated area. This regulation is needed to better protect race participants from recreational and commercial vessel traffic. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation is effective on September 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant (junior grade) B.M. Algeo, Chief, Boating Affairs Branch, First Coast Guard District, (617) 223&hyph;8311. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this document are LTJG B.M. Algeo, Project Manager, First Coast Guard District, and LCDR S.R. Watkins, Project Attorney, First Coast Guard District Legal Office. Regulatory History Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking was not published for this regulation and good cause exists for making it effective less than 30 days after Federal Register publication. The Head of the Connecticut Regatta is an event of longstanding tradition. The local community is well aware of the conditions necessary to conduct the event in a safe manner. Last year, the provisions of this rule were used to temporarily amend the permanent regulation found in 33 CFR 100.105. Based on the positive experience with that temporary rule change, the Coast Guard believes this amended regulation will allow the race to be conducted in the safest manner possible while minimizing the impact on other boaters. Publishing a NPRM and delaying the event would be contrary to the public interest given the significant public participation in the regatta and the extensive planning which has taken place. Background and Purpose The permanent special local regulations for the Head of the Connecticut Regatta are found at 33 CFR 100.105. These regulations have become outdated insofar as section 100.105(b)(2) allows vessels less than 20 meters to transit the regulated area between each heat of the regatta. The number of racing shells and vessels transiting along the race course has grown to such a level that it is no longer safe to allow vessels to transit the regulated area between each heat. Regardless of the amount of planning and control in past years, racing shells have not followed the predetermined traffic patterns designed to allow vessels to transit the regulated area between heats. The race sponsor and the Coast Guard have developed a race and escort plan for the regatta which will allow vessels to transit the regulated area under escort throughout the race. Accordingly, section 100.105(b)(2) is being revised to allow vessel transits through the regulated area only at the discretion of, and under the escort of, the Coast Guard patrol commander. Based on the successful use of this provision during last year's race, the Coast Guard considers this permanent change to the regulation advisable in the interest of safety. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866, and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation, under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT, is unnecessary. Commercial traffic on the affected portion of the Connecticut River is sparse. The race is popular and is anticipated to draw business to the local community. Local commercial entities have been notified of the race schedule. Because of the short duration of the event and the advisories that will be made, commercial entities will be able to adjust to any disruptions. The permanent change should reduce the amount of time it takes for nonparticipants to transit through the regulated area, thus further limiting the impact of the rule. Small Entities
