FR940627-2-00104 FR940627-2-00045 VI Retention of Jurisdiction Jurisdiction is retained by this Court for the purposes of enabling any of the parties to this Final Judgment to apply to this Court at any time for such further orders or directions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out or construe this decree, to modify or terminate any of its provisions, to enforce compliance, and to punish any violations of its provisions. VII Modification Any party to this Final Judgment may seek modification of its substantive terms and obligations, and other parties to the Final Judgment shall have an opportunity to respond to such a motion. If the motion is contested by another party, it shall only be granted if the movant makes a clear showing that (i) a significant change in circumstances or significant new event subsequent to the entry of the Final Judgment requires modification of the Final Judgment to avoid substantial harm to competition or consumers in the United States, or to avoid substantial hardship to defendants, and (ii) the proposed modification is (a) in the public interest, (b) suitably tailored to the changed circumstances or new events and would not result in serious hardship to any defendant, and (c) consistent with the purposes of the antitrust laws of the United States and with the telecommunications regulatory regime of the United Kingdom. Neither the absence of specific reference to a particular event in the Final Judgment nor the foreseeability of such an event at the time this Final Judgment was entered, shall preclude this Court's consideration of any modification request. This standard for obtaining contested modifications shall not require the United States to initiate a separate antitrust action before seeking modifications. The same standard shall apply to any party seeking modification of this Final Judgment. If a motion to modify this Final Judgment is not contested by any party, it shall be granted if the proposed modification is within the reaches of the public interest. Where modifications of the Final Judgment are sought, the provisions of Section V of this Final Judgment may be invoked to obtain any information or documents needed to evaluate the proposed modification prior to decision by the Court. VIII Sanctions Nothing in this Final Judgment shall prevent the United States from seeking, or this Court from imposing, against defendants or any other person, any relief available under any applicable provision of law. IX Further Provisions A. The entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest. B. The substantive restrictions and obligations of this Final Judgment shall be removed after five years have passed from the date of entry of the Final Judgment, unless the Final Judgment has been previously terminated. Dated: United States District Judge
