FR940106-0-00164 FR940106-0-00022 (6) Such training is suitable for the worker and available at a reasonable cost. (i) Such training means the training being considered for the worker. Suitable for the worker means that paragraph (a)(5) of this section is met and that the training is appropriate for the worker given the worker's capabilities, background and experience. (ii) Available at a reasonable cost means that training may not be approved at one provider when, all costs being considered, training substantially similar in quality, content and results can be obtained from another provider at a lower total cost within a similar time frame. It also means that training may not be approved when the costs of the training are unreasonably high in comparison with the average costs of training other workers in similar occupations at other providers. This criterion also requires taking into consideration the funding of training costs from sources other than TAA funds, and the least cost to TAA funding of providing suitable training opportunities to the worker. Greater emphasis will need to be given to these elements in determining the reasonable costs of training, particularly in view of the requirements in ยง617.11(a) (2) and (3) that TRA claimants be enrolled in and participate in training. (iii) For the purpose of determining reasonable costs of training, the following elements shall be considered: (A) Costs of a training program shall include tuition and related expenses (books, tools, and academic fees), travel or transportation expenses, and subsistence expenses; (B) In determining whether the costs of a particular training program are reasonable, first consideration must be given to the lowest cost training which is available within the commuting area. When training, substantially similar in quality, content and results, is offered at more than one training provider, the lowest cost training shall be approved; and (C) Training at facilities outside the worker's normal commuting area that involves transportation or subsistence costs which add substantially to the total costs shall not be approved if other appropriate training is available. (b) Allowable amounts for training. In approving a worker's application for training, the conditions for approval in paragraph (a) of this section must be found to be satisfied, including assurance that the training is suitable for the worker, is at the lowest reasonable cost, and will enable the worker to obtain employment within a reasonable period of time. An application for training shall be denied if it is for training in an occupational area which requires an extraordinarily high skill level and for which the total costs of the training are substantially higher than the costs of other training which is suitable for the worker. (c) Previous approval of training under State law. Training previously approved for a worker under State law or other authority is not training approved under paragraph (a) of this section. Any such training may be approved under paragraph (a) of this section, if all of the requirements and limitations of paragraph (a) of this section and other provisions of Subpart C of this part are met, but such approval shall not be retroactive for any of the purposes of this Part 617, including payment of the costs of the training and payment of TRA to the worker participating in the training. However, in the case of a redetermination or decision reversing a determination denying approval of training, for the purposes of this Part 617 such redetermination or decision shall be given effect retroactive to the issuance of the determination that was reversed by such redetermination or decision; but no costs of training may be paid unless such costs actually were incurred for training in which the individual participated, and no additional TRA may be paid with respect to any week the individual was not actually participating in the training. * * * * * (f) Length of training and hours of attendance. * * * (2) Length of training. The maximum duration for any approvable training program is 104 weeks (during which training is conducted) and no individual shall be entitled to more than one training program under a single certification. (3) Training program. (i) For purposes of this Part 617, a training program may consist of a single course or group of courses which is designed and approved by the State agency for an individual to meet a specific occupational goal.
