FR940616-2-00135 FR940616-2-00092 1. International and domestic air fares; visas; transit costs (e.g., airport taxes); ground transportation costs. 2. Per diem : For the U.S. program, organizations have the option of using a flat $140/day for international participants or the published Federal Travel Regulations per diem rates for individual American cities. Note: U.S. escorting staff must use the published federal per diem rates, not the flat rate. For activities in the Middle East the Standard Government Travel Regulations per diem rates must be used. 3. Book and cultural allowance : Participants are entitled to a one-time cultural allowance of $150 per person, plus a participant book allowance of $50. Escorts are reimbursed for actual expenses up to $150. U.S. staff do not get these benefits. 4. Consultants : May be used to provide specialized expertise or to make presentations. Honoraria should not exceed $250 per day. Subcontracting organizations may also be used, in which case the written contract(s) must be included in the proposal. 5. Room rental (for meeting or conference rooms) : Generally should not exceed $250 per day. 6. Material development : Proposals may contain costs to purchase, develop and translate material for participants. USIA reserves the rights to this material for future use. 7. One working meal per project : Per capita cost may not exceed $5&hyph;8 per lunch and $14&hyph;20 per dinner, excluding room rental. The number of invited guests may not exceed the number of participants by a factor of more than two to one. 8. Return travel allowance : $70 for each participant which is to be used for incidental expenditures incurred during international travel. 9. Other costs necessary for the effective administration of the program, including salaries for grant organization employees, benefits, and other direct and indirect costs per detailed instructions in application package. Note: the 22% limitation of ``administrative costs'' included in previous announcements does NOT apply to this RFP. E/P encourages cost-sharing, which may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. E/P would be especially interested in proposals which demonstrate a program vision which goes well beyond that which can be supported by the requested USIA grant and which would try to use a USIA grant to leverage additional funding from other sources to support elements of the broader program plan. The Recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the Federal Government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110, Attachment E, ``Cost-sharing and Matching,'' and should be described in the proposal. In the event the Recipient does not meet the minimum amount of cost-sharing as stipulated in the Recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the Recipient's contribution. Please Note all delegates will be covered under the terms of a USIA-sponsored health insurance policy. The premium is paid by USIA directly to the insurance company. Application Requirements Proposals must be structured in accordance with the instructions contained in the Application Package. Confirmation letters from U.S. and foreign co-sponsors noting their intention to participate in the program will enhance a proposal. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the Application Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. Proposals will be reviewed by USIS posts and by USIA's Office of Near Eastern, North African, and South Asian Affairs. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or other Agency elements. Funding is at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for granting awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. The awarding of any grant is subject to availability of funds.
