FR940722-0-00024 FR940722-0-00003 (F) Amounts displayed under ``Total'' (column (g)) shall reflect the sum total of amounts reported in columns (c), (d), (e), and (f). (ii) Provide a description of all plans pursuant to which cash or noncash compensation was paid or distributed during the last fiscal year, or is proposed to be paid or distributed in the future for performance during the last fiscal year, to those individuals described in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section. The description of each plan must include, but not be limited to: (A) A summary of how the plan operates and who is covered by the plan; (B) The criteria used to determine amounts payable, including any performance formula or measure; (C) The time periods over which the measurement of compensation will be determined; (D) Payment schedules; and (E) Any material amendments to the plan during the last fiscal year. (iii) The annual report or AAMIS shall include a statement that disclosure of information on the total compensation paid during the last fiscal year to any senior officer or to any other officer included in the aggregate whose compensation exceeds $50,000 is available and will be disclosed to shareholders of the institution and shareholders of related associations (if applicable) upon request. (3) Travel, subsistence, and other related expenses. (i) Briefly describe the policy adopted pursuant to ยง618.8270 of this chapter addressing reimbursements for travel, subsistence, and other related expenses as it applies to directors and senior officers. The report shall include a statement that a copy of the policy is available to shareholders of the institution and shareholders of related associations (if applicable) upon request. (ii) For each of the last 3 fiscal years, state the aggregate amount of reimbursement for travel, subsistence, and other related expenses for all directors as a group. * * * * * Dated: July 15, 1994. Curtis M. Anderson, Secretary, Farm Credit Administration Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17906 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6705&hyph;01&hyph;P
