FR940407-1-00021 FR940407-1-00010 2. Components of Emission Statement Program There are several key general and specific components of an acceptable emission statement program. Specifically, the State must submit a revision to its SIP, and the emission statement program must meet the minimum requirements for reporting by the sources and the State. In general, the program must include, at a minimum, provisions for applicability, definitions, compliance, and specific source requirements detailed below. A. SIP Revision Submission. Required within two years of enactment of the CAAA of 1990 (November 15, 1990). B. Program Elements. The State emission statement program must, at a minimum, include provisions covering applicability of the regulations, definitions for key terms used in the regulations, a compliance schedule for sources covered by the regulations, and the specific reporting requirements for sources. The emission statement submitted by the source should contain, at a minimum, a certification that the information is accurate to the best knowledge of the individual certifying the statement, source identification information, operating information, process rate data, control equipment information, and emissions information. These elements are described in greater detail in section D of this document. The EPA recommends that the State program require the submission of the data from the sources no later than April 15 of each year to insure that the State can meet the July 1 deadline for the submission of data into AIRS each year. The guidance document prepared by the EPA provides a draft model State rule which can be used as the basis for the States to develop their program. The guidance document also provides suggested language for the specific program elements. C. Sources Covered. Section 182(a)(3)(B) requires that States with areas designated as nonattainment for ozone require emission statement data from sources of VOC or NO X in the nonattainment areas. This requirement applies to all ozone nonattainment areas, regardless of the classification (marginal, moderate, etc.). The States may waive, with EPA approval, the requirement for emission statements for classes or categories of sources with less than 25 tons per year of actual plant-wide NO X or VOC emissions in nonattainment areas if the class or category is included in the base year and periodic inventories and emissions are calculated using emission factors established by the EPA (such as those found in EPA publication AP&hyph;42) or other methods acceptable to the EPA. States should get clearance from the appropriate EPA Regional Office to waive the emission statement requirement for these smaller sources. D. Reporting Requirements for Sources. The State requires facilities to report on a form supplied by the State. Sources covered by the State emission statement program should submit, at a minimum, the following data elements: 1. Source identification information 2. Operating information 3. Process rate data 4. Control equipment information 5. Emissions information 3. Review of the State's Emission Statement Regulations Applicability The applicability of the regulation to ozone nonattainment areas is documented in subsection A.1. The rule applies to the owner or operator of facilities in the State in an ozone nonattainment area emitting a minimum of 10 TPY of VOC, 25 TPY of NO X , or 100 TPY of carbon monoxide (CO), or any facility that has the potential to emit (``allowables'' in a facility's permit) 50 TPY or more of VOC in an area designated as an ozone adjoining area. If either VOC or NO X is emitted at or above the minimum required reporting level, the other pollutant must be included even if it is emitted at levels below the specified cutoff. Types of Inventories The Annual Emission Statement (AES) requirement for ozone nonattainment areas is documented in subsection B.1. This subsection requires stationary sources identified in subsection A. to submit an AES for all criteria pollutant including VOC. The AES shall consist of an inventory of actual emissions of VOC, NO X , and CO, and the certifying statement.
