FR940610-1-00048 FR940610-1-00008 Friday June 10, 1994 Part IV Department of Agriculture Food and Nutrition Service 7 CFR Parts 210 and 220 National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program: Nutrition Objectives for School Meals; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 111␣/␣Friday, June 10, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Food and Nutrition Service 7 CFR Parts 210 and 220 National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program: Nutrition Objectives for School Meals AGENCY: Food and Nutrition Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This rule proposes to amend the regulations outlining the nutrition standards for the National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs. It is part of an integrated, comprehensive plan for promoting the health of children. Specifically, this proposal would update the current nutrition standards to incorporate the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, which reflect medical and scientific consensus on proper nutrition as a vital element in disease prevention and long-term health promotion. This proposal would also adopt meal planning based on analysis of key nutrients (Nutrient Standard Menu Planning) in lieu of the current meal pattern. These changes would be implemented no later than July 1, 1998. The Department will be providing State agencies and school food authorities with technical assistance to enable them to meet this implementation date. In developing this proposed rule, the Department is responding to an array of medical and scientific evidence linking improper diet with increased incidence of heart disease, strokes and certain cancers. These proposals acknowledge the positive role school programs must play in establishing childhood eating patterns that influence lifelong habits. The Department also considered extensive oral testimony presented at four public hearings and meetings as well as written comments submitted in response to a notice published in the Federal Register on September 13, 1993. In recognition of the importance of reinventing and streamlining government programs, this proposal would also remove various paperwork burdens associated with the school meal programs and would modify the review requirements for the National School Lunch Program to ensure adequate oversight of the proposed updated nutrition standards. The overriding purpose behind this proposed rule is to serve more nutritious and healthful meals to school children while maintaining access to the meal programs for needy children, and to enhance the flexibility of local schools to administer the programs. DATES: To be assured of consideration, comments must be postmarked on or before September 8, 1994. ADDRESSES: Robert M. Eadie, Chief, Policy and Program Development Branch, Child Nutrition Division, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Virginia 22302. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert M. Eadie at the above address or by telephone at 703&hyph;305&hyph;2620. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order 12866 This proposed rule is issued in conformance with Executive Order 12866 and has been designated significant. Included at the end of this proposal is the Regulatory Cost/Benefit Assessment. The Assessment provides the background on the economic, market and benefit impacts of this proposal. Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed with regard to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612). The Administrator of the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) has certified that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. In the interest of furthering efforts to reinvent government, this rule proposes a substantial reduction in current State agency administrative burdens and a technical adjustment in the recordkeeping burdens. Moreover, the Department of Agriculture (the Department or USDA) does not anticipate any adverse fiscal impact on local schools. A recent analysis by FNS and the Department's Economic Research Service found that the menu planning aspects of this proposal can be met at the current cost of food in the National School Lunch Program. Therefore, food costs should not be a barrier to implementation of this regulation. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance The National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program are listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under Nos. 10.555 and 10.553, respectively, and are subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (7 CFR part 3015, subpart V and final rule-related notice at 48 FR 29112, June 24, 1983.) Executive Order 12778
