FR940504-0-00003 FR940504-0-00002 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Part 210 [Regulation J; Docket No. R&hyph;0821] Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks and Funds Transfers Through Fedwire AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Board is adopting amendments to subpart A of its Regulation J, governing collection of checks and other items by Federal Reserve Banks. The amendments, in general, conform the warranties and various other provisions of Regulation J to recent amendments to Regulation CC or to the Uniform Commercial Code. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Oliver I. Ireland, Associate General Counsel (202/452&hyph;3625), or Stephanie Martin, Senior Attorney (202/452&hyph;3198), Legal Division; for the hearing impaired only: Telecommunications Device for the Deaf, Dorothea Thompson (202/452&hyph;3544). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Subpart A of the Board's Regulation J (12 CFR part 210) governs the collection of checks and other items by Federal Reserve Banks. Regulation J sets out the warranties made by institutions that send items for collection through the Federal Reserve System as well as warranties made by Reserve Banks. 1 Regulation J also covers liability for breach of warranty, presentment of and settlement for cash items and returned checks, and other related issues. 1 As used in this docket, sender means any institution that sends a check to a Reserve Bank for collection, and bank includes all depository institutions, such as commercial banks, savings institutions, and credit unions. In October 1992, the Board published amendments to its Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229) that require paying banks to make same-day settlement for certain checks presented by private-sector banks, effective January 3, 1994 (57 FR 46956, October 14, 1992). As part of these amendments, the Board revised the Regulation CC warranties to require private-sector collecting, returning, and presenting banks to warrant the accuracy of cash letter totals and check encoding. In December 1993, the Board published proposed amendments to Regulation J to clarify that the Reserve Banks and institutions that send items to Reserve Banks also make the Regulation CC warranties, to conform certain Regulation J provisions to the 1990 version of the Uniform Commercial Code (U.C.C.), and to make other minor changes (58 FR 68566, December 28, 1993). The Board received 10 comments on the proposed amendments, which are discussed in the section-by-section analysis below. The Board has established procedures for assessing the competitive impact of changes that have a substantial effect on payments system participants. 2 Under these procedures, the Board assesses whether the proposed regulatory changes would have a direct and material adverse effect on the ability of other service providers to compete effectively with the Federal Reserve Banks in providing similar services due to differing legal powers or constraints or due to a dominant market position of the Federal Reserve deriving from such legal differences. The Regulation J amendments are largely technical, clarifying, or conform Regulation J to the rules applicable to private-sector banks under Regulation CC and the U.C.C. The Board believes that the amendments would not have a direct and material adverse effect on the ability of others to compete effectively with the Federal Reserve Banks. 2 These procedures are described in the Board's policy statement ``The Federal Reserve in the Payments System'' (55 FR 11648, March 29, 1990). Section-by-Section Analysis Section 210.1 This section sets forth the authority, purpose, and scope of subpart A of Regulation J. At the suggestion of one commenter, the Board is updating the authority citations in this section to conform with the authority citations in the CFR. Specifically, the Board has added a citation to section 11(j) of the Federal Reserve Act, which authorizes the Board to exercise general supervision over the Reserve Banks. Section 210.2(g) The Board proposed to amend the definition of ``item'' in keeping with the definition of ``item'' in U.C.C. ยง4&hyph;104(a)(9). Under the amended language, ``item'' would expressly include promises or orders, such as certain bonds or other investment securities, that are handled through the bank collection system. The Board received no comments on this section and has adopted the amendment as proposed. Section 210.2(p) The Board proposed to add a definition of ``Uniform Commercial Code'' that conforms to the definition in Regulation CC (12 CFR 229.2(ii)). The Board received no comments on this section and has adopted the amendment as proposed. Section 210.3(a) The Board proposed to amend this section to set forth more accurately the scope of the Federal Reserve Banks' operating circulars, which include provisions for service terms and adjustments. The amendment specifies that the operating circulars may include provisions for adjustments of amounts, waiver of expenses, and payment of interest by as-of adjustment.
