FR941216-2-00148 FR941216-2-00088 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT New Application Procedures for Federal Jobs (Elimination of SF 171, Application for Federal Employment) agency: Office of Personnel Management (OPM). action: Notice. summary: This notice announces a new application process for Federal jobs. Beginning on January 1, 1995, Federal agencies may not require an SF 171, Application for Federal Employment. Instead, applicants may apply for most jobs with a resume, the Optional Application for Federal Employment, or any other written format of their choice. For unique jobs with specialized requirements or jobs filled through automated systems, agencies may have been authorized to require special forms. A new OPM flyer, Applying for a Federal Job, describes what applicants should include in their resumes or applications. The flyer and the Optional Application for Federal Employment are being printed for distribution in December. Applicants can get copies beginning in December from local OPM Employment Information Offices, by calling OPM's automated telephone system at 912&hyph;757&hyph;3000 or by TDD at 912&hyph;744&hyph;2299. These items will also be available in December in electronic format from OPM's bulletin board at 912&hyph;757&hyph;3100. By February, OPM plans to make the flyer available in alternative media formats (Braille, large print, audio tape, and computer disk) for persons with disabilities. In addition, beginning in December any applicant may use the electronic Optional Application file and any word processing software to produce and print a completed application form. (See question 6 below). Before appointment, agencies will ask individuals to complete a Declaration for Federal Employment to determine their suitability for Federal employment. The Declaration for Federal Employment replaces the SF 61&hyph;B, Declaration of Appointee, and will also be available in December. for further information contact: Concerning the application procedures: Richard Whitford or Stephen McGarry on 202&hyph;606&hyph;2605 or TDD at 202&hyph;606&hyph;0023. Concerning the Declaration for Federal Employment: Joe Nordsieck on 202&hyph;376&hyph;3800. U.S. Office of Personnel Management. James B. King, Director. supplementary information: In a June 22, 1994, Federal Register notice (59 FR 32290) OPM announced its request to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act for clearance of proposed job application procedures to replace the SF 171, Application for Federal Employment. OMB has approved the new application procedures to take effect on January 1, 1995, the day after the OMB authorization for the SF 171 expires on December 31, 1994. After the SF 171 expires, Federal agencies may not require applicants to submit it. Applicants may file for most jobs using a resume, the Optional Application for Federal Employment, or any other written format of their choice, including an SF 171. Agencies are authorized to use this process for positions in the competitive service, the excepted service and the Senior Executive Service. The following Questions and Answers give more information on the new application procedures. (1) Why did OPM develop the new procedures? In its September 1993 report, Creating a Government that Works Better & Costs Less, the National Performance Review recommended that OPM eliminate standard application forms because their length and complexity discourage applicants from seeking Federal jobs. OPM agreed to eliminate the SF 171, Application for Federal Employment, and associated forms, the SF 171&hyph;A, Continuation Sheet for SF 171, and the SF 172, Amendment to Application for Federal Employment as of December 31, 1994. An interagency task force recommended new application procedures that let applicants choose the format of their application. In addition to giving applicants more flexibility (but also give Federal agencies the material needed for evaluation), another goal was to separate the qualifications and suitability information. Suitability information will be collected on the Declaration for Federal Employment. (See question 22.) (2) What groups were involved in developing the new procedures? An interagency task force representing 16 Federal agencies recommended the new application procedures. OPM then sought comments from the National Partnership Council, the Interagency Advisory Group (representing 90 agencies), unions with national consultation rights with OPM, and organizations representing major constituent groups. The new procedures were published in the June 22, 1994, Federal Register . (3) Is the final application process basically the same as the June 22, 1994, Federal Register proposals? Yes, although there are some editorial and stylistic changes in the flyer and forms. Samples of the final materials are appended to this notice. One change, in response to comments received, was the deletion of birth date from information applicants are required to submit with their job application or resume. Several commenters noted privacy issues, the potential for age discrimination, and that for the vast majority of jobs, it is sufficient for agencies to obtain the date of birth only from job finalists. For the few positions such as law enforcement where age is a factor, agency vacancy announcements can ask applicants to give their age. (4) What provisions have been made for applicants with disabilities? The flyer, Applying for a Federal Job, will be available in Braille and large print and on audio tape and computer disk. (The flyer tells applicants what to include in their resumes or applications for Federal jobs.) Beginning in February, individuals who want these alternative formats may request them by calling 912&hyph;757&hyph;3000 or TDD 912&hyph;744&hyph;2299. In addition, in December the flyer and the Optional Application for Federal Employment will be available through OPM's electronic bulletin board. See question 6 below for specific instructions. (5) How will the OPM publicize the new application process? OPM has planned a major publicity campaign including news releases and mailings to Federal offices, State Employment Service offices, State Vocational Rehabilitation Services offices, colleges and universities, and other major constituency groups. The mailing will include the new application materials, as well as a poster and a flyer describing OPM's automated employment information systems. (6) How will the applicants get the new application materials? Beginning in December, copies will be available from several sources. Applicants may call or visit local OPM Employment Information Offices or they may call OPM's automated telephone system at 912&hyph;757&hyph;3000 and listen for the message on how to request forms. Information is also available by TDD at 912&hyph;744&hyph;2299. Applicants can also get the materials through OPM's electronic bulletin board. (1) Call the Federal Job Opportunities Board (FJOB) at 912&hyph;757&hyph;3100, (2) At the main menu, select ``Opportunities for Federal Employment,'' (3) Select ``Application Information and Forms,'' and (4) Read or download the files. Note: applicants may use the electronic ``Optional Application file'' and any word processing software to produce and print a completed application form. (7) May applicants use commercial PC software to prepare their resume, the Optional Application for Federal Employment, or application in another format? Yes. See question above. Also, applicants may use any PC software to help prepare their application, but they are responsible for making sure that their application contains all the information requested in the flyer, Applying for a Federal Job, and in the vacancy announcement. (8) In August 1994, OPM issued a bulletin giving agencies the opportunity to order the new application materials by ``riding'' OPM's printing request to GPO. If an agency did not order then, how may they obtain the new materials? The General Services Administration (GSA) will stock the new forms some time in February. Agencies may order the forms through the GSA Supply Center Catalog. The stock numbers of the new materials are as follows: Applying For a Federal Job (OF 510), NSN 7540&hyph;01&hyph;351&hyph;9177 Optional Application for Federal Employment (OF 612), NSN 7540&hyph;01&hyph;351&hyph;9178 Declaration for Federal Employment (OF 306), NSN 7540&hyph;01&hyph;368&hyph;7775 (9) OMB approved the new application procedures for a 3-year period. What will happen after the OMB authorization expires?
