FR941213-0-00044 FR941213-0-00010 Effect of JCAHO or AOA Accreditation Comment: We received five comments on the equivalency of the JCAHO's standards to ours. Two commenters believe the JCAHO's standards for discharge planning (and supporting standards for social work services and nursing services) to be equivalent to ours, while two believe them not to be equivalent. Response: We have reviewed JCAHO's 1994 standards and find them to be at least equivalent to those in this final regulation. Included in our determination finding them equivalent was a consideration of the JCAHO's standards for patient assessment and education of patients and family. We are announcing that JCAHO-accredited hospitals that participate in Medicare have been found by the Secretary and HCFA to meet the new discharge planning requirement in 42 CFR 482.43. Those hospitals will not have to be surveyed for compliance with this requirement when the final regulation becomes effective. For these reasons, we believe no revision of the regulations at 42 CFR 488.5(a) is necessary. Comment: The fifth commenter was philosophically opposed to accepting the equivalency of the JCAHO's discharge planning standards to ours because he believed a private agency is not accountable to the government for enforcement of its standards. Response: We cannot accept the commenter's contention that a private agency should not be used to enforce government standards, as the statute explicitly authorizes this type of use of a private agency (section 1865(a) of the Act). In order to ensure that the hospitals the JCAHO accredits are meeting standards equivalent to HCFA's, we conduct validation surveys under section 1864(c) of the Act. Hospitals found out of compliance with conditions of participation may have their provider agreements terminated if they do not correct their deficiencies. Comment: We received one comment concerning the equivalency of AOA standards to ours. The commenter believed that the AOA's discharge planning standards are more general than HCFA's but that they would be strengthened to meet new Medicare standards. Response: We agree that AOA standards on discharge planning in effect at the time the commenters commented were not equal to or higher than ours. We are pleased to report that the AOA subsequently revised its standards for discharge planning. We are announcing that AOA-accredited hospitals that participate in Medicare have been found by the Secretary and HCFA to meet the new discharge planning requirement in 42 CFR 482.43. These hospitals will not have to be surveyed for compliance with this requirement when the final regulation becomes effective. For these reasons, we believe no revision of the regulations at 42 CFR 488.5(a) is necessary. Identification of Patients Comment: Two commenters believed we should require hospitals to identify all Medicare patients, particularly high risk patients, in need of post-hospital care, within 24 hours of being admitted, including, for one commenter, patients appearing in the emergency room, whether or not they are admitted. Response: We do not agree that a 24-hour limitation should be imposed on the identification requirement. Both the statute and the regulation require identification to take place ``at an early stage of hospitalization.'' We think this is sufficient because the specific timing of identification within that context, we believe, is best left to the hospital, its staff, and the attending physician. Discharge planning presupposes hospital admission and section 9305(c) of OBRA '86 specifically indicates that discharge planning follows hospitalization. The requirements of ยง482.43 do not apply to patients who appear in a hospital emergency room but are not admitted as hospital inpatients. Comment: Three commenters thought we should require each hospital to have a policy for developing and utilizing screening criteria for identifying those patients whose medical conditions and social circumstances would warrant discharge planning and to require that the hospital review its criteria annually. As an alternative, they suggested that hospitals be required to have a procedure for identifying at an early stage patients likely to need post-acute care services. Response: We believe the use of an outcome oriented standard is sufficient for the regulation and in accord with the basic approach used in the June 17, 1986 revision to the conditions of participation for hospitals (51 FR 22042). Hospitals will be able to choose from many methods to demonstrate compliance with the standard, and we wish to preserve their flexibility in this regard, including the option of reviewing all Medicare patients admitted to the facility. An on-going reassessment of the hospital's discharge planning process, which would include any screening or identification methods, is required in ยง482.43(e). Comment: One commenter wanted us to establish specified criteria (e.g., age, functional ability, psychosocial factors and health status), to identify patients who are likely to suffer adverse health consequences without discharge planning. Response: As mentioned in response to the previous comment, we want to continue the approach used in the June 17, 1986 revision to the conditions of participation for hospitals, which avoided prescriptive administrative requirements through the use of language that is stated in terms of expected outcomes, thereby providing hospitals with greater flexibility. Since the criteria suggested by the commenter are overly prescriptive and not outcome oriented, we are not adopting them.
