FR940830-1-00106 FR940830-1-00015 (i) PA vendor payments; (ii) GA vendor payments; (iii) Department of Housing and Urban Development vendor payments; (iv) Vendor payments for educational assistance; (v) Vendor payments that are reimbursements; (vi) Vendor payments made under demonstration projects; and (vii) Other vendor payments. Student Earned Income Exclusion_7 CFR 273.9(c)(7) Current regulations at 7 CFR 273.9(c)(7) require State agencies to exclude from household income the earned income of children who are members of the household, students at least half-time, and under 18. The exclusion applies during temporary interruptions in school attendance, provided the child's enrollment will resume following the break. If the child's earnings or amount of work performed cannot be differentiated from that of other household members, the total earnings are prorated equally among the working members and the child's pro rata share is excluded. Under current regulations, individuals are considered children if they are under the parental control of another household member. The exclusion does not apply if the student has formed a separate household. No distinction is made between students who live with their parents in a separate food stamp household and students who live separately from parents. In addition, the regulations do not specify what type of educational institution the student must be attending (high school, college, vocational training, etc.). Section 13911 of the 1993 Leland Act amended section 5(d)(7) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 2014(d)(7), to exclude ``income earned by a child who is a member of the household, who is an elementary or secondary school student, and who is 21 years of age or younger *␣*␣*.'' The legislative history (House Report 103&hyph;111, pp. 27&hyph;28) indicates that the provision is intended to assist families with high school students whose education has been delayed (for example, students who have to learn English in the classroom) and who have not been able to complete high school before age 18. Under current rules, the income of these students would be counted in determining the eligibility and benefits of the household and could result in a reduction in the family's benefits or ineligibility. The Report also indicates at p. 28 that ``[t]he Committee wishes to emphasize that this amendment in no way changes current law regarding those students who live away from home and have formed a separate household.'' Several issues have arisen in connection with the current provision that will continue to be relevant under the changes proposed to implement section 13911 of the 1993 Leland Act. One issue has been whether a student has to be under the parental control of a household member, as currently required, for his or her income to be excluded. Parental control was the issue in a 1989 lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maine ( Dion v. Commissioner, Maine Department of Social Services v. Sullivan and Yeutter. The case involved a high school student under 18 with a child. The student and child lived with the student's parents but were certified as a separate food stamp household. The State agency did not exclude the student's earnings from part-time work because the student was not under parental control. The District Court decided that the parental control provision of the current regulations was invalid because the Act does not expressly contain such a limitation. This decision was subsequently upheld by the First Circuit Court of Appeals, 933 F.2d 13 (1st Cir. 1991). The statutory language of section 13911 does not specifically restrict the student income exclusion to students living with their parents or under the parental control of another adult. Under a literal reading of the amended statute, the exclusion would apply to any high school or elementary school student under 22, even if the student was living separately from his or her parents. The House Report at p. 28 indicates, however, that the exclusion was not intended to apply to students who have established a separate residence. Both the House Report and the Dion decision support allowing the exclusion to students who live with their parents but who may have a separate food stamp household. This is a middle position between the extremes of an unrestricted exclusion and one limited to students under parental control, and it is the position we are proposing to adopt. We invite comments concerning the best way to implement this provision so as to limit the income exclusion to the households Congress intended to help without placing an unnecessary administrative burden on households and State agencies. In this rule we are proposing to amend 7 CFR 273.9(c)(7) to provide that the earned income of elementary or high school students who are 21 years of age or younger and living with their parents (rather than in a separate living arrangement) shall be excluded. The exclusion would apply if the student is in the same food stamp household as a natural, adoptive or step-parent or is under the parental control of another member of the same food stamp household. The exclusion would also be allowed if the student is in a separate food stamp household but is living with a natural, adoptive or step-parent. Parental control would not be a factor if the student is in a separate food stamp household. Another issue concerning the income of students that has come to our attention is whether to require that students be attending school at least half-time for the exclusion to apply. The legislative history of section 13911 of the 1993 Leland Act did not address this issue. However, because the legislation extends the exclusion to students age 21 and under, we believe it is important that the exclusion be limited only to those students who are seriously pursuing a regular high school diploma or General Equivalency Diploma (GED). According to House Report 103&hyph;111, Congress intended this income exclusion to assist households in which a student's education has been delayed. Frequently, students who have dropped out of school for a time decide to obtain a GED instead of a regular high school diploma. These students may be earning sufficient income to adversely affect the household's benefits if the earnings were counted. Therefore, we are proposing that the earned income of elementary or high school students be excluded if the student is attending school (including GED classes) at least half-time.
