FR940822-0-00017 FR940822-0-00008 We believe that this policy of providing affected recipients the right to appeal the State's action in reducing payment levels in these cases is not required by the Act or by fundamental principles of procedural due process. Moreover, in the past, this policy has had a needless administrative impact on us since we do not control, nor can we alter, the State-initiated mass change. This impact was demonstrated most recently when a large federally administered State supplementary payment State, as a result of a State law change, initiated an across-the-board reduction in its State supplementary payment levels. Over 27,000 affected individuals appealed to us the resulting reduction, suspension, or termination of their State supplementary payments on the basis that the State-initiated mass change was unfair to them, and not because they wished to dispute the resulting computation of their benefits. The vast majority of affected individuals requested benefit continuation at the previously established payment levels, pending issuance of decisions on the initial appeals, as set forth in §416.1336(b). SSA provided appeal opportunities to individuals. It then informed them that their appeals were denied on the basis that SSA had no authority to order the State to repeal its law and reinstate State supplementary payments to their former higher levels. Since States must provide the funding for State supplementary payments, in some cases the State incurred additional program costs while the individuals' appeals were pending. Processing these actions served only to exacerbate existing workload backlogs by diverting scarce workpower resources from other necessary service delivery activities. The courts have stated clearly that the legal sufficiency of an agency's procedures with respect to recipients of public assistance who are experiencing such a mandated change in their entitlement will be measured first under an agency's statute and regulations. If no violation of the statute or regulations is found, then it must be determined if the agency's procedures violate constitutional due process requirements. In Atkins v. Parker, 472 U.S. 115 (1985), the United States Supreme Court considered whether the Food Stamp Act required that an individual hearing be provided for every household affected by a general change in the law. The Court found that the Food Stamp Act distinguished between an adverse action based on the particular facts of an individual case, on the one hand, and a mass change initiated by the State or Federal Government affecting the entire caseload of recipients or significant portions thereof, on the other hand, with Congress only contemplating hearings on individual fact-based adverse actions. Our existing regulations do not relieve us from providing appeal rights to recipients for mass change actions in their State supplementary payments. Nevertheless, we believe that there is no requirement in the Act that we provide a recipient of a federally administered State supplementary payment an opportunity to appeal a reduction, suspension or termination of his or her payments resulting from a State-initiated mass change, if that individual does not dispute the application of that mass change to the facts of his or her case. Like the Food Stamp Act, only appeal rights with respect to individual adverse actions appear to be contemplated under the Social Security Act. With regard to constitutional due process requirements, we believe that those requirements mandate that an individual whose benefits are reduced, suspended or terminated as a result of a State-initiated mass change be afforded the full measure of appeal rights in a matter in which he or she disputes the application of that mass change to the facts of his or her particular case, that is, in a case where the recipient alleges that we have improperly computed his or her benefits as a result of the mass change. In Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U.S. 254 (1970), the United States Supreme Court held that fundamental notions of due process of law required that individuals who sought to challenge the termination of their public entitlements as ``resting on incorrect or misleading factual premises or on misapplication of rules or policies to the facts of particular cases'' be afforded a hearing in which they could ``defend by confronting any adverse witnesses and by presenting *␣*␣* arguments and evidence orally.'' Id . at 268.
