FR940913-1-00033 FR940913-1-00013 Section 28.855␣Electrical Distribution Systems This section requires that a distribution system which has neutral bus or conductor have the neutral bus or conductor grounded. It also requires a grounded distribution system to have only one connection to ground. The one connection to ground must be at the switchboard, or on a nonmetallic vessel at the common ground point. Section 28.860␣Overcurrent Protection and Switched Circuits This section would require the same standards found in subpart D, which are similar to the requirements for inspected vessels contained in 46 CFR subchapter J_ Electrical Engineering Regulations. Section 28.865␣Wiring Methods and Materials This section would require the same standards for wires and conductors found in subpart D. Section 28.870␣Emergency Source of Electrical Power This section would require an emergency source of electrical power which is capable of supplying connected loads for at least 3 hours and which is physically separated from the main machinery space. This segregation would help ensure that one casualty did not disable all sources of electrical power. If the source is a battery, specific regulations would have to be satisfied. Note: No emergency generator is required_it is believed the combination of a duty engineer and back-up fire & bilge pumps as well as additional powered portable pump should be sufficient. Subpart D requires an independent source of electrical power located outside the machinery space capable of supplying all loads listed above plus the steering gear, and fire & bilge pumps continuously for 3 hours. Cargo vessels require emergency lighting for 6 hours. Section 28.875␣Radar, Depth Sounding, and Auto-pilot This section would adopt the equipment requirements of subpart D for radar and depth sounding devices. In addition, procedures would be proposed for the use of an auto-pilot. Section 28.880␣Hydraulic Equipment This section would grandfather some existing hydraulic hose runs and materials. It provides specifics for fluid, hose, fittings, and compatibility for use. It adds the requirement for fail-safe system components and provides requirements that enhance operator safety. It reduces existing overuse of nonmetallic hydraulic flex hose by limiting its use in runs where flexibility is not specifically required. However, any retrofit of hydraulic hoses would have to be accomplished over a period of time, such as replacing the flex hose with hard piping only whenever renewals, replacements or alterations are being accomplished. In comparison, subpart D specifically limits the allowable length of nonmetallic flexible hose to 30 ’ ’ while subchapter I requires specific material approval in applicable sections of subchapter F. Section 28.885␣Cargo Gear This section would take the cargo equipment found presently on these vessels and incorporate them with subchapter I requirements.
