FR941221-2-00063 FR941221-2-00051 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 7(a)(2) of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires each Federal agency to ensure, through consultation with the Secretary of the Interior or Commerce, that any activity they authorize, fund, or carry out is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of any listed species or result in the destruction or adverse modification of its critical habitat. Section 7(a)(4) requires similar conference procedures for activities likely to result in jeopardy to proposed species or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. This draft handbook would provide consistent procedures for Service compliance with the affirmative conservation responsibilities of section 7(a)(1) of the Act, and for the conduct of section 7(a)(2)&hyph;(4) consultations and conferences. This consistency would be achieved by (1) providing national procedural and policy guidance, (2) providing standardized formats and language for section 7 consultation documents, (3) ensuring Service compliance with section 7, (4) providing assistance to other agencies in their compliance with section 7 of the Act, and (5) providing for conservation of listed, proposed and candidate species. Although the procedures and definitions in the Handbook are supported by both Services, not all are applicable to the National Marine Fisheries Service due to organizational differences between the two Services, as well as differences in the special character of species under the jurisdiction of each Service. Further guidance clarifying National Marine Fisheries Service specific organizational requirements would be included in the final handbook. Public Comments Solicited The Services intend that a final decision on the Draft Endangered Species Handbook take advantage of information and recommendations from all interested parties. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this draft document are hereby solicited. All comments and materials received will be considered prior to the approval of any final document. Author/Editor: The editor of this document is James J. Slack, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of Endangered Species (see ADDRESSES section). Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ). Dated: November 4, 1994. Mollie H. Beattie, Director, Fish and Wildlife Service. Dated: November 9, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31343 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
