FR940930-1-00059 FR940930-1-00016 Standards and Guidelines 40. Describe industry, State, or local standards or guidelines that could be used to address the safety hazards of EV battery electrolyte spillage or electric shock. Are there standards or guidelines for industrial or recreational vehicles, such as forklifts or golf carts, which could be applied to EVs? Please describe. 41. Which States require motor vehicle safety inspection of EVs, and what are the requirements? Please describe. EV Populations 42. Provide estimates of the number of EVs in operation within the United States today, and the number expected within the next five and ten years. Please categorize by vehicle type. For vehicles with GVWR less than or equal to 4536 kg, categorize by passenger car, pickup truck, van, and other. For vehicles with GVWR greater than 4536 kg, categorize by school bus, transit bus, intercity bus, heavy truck, and other. What portions of these represent original equipment EVs, EV conversions before the first sale to a consumer, and EV conversions after first sale? Which types of EV propulsion batteries are expected to be used? Please describe. 43. What is the likelihood that there will be an EV conversion industry for used vehicles, i.e., those converted after first sale to a consumer? Please discuss. Charging 44. Describe the technology and potential safety problems associated with EV recharging. Should there be federal safety requirements? Should these include requirements for battery box venting or flame arrestor performance, to protect against emissions of explosive battery gases during recharging and other times of vehicle operation? What standards, guidelines, or design practices are being followed by manufacturers and converters to assure EV safety in this area? Please discuss. Batteries 45. Is there a potential safety hazard with EV batteries becoming projectiles in a crash or rollover? Should there be federal requirements for battery restraints? What standards, guidelines, design practices, or other requirements are currently being followed by manufacturers and converters? Please discuss. 46. What Federal, State, and local requirements currently exist for the disposal, recycling, and transport of EV batteries? Do the requirements distinguish between batteries which are damaged and leak, and those which do not leak? Please discuss. Transmission Starter Interlock 47. The agency understands that some EVs have a forward, neutral, and reverse switch, while others have no neutral position or other means such as a clutch for disconnecting the drive train from the propulsion motor. Is there a potential safety problem with inadvertent starting and unwanted vehicle motion among those EVs which have no means of disconnecting the drive train? Please discuss. 48. What types of EV drive train designs are expected over the next five and ten years? Is there a need for requiring EV starter interlock performance, similar to that required on automatic transmissions in FMVSS No. 102, Transmission Shift Level Sequence, Starter Interlock, and Transmission Braking Effect ? FMVSS No. 102 requires that the engine starter be inoperative when the transmission shift level is in a forward or reverse drive position. Please discuss. Submission of Comments The agency invites written comments from all interested parties. It is requested that 10 copies of each written comment be submitted. No comment may exceed 15 pages in length. (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to a comment without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in a concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit specified information under a claim of confidentiality, three copies of the complete submission, including purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address given above and seven copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in the agency's confidential business information regulation, 49 CFR part 512. All comments received before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above for the proposal will be considered, and will be available for examination in the docket at the above address both before and after the closing date. To the extent possible, comments filed after the closing date will also be considered. NHTSA will continue to file relevant information as it becomes available in the docket after the closing date, and it is recommended that interested persons continue to examine the docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the rules docket should enclose a self-addressed, stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. (49 U.S.C. 322, 30111, 30115, 30117, and 30166; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50) Issued on: September 26, 1994. Stanley R. Scheiner, Acting Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24165 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
