FR941003-1-00094 FR941003-1-00006 (B) The Agency Official should complete the Section 106 process for affected historic properties so that the revised EA or Final EIS will document the conclusion of the Section 106 process, including any no adverse effect determinations, Memoranda of Agreement or Council comments. (C) The Agency Official may use an EA or Draft EIS to meet the information requirements of Subpart C of this part, provided that the document contains the information specified in ยง800.14 as appropriate. (D) The Agency Official should ensure that the Finding of No Significant Impact or Record of Decision incorporates any applicable mitigation measures related to effects on historic properties. (v) Further guidance on coordination with NEPA is contained in Appendix A of this part. (2) American Indian Religious Freedom Act (AIRFA). An Agency Official planning or reviewing an undertaking which may affect Native Americans' exercise of their religion, including access to religious sites, should initiate consultation with such groups as early as possible in planning. Such consultation should be carried out in a manner that is sensitive to the cultural values of the concerned group, and may be combined with consultation under Section 106. Where the undertaking may affect historic properties that possess traditional religious and cultural importance, Subpart C of this part sets forth the process for consulting with Native Americans to meet the requirements of Section 106. (3) Federal Land Policy and Management Act and National Forest Management Act. Agencies planning or reviewing undertakings on Federal lands should integrate the public notification, identification, evaluation, assessment of effects and resolution of adverse effects under Section 106 with the land-use planning requirements of these authorities. (4) Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA). Agencies planning or reviewing undertakings on Federal or tribal lands which may result in the intentional removal or inadvertent discovery of Native American cultural items as defined in NAGPRA are encouraged to combine necessary consultation and agreement with Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations with the provisions of Subpart C of this part. (5) Archeological Resources Protection Act (ARPA). Agencies planning or reviewing undertakings on public or Indian lands which may involve excavation or removal of archeological resources subject to protection under ARPA should coordinate the permit application and permit review process with consultation under Section 106. The information used for ARPA permit issuance may be used as documentation for review under Section 106. If the only Federal involvement is issuance of an ARPA permit, compliance with Section 106 is not required. (6) Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act. A Department of Transportation agency planning an undertaking that may require the use of a historic site is encouraged to integrate the activities required under this Part with activities that may be performed to support determinations under Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act, with respect to such site. Appendix A to Part 800_Identifying Historic Properties in Coordination With Other Planning Needs This Appendix offers guidance on implementing 36 CFR Part 800. It is designed to supplement and explain the regulations, but is not binding on Federal agencies. (a) Overall timing and coordination.
