FR940817-2-00017 FR940817-2-00014 Department of the Army Finding of No Significant Impact (FNSI) and Environmental Assessment (EA) for Realignment of Fort Monmouth, NJ AGENCY: Department of the Army, DoD. ACTION: Finding of No Significant Impact. SUMMARY: The proposed action implements the July 1993 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission's (BRAC 93) decision to realign all Department of Army personnel and missions out of the leased U.S. Army Communications-Electronics Command (CECOM) Office Building (Tinton Falls, New Jersey) and the Evans subpost (which is closing) onto the main post or Charles Wood subpost of Fort Monmouth. Personnel and missions from Vint Hill Farms Station (VHFS) in Warrenton, Virginia, will also be moved onto the main post or Charles Wood subpost as part of this action. Since not all personnel can be accommodated in existing buildings, new facilities will be constructed. Actions to implement this realignment include the construction of up to 7 new buildings, demolition of 5 buildings, and renovation of 15 buildings. Alternatives considered in the EA included: Alternative 1: Consists of the following projects: _Construction of a 16,000-square foot Intelligence and Electronic Warfare Directorate (IEWD) complex at main post. _Construction of a 3,250-square foot calibration range laboratory at the Charles Wood subpost. _Construction of a 2,600-square foot high bay facility at the Charles Wood subpost. _Renovation of 14 main post buildings. _Renovation of portions of the Myer Center (Building 2700) at the Charles Wood subpost. Alternative 2: Alternative construction sites were identified on the Charles Wood subpost for the IEWD complex, the calibration range laboratory, and the high bay facility. No reasonable alternative to the building renovations at main post and the Charles Wood subpost of Fort Monmouth were identified. Alternative 3: The No-Action Alternative. This alternative is the continuation of existing conditions without the implementation of, or in absence of, the proposed actions. The proposed actions are required by BRAC law and must be implemented. Therefore, the No-Action Alternative is being evaluated to provide a baseline for the other alternatives. Alternative 2 was not selected for implementation based on the potential for significant environmental, biological and cultural resources impacts. Implementation of the preferred alternative (Alternative 1) will not substantially alter baseline environmental conditions. Biological, physical, and cultural resources will not be impacted by the preferred alternative because construction sites for new buildings are located in previously disturbed areas. The increase in the workforce at Fort Monmouth will be largely off-set by the workforce decreases that will result from scheduled non-BRAC realignments and Department of Defense downsizing. This workforce decrease offsets potential impacts on infrastructure such as water, wastewater, solid waste and energy. The proposed realignment is expected to have an insignificant impact on the socioeconomic environment, including total sales, employment, population and income. Based on the EA, which is incorporated into the FNSI, it has been determined that implementation of the proposed action would have no significant individual or cumulative impacts on the quality of the natural or human environment. Because there will be no significant environmental impacts resulting from implementation of the proposed action, an Environmental Impact Statement is not required. DATES: The Army plans to initiate the proposed action on or before September 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of this EA may be obtained by writing to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Mobile District, ATTN: CESAM&hyph;PD&hyph;E (Dr. Neil Robinson), P.O. Box 2288, Mobile, Alabama 36628&hyph;0001 or by calling (205) 441&hyph;5103 within 30 days of the date of publication of this notice. Dated: August 9, 1994. Raymond J. Fatz, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Environment, Safety & Occupational Health) OASA (IL&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20125 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
