FR940928-2-00045 FR940928-2-00039 Health Care Financing Administration Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority; Office of Quality Improvement programs Part F of the Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority for the Department of Health and Human Services, Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), ( Federal Register , Vol. 59, No. 60, pp. 14659&hyph;14660, dated Tuesday, March 29, 1994) is amended to reflect changes in the organizational title and structure of the Office of Peer Review (OPR), Health Standards and Quality Bureau, Associate Administrator for Operations and Resource Management. OPR is being reorganized to properly meet the Health Care Quality Improvement Initiative which is part of a new initiative to improve care for Medicare beneficiaries. OPR is being retitled the Office of Quality Improvement Programs. The specific amendments to Part F are as follows: •Section F.10.D.7.b. (Organization) is amended to read as follows: b. Office of Quality Improvement Programs (1) Division of Program Operations (2) Division of Program Development (3) Division of Contract Operations (4) Division of Quality Measurement and Improvement •Section F.20.D.7.b. (Functions) Office of Peer Review is amended by deleting the statement and substructure in their entirety and replacing them with the new functional statements. The new functional statements read as follows: b. Office of Quality Improvement Programs (FLE3) •Directs the Medicare Health Care Quality Improvement Program (HCQIP). •Oversees the development and implementation of a variety of performance measurement and quality management/improvement efforts to assess/improve quality of care activities in all health care settings. •Develops and interprets policies, regulations and legislation to support the HCQIP. •Develops and implements operational procedures and instructions for the award, management and validation of the HCQIP related contracts. •Develops and manages a program effectiveness strategy and reporting system. •Develops, implements, and maintains Informational Resources Management (IRM) activities in support of HCQIP including development and oversight of ADP systems, e.g., technical and management information systems. •Provides direction to, and coordinates activities with, the HCFA regional offices' HCQIP activities. •Maintains liaison with other HCFA, HHS and Executive Branch components, Congress, and external professional and medical organizations. (1) Division of Program Operations (FLE31) •Manages day-to-day operations of HCQIP systems activities. •Oversees HCQIP systems support contracts. •Designs, operates, documents, and maintains system applications used in the administration of the HCQIP. •Coordinates with HCFA regional offices and other HHS/HCFA components regarding Informational Resources Management (IRM) and systems/operational issues. •Designs, develops, and monitors HCQIP management reports to support effective and efficient operation of HCQIP systems and tracking of contractor deliverables. •Provides technical assistance in implementing and maintaining program-related ADP systems. •Oversees training, evaluating, budgeting, and planning to support HCQIP contractor proposals, as well as establishing procedures regarding systems operations and security.
