FR940324-0-00018 FR940324-0-00005 Final Special Conditions Accordingly, the following special conditions are issued as part of the type certification basis for the SAAB Model 2000 airplane: 1. Interaction of Systems and Structures (a) General . For an airplane equipped with certain fully hydraulically powered electronically controlled flight control systems, which directly, or as a result of a failure or malfunction, affect its structural performance, the influence of these systems and their failure conditions shall be taken into account in showing compliance with subparts C and D of part 25 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR). (b) System fully operative. With the system fully operative, the following apply: (1) Limit loads must be derived in all normal operating configurations of the systems from all the deterministic limit conditions specified in subpart C, taking into account any special behavior of such systems or associated functions or any effect on the structural performance of the airplane which may occur up to the limit loads. In particular, any significant nonlinearity (rate of displacement of control surface, thresholds or any other system non-linearities) must be accounted for in a realistic or conservative way when deriving limit loads from limit conditions. (2) The airplane must meet the strength requirements of part 25 (static strength, residual strength), using the specified factors to derive ultimate loads from the limit loads defined above. The effect of nonlinearities must be investigated beyond limit conditions to ensure the behavior of the systems presents no anomaly compared to the behavior below limit conditions. However, conditions beyond limit conditions need not be considered when it can be shown that the airplane has design features that make it impossible to exceed those limit conditions. (3) The airplane must meet the aeroelastic stability requirements of §25.629. (c) System in the failure condition. For any system failure condition not shown to be extremely improbable, the following apply: (1) At the time of occurrence. Starting from 1&hyph;g level flight conditions, a realistic scenario, including pilot corrective actions, must be established to determine the loads occurring at the time of failure and immediately after failure. The airplane must be able to withstand these loads, multiplied by an appropriate factor of safety, related to the probability of occurrence of the failure. These loads should be considered as ultimate loads for this evaluation. The factor of safety is defined as follows: BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M Factor of Safety at Time of Occurrence E:GRAPHICSER24MR94.004 Probability of occurrence (per hour) BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;C (i) The loads must also be used in the damage tolerance evaluation required by §25.571(b) if the failure condition is probable. The loads may be considered as ultimate loads for the damage tolerance evaluation. (ii) Freedom from flutter and divergence must be shown at speeds up to V D , or 1.15 V C , whichever is greater. However, at altitudes where the speed is limited by Mach number, compliance need be shown only up to M D , as defined by §25.335(b). For failure conditions which result in speed increases beyond V C /M C , freedom from flutter and divergency must be shown at increased speeds, so that the above margins are maintained. (iii) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, failures of the system which result in forced structural vibrations (oscillatory failures) must not produce peak loads that could result in permanent deformation of primary structure. (2) For the continuation of the flight . For the airplane, in the failed configuration and considering any appropriate flight limitations, the following apply: (i) Static and residual strength must be determined for loads induced by the failure condition if the loads could continue to the end of the flight. These loads must be combined with the deterministic limit load conditions specified in subpart C. (ii) For static strength substantiation, each part of the structure must be able to withstand the loads in subparagraph (2)(i) of this paragraph multiplied by a safety factor depending on the probability of being in this failure state. The factor of safety is defined as follows: BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M Factor of Safety for Continuation of Flight E:GRAPHICSER24MR94.005 Q j _Probability of being in failure state j BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;C Q j =T j *P j where: T j =Average time spent in failure condition P j =Probability of occurrence of failure mode Note: If P j is greater than 10 ^3, per flight hour then a safety factor of 1.5 must be used. (iii) For residual strength substantiation as defined in §25.571(b), for structures also affected by failure of the system and with damage in combination with the system failure, a reduction factor may be applied to the residual strength loads of §25.571(b). However, the residual strength level must not be less than the 1&hyph;g flight load combined with the loads introduced by the failure condition plus two-thirds of the load increments of the conditions specified in §25.571(b) in both positive and negative directions (if appropriate). The reduction factor is defined as follows: BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M Residual Strength Reduction Factor 5E:GRAPHICSER24MR94.006 BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;C Q j =T j *P j where: T j =Average time spent in failure condition P j =Probability of occurrence of failure mode Note: If P j is greater than 10 ^3, per flight hour then a safety factor of 1.0 must be used. (iv) Freedom from flutter and divergence must be shown up to a speed determined by the following figure: BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M Flutter Clearance Speed E:GRAPHICSER24MR94.007 BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;C
