FR940511-2-00174 FR940511-2-00110 Under PTC's rules, the Applicable Percentage 6 of the market value of securities is used in computing a participant's Net Free Equity. PTC's rules require participants to maintain Net Free Equity of zero or greater in each of their agency, pledgee transfer, and proprietary accounts in order for transactions to be processed. 7 PTC has the right to borrow against or liquidate those assets that comprise the Net Free Equity computations in those accounts in the event that the participant responsible for one or more of those accounts fails to pay the account debit balance at the end of the day. By including only a portion of the market value of securities in Net Free Equity, i.e., the Applicable Percentage, PTC attempts to limit the risk caused by fluctuations in the market value of securities in those accounts. In computing Net Free Equity, PTC deducts 5% from the market value of GNMA Single-Family securities, and higher levels for GNMA Project, Construction, and Mobile Home Securities to reflect their reduced liquidity. 8 6 ``Applicable Percentage'' means that percentage of the market value of securities that is included in the computation of Net Free Equity. The Applicable Percentage is determined by deducting certain percentages ( i.e., margin) from the market value of securities. See also definition of Net Free Equity, supra note 3. 7 PTC Article II, Rule 13. 8 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33840 (March 31, 1994), 59 FR 16672. Unlike GNMAs, CMOs are structured as a series of tranches or classes, each of which represents a separate security with unique characteristics, such as differing payment schedules and price volatility. In addition, there is a lack of historical price data for CMOs, in contrast to GNMA securities. Consequently, PTC has chosen to rely on a model developed by the Asset Backed Securities Group/Trepp (``Trepp'') that uses the yield on an underlying Treasury security to predict the potential movement and prepayment risk of a corresponding CMO tranche when subjected to a rise or fall in interest rates. Currently, PTC's model assumes a 50 basis point upward movement in the underlying Treasury securities for CMO tranches which exhibit positive effective duration ( i.e., rise in value with falling interest rates). For CMO tranches which exhibit negative effective duration ( i.e., decline in value with falling interest rate), the model assumes a 50 basis point downward move in the underlying Treasury security. 9 9 See letter from Leopold S. Rassnick, dated March 21, 1994, supra note 5. When first proposed, PTC's methodology calculated margins by assuming a change in prepayment speeds based on a sustained change in interest rates, applying the largest historic two-day movement in the yield of the underlying Treasury security as the applicable interest rate change. Thus, a 35 basis point upward move in the underlying Treasury securities for CMO tranches which exhibit positive effective duration; and a 50 basis point downward move in the underlying Treasury securities for CMO tranches which exhibit negative effective duration. See letter from Michael D. Frieband, dated August 17, 1993, supra note 5. PTC has since modified its methodology, which will now rely on a 50 basis point upward move in underlying Treasury securities for tranches exhibiting positive effective duration for purposes of calculating margin. Given the dearth of historical prices for CMOs, using a 50 basis point upward move in Treasury securities should generate more conservative margins. See letter from Leopold S. Rassnick, dated March 21, 1994, supra note 5. Rather than assigning a uniform Applicable Percentage for all CMO securities, PTC takes into account the unique characteristics of each CMO tranche. 10 Each CMO tranche is subjected to a stress test to determine its response to yield changes, thereby allowing PTC to assign each tranche an appropriate margin. PTC's management will establish the margin based on the stated analysis as each CMO tranche is deposited at PTC. Nevertheless, PTC has represented that the minimum margin level for any CMO product will be 5%. 11 10 This represents a departure from PTC's past practice of assigning a specific percentage margin for each type of security that is eligible for deposit at PTC. For example, for GNMA Project Loan, Project Note, Construction Loan, and Mobile Home Securities, PTC established margin levels of 10%, 10%, 12%, and 20%, respectively. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33840, supra note 8. 11 See letter from Leopold S. Rassnick, dated March 17, 1994, supra note 5. Margins on CMO securities which cannot be modeled by an independent pricing source will be set at 100%. See letter from Leopold S. Rassnick, dated January 12, 1993, supra note 5. II. Discussion The Commission believes that PTC's proposed rule change is consistent with section 17A of the Act, and, specifically, with sections 17A(b)(3) (A) and (F). 12 Those sections require a clearing agency to be organized, and its rules be designed, to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to assure the safeguarding of securities and funds which are in its custody or control or for which it is responsible. The Commission is approving PTC's proposal until April 30, 1995, to allow PTC to gain more experience with CMO securities. 12 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3) (A) and (F).
