FR941125-1-00039 FR941125-1-00008 7.1.3.1.2.5␣Calculate, record and report the luminous transmittance value of the filter as follows: E:GRAPHICSEP25NO94.001 Where: LT=Luminous transmittance T i =Weighted tested filter transmittance. 7.1.3.1.3␣Recalibrate the Primary Attenuators Used for the Required Calibration Error Test Quarterly. Recalibrates semi-annually if the primary attenuators are used only for quarterly calibration of secondary attenuators. 7.1.3.2␣Secondary Attenuators. Calibrate the secondary attenuators, if used to conduct COMS calibration error tests, monthly. The filter calibration may be conducted using a laboratory-based transmissometer calibrated as follows: 7.1.3.2.1␣Use at least three primary filters of nominal luminous transmittance 50, 70 and 90 percent, calibrated as specified in section 7.1.3.1, to calibrate the laboratory-based transmissometer. Using linear regression through zero opacity, determine and record the slope of the calibration line. The slope of the calibration line shall be between 0.99 and 1.01, and the laboratory-based transmissometer reading for each primary filter shall not deviate by more than # 2 percent from the exact linear regression line. If the calibration of the laboratory-based transmissometer yields a slope or individual readings outside the specified ranges, secondary filter calibrations shall not be performed. Determine the source of the variations (either transmissometer performance or changes in the primary filters) and repeat the transmissometer calibration before proceeding with the attenuator calibration. 7.1.3.2.2␣Immediately following the laboratory-based transmissometer calibration, insert the secondary attenuators and determine and record the percent effective opacity value per secondary attenuator from the calibration curve (linear regression line). 7.1.4␣Calibration Error Test. Insert the calibration attenuators (low-, mid-, and high-level) into the light path between the transceiver and reflector (or transmitter and receiver) at a point where the effluent will be measured; i.e., do not place the calibration attenuator in the instrument housing. While inserting the attenuator, assure that the entire beam received by the detector will pass through the attenuator and that the attenuator is inserted in a manner which minimizes interference from the reflected light. The placement and removal of the attenuator shall be such that an integrated measurement of opacity is conducted over the averaging time of the standard found in the applicable subpart. Make a total of five nonconsecutive readings for each filter using the data recording system to be used at the installation. Record the monitoring system output readings in percent opacity on the data sheet (see example figure 1&hyph;6). Subtract the ``path adjusted'' calibration attenuator values from the measurement system recorder responses (the ``path adjusted'' calibration attenuator values are calculated using equation 1&hyph;7 or 1&hyph;8). Calculate the arithmetic mean difference, standard deviation, and confidence coefficient of the five tests at each attenuator value using equations 1&hyph;3, 1&hyph;4, and 1&hyph;5 (sections 8.1 to 8.3). Calculate the sum of the absolute value of the mean difference and the absolute value of the confidence coefficient for each of the three test attenuators. Report these three values as the calibration error. 7.1.5␣System Response Test. Using the high-range calibration attenuator, alternately insert the filter five times and remove it from the transmissometer light path. For each filter insertion and removal, record the amount of time required for the COMS to display on the primary data recorder 95 percent of the final step change in opacity. Specifically, for a filter insertion, the owner or operator shall record the time it takes to reach 95 percent of the final, steady upscale reading; for filter removal, the time it takes for the display reading to fall to 5 percent of the initial upscale opacity reading (see example figure 1&hyph;7). Calculate the mean time of the five upscale and five downscale tests. Report the greater value as the COMS response time.
