FR940902-0-00066 FR940902-0-00010 Subpart G_Sanctions for Violations of the Act Liability of Units of Local Government A few commenters objected to the Department's singling out units of local government for bearing liability for funds misexpended by their SDA/SSG. It is not the Department's intent to single out units of local government to bear liability, but it is the Department's intent to make clear that neither a separately incorporated administrative entity ( e.g., a PIC) nor a local unit of government can insulate (liability-proof) itself from responsibility for misexpended funds. This is a more clearly expressed statement of the Department's position, and does not constitute a change in policy or position. One commenter expressed full support for the provision while another thought it should be made even stronger by requiring local government units to be held liable. The provision is not changed. The Department encourages incorporated PIC's to be active participants in the delivery of JTPA services. To this end, the provisions of §628.415(b) indicate that the Governor's requirements on responsibility for JTPA funds may not, on their face, preclude the selection of an incorporated PIC as the grant recipient. Waiver of State Liability As a result of a comment concerning §627.480(f), discussed above, the second sentence of §627.704(a) is removed. It is replaced with two new paragraphs, (b)(1) and (b)(2), which address the timing of requests for waiver of State liability. The remaining two paragraphs are redesignated as paragraphs (c) and (d), respectively. A few commenters suggested that SDA's should be allowed to request waivers. Some indicated that such requests should be made in conjunction with States, while others seemed to imply that such requests could be made directly, bypassing the State. However, as indicated at §627.702(e), it is the recipient that is held liable by ETA. Therefore, the only liability that ETA can waive is the recipient's liability for the sanction imposed on it. Several commenters suggested that the provision should be revised to permit a waiver in those instances where the fraud was perpetrated against the recipient/subrecipient so as to avoid penalizing entities which discover, report, investigate and prosecute the perpetrator of such fraud. Both this provision at §627.704 and the provision at §627.706 Process for advance approval of a recipient's contemplated corrective actions are revised for such situations. Offset Process A few commenters expressed the belief that States would not request ``offset'' if it were limited to State-level administrative funding. A commenter also indicated that most misexpenditures occur at the subrecipient level and that, if it is not a section 164(e)(1) violation, offset should be allowed at the level where the misexpenditure occurred. Another suggested the need to be flexible after considering all of the circumstances in the individual case. Section 164(d) of the Act indicates that offset may be ``against any other amounts to which the recipient is or may be entitled *␣*␣*.'' (Emphasis added) Under title II, the recipient must allocate 77 percent of the funds to SDA's and is entitled to retain 23 percent of the funds allotted for specifically identified activities. It is the Department's position that a reduction in the funds available through the ``offset'' process should not adversely impact the delivery of training and services to participants, nor the incentive grant and capacity building activities. Therefore, the Department believes that only the title II five percent (5 percent) administrative funds to which the recipient is entitled should be available for offset. Similar reasoning applies to the Department's restriction for title III funds. The Department fully expects that recipients will seriously consider their options, and the consequences thereof, and will not make frivolous use of this provision. A commenter indicated that use of the phrase, ``amounts chargeable'', in §627.708(b), conveys the implication that the administrative costs must be incurred before they can be ``offset''. This was not the Department's intent. The provision is rewritten to indicate that ``offset'' may be against amounts allotted that are expected to be used for recipient-level administrative costs. Subpart H_Hearings by the Office of Administrative Law Judges A commenter recommended amending the regulations at §627.800(a) to include Grant Officer Final Determinations made pursuant to §627.606 under the ALJ hearing process in addition to those specified at section 166(a) arising in connection with alleged violations of sections 141(c), 144 (d) and (e), 164(f) and 167 of the Act. Section 166(a) of the Act provides that an ALJ hearing may be requested by any recipient upon whom a corrective action or sanction has been imposed by the Secretary. By definition this would include final determinations made by the Grant Officer. The Department believes that the general provision included in section 166(a) of the Act is sufficiently clear in establishing the jurisdiction of the ALJ and that further clarification is not needed. No change is made to the final regulations. A commenter objected to the restrictions placed on the jurisdiction of the OALJ regarding specific sections of the law which the commenter believes will reduce the opportunity for complainants to have full redress of their grievances at the highest levels.
