FR940919-2-00101 FR940919-2-00046 Claimants will be able to fully participate in the administrative appeals process with or without a representative. SSA will ensure that claimants are fully advised of their right to representation and SSA will routinely provide the appropriate referral sources for representation. SSA will also encourage the early participation of a representative when the claimant has appointed one and will give the representative responsibility for developing evidence necessary to decide a claim. However, the decision whether to appoint a representative must remain with the claimant and SSA will neither encourage nor discourage claimants in seeking representation. The administrative appeals process will instill public confidence in the integrity of the system. To instill such confidence, SSA will provide an initial decisionmaking process that is thorough and results in fully developed records with fair and accurate decisions. Additionally, the claimant will be given the basis of a decision in clear and understandable language. Finally, SSA will ensure that its policies have been consistently applied at all levels of administrative review. As noted previously, the initial disability determination will use a ``statement of the claim'' approach which will set forth the issues in the claim, the relevant facts, the evidence considered, including any evidence or information obtained as a result of the predecision notice, and the rationale in support of the determination. The statement of the claim will be part of the on-line claim record and will stand as the basis and rationale for the Agency's action, if the claimant seeks further administrative review. SSA will standardize claim file preparation and assembly, including the use of appropriate electronic records, at all levels of administrative process until such time as the claims record is fully electronic. First Appeal Level Because the initial determination will be the result of a process that ensures fully developed evidentiary records and ample opportunity for the claimant to personally present additional evidence prior to an adverse determination, there will be no need for any intermediate appeal (e.g., reconsideration) prior to the ALJ hearing. If the claimant disagrees with the initial determination, the claimant may, within 60 days of receiving notice, request an ALJ hearing. Adjudication Officer When a claimant requests an ALJ hearing, an adjudication officer will conduct an interview in person, by telephone, or by videoconference, and become the primary point of contact for the claimant. The adjudication officer will have the same knowledge, skills and abilities as the adjudicators who decide claims initially. The adjudication officer will also have specialized knowledge regarding hearings procedures. The adjudication officer will be the focal point for all prehearing activities but will work closely with the ALJ, medical consultants and the disability claim manager, when appropriate. The adjudication officer will provide the claimant an in-depth understanding of the hearing process, with particular focus on the right to representation. To prevent delays caused by a lack of understanding of this right, the adjudication officer will again provide the appropriate referral sources for representation; give the claimant, where appropriate, copies of necessary claim file documents to facilitate the appointment of a representative; and encourage the claimant to decide about the need for and choice of a representative as soon as is practical. The adjudication officer will be available to answer the claimant's questions and concerns regarding the hearing process. The adjudication officer will also identify the issues in dispute and whether there is a need for additional evidence. If the claimant has a representative, the representative will have the responsibility to develop evidence. If the claimant has a representative, the adjudication officer will also conduct informal conferences with the representative, in person or by telephone, to identify the issues in dispute and prepare written stipulations as to those issues not in dispute. If the claimant submits additional evidence, the adjudication officer may refer the claim for further medical consultation and opinion, as appropriate. The adjudication officer will have full authority to issue a revised favorable decision if the evidence so warrants. This will ensure that allowance decisions are expedited and not delayed until a formal hearing before an ALJ. If the adjudication officer issues a favorable decision, the adjudication officer will refer the claim to a disability claim manager to effectuate payment. The adjudication officer will consult with the ALJ during the course of prehearing activities, as necessary and appropriate to the circumstances in the claim. As a preliminary matter, the adjudication officer will also routinely schedule a date for the hearing that is a standard number of days after the hearing request. Standardizing the hearing date process will facilitate claimant understanding and reduce the possibility of non- appearance at the hearing. It will also enable representatives to plan their schedules when taking on a case. The adjudication officer may exercise discretion in establishing an earlier or later hearing date depending on the individual circumstances and the ALJ's calendar. Electronic access to ALJs' calendars, as established by individual ALJs, will facilitate timely and appropriate scheduling of hearings. The adjudication officer will refer the prepared record to an ALJ only after all evidentiary development is complete and the claimant or a representative agrees that the claim is ready to be heard. The ALJ will retain the authority and ability to develop the record. However, use of an adjudication officer realigns most, if not all, prehearing activities so that the burden of ensuring their completion rests with other members of the adjudicative team. With completely developed claims before them, ALJs will be able to concentrate their efforts on conducting more hearings and rendering decisions faster. Hearing Proceedings The ALJ hearing will be a de novo proceeding in which the ALJ considers and weighs the evidence and reaches a new decision. A de novo hearing is consistent with the role of an ALJ envisioned under the Administrative Procedure Act. Under that scheme, the ALJ is an independent decisionmaker who must apply an agency's governing statute, regulations and policies, but who is not subject to advance direction and control by the agency with respect to the decisional outcome in any individual claim. ALJs are independent triers of fact who perform their evidentiary factfinding function free from agency influence. At the same time, the Administrative Procedure Act ensures that an ALJ's decision is subject to later review by the agency, thus giving the agency full authority over policy. Policy responsibility remains exclusively with the agency while the public has assurance that the facts are found by an official who is not subject to agency influence. A hearing before an ALJ will remain an informal adjudicatory proceeding as it is under the current process. The claimant will have the right to be represented by an attorney or a non-attorney with the decision regarding representation made by the claimant alone. An informal, nonadversarial proceeding is consistent with the public's strong preference for a simple, accessible hearing process that permits, but does not require, a representative. An informal process facilitates the earlier and faster resolution of the issues in dispute, thus promoting more timely decisions.
