FR941107-2-00179 FR941107-2-00097 •Increase airlines' opportunities to expand their operations; •Increase productivity and high-quality job opportunities within the aviation industry; and •Promote aerospace exports and general economic growth. Changing Environment Growing economic interdependence among nations_the ``globalization'' of the world economy_has expanded demand for convenient, reliable and affordable international air service. Demand for international service is growing faster than demand for U.S. domestic service, and most major U.S. airlines are now providing and planning to expand international operations. Between 1983 and 1993, the international component of U.S. airlines' route networks, measured in revenue passenger miles (RPMs), grew from around 16% to over 27%. U.S. airline revenues from international air service nearly tripled from $6.3 billion to $17.6 billion. Moreover, forecasts indicate that U.S. carrier international traffic, measured by RPMs, will increase to almost one-third of their total system traffic by the year 2000. Just as important, the pattern of demand for international service has changed considerably. First, the regional distribution of U.S. carriers' international revenues has changed dramatically, as the primary focus of carriers' expansion moved beyond Europe to meet new demand in the emerging markets of Asia, the Pacific Rim and Latin America. In 1983, the Atlantic accounted for 48% of our carriers' international revenues, while the Pacific accounted for 32%. By 1993, the Pacific had grown to 46% while the Atlantic was only 37%. The fastest growing sectors of the international aviation market are new and relatively undeveloped markets. During this same period, revenues in the Pacific grew 286%, in Latin America 151% and in Europe 116%. Second, from 1983 to 1993, the number of international aviation city-pair markets in which U.S. airlines participate has grown by more than a third, reflecting the major expansion of air service and carrier networks throughout the world and the increased dispersion of demand. Many of these city-pair markets are relatively small, generating only a few passengers per day. Towards a Globalized Aviation Industry The rapid growth of demand for international air service and the wider dispersion of traffic in city-pair markets are primary factors influencing the development of the air service industry. Carriers are increasingly finding that they cannot remain profitable unless they can respond to this changed demand. To compete effectively, carriers today must have unrestricted access to as many markets and passengers as possible. To meet demand and to improve their efficiency, many carriers are developing international hub-and-spoke systems that permit them to combine traffic flows from many routes (the ``spokes'') at a central point (the ``hub'') and transport them to another point either directly or through a hub in another region. Just as U.S. carriers developed hub-and-spoke systems to tap the broad traffic pool in the domestic market and to provide the most cost-efficient service for hundreds of communities that could not support direct service, international air carriers are developing world-wide hub-and-spoke systems to tap the substantial pool of international city-pairs. Internationally, an even larger portion of traffic moving over hub-and-spoke systems will require the use of at least two hubs ( e.g. , a hub in both the U.S. and Europe for a passenger moving from an interior U.S. point to a point beyond the European hub). This increases the complexity and interdependence of the components of the system (both the spokes and hubs) and the importance of multinational traffic rights to the success of the system. As a result, carriers wishing to establish global networks require a higher quality and quantity of supporting route authority than they have sought in the past. Airlines will become increasingly concerned with every market that enables them to flow passengers over any part of their system network. These airlines will be looking for broad, flexible authority to operate beyond and behind hub points, in addition to the hub-to-hub market between two countries. At present, governments operating in a bilateral context naturally focus on opportunities for their respective carriers to serve the local market between their two countries. In a bilateral context, services destined for or coming from third countries receive less consideration. In the future, governments will have to adjust their focus to bargain for the bundles of rights that will permit airlines to develop global networks. Carriers can either serve markets themselves (direct service) or provide service through commercial arrangements with other carriers (indirect service), whether on a traditional interline connecting basis or under a closer commercial agreement between the carriers, such as code sharing. Carriers will develop service products_single-plane, on-line connecting, interline connecting, joint service_that respond to the preferences of the traveling public as measured by passenger willingness to pay for differences in the quality of service and that take into account their cost structure and market strategy. To the greatest extent possible, airlines should be free to set prices and offer various service products in response to passenger preferences.
