FR940505-1-00472 FR940505-1-00012 (c) Reporting and recordkeeping. Each owner or operator of a locomotive emission source which is subject to the limitations of this section, shall submit to the administrator by April 1, of each calendar year, beginning in 2007, a certification of compliance with this section for the previous calendar year. This certification shall include: (1) A declaration that the company is in compliance with all the requirements of this section, and (2) Documentation of the methods used to meet the NO X fleet emission average required in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. (3) Each owner or operator of locomotive emission sources which is subject to the limitations of this section shall collect and record all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with this section. These records shall be maintained for a period of 5 years. The information shall be collected and recorded for each year starting in 2007. (d) Testing and monitoring. The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a locomotive emission source subject to the limitations of this section to perform tests using the applicable test methods defined in the national locomotive emission control program when finalized, to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of this section. (e) Fees and noncompliance penalties. (1) Railroad companies that own and/or operate a locomotive within the confines of the South Coast which is designated as a South Coast locomotive engine shall pay an annual fee for each locomotive engine they operate in the South Coast. [Such fee is to be developed in this rulemaking.] (2) Any engine that EPA finds operating in the South Coast that is not properly identified as a designated South Coast locomotive or without proper maintenance shall be fined an amount not to exceed $25,000 per day of improper operation. (3) A noncompliance penalty for each ton of emissions produced by a railroad company above its emission cap as provided for in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, shall be assessed at a rate of $10,000 per ton of emissions. §52.2972 Military aircraft operations. [Implementing program described in section III(D)(4)(e)(2)(c) of the Supplementary Information section.] §52.2973 Ships and ports. [Implementing program described in Section III(D)(4)(e)(iv) of the Supplementary Information section.] §52.2974 [Reserved] §52.2975 Enhanced in-use compliance program for nonroad engines over 37 kw. (a) General applicability. (1) New 1999 model year and later nonroad engines, except those exempted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, that are operated in the Los Angeles-South Coast Air Basin, Ventura, or in the Sacramento Metropolitan ozone nonattainment areas as defined in 40 CFR 81.305 shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, in paragraph (j) of this section, and in §52.2965. Other state and federal requirements may also apply to these engines. Owners of nonroad engines of any model year, except those exempted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, that are operated in the Los Angeles-South Coast Air Basin, Ventura, or Sacramento Metropolitan ozone nonattainment areas as defined in 40 CFR 81.305 shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (h) and (j) of this section. (2) Exempted nonroad engines. The following nonroad engines are exempted from the requirements of this section: (i) Engines rated below 37 kw; (ii) Compression-ignition engines used in marine applications that have a rated speed at maximum torque of 1200 RPM or less; (iii) Spark-ignition engines used in marine applications; (iv) Engines used in aircraft as defined in §87.1(a) of this chapter; (v) Engines used in underground mining equipment and regulated by the Mining Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) in 30 CFR parts 7, 31, 32, 36, 56, 70, and 75; and (vi) Engines used to propel locomotives, as defined in §85.1602 of this chapter. (3)(i) Labeling requirements. (A) For 1999 and later model year nonroad equipment, the equipment manufacturer shall affix a label meeting the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section to every piece of nonroad equipment operated, stored, or transported in the South Coast Air Basin, in Ventura County, or in the Sacramento Metropolitan ozone nonattainment areas as defined in 40 CFR 81.305, except those pieces of equipment and associated engines exempted in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3)(ii) of this section. (B) For 1998 and earlier model year nonroad equipment, effective March 15, 2000, a label meeting the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section shall be affixed to every piece of nonroad equipment operated, stored, or transported in the South Coast Air Basin, in Ventura County, or in the Sacramento Metropolitan ozone nonattainment areas as defined in 40 CFR 81.305, except those pieces of equipment and associated engines exempted in paragraph (a)(2) and (a)(3)(ii) of this section. (ii) Labeling exceptions. The labeling requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section do not apply to: (A) Equipment stored on the premises of an equipment dealer or leaser, unless such location is on or adjacent to a site at which work is being done that could gainfully employ the equipment; and (B) Equipment transported through or out of the FIP area that is not unloaded from its carrier while in the FIP area. (b) Definitions and abbreviations. The definitions and abbreviations of §52.2966 and parts 86 and 89 of this chapter, and the definitions contained in the Clean Air Act apply to this section unless the term is defined in this section. (c) Exhaust emission standards. For the purposes of certification, assembly line, and recall testing, exhaust emissions from nonroad engines to which these requirements apply shall not exceed the following: (1) Non-methane hydrocarbons. 1.2 grams per brake horsepower-hour, as measured under steady-state operating conditions. (2) Oxides of nitrogen. (i) For engines operated in the South Coast Air Basin or in Ventura County: 1.5 grams per brake horsepower-hour, as measured under steady-state operating conditions.
