FR940921-0-00146 FR940921-0-00016 (2) Evaporative emission controls need not be connected if data are provided to show that normal operating conditions are maintained in the engine induction system. (3) On air-cooled engines, the fan shall be installed. (4) Additional accessories ( e.g., oil cooler, alternators, air compressors, etc.) may be installed or their loading simulated if typical of the in-use application. (5) The engine may be equipped with a production type starter. (e) Means of engine cooling which will maintain the engine operating temperatures ( e.g., temperatures of intake air, oil, water, etc.) at approximately the same temperature as specified by the manufacturer shall be used. Auxiliary fan(s) may be used to maintain engine cooling during operation on the dynamometer. Rust inhibitors and lubrication additives may be used, up to the levels recommended by the additive manufacturer. Antifreeze mixtures and other coolants typical of those approved for use by the manufacturer may be used. (f) Exhaust system. The exhaust system shall meet the following requirements: (1) Otto-cycle engines. A chassis-type exhaust system shall be used. For all catalyst systems, the distance from the exhaust manifold flange(s) to the catalyst shall be the same as in the vehicle configuration unless the manufacturer provides data showing equivalent performance at another location. (2) Diesel engines. Either a chassis-type or a facility-type exhaust system or both systems simultaneously may be used. The exhaust backpressure or restriction shall be typical of those seen in the actual average vehicle exhaust system configuration and may be set with a valve (muffler omitted). (i) The engine exhaust system shall meet the following requirements: (A) The total length of the tubing from the exit of the engine exhaust manifold or turbocharger outlet to the primary dilution tunnel should not exceed 32 feet (9.8 m). (B) The initial portion of the exhaust system may consist of a typical in-use ( i.e., length, diameter, material, etc.) chassis-type exhaust system. (C) The distance from the exhaust manifold flange(s) to any exhaust aftertreatment device shall be the same as in the vehicle configuration unless the manufacturer is able to demonstrate equivalent performance at another location. (D) If the exhaust system tubing from the exit of the engine exhaust manifold or turbocharger outlet to the primary dilution tunnel exceeds 12 feet (3.7 m) in length, then all tubing in excess of 12 feet (3.7 m) (chassis and/or facility type) shall be insulated. (E) If the tubing is required to be insulated, the radial thickness of the insulation must be at least 1.0 inch. The thermal conductivity of the insulating material must have a value no greater than 0.75 BTU_in/hr/ft 2 / ○F measured at 700 ○F. (F) A smoke meter or other instrumentation may be inserted into the exhaust system tubing. If this option is exercised in the insulated portion of the tubing, then a minimal amount of tubing not to exceed 18 inches may be left uninsulated. However, no more than 12 feet of tubing can be left uninsulated in total, including the length at the smoke meter. (ii) The facility-type exhaust system shall meet the following requirements: (A) It must be composed of smooth tubing made of typical in-use steel or stainless steel. This tubing shall have a maximum inside diameter of 6.0 in (15 cm). (B) Short sections (altogether not to exceed 20 percent of the entire tube length) of flexible tubing at connection points are allowed.
