FR941221-2-00128 FR941221-2-00081 The AAPCHO has established a network of community health centers that provide a foundation upon which to develop, promote, and manage health intervention, education, and training programs which are aimed at preventing and reducing unnecessary morbidity and mortality rates among Asian and Pacific Islanders. 2. The APIAHF has established itself as an organization with professionals who serve as leaders and experts in the advocacy, research, development, and promotion of policies, health education programs, and data collection and dissemination efforts which are ultimately aimed at reducing excessive mortality and adverse health behaviors among Asian and Pacific Islander populations. The AAPCHO has established itself as an organization with professionals who serve as leaders and experts in planning, developing, implementing, and evaluating health education, health promotion, and disease prevention programs aimed at ultimately reducing excessive mortality and adverse health behaviors among Asian and Pacific Islander populations. 3. The APIAHF has developed the resources and the capability to accurately collect, analyze, and disseminate health and population data on Asian and Pacific Islanders, collected from both health providers and the U.S. Bureau of the Census. This survey and data collection component of the Forum enables federal agencies to gather data on the accurate representation of APIs in the population, as well as disseminate relevant census information that impact various groups within the API community in an expedited manner. AAPCHO has developed an extensive knowledge-base of essential health services, health care accessibility issues, and professional development initiatives that deal exclusively with API populations, and are necessary for any intervention with this population group. 4. The Forum established community programs that foster strategic linkages within the API community to promote the adoption of health behavior patterns and prevention efforts that could result in improvements in the health status of the API population. AAPCHO has assessed the current education, research, and disease prevention, and health promotion activities for its members, affiliated groups, and represented subpopulations.
