FR940505-1-00190 FR940505-1-00012 b. Mobile Sources. EPA believes that the utilization of technological advances for mobile sources, such as those discussed above in section III.B.5.d.iii., will ultimately allow the South Coast FIP area to attain the ozone NAAQS by the CAA deadline. Were EPA required to achieve the standards with mobile source measures that relied only on the current level of technology, EPA would be forced to propose measures which it believes would bring about severe economic hardship to the South Coast. As indicated in the attainment demonstration discussion (section III.H.), ozone attainment in the South Coast requires approximately a 90 percent reduction in VOC and a 70 percent reduction in NO X emissions from the 1990 baseline. Mobile source emissions will need to be reduced by this percentage to yield attainment. The proposed mobile source strategies presented in section III.D. will achieve reductions of 66 percent for VOC and 51 percent for NO X from the 1990 baseline. EPA proposes to commit to achieving the remaining balance of 24 percent VOC and 19 percent NO X reductions from future technologies, such as the ones discussed in section III.B.5.d.iii. EPA proposes to make section 182(e)(5) commitments to accomplish these mobile source reductions according to the following schedule. New technology rules will be proposed by January 1, 2001, and promulgated by July 1, 2002. The rules will provide for the additional 24 percent VOC and 19 percent NO X reductions by the year 2010. Since sufficient lead time to introduce any new technology will be needed, EPA proposes that the rules will begin implementation by January 1, 2006. This implementation date will allow for four years of fleet turnover to produce the needed reductions. 3. Commitment to adopt contingency measures. In this NPRM, EPA also proposes to commit to issue by January 1, 1999, contingency measures sufficient to achieve the cumulative percent reduction in VOC and NO X emissions assigned to each new technology measure. As the Act requires, these contingency measures would go into effect and achieve substitute emission reductions, if the new technology measures are not developed or fail to achieve the specified reductions. H. Attainment Demonstrations 1. Introduction. An attainment demonstration is a key part of a State or Federal Implementation Plan: using air quality modeling, it shows that the proposed emission control measures are sufficient for the NAAQS to be attained by the applicable deadline. 101 For ozone nonattainment areas classified ``Serious'', ``Severe'' or ``Extreme'', section 182(c)(2)(A) requires an attainment demonstration based on photochemical grid modeling, for which the Urban Airshed Model (UAM) is the EPA-approved model. (See Appendix W of 40 CFR part 51.) Under section 187(a)(7), SIPs for CO areas having design values above 12.7 ppm must also have an attainment demonstration, which EPA has generally interpreted to mean a UAM demonstration. As discussed previously in this NPRM, FIPs demonstrating attainment of the ozone NAAQS are required for Sacramento, South Coast, and Ventura, and a FIP carbon monoxide attainment demonstration is required for South Coast. 101 For ozone and CO nonattainment areas, the Act provides that SIPs (and FIPs) demonstrate attainment as expeditiously as practicable but not later than dates that are specified for each classification. For example, under section 181(a), ``Serious'' ozone nonattainment areas must demonstrate attainment as expeditiously as practicable but not later than November 15, 1999. In section III.B., EPA reviews the potential for demonstrating attainment in each of the FIP areas before the deadlines set in section 181(a) for ozone nonattainment areas and in section 186(a) for CO nonattainment areas. The attainment demonstration analyses presented below in this section do not repeat the discussion of alternative attainment dates. It is a goal of EPA for the FIPs to match as closely as possible the ozone SIPs that California is developing for the November 1994 submittal. EPA and the State are coordinating FIP and SIP modeling to avoid duplication of effort and divergent FIP and SIP modeling conclusions. Projected reduction targets had to be determined well in advance of this NPRM in order to choose control strategies and develop regulations to implement them. Because the State and EPA are continuing to refine the modeling, the proposed FIP attainment demonstrations are based on preliminary modeling results for the three areas. Rather than using UAM to directly simulate the air quality benefit of the control measures, today's proposal shows attainment by reducing total emissions to meet UAM-generated reduction targets. The targets were derived from a series of UAM simulations of generic ``across-the-board'' emission reductions that attain the NAAQS. This method has shortcomings discussed below, but is the best procedure available at this time, and gives results that are comparable to a full simulation. If subsequent analysis by the State and EPA shows that different target levels and control strategies are more technically appropriate, EPA intends to incorporate these in the final FIP notice or in subsequent FIP revisions. An additional issue for attainment demonstrations, not otherwise addressed in the FIP proposal, is the phenomenon of pollutant transport between air basins. If one area is causing nonattainment in another area downwind under some meteorological conditions, then additional controls may need to be applied in one or both areas. Ideally, a single large modeling domain incorporating both upwind and downwind areas should be used to assess pollutant transport between them. It is anticipated that the methods California will employ to address transport in the November 1994 ozone SIPs might be used in the final FIP. This could eventually result in revisions to the FIP, which may impose greater control requirements in the FIP areas than appear in today's proposal if there is, for example, transport from Los Angeles to San Diego and Ventura. The transport analysis could also result in additional FIP controls for areas not covered by the proposed FIPs, such as the San Francisco Bay Area or the San Joaquin Valley, which are upwind of Sacramento. 2. Baseline inventories. (a) Adjustments to State's emissions inventories. California provided 1990 base-year annual and peak season emissions inventories for ozone precursors (ROG, NO X , and CO) by air basin and county with the emissions inventory SIP submittal of November 13, 1992. EPA relied heavily on the November 1992 inventory in this NPRM. Revised inventories for the base-year were provided by CARB on November 15, 1993, and these have been partially incorporated in this NPRM. In some cases, however, EPA did not have sufficient time to fully evaluate and/or incorporate the November 1993 data into the FIP modeling. It should be noted that CARB uses ROG almost interchangeably with ROC (reactive organic compounds), but both include ethane, which EPA exempts from the definition of VOC under the assumption that ethane reacts too slowly for significant ozone formation in the period of concern (up to several days). CARB compensates for the difference between ROG and VOC by providing EPA a listing of the fractional ethane emitted from each Source Classification Code (SCC). For purposes of this NPRM, EPA also drew on inventories prepared by local air pollution control agencies as discussed below. (b) Basis for projected emission inventories. Base-year (generally 1990) emission inventory estimates are projected to change in future years. EPA projects emissions for each emission category to the targeted attainment year (e.g., 2010 for South Coast) based on category specific emission factors. These factors include, for example, housing starts, employment, population, gasoline sales, and sales tax revenues. (c) Stationary Sources.
