FR940429-0-00183 FR940429-0-00015 Comments: Some commenters argued that programs with a small number of graduates would not provide a statistically valid measure for completion or placement rates. Discussion: The Secretary believes these rates are statistically valid unless fewer than thirty students complete a program in an award year. The percentage of educational programs this size participating in the Title IV, HEA programs is so small, that the issue of statistical validity does not need to be addressed in the regulations. Changes: None. Award Year. Comments: Many commenters suggested that the period of time for calculating the placement rate should be based on the most recent calendar year or on the award year ending twelve months earlier (i.e., for 1995&hyph;96, the placement rate would apply to students who graduated in 1993&hyph;94) instead of the immediately preceding award year, to account fully for the 180-day period permitted to demonstrate that a graduate has been placed and the 13-week period required to count an employed student as placed. The ability to count individuals as placements under these circumstances becomes increasingly difficult as graduation dates approach the end of an award year. Some of these commenters believed that this approach would be consistent with the reporting procedures of many States and accrediting agencies. Other commenters suggested that the burden on institutions would be reduced significantly if the formula for calculating placement and completion rates were the same as the Department's Student-Right-to-Know provisions, and if the same formulas were used by accrediting agencies and State licensing agencies. Discussion: As noted in the earlier discussion, one reason that the Secretary has adopted the requirement for a short-term program to be in existence for at least one year is to allow for a track record of completion and placement rates. If the calculation of these rates were to be based on an earlier award or calendar year than the one specified in these regulations, the Secretary would need to require that newly established short-term programs remain ineligible for an even longer period so that track record could be established. The Secretary does not wish to discourage the creation of legitimate, high quality short-term programs by requiring too great a period of ineligibility for those programs. The Secretary notes, of course, that once these regulations have been in effect for at least a year, data for currently eligible programs, based on earlier years, will be available for review. The Secretary agrees that a standard rate is desirable, to the extent that a standard rate will provide the information the Department and other entities seek to obtain. Some rates may have to differ in order to achieve the purpose for which they are mandated. For example, a rate that is designed purely for consumer information purposes may require different data or time periods, than a rate that must coincide with student aid program calendars or a rate that is used for long-term academic studies. The Secretary cannot control the design of placement rates required by State agencies or accrediting agencies, but a standard rate or rates that can be calculated from the same data sources would help to reduce the burden on institutions. The Secretary encourages States and accrediting agencies to foster the development of uniform standards the Secretary could adopt, or adopt the standards in these regulations. The Student-Right-to-Know regulations are currently being drafted with the intention of developing a completion rate that will be useful for all Title IV, HEA programs when the statute so permits; but the Student-Right-to-Know regulations will not require a placement rate calculation. Changes: None. Calculation of Completion Rate. Comments: Some commenters suggested that the definition of ``enrolled'' for purposes of calculating completion rates should be amended to reflect only students who begin attending classes. Another commenter noted that some institutions do not charge new students for any institutional costs during the first month that the students attended classes, because administrators at these institutions believe that if these students withdrew before tuition and fees were assessed, the students could be excluded from the calculation of a completion rate. Discussion: As stated in the February 28, 1994 NPRM, when calculating the completion rate, an institution would subtract from the number of regular students who were enrolled in the program those students who withdrew, dropped out of, or were expelled from the program and were entitled to and actually received in a timely manner in accordance with the refund requirements of these regulations, a refund of 100 percent of their tuition and fees (less any permitted administrative fee) under the institution's refund policy. The Secretary believes that this provision addresses the commenters concerns. Changes: None. Comments: Some commenters suggested that students who transfer to another program or who withdraw because they have found a new job, should be excluded from the completion-rate formula. Discussion: The Secretary believes that transfer students and students who withdraw for the purpose of starting new jobs or withdraw for other reasons are accounted for by allowing up to 30 percent of the enrolled students to withdraw from the program. Changes: None. Calculation of Placement Rate. Comments: Many commenters objected to the requirement that a student must be employed for at least 13 weeks following graduation from an institution to be included in that institution's placement-rate calculation. These commenters believed that this requirement is overly burdensome because the institution would have to track those students for long periods. They believed that an institution should not be held accountable for factors that are beyond the institution's control, such as layoffs, plant closings, illnesses, forced relocations, or the motivation of students. Some commenters suggested that instead of tracking students (who tend to be very mobile) for 13 weeks, evidence of the initial hiring by an employer should suffice. A commenter suggested that the period of employment should be reduced to 30 days. Discussion: As discussed in the February 28, 1994 NPRM, the Secretary believes that an employment requirement of 13 weeks will help stem abuses by institutions that may arrange to have students hired for short-term jobs in order to boost placement rates. In addition, a period of time beyond the initial hiring by an employer should be used to determine that the student received adequate training from the institution. The Secretary believes that extraneous factors affecting a student's employment are accounted for by using a placement rate that excludes up to 30 percent of the institution's graduates. The 13-week period is consistent with the period of time a student must be employed to be counted in the institution's placement rate under the procedures delineated in ยง668.17(d) for the appeal of an institution's loss of participation due to an unacceptable cohort default rate Changes: None. Comments: A commenter suggested that students who are placed in jobs that are not related to their training should be counted, or at least excluded from the placement-rate formula. Another commenter suggested that placements should be limited to graduates who obtained a job in the recognized occupation for which they were trained in order to prevent program abuse. Discussion: Students who are placed in jobs not related to their training should be treated in the formula in the same manner as students who are not employed. The placement rate is designed to measure the effectiveness of the training provided by the institution, and employment in an unrelated job does not demonstrate that the training was effective. The Secretary believes that graduates who are employed in occupations that are comparable and related to the occupation for which they have been trained should be included in the numerator of the placement rate formula. In these circumstances, the training provided by the school is likely to have been a contributing factor in obtaining employment. However, the Department may revise this provision in the future if there are numerous incidents of abuse in this area.
