FR940228-1-00079 FR940228-1-00010 Current regulations governing program participation agreements state only the basic terms of participation in the Title IV, HEA programs and the purpose and scope of the agreement between the Secretary and individual institutions. All of the specific provisions of the program participation agreement that are listed in section 487(a) of the HEA are not restated in the regulations. Instead, all the specific statutory provisions are included in the actual agreement signed between the Secretary and individual institutions. The Secretary proposes to revise this section of the regulations to include not only the new provisions of program participation agreements added by the Amendments of 1992, but also those provisions previously prescribed by the HEA but not specifically spelled out in this section. The Secretary will specify which proposed changes have been made to this section as a result of the Amendments of 1992 to distinguish them from the provisions that the Secretary proposes to add that already existed under the HEA, but have not been codified in regulations. The additional provisions of program participation agreements enumerated in the HEA, as well as other changes the Secretary is proposing in order to clarify what the agreements cover and to reflect new procedures and statutory language, are described below. By providing a comprehensive list of the provisions of the basic program participation agreement in one section, thus making reference to all the provisions more convenient, the Secretary hopes to facilitate institutions' understanding of their responsibilities with respect to initial and continued participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary proposes to clarify the scope of the program participation agreement. By signing a program participation agreement, an institution indicates it understands that its initial or continued participation in the Title IV, HEA programs is contingent on compliance with the Student Assistance General Provisions regulations, the regulations of the specific Title IV, HEA programs in which the institution participates, and any additional requirements specific to that institution that the Secretary requires the institution to meet. Further, the Secretary proposes to make clear the long-standing practice that the program participation agreement applies to each branch or other additional location of the institution that meets the applicable requirements of the Student Assistance General Provisions, unless the Secretary specifies otherwise. The Secretary proposes to specify that by entering into a program participation agreement the institution agrees to comply not only with statutory and regulatory requirements, but also with any special arrangement, agreement, or limitation. The proposed expansion of this provision is necessary to make it clear that if it is to participate in a Title IV, HEA program, an institution must adhere not only to those requirements listed in the statute and regulations, but to any conditions of provisional certification, any limitation imposed on the institution to which the institution has agreed, or any other special arrangement that the institution makes pursuant to statutory or regulatory authority under Title IV of the HEA. The Secretary also believes it is necessary to clarify the Secretary's longstanding interpretation that to begin or continue to participate in a Title IV, HEA program, an institution must comply with each requirement applicable to that program, not just selected provisions. The Secretary proposes to add a clause specifically requiring that institutions that receive Title IV, HEA program funds under an advance payment method must time their requests for funds to meet immediate programs needs. The Secretary finds that this addition is necessary because, in the absence of this specifically stated requirement, too many institutions have drawn down funds in excess of immediate need, thereby adding unnecessarily to the Federal debt by causing the Treasury to incur interest costs on funds given to institutions that were not required to meet immediate needs. The Amendments of 1992, as clarified by the Technical Amendments of 1993, has removed the requirement that an institution may not request from or charge any student a fee for processing or handling the Federal Student Assistance Report, to conform with other statutory provisions of the Amendments of 1992 that eliminated previous references to that report. The Secretary would remove the corresponding regulatory language from this section. No change has been made to the general requirement that an institution may not request from or charge any student a fee for processing or handling any application, form, or data required to determine a student's eligibility for, and amount of, Title IV, HEA program assistance. In accordance with the HEA, an institution must establish and maintain necessary administrative and fiscal procedures and records to ensure proper and efficient administration of Title IV, HEA program funds that the institution receives from the Secretary or from students. Further, the Amendments of 1992 require that the institution provide, upon request and in a timely manner, information relating to its administrative capability and financial responsibility of the institution to the Secretary, the appropriate State postsecondary review entity designated under Part H of Title IV of the HEA, any applicable guaranty agency under the FFEL programs, and the institution's accrediting agency or agencies. The Secretary proposes to add to this list of agencies the institution's State agency with legal jurisdiction over the institution and, where appropriate, the State agency recognized by the Secretary for the approval of public postsecondary education as an alternative to accreditation or preaccreditation. The Secretary believes that it is important that these agencies also have access to information regarding an institution's financial responsibility and administrative capability.
