FR940506-0-00037 FR940506-0-00012 The Commission recognizes that those supporting cost sharing raise a legitimate concern that users should be responsible for paying the costs that their use imposes on the system. On the other hand, in Order No. 636&hyph;A, the Commission rejected a user fee approach to EBB cost recovery in favor of a reservation charge approach out of concern about potential consequences of user fees. The Commission intended EBBs to provide for wide dispersion of information about capacity availability as well as information concerning market and system operational information. In fact, to further the secondary capacity market, the Commission has sought to remove impediments to the development of services by third parties that would aggregate information from multiple pipeline EBBs, thereby improving access to information. 50 The Commission, therefore, rejected user fees for EBBs because high user fees can work to the disadvantage of firm shippers by discouraging the use of EBBs for capacity release transactions and by providing advantages to the pipelines' sale of interruptible transportation at the expense of capacity release. 51 Without more detail about how cost sharing would work, the Commission cannot endorse a policy of equitable cost sharing at this point. The Commission, however, is not ruling out adoption of a fully supported and justified proposal of this nature. At this point, these issues are best examined in the context of an individual rate case. 50 Northwest Pipeline Corporation, 63 FERC ¶61,124 (1993), aff'd, 65 FERC ¶61,007 (1993). 51 See Order No. 636&hyph;A, III FERC Stats. & Regs. Preambles at 30,563&hyph;64 (rejecting user charges for EBB to eliminate advantages for pipelines' interruptible service); ANR Pipeline Company, 66 FERC ¶61,335 (1994) (rejecting $50 usage charge). Similarly, the Commission does not have sufficient basis to establish a generic standard for cost recovery for enhancements to the basic EBB package. All the standards the Commission has adopted are of sufficient system-wide benefit to be included in the basic EBB package. Also, as discussed above, the Commission will not be mandating implementation of the non-capacity release standards proposed by Working Group 3 at this time. The Working Group is proposing a pilot program to evaluate its efforts, so an attempt to develop a generic cost recovery approach for these standards is premature. At this point, cost recovery for implementation of the standards is best addressed in individual rate cases. The Commission agrees with NGSA that cost recovery is a policy issue that need not be resolved by the Working Groups, and the Working Groups should not permit debates over cost recovery to side-track them from their work on developing standards. If parties have developed concrete proposals for alternate methods of cost recovery for particular standards, they can submit the proposals in comments on the Working Group reports or address the issue in individual section 4 cases in which EBB cost recovery is an issue. List of Subjects in 18 CFR Part 284 Continental shelf, Natural gas, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. In consideration of the foregoing, the Commission denies rehearing in part, grants rehearing in part, and clarifies Order No. 563 as described above. By the Commission. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary.
