FR941116-0-00040 FR941116-0-00006 (3) For flush/fill lines: Within 5,000 flight hours after the effective date of this AD, and thereafter at intervals not to exceed 5,000 flight hours, accomplish either of the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) of this AD: (i) Conduct a leak check of the flush/fill line cap. This leak check must be made with a minimum of 3 PSID applied across the cap. Or (ii) Replace the seals on the toilet tank anti-siphon (check) valve and the flush/fill line cap. Additionally, perform a leak check of the toilet tank anti-siphon (check) valve with a minimum of 3 PSID across the valve. Note 3: The leak test procedure specified in Boeing Service Letter 737&hyph;SL&hyph;38&hyph;3&hyph;A, dated March 19, 1990, may be referred to as guidance for the procedures required by this paragraph. (4) Provide procedures for accomplishing visual inspections to detect leakage, to be conducted by maintenance personnel at intervals not to exceed 4 calendar days or 45 flight hours, whichever occurs later. (5) Provide procedures for reporting leakage. These procedures shall provide that any ``horizontal blue streak'' findings must be reported to maintenance and that, prior to further flight, the leaking system shall either be repaired, or be drained and placarded inoperative. (i) For systems incorporating an in-line drain valve, Kaiser Electroprecision part number series 2651&hyph;278, 2651&hyph;329, or 2651&hyph;334: The reporting procedures must include provisions for reporting to maintenance any instances of abnormal operation of the valve handle for the in-line drain valve, as observed by service personnel during normal servicing. (A) Additionally, these provisions must include procedures for either: prior to further flight, following the in-line drain valve manufacturer's recommended troubleshooting procedures and correction of the discrepancy; or prior to further flight, draining the lavatory system and placarding it inoperative until the correction of the discrepancy can be accomplished. (B) If the drain system also includes an additional service panel drain valve, Kaiser Electroprecision part number series 0218&hyph;0026 or 0218&hyph;0032, or Shaw Aero Devices part number series 1010100C or 1010100B, or Pneudraulics part number series 9527, indications of abnormal operation of the valve handle for the in-line drain valve need not be addressed immediately if a leak check of the service panel drain valve indicates no leakage or other discrepancy. In these cases, repair of the in-line drain valve must be accomplished within 1,000 flight hours after the leak check of the additional service panel drain valve. (6) Provide training programs for maintenance and servicing personnel that include information on ``Blue Ice Awareness'' and the hazards of ``blue ice.'' (c) For operators who elect to comply with paragraph (b) of this AD: Any revision to (i.e., extension of) the leak check intervals required by paragraph (b) of this AD must be approved by the Manager, Seattle ACO, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate. Requests for such revisions must be submitted to the Manager of the Seattle ACO through the FAA Principal Maintenance Inspector (PMI), and must include the following information: (1) The operator's name; (2) A statement verifying that all known cases/indications of leakage or failed leak tests are included in the submitted material; (3) The type of valve (make, model, manufacturer, vendor part number, and serial number); (4) The period of time covered by the data; (5) The current FAA leak check interval;
