FR940912-1-00052 FR940912-1-00011 C. Immediate Action The Office of the Inspector General (IG) conducted an audit of Reclamation's revenues crediting practices and made recommendations for ensuring proper application of revenues received from the use of water project facilities and lands. That office also recommended, in part, that inappropriate revenues crediting be discontinued. Reclamation is currently in the process of implementing the recommendations. A review of repayment contracts and amendments, and current Reclamation practices as they pertain to collection and crediting or disposition of those revenues, has been accomplished. These rules are being published to establish guidance for the consistent application of revenues received. Public Comment on Rules Reclamation received a total of 10 comments in response to its notice of intent to propose rulemaking that was published in the Federal Register on January 3, 1994. Four of the responses received were requests for copies of future rulemaking actions; two were requests for more information about revenues crediting after a district has fulfilled its repayment obligation to the Government; four responses contained comments specific to different methods of crediting. All of the comments received have been reviewed and have been or will be addressed in either this proposed rule or in future rulemaking actions. The policy of the Department of the Interior is, whenever practicable, to afford the public an opportunity to participate in the rulemaking process. Accordingly, interested persons may submit written suggestions or objections regarding the proposed rule to the location identified in the Addresses section of this preamble. Comments must be received on or before November 14, 1994. Executive Order 12866 This rule is not subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866. Paperwork Reduction Act This proposed rule does not contain information collection requirements that require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501, et seq. National Environmental Policy Act Compliance The Department of the Interior has determined that this action meets the criteria for an action categorically excluded from the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (40 CFR 1508.4) under Departmental Manual part 516 DM 6, Appendix 9, section 9.4.A.1_``Changes in regulations or policy directives and legislative proposals where impacts are limited to economic and/or social effects.'' Small Entity Flexibility Analysis This proposed rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities. This proposed rule establishes procedures for the management of revenues from activities on Reclamation projects and project lands. Authorship This proposed rule was prepared by the Reclamation Law, Contracts, and Repayment Office, Bureau of Reclamation, Denver, Colorado. List of Subjects in 43 CFR Part 403 Administrative practices and procedures, Reclamation revenues crediting and disposition.
