FR940412-1-00068 FR940412-1-00012 The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Marine Safety Council at the address under ADDRESSES. The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this notice are Mr. Frank K. Thompson, Project Manager, Office of Marine Safety, Security, and Environmental Protection, and Ms. Helen Boutrous, Project Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel. Regulatory History On April 28, 1989, an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM) was published in the Federal Register (54 FR 18308). The Coast Guard received sixteen letters commenting on the ANPRM. These comments will be discussed later in this rulemaking document. A public hearing was not requested and one was not held. Persons interested in the portion of this rulemaking concerning coal were provided the opportunity to attend and participate in meetings held by the Chemical Transportation Advisory Committee, Subcommittee on Coal Transportation. These meetings were announced in the Federal Register , and were open to the public. Minutes of these meetings, and the final report of the subcommittee are on file in the rulemaking docket and may be obtained at the address under ADDRESSES . Background and Purpose Bulk solid hazardous materials include materials grouped into a number of specific classes, the definitions of which are contained in the Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA), Department of Transportation, Hazardous Materials Regulations (HMR) (49 CFR chapter I, Subchapter C). There are also some solid materials which are not properly described by any of the hazard classes defined in the HMR, but which when carried in bulk may pose a threat to the vessel or the crew, most commonly from a tendency to spontaneously generate heat or to deplete the oxygen in the cargo space. The international standard for the marine transport of solid materials in bulk is the Code of Safe Practice for Solid Bulk Cargoes, popularly known as the ``BC Code,'' published by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). In the BC Code, certain materials which do not fit into the standard IMO hazard classes are placed in the class ``Materials hazardous only in bulk'' (MHB). This class is defined as materials which, when carried in bulk, present sufficient hazards to require specific precautions. Examples of such materials include materials that are liable to reduce the oxygen content in a cargo space, self-heating materials, or materials which become hazardous when wet. The BC Code is currently only a recommended standard. However, several countries have adopted the Code in their national regulations. In addition, recent amendments to Chapter VI of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as amended, (SOLAS 74/83) adopted certain general provisions of the BC Code. These amendments to Chapter VI of SOLAS 74/83 were developed by the IMO Subcommittee on Containers and Cargoes (BC Subcommittee), and adopted by the IMO Maritime Safety Committee (MSC) at its 59th Session in May 1991. As adopted by MSC, the amendments to SOLAS 74/83 entered into force for those countries signatory to the Convention, including the United States, on January 1, 1994. These amendments to SOLAS 74/83 make mandatory the provisions of the BC Code dealing with cargo stowage, the passage of cargo information from the shipper to the master and the use of oxygen and toxic vapor analyzers. The SOLAS Chapter VI as amended refers to the BC Code as one possible source of information on the properties and recommended handling procedures for bulk solid materials. Many U.S. export shipments are bound for countries which have adopted the BC Code as national regulations. These shipments therefore already comply with the recommendations of the BC Code. The Coast Guard issues Special Permits for shipments of bulk solid materials not listed in 46 CFR part 148 in order to establish requirements for the safe carriage of these materials. The Special Permits allow the Coast Guard to closely monitor these shipments in order to determine if the requirements imposed under the permit are adequate to ensure safe carriage. The Coast Guard also uses Special Permits to allow the shipment of materials not listed in 46 CFR part 148 for which international guidelines have been established. After a history of safe transportation has been established under a Coast Guard Special Permit, carriage requirements for the material may be included in 46 CFR part 148. The Coast Guard issues two basic types of Special Permits. The first type of permit is issued for materials for which recommended handling procedures are contained in the BC Code. This type of permit basically restates the recommendations contained in the Code. The second type of permit is issued for materials classified as hazardous substances by the HMR or as hazardous wastes by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). When hazardous substances are transported in quantities exceeding their reportable quantity (RQ) they, by definition, become hazardous materials. This second type of Special Permit basically sets forth requirements for preventing crew exposure to the materials and release of the material to the atmosphere or water.
