FR940505-1-00140 FR940505-1-00012 For example, EPA currently has only estimated information on GSE and limited primary data concerning commercial aircraft operations in Ventura and Sacramento. These reports could also provide data on certain ground access vehicles that are directly under the control of airlines. These sources are presently unaccounted for in today's proposal due to insufficient information. 75 Therefore, baseline reports could provide additional detail and precision, albeit at the expense of an additional administrative burden for commercial airlines. Information that could be requested for such baseline reports is discussed in ``Reporting and Recordkeeping'' below. EPA requests comment on the desirability of requiring airlines to submit baseline reports, and on other possible alternative methods for establishing a reasonable baseline emissions inventory. 75 See the Technical Support Document, available in the rulemaking docket, for further information. The Agency further proposes to modify the stationary source-related approach just described in order to ``lock in'' additional emission reductions that are expected to result from other non-FIP requirements such as the commercial aircraft fleet modernization that will occur in response to FAA noise reduction regulations. According to the Air Transport Association, 76 these requirements could generate a 40 percent reduction in VOC emissions by 2000 from 1990 levels, when the requirements are fully implemented. This represents the maximum period of effect for these requirements, however, since the affected aircraft would be retired eventually even in the absence of specific regulations. EPA estimates that the emissions reduction benefit resulting from noise reduction requirements declines to zero by 2010 because of such expected retirement schedules. 76 See letter from R. Kettler, ATA to R. Wilson, EPA, dated December 27, 1993, available in the rulemaking docket. To ensure these potential emission benefits occur, the Agency proposes to modify the stationary source approach for developing the commercial aircraft baseline inventory and seasonal emission limits as follows. The target for basin-wide emissions will be the lower of either the emissions level calculated from the percentage-reduction-from-1990 schedule being proposed for the stationary source cap program, or the emissions level that is expected to result from non-FIP regulatory requirements such as the fleet modernization under the noise reduction requirements (i.e., emission improvements accompanying the retirement of older, dirtier aircraft). The Agency requests comment on this ``lock-in'' approach and potential alternatives that would ensure progress and attainment under the FIP. The two tables below present examples of the proposed ozone season emission inventory limits for VOC and NO X in the South Coast area. The emission limits in these tables are presented for illustrative purposes and for the purpose of facilitating public comment only. They do not represent the final values from which the enforceable emission performance targets will be derived, since EPA will continue to refine the baseline emissions inventory, aviation activity projections, and the effect of noise-driven fleet modernization based on information received during the comment period. 77 77 A detailed derivation of the emission limits for all areas is contained in the Technical Support Document, which is available in the public docket.
