FR941121-1-00014 FR941121-1-00006 A corrosion test of increased rigor for reflectors of replaceable lens headlamps would remove much of the safety concern about relensing lamps that have become contaminated with dust and moisture. The agency is proposing a specific environmental test for reflectors of replaceable lens headlamps which it believes is consistent with Ford's recommendations while imposing minimum testing burdens. NHTSA is proposing an additional salt spray test with the following features for new replaceable lens headlamps: (a) A 24 hour exposure to salt spray with the lens removed, (b) a 48 hour drying period, (c) cleaning of the reflector according to instructions to be furnished with replacement lenses and included in the owner's manual, (d) a non-magnified examination for corrosion, and (e) a photometric test of the headlamp as reassembled with a new lens. The proposed exposed reflector test mimics the existing test of headlamps with lenses but with a much reduced duration since reflector exposure in service would not be continuous. However, it makes use of the expected salt deposit formation to test the durability of the reflector coating to cleaning. Finally, it would require the manufacturer of a headlamp with a replaceable lens to demonstrate photometric compliance of the reassembled cleansed lamp. Ford recommended three distinct tests of headlamp reflector exposure to salt-fog, moisture, and dust, while the agency proposes a single test. Comment from parties familiar with reflector construction and exposure testing is sought. The following questions are of particular interest: (1) A cracked lens frequently causes a headlamp to partially fill with water. Is the moisture and exposure time involved in an ASTM B 117&hyph;73 salt spray test sufficient to test moisture resistance of reflectors? If not, what test would be sufficient? (2) The present dust test for replaceable bulb headlamps uses Portland cement as dust, and the agency presumes that Ford's comment refers to the same kind of dust test. Cleaning the reflector after Portland cement dust exposure may be equivalent to a rigorous abrasion test. The agency believes that the proposed salt-spay test will coat the headlamp reflector with salt deposits and that the subsequent cleaning will provide an adequate abrasion test. However, does a 24-hour salt spray test deposit enough salt to act as a de facto abrasion test? Should a particular method of salt removal be required or should the manufacturers' cleaning instructions dictate the test procedure, as proposed? Is a Portland cement dust test as well as a salt spray test of reflectors needed, and if so, why? Should a direct abrasion test be used rather than the indirect abrasion of cleaning, and if so, what procedure would be appropriate? (3) Is the proposed 24-hour salt spray test followed by 48 hours drying time sufficient to test the headlamp reflectors and the metal light shields sometimes used? What corrosion criteria are appropriate for light shields? Can rusty water dripping from metal light shields eventually cause otherwise durable headlamp reflectors to fail because of stains? (4) The present standard for replaceable bulb headlamps exposes lamp assemblies with the bulb removed (but the lens attached) for eight hours to humid salty air in a salt spray chamber with the salt spray turned off. Is this present test (followed by a photometric test and whatever cleaning is necessary) sufficient to qualify headlamp reflectors for use with replaceable lenses without the proposed direct salt spray test or the moisture, dust and salt spray tests recommended by Ford? The existing Standard No. 108 also includes a chemical resistance test of the exterior of the lamp to fuel, tar remover, power steering fluid and antifreeze. NHTSA has tentatively concluded that the test should be extended to headlamp reflectors using chemicals suggested by the manufacturer in the cleaning instructions or with a realistic probability of use by vehicle owners despite the manufacturer's instructions. Chemicals in the latter category would include tar remover, lacquer thinner and mineral spirits. The manufacturer's instructions may concentrate on water soluble contaminants because of the salt spray test. The inclusion of the other chemicals gives the owner a means to remove organic contaminants without resorting to abrasion. Since mineral spirits is a major constituent of tar remover, a separate test for mineral spirits appears unnecessary. The plastic lenses on replaceable bulb headlamps manufactured for use in the United States are given a hard protective coating that would be expected to exceed the reflector coating requirements established by the proposed tests. NHTSA expects that similar coating methods could be used to create robust reflectors for replaceable lens headlamps. It would be reasonable to expect successful lens replacement by vehicle owners, especially if the lens attachments were designed to be accessible without disturbing the headlamp aim. The requirement for headlamp reflector durability also reduces concern about untrained persons installing the lens seal. Should an owner install the seal incorrectly, causing moisture to collect inside the lamp, the reflector will not degrade quickly. The visible moisture would serve as a telltale, and an owner motivated to replace the lens initially would be motivated to disassemble, clean and reinstall the lens until the desired repair was successful. If manufacturers choose to design headlamps for ease and economy of lens replacement by owners, the prospect of better lamp maintenance in non-inspection States is realistic. Economic Benefits to the Consumer of Replaceable Lenses
