FR940803-0-00024 FR940803-0-00009 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Part 121 Procedural Regulations Governing Size Protests AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Small Business Administration is amending its procedural regulations governing size protests for purposes of clarification. The amendment makes clear that size protests filed by any person, including the contracting officer, will be considered premature and will be dismissed if filed before bids have been opened or the identity of the prospective awardee has been established. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule is effective on August 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David R. Kohler, Associate General Counsel for General Law, Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street SW., Washington, DC 20416, (202) 205&hyph;6645. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Small Business Administration (SBA) is amending §121.1603(a)(4) of its procedural regulations governing size protests in order to make clear that size protests filed by contracting officers, like all other protests, will be dismissed if prematurely filed, i.e. , if filed prior to bid opening (in the case of sealed bids) or prior to identification of the apparent successful offeror (in the case of negotiated procurements). Section 121.1603(a)(4) presently states that ``(a)t any time after bid opening a contracting officer may question the size of any offeror for the purpose of a particular procurement or sale by filing a protest with the SBA Regional Office *␣*␣*'' Although SBA had intended that this regulation preclude contracting officers from filing premature protests with respect to both sealed bid and negotiated procurements, the language employed does not reflect this intention and has resulted in a recent decision by SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals holding that a contracting officer's protest filed after the date for submitting initial offers but before the submission of best and final offers or identification of the apparent successful offeror was not premature and necessitated a decision on the merits. In order to effect its original intentions with respect to premature protests, SBA is amending paragraph (a)(4) by adding clarifying language to emphasize that contracting officers (like all other protestors) are precluded from filing premature protests in negotiated procurements as well as in procurements conducted using sealed bid procedures. This expressed intention accords with paragraph (b)(5) of §121.1603, which clearly states that ``(p)rotests filed by any person before bid opening or notification of intended award shall be considered premature and shall be dismissed.'' It in no way conflicts with the statement in paragraph (b)(2) of §121.1603 that ``(a) protest by a contracting officer shall be timely for the purpose of the procurement or sale in question whether filed before or after award.'' Paragraph (b)(2) of §121.1603 addresses the issue of lateness. Paragraphs (a)(4) and (b)(5) address the issue of prematurity. SBA's distinction between lateness and prematurity with respect to protests filed by contracting officers is based upon the realities of the procurement process and the need to establish procedures for adjudicating size status that are fair as well as administratively efficient. A contracting officer, unlike any other potential protestor, has the authority to terminate a contract awarded as a small business set aside should it be determined that the awardee is not a small business. Thus it is prudent to permit a contracting officer to file a late protest whenever size ineligibility is suspected in order to preserve the integrity of the set-aside program by resolving any questions on size status in an expeditious manner. The prohibition against premature protests, however, has historically been applied to contracting officers and other protestors alike, because in neither case is it prudent either to impose the burdens of a size investigation on a concern unnecessarily or to expend SBA's limited resources by making formal size determinations where it is unclear that the protested concern is the potential awardee of the contract.
