FR941207-0-00092 FR941207-0-00015 We do agree, however, with the Copyright Owners' request that innocent pleasantries should not be subject to the total ban, and that the word ``party'' should be changed to ``person'' to avoid any ambiguity. The changes to section 251.33 have been made accordingly. Gifts and other things of monetary value. In our interim rules, we make a distinction between selected arbitrators who are subject to a total ban on soliciting or accepting gifts or any other thing of monetary value from an interested person, and listed arbitrators who may solicit or accept gifts of less than $20 per occasion, and not more than $50 per year from any one source. We also provide that a listed arbitrator may accept a gift beyond the $20&hyph;$50 limit where it is clear that the gift is motivated by a family relationship or a personal friendship rather than the potential of the listed arbitrator to be selected. The Copyright Owners and James Cannings believe that no distinction should be made between selected and listed arbitrators and that they should all abide by a total ban on the soliciting or acceptance of any gift. The Copyright Owners state that applying the total ban to listed arbitrators would ``reduce the perceived opportunities for influencing of either listed or selected arbitrators.'' Copyright Owners, comments at 18. Again, as stated above, we believe that the restrictions on the activities of listed arbitrators should be limited to actual improprieties only, considering that they may never be selected. Requiring listed arbitrators to refuse gifts no matter how small, and to avoid normal relations with existing friends and family simply to avoid the appearance of impropriety is too great a restriction, and may result in various individuals refusing to participate. The exceptions for nominally valued gifts and for gifts from existing friends and family were derived from the regulations issued by the Office of Government Ethics, and represent their line-drawing for thousands of compensated government employees who are in a position to confer a benefit on a private party (versus listed arbitrators who are neither compensated nor in a position to confer a benefit). We do not believe that a lunch valued at less than $20 where no discussion of the merits of any past, present or future proceeding takes place would result in the influencing of any listed arbitrator. Consequently, the distinction between selected and listed arbitrators is retained in the final rules. Post-arbitration employment restrictions. While we did not receive any comments on our rule against arbitrators being employed for three years by any party, person or entity with a financial interest in the proceeding, we did receive a comment on the hypothetical we posed based on this section. The hypothetical asked whether an arbitrator who has ruled on a cable rate adjustment may take a cable system as a client afterwards if that cable system, although affected by the outcome, had neither participated in the proceeding nor authorized anyone else to represent it. The Copyright Owners stated that they believed the arbitrator could take the cable system as a client, but gave no reasons, and prefaced their answers to all the hypotheticals by saying they were difficult to answer given the limited facts available. Copyright Owners, comments at 22, 24. We believe that since we received only one limited comment on this hypothetical, we do not have sufficient comments to render a conclusion. We reserve judgment until an actual case presents itself. In the meantime, the rule is adopted as proposed. Remedies. Currently, section 251.39 provides sanctions against selected arbitrators, listed arbitrators, and outside parties who violate the standards of conduct. The Copyright Owners argue that sanctions should also be put in place for Library and Copyright Office personnel who violate the standards. Copyright Owners, comments at 24. Library of Congress Regulations (LCRs) already set forth sanctions for Library and Copyright Office personnel who violate internal personnel rules. LCR 2023&hyph;1 instructs all staff members to avoid actions which might result in or create the appearance of using public office for private gain, giving inequitable and improper preferential treatment to any person to the prejudice or detriment of others, or compromising the independence or impartiality of the Library. We believe this applies to the rules on ex parte communications, and would cover any disclosure of nonpublic information, even though section 251.37 only applies to arbitrators. In addition, however, the Library's General Counsel, who serves as the agency's ethics officer, has issued a memorandum that will be circulated to all personnel likely to have any interaction with a CARP detailing the new situations that could arise and how employees should respond to them. (5) Subpart E_Procedures of Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels a. Formal Hearings. (i) Phase I/Phase II. In the preamble text to the Interim Regulations, we asked several questions with regard to the procedural division of royalty distribution proceedings. The Copyright Royalty Tribunal traditionally divided distribution proceedings into two phases: Phase I determined the percentage allocation among the categories of claimants, while Phase II resolved disputes within a claimant category. The Tribunal practice, however, was just that, and was never embodied in the rules. We sought comment on the following: Is the procedure of dividing a cable distribution proceeding into Phases I and II a precedent that is binding on the Copyright Office? If not, should it nonetheless be followed? If it should be followed, should we adopt rules governing the procedure? Should those rules include a definition of each of the Phase I categories? 59 FR at 23976&hyph;23976 (1994). Copyright Owners urge that, regardless of the binding effect of the former Tribunal's practice on the Office, the division of proceedings into Phase I and Phase II should continue in order to prevent chaos in the distribution process. Copyright Owners, comments at 13. They note that Phase I claimant categories offer two primary benefits to the distribution process. First, by allowing each claimant category to collect the total royalty awarded to it and distribute that total to its individual claimants, the ``process frees the Copyright Office from the expense of mailing hundreds of distribution checks to individual claimants each time a distribution is made.'' Id. at 14. Second, the grouping together of claimants into categories reduces Phase I litigation to less than ten parties, rather than hundreds of individual claimants. Id. ``In short, the established Phase I/Phase II divisions provide very strong procedural and organizational efficiencies that have worked well in the past and should be continued in the future.'' Id. Copyright Owners urge the Office to adopt procedures governing Phase I/Phase II proceedings that would allow for separate hearings of Phase I and Phase II proceedings, but offer no comment or suggestion as to what those rules should be. Id. at 14&hyph;15. They also believe that definitions of Phase I categories should be available to arbitrators, but not included in these rules because ``it could create unnecessary rigidity that would fail to accommodate changing conditions.'' Id. at 15. Copyright Owners therefore suggest that parties provide a stipulated set of program definitions to arbitrators at the start of each distribution proceeding. Id.
