FR940720-2-00178 FR940720-2-00099 3. Division chiefs in districts are delegated authority under section 7122 of the Internal Revenue Code to accept offers in compromise and to reject and acknowledge withdrawal of offers in compromise for matters under their respective jurisdictions regardless of the amount of the liability sought to be compromised. Chiefs, Collection Division, may redelegate to any Collection Branch chief, including Automated Collection and Collection Support Branch chiefs, the authority to reject and acknowledge withdrawals of all offers in compromise regardless of the amount of the liability sought to be compromised and to accept offers in compromise regardless of the amount of the liability sought to be compromised. Chiefs, Collection Division, may redelegate to Automated Collection assistant branch chiefs the authority to reject and acknowledge withdrawals of all offers in compromise regardless of the amount of the liability sought to be compromised. Chiefs, Collection Division, may redelegate to group managers in the Collection Field function; to Chief, Advisory or Insolvency unit, or equivalent, GS&hyph;12 or above, in Special Procedures function; and to Automated Collection assistant branch chiefs the authority to accept offers in compromise where the amount of the liability (including interest, penalty, additional amount, or addition to tax) is less than $100,000. 4. Chief, Field Branch, in Collection, and Chief, Special Procedures or equivalent, in blended districts, are delegated the authority to accept offers in compromise where the amount of the liability (including interest, penalty, additional amount, or addition to tax) is less than $100,000 and to reject and acknowledge withdrawal of all offers in compromise regardless of the amount of the liability sought to be compromised. 5. Group managers in Collection Field function and Chief, Advisory or Insolvency unit or equivalent, GS&hyph;12 or above, in Special Procedures function in districts are delegated the authority to reject and acknowledge withdrawals of all offers in compromise for matters under their respective jurisdictions regardless of the amount of the liability sought to be compromised. 6. Chiefs, Examination Division, may redelegate to any Chief, Quality Measurement Staff, or Chief, Planning and Special Programs, the authority to reject and acknowledge withdrawals of all offers in compromise regardless of the amount of the liability sought to be compromised. 7. The authority delegated to division chiefs, branch chiefs, assistant branch chiefs, group managers, and Chief, Advisory or Insolvency unit, GS&hyph;12 or above, does not include the authority to reject offers in compromise for public policy reasons. Authority to reject offers in compromise for public policy reasons is restricted to the Deputy Assistant Commissioner (International); associates chief counsel; regional counsel; regional directors of Appeals; chiefs and associate chiefs, Appeals offices; district directors; service center directors; and Director, Austin Compliance Center. This authority may not be redelegated. The authority delegated to regional counsel may not be redelegated, except that the authority to reject offers in compromise for other than public policy reasons may be redelegated, but not lower than to district counsel. Regional directors of Appeals and chiefs and associate chiefs, Appeals offices, may not redelegate this authority. 8. District directors; service center directors; Director, Austin Compliance Center; and regional directors of Appeals are delegated the authority to accept offers in compromise in the event Counsel renders a negative legal opinion, regardless of the amount of the liability sought to be compromised. This applies only to offers in compromise_Doubt as to Collectibility. This authority may not be redelegated. 9. The authority in this delegation order may not be redelegated except as indicated. 10. To the extent that the authority previously exercised consistent with this order may require ratification, it is hereby approved and ratified. 11. Delegation Order No. 11 (Rev. 23), effective December 7, 1993, is superseded. Dated: June 21, 1994. Phil Brand, Chief Compliance Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17564 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4830&hyph;01&hyph;U
