FR940830-0-00025 FR940830-0-00005 §552.13 Combinations involving Federal stock associations. (a) Scope and authority. Federal stock associations may enter into combinations only in accordance with the provisions of this section, sections 5(d) and 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, sections 5(d)(3)(A) and 10(s) of the Home Owners' Loan Act, and §563.22 of this chapter. (b) Definitions. The following definitions apply to §§552.13 and 552.14 of this part: (1) Combination. A merger or consolidation with another depository institution, or an acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets or assumption of all or substantially all of the liabilities of a depository institution by another depository institution. Combine means to be a constituent institution in a combination. (2) Consolidation. Fusion of two or more depository institutions into a newly-created depository institution. (3) Constituent institution. Resulting, disappearing, acquiring, or transferring depository institution in a combination. (4) Depository institution means any commercial bank (including a private bank), a savings bank, a trust company, a savings and loan association, a building and loan association, a homestead association, a cooperative bank, an industrial bank or a credit union, chartered in the United States and having its principal office located in the United States. (5) Disappearing institution. A depository institution whose corporate existence does not continue after a combination. (6) Merger. Uniting two or more depository institutions by the transfer of all property rights and franchises to the resulting depository institution, which retains its corporate identity. (7) Mutual savings association. Any savings association organized in a form not requiring non-withdrawable stock under Federal or State law. (8) Resulting institution. The depository institution whose corporate existence continues after a combination. (9) Savings association has the same meaning as defined in §561.43 of this chapter. (10) State. Includes the District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and States, territories, and possessions of the United States. (11) Stock association. Any savings association organized in a form requiring non-withdrawable stock. (c) Forms of combination. A Federal stock association may combine with any depository institution, provided that: (1) The combination is in compliance with, and receives all approvals required under, any applicable statutes and regulations;
