FR940110-2-00020 FR940110-2-00011 Department's Position: We agree with petitioners that reported credit expenses are incorrect. Although Toyota's PP sales are made on immediate payment terms (immediate with respect to the date of delivery in the United States), Toyota still incurs some credit expense on these transactions for the time between shipment and payment. An expense must therefore be imputed on PP sales for the time between shipment from Japan and payment. Because entry dates are unavailable, we used the average number of days between shipment and payment calculated by petitioners in their case brief. Petitioners' figure is based on data provided by Toyota. However, we have no information on the record indicating that Toyota incurred bank charge fees associated with the immediate payment PP sales and, thus, we cannot make an adjustment for such fees. Comments Specific to TCM Comment 20: TCM objects to the Department's allocation of selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) over U.S. further manufacturing cost in cases involving ``swap-downs'' of masts (substitutions of low-value masts for masts of higher value). In such situations, TCM has allocated a negative SG&A amount to further manufacturing. In the Department's preliminary results ESP computer program, wherever a negative amount was reported for the further manufacturing SG&A expense, this amount was multiplied by negative one in order to convert it to a positive value. TCM claims that these negative amounts should not have been converted to positive amounts because the SG&A expenses that were allocated to the import values were inflated so as to include an offset amount equal to the absolute value of the negative value-added SG&A amounts. As a result, according to TCM, the amount of total U.S. SG&A deducted from USP has been inflated well beyond the total actual expense incurred. TCM requests that the Department correct this problem in the computer program so that only the actual SG&A expenses will be deducted from U.S. price. Petitioners argue that the Department should recalculate TCM's value-added using positive U.S. SG&A amounts for those U.S. value-added sales where TCM listed negative SG&A amounts. Petitioners state that it is not possible to have negative labor, factory overhead, or SG&A from value-added operations. Petitioners suggest applying the highest reported SG&A amount to these sales as BIA or, in the alternative, assigning a positive value to all SG&A expenses. Petitioners also argue that, despite the arguments in its brief, TCM has not offered support for its contention that TCM allocated the total U.S. SG&A amount, plus an offsetting increase, to the truck as imported for those sales where it allocated negative SG&A in further manufacturing. Petitioners also contend that there is insufficient information (i.e., calculation of total SG&A, or identification of the field where the SG&A amount allocated to the value of the truck as imported is recorded) on the record for the Department to verify TCM's claim. Finally, petitioners claim that TCM's use in its case brief of a hypothetical_rather than an actual_example is not sufficient. Petitioners, therefore, contend that the Department should continue to use the same methodology for allocating U.S. SG&A to U.S. further manufacturing costs that was used for the preliminary results. Department's Position: We agree with petitioners that it is not appropriate to attribute negative SG&A expenses to further processing operations. However, in the preliminary results, our treatment of SG&A understated the value of TCM's imported product and overstated TCM's value-added for those products for which TCM reported negative SG&A. As a result of these over- and under-statements, we have decided not to follow the methodology employed in Forklifts I and in the preliminary results of this review. Two facts must be considered in determining how to treat TCM's reported negative SG&A properly. First, the processing that TCM undertook must result in the allocation of positive SG&A expenses both to the imported product and to the further processing operations conducted by TCM. Second, the sum of the SG&A allocated to TCM's imported product and TCM's value-added must be equal to the amount incurred. Therefore, we have allocated a portion of TCM's SG&A expenses to the COM of the further processing operations and deducted this amount from USP. The COM of the further processing operations is the sum of the cost of all materials added to the forklift truck, plus the labor and factory overhead costs incurred by TCM. The remaining SG&A amount, which we attributed to the imported product, was not deducted. This allocation distributes the actual amount of SG&A expense incurred between further manufacturing and the imported product. This methodology therefore results in an allocation of positive SG&A to both the further manufacturing operations and the imported product. The amount allocated to the imported product also does not exceed the amount incurred for the sale. To do this, we calculated on a sale-by-sale basis the factor represented by TCM's reported SG&A as a share of the total reported manufacturing costs associated with further manufacturing ( i.e. , positive and negative values). We then used this factor, which was always positive 1 , to generate an SG&A amount for each transaction by applying the factor only to the positive costs associated with further manufacturing. We thereby guaranteed that the SG&A value attributed to further manufacturing was always positive. 1 This factor will always be positive because TCM always assigned a negative SG&A to the negative total manufacturing costs associated with the further manufacturing of the swapdown models. The negative SG&A divided by the negative total COM yields a positive factor.
