FR940412-2-00091 FR940412-2-00069 Farmers Co-Operative Company, Winger, MN, Reporting Requirements, Lee&hyph;0077 Farmers Co-Operative Company filed an Application for Exception from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) requirement that it file Form EIA&hyph;782B, the ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering this request, the DOE found that the firm was not suffering a gross inequity or serious hardship. Accordingly, on March 24, 1994, the DOE issued a Proposed Decision and Order determining that the exception request should be denied. Friendly Service Stations, Inc., Fairfield, CT, Reporting Requirements, Lee&hyph;0070 Friendly Service Stations, Inc., (Friendly) filed an Application for Exception from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) requirement that it file Form EIA&hyph;782B, the ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' Friendly showed that it had been forced by financial difficulties to reduce its staff to such an extent that complying with the reporting requirement would impose an inordinate burden on the firm. DOE therefore determined that exception relief should be granted. Friendly hopes that its current difficulties will prove temporary. The exception relief granted will therefore be effective for a period of nineteen months, ending April 30, 1995. Accordingly, on March 23, 1994, the DOE issued a Proposed Decision and Order determining that the request should be granted in part. Lorenz Petroleum, Inc., Manitowoc, WI, Reporting Requirements, Lee&hyph;0092 Lorenz Petroleum, Inc. filed an Application for Exception from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) requirement that it file Form EIA&hyph;782B, the ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering the request, the DOE found that the firm was experiencing a serious hardship due to the medical problems of its owner, Kenneth Lorenz. Accordingly, on March 21, 1994, the DOE issued a Proposed Decision and Order determining that the exception request should be granted in part. New Dixie Oil Corporation, Roanoke Rapids, NC, Reporting Requirements, Lee&hyph;0074 New Dixie Oil Corporation (New Dixie) filed an Application for Exception from the provision of filing Form EIA&hyph;782B, entitled ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' The Exception request, if granted, would permit New Dixie to be exempted from filing Form EIA&hyph;782B. On March 24, 1994, the Department of Energy issued a Proposed Decision and Order which determined that the Exception request should be denied. 4 Paul Fisher Oil Co., Inc., Selmer, TN, Reporting Requirements, Lee&hyph;0091 Paul Fisher Oil Co., Inc., (Fisher) filed an Application for Exception from the provision of filing Form EIA&hyph;782B, entitled ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Sales Report.'' The Exception request, if granted, would permit Fisher to be exempted from filing Form EIA&hyph;782B. On March 23, 1994, the Department of Energy issued a Proposed Decision and Order which determined that the Exception request should be denied. Raymer Oil Co., Statesville, NC, Reporting Requirements, Lee&hyph;0095 Raymer Oil Co., filed an Application for Exception from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) requirement that it file from EIA&hyph;782B, the Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering this request, the DOE found that the firm was not suffering gross inequity or serious hardship. Accordingly, on March 24, 1994, the DOE issued a Proposed Decision and Order determining that the exception request should be denied. Winn's Gas & Oil, Paul, ID, Reporting Requirements, Lee&hyph;0078 Winn's Gas & Oil filed an Application for Exception from the requirement that it file Form 782B, the ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering the request, the DOE found that the firm was not experiencing a serious hardship or being adversely affected by the reporting requirement in a way that was significantly different from the burden borne by similar reporting firms. Accordingly, on March 24, 1994, the DOE issued a Proposed Decision and Order determining that the exception request should be denied. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8751 Filed 4&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
