FR940705-2-00154 FR940705-2-00090 Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(2). Appropriate steps should be taken to prevent horizontal transmission or exposure of laboratory personnel. If the agent used as the vector is known to be transmitted by a particular route (e.g., arthropods), special attention should be given to preventing spread by that route. In the absence of specific knowledge of a particular route of transmission, all potential means of horizontal transmission (e.g., arthropods, contaminated bedding, or animal waste) should be prevented. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(3). Eating, drinking, smoking, and applying cosmetics shall not be permitted in the work area. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(4). Individuals who handle materials and animals containing recombinant DNA molecules shall be required to wash their hands before exiting the containment area. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(5). Experiments involving other organisms that require containment levels lower than BL3&hyph;N may be conducted in the same area concurrently with experiments requiring BL3&hyph;N containment provided that they are conducted in accordance with BL3&hyph;N practices. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(6). Animal holding areas shall be cleaned at least once a day and decontaminated immediately following any spill of viable materials. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(7). All procedures shall be performed carefully to minimize the creation of aerosols. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(8). A double barrier shall be provided to separate male and female animals unless reproductive studies are part of the experiment or other measures are taken to avoid reproductive transmission. Reproductive incapacitation may be used. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(9). The containment area shall be in accordance with state and Federal laws and animal care requirements. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(10). All animals shall be euthanized at the end of their experimental usefulness and the carcasses decontaminated before disposal in an approved manner. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(11). Personnel shall be required to shower before exiting the BL3&hyph;N area and wearing personal clothing. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(12). Animals of the same or different species, which are not involved in the work being performed, shall not be permitted in the animal area. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(13). Needles and syringes shall be used only for parenteral injection and aspiration of fluids from laboratory animals and diaphragm bottles. Only needle-locking syringes or disposable syringe-needle units (i.e., needle is integral to the syringe) shall be used for the injection or aspiration of fluids containing organisms that contain recombinant DNA. Extreme caution shall be used when handling needles and syringes to avoid autoinoculation and the generation of aerosols during use and disposal. Following use, needles shall not be bent, sheared, replaced in the needle sheath or guard or removed from the syringe. The needles and syringes shall be promptly placed in a puncture-resistant container and decontaminated, preferably by autoclaving, before discard or reuse. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(14). A biosafety manual shall be prepared or adopted. Personnel shall be advised of special hazards and required to read and follow instructions on practices and procedures. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;2. Animal Facilities (BL3&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;2-a. Animals shall be contained within an enclosed structure (animal room or equivalent) to minimize the possibility of theft or unintentional release and avoid arthropod access. The special provision to avoid the entry or escape of arthropods from the animal areas may be waived if the agent in use is not known to be transmitted by arthropods.
