FR940628-0-00035 FR940628-0-00017 Section 682.405(b)(1)(i)(C)(1) Comments: Some commenters suggested that the regulations should be revised to clarify that the borrower's financial status should be determined by reviewing the most current information available, particularly the most recent U.S. income tax return for documentation of the borrower's current income. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Changes: The regulations have been revised to provide that the borrower must provide the most recent U.S. income tax return. Section 682.405(b)(1)(i)(C)(3) Comments: A few commenters recommended that the unpaid balances on all FFEL Program loans be considered when determining the monthly loan amount that is reasonable and affordable, not just defaulted FFEL loans. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Changes: Section 682.405(b)(1)(i)(C)(3) of the regulations has been revised to provide that a guaranty agency shall consider unpaid balances on all FFEL Program loans held by other holders when making a determination of what constitutes a ``reasonable and affordable'' payment for loan rehabilitation or reinstatement of Title IV eligibility. Section 682.405(b)(1)(i)(C)(iv) Comments: Some commenters suggested that a guaranty agency should not be required to provide the borrower with a written statement because the borrower may interpret such a statement as a new obligation. The commenters stated that if the loan is rehabilitated, the lender purchasing the rehabilitated loan will be required to disclose new terms. The commenters further stated that if the borrower has a written statement from the guaranty agency, but not from the lender, the borrower may be able to claim that he or she has no legal obligation to abide by the terms established by the rehabilitating lender. Discussion: The Secretary did not intend to require the guaranty agency to disclose new repayment terms on the rehabilitation loan. The Secretary agrees that it would be more appropriate for the disclosure to be done by the purchasing lender. Rather, the Secretary merely intended the guaranty agency to provide written confirmation of the agency's determination of the borrower's reasonable and affordable payment amount, the number of consecutive monthly payments that must be made to qualify for consideration for loan rehabilitation, any deadlines attached to those payments, and any factors the agency will consider in determining whether the repurchase of the borrower's loan is practicable. Changes: Section 682.405(b)(1)(iv) of the regulations has been revised to require the guaranty agency to provide a written statement confirming the borrower's reasonable and affordable payment amount and other conditions surrounding the loan rehabilitation. Comments: Some commenters suggested that the guaranty agencies be required to inform borrowers who enter into a renewed eligibility plan of the possibility of loan rehabilitation after 12 months. The commenters suggested that by doing so borrowers can make informed decisions about whether exercising the option after 12 payments is to their advantage. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters that a guaranty agency should be required to inform a borrower when entering into an agreement to reinstate loan eligibility of the possibility of loan rehabilitation after an additional six monthly payment amounts and the potential consequences of loan rehabilitation. The Secretary believes that a borrower should be provided sufficient information about the circumstances and potential consequences of loan rehabilitation to have an understanding of what is expected before making the required 12 monthly payments. Borrowers should be aware of, for example, that a potential increase in loan payment amounts may be necessary once the loan is repurchased by the lender if the reasonable and affordable monthly payment amount paid to the guaranty agency will not provide for the borrower to repay the loan within the 10-year maximum repayment period. The Secretary agrees that providing this information will place the borrower in a position to make an informed decision of whether or not to exercise his or her option for loan rehabilitation. Changes: The regulations have been revised to provide that guaranty agencies must inform borrowers of the consequences of loan rehabilitation after 12 months. Additionally, a new paragraph has been added as ยง682.401(b)(4)(iv) to require guaranty agencies to provide information to defaulted borrowers who made the required series of monthly payments to reinstate Title IV eligibility of the possibility of loan rehabilitation. Section 682.406(a)(14) Comments: A few commenters recommended that the regulations be revised to reflect the 1993 Technical Amendments change that provides that the guaranty agencies certify that diligent attempts of skip-tracing have been made by the lender under ยง682.411 before receiving reinsurance payments. Some commenters suggested that the regulations should indicate that the guaranty agency assures the Secretary that diligent attempts have been made by the lender and the guaranty agency under ยง682.411 to locate the borrower through the use of reasonable skip-tracing techniques. Discussion: Section 428(c)(2)(G) of the HEA, as changed by the 1993 Technical Amendments, provides that the guaranty agency may not receive reinsurance payments unless it certifies that diligent attempts have been made to locate the borrower through the use of reasonable skip-tracing techniques. As pointed out in the preamble to the proposed regulations, the Secretary believes that it is primarily a lender responsibility to locate the borrower through the use of skip-tracing techniques. However, the Secretary intends that diligent attempts must be made by either the lender or the agency to locate the borrower. The language of the regulations is intended to insure that if the lender does not perform the required skip-tracing, the guaranty agency will be responsible for doing so.
