FR940513-0-00164 FR940513-0-00034 None of the commentors specifically addressed the effect of the proposed labeling rules on small entities. Based on the discussion in Parts IV.H.1&hyph;2, above and VI, below, the Commission concludes that the information collection burdens imposed by the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the final labeling rules on all entities within the affected industry will be de minimis, and therefore, will not have ``a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities,'' for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. VI. Paperwork Reduction Act In the NPR, the Commission stated that the proposed amendments contained provisions that constitute ``collection of information'' as defined by the regulations of the Office of Management and Budget (``OMB''), 5 CFR 1320.7(c)(1)(1992), under the Paperwork Reduction Act (``PRA''), 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. The NPR proposed requiring that manufacturers of lamp products covered by the labeling rules for which DOE has issued test procedures under section 323 of EPCA, 42 U.S.C.A. 6293 (West Supp. 1993), submit annual reports to the Commission. In addition, the NPR proposed that manufacturers of all lamp products covered by the labeling rules, whether or not DOE has issued test procedures for specific lamp products, maintain records that substantiate required disclosures. The Commission estimated in the NPR that approximately 50 manufacturers would be affected by the proposed lamp labeling requirements and that it would take each company fewer than five hours to comply with the proposed recordkeeping and reporting requirements, for a maximum of 250 hours. The Commission sought comments on the extent of the paperwork burden in the NPR and in a separate request for comments under the PRA. 267 In the separate notice, the Commission stated that the estimated burden was small because manufacturers already maintain some of the required records in the normal course of business. 268 Records that are likely to be retained by industry members during the normal course of business are excluded from the ``burden'' for PRA purposes. 269 267 58 FR 60652. 268 Id. 269 See 5 CFR 1320.7(b)(1). One manufacturer agreed with the estimate of five hours per manufacturer. 270 Three manufacturers and a trade association, however, commented that the Commission had underestimated the number of hours it would take to process, format, check, and prepare the proposed reports for each model of lamp product. 271 Those three manufacturers stated that it would take from 41 to over 97 hours for them to prepare and file the proposed annual reports. 272 Two of these manufacturers and the trade association recommended that the FTC consider developing a reporting procedure jointly with DOE and that reports be required only once as opposed to once a year. 273 270 Panasonic, G&hyph;7, 2. 271 GE, G&hyph;16, 1&hyph;2; Osram, G&hyph;15, 1&hyph;2; Philips, G&hyph;14, 1; NEMA, G&hyph;3, 28&hyph;29, 33, 43. 272 Philips, G&hyph;14, 1 (minimum of 41 hours); Osram, G&hyph;15, 1&hyph;2 (not less than 60 hours); GE, G&hyph;16, 1&hyph;2 (exceed 97 hours). 273 Osram, G&hyph;4, 3, G&hyph;15, 1&hyph;2; Philips, G&hyph;5, 1, (Supp.), G&hyph;12, 4; NEMA, G&hyph;3, 28&hyph;29, 33, 43, 50. The comments, however, did not appear to take into account that the Commission's estimate excluded some hours because of the presumption that manufacturers would be maintaining some of the records in the normal course of business. Nevertheless, in response to these comments, the Commission has revised the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in the final labeling rules to minimize their burdens on manufacturers. Specifically, the final labeling rules require only that manufacturers maintain, for a period of two years after production of the specific lamp product has been terminated, records sufficient to demonstrate they have a reasonable basis consisting of competent and reliable scientific evidence that the required disclosures they make on labeling and in catalogs are accurate. The recordkeeping requirement is imposed directly by EPCA, which authorizes the Commission to specify the period for which the records must be kept. 42 U.S.C. 6296(b)(2) (1988). As previously stated, the two-year requirement is identical to the recordkeeping requirement for the other products covered by the Appliance Labeling Rule. In addition, the final rules require that manufacturers submit reports containing only basic information, and submit the information for each different lamp product only once. 274 Further, the Commission will accept manufacturers' reports in any format that contains the necessary information. These could be catalogs with cover letters, industry directories, copies of reports to DOE or other federal or state regulatory authorities, or original reports, as long as the required information is included. 274 The final rules require manufacturers to submit an initial report containing the following information: (1) Name and address of manufacturer; (2) all trade names under which the lamps are marketed; (3) model or other identification numbers; (4) starting serial number, date code, or other means of identifying the date of manufacture (date of manufacture information must be included with only the first submission for each basic model or type); and (5) test results for the wattage and light output ratings of each lamp model or type and, in addition, for each model or type of covered fluorescent lamp, test results for the color rendering index, measured according to the DOE test procedure. In subsequent years, manufacturers will be required only to submit reports containing data about new, changed or discontinued lamp products. Further, the Commission will accept manufacturers' reports in any format that contains the necessary information. The reporting requirement will not become effective until after DOE issues test procedures for specific lamp products. The Commission will publish a notice at a later date, after DOE has issued test procedures, announcing when the initial reports and subsequent annual reports will be due.
