FR940429-0-00226 FR940429-0-00015 One commenter recommended that the notification time frame be changed from 10 days to 30 days. Another commenter recommended that the time frame either be revised to state that the institution must notify the Secretary promptly of any changes or, barring that, within 90 days. Discussion: Section 498(b)(3) of the HEA requires an institution to submit to the Secretary with its application for participation a copy of any contract between the institution and a third-party servicer and a description of that servicer; section 487(a)(3) requires an institution to submit information related to its administrative capability and financial responsibility. The Secretary interprets these statutory provisions to require institutions to keep the Secretary apprised of any contracts between themselves and third-party servicers, including, any significant modifications to those contracts, or any terminations of those contracts. The Secretary need contract information provided by institutions to monitor the responsibilities of third-party servicers. For example, if a program review uncovers a Title IV, HEA program violation at an institution in an area that a third-party servicer has recently contracted to administer, the Secretary must have current information to identify other institutions where the same servicer may have committed the same violation. The Secretary believes that 10 days constitutes a reasonable time period in which an institution must inform the Secretary of any changes or terminations of a contract while at the same time providing the Secretary with current information on those contracts. This time frame is consistent with the other reporting requirements concerning institutional eligibility under 34 CFR 600.30, thereby facilitating reporting as an institution will not have to track different reporting deadlines. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter objected to the requirement that a third-party servicer return all applicable records to the institution if the contract between the servicer and institution is terminated, or if the servicer stops providing services, or if the servicer files a petition for bankruptcy. The commenter believed that these records were the servicer's sole guarantee that the institution would pay the servicer any fees or compensation still owed to the servicer by the institution. The servicer also argued that the absence of these records would adversely affect the ability of an independent auditor in the event the servicer had a compliance audit performed of its administration of the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. Discussion: If a third-party servicer must return records to an institution, these regulations do not prohibit a third-party servicer from retaining copies of the original records in order to facilitate a compliance audit. The Secretary notes that the expense of copying should be unnecessary as an institution must provide a third-party servicer's independent auditor with access to records pursuant to 34 CFR 668.23(b). With respect to the comment specifying that record retention was a third-party servicer's sole guarantee that an institution owing that servicer unpaid fees or compensation would pay, the Secretary strongly objects to any use of Title IV, HEA program records as bargaining chips in a pay dispute. Access to those records is required for uninterrupted administration of those programs. No servicer should hold these records hostage. Changes: None. Comments: Several commenters were concerned with the provisions in this section that limited a third-party servicer's ability to enter into a written contract with an eligible institution if the servicer had been limited, suspended, or terminated by the Secretary within the past five years. Discussion: The Secretary understands the commenters' concerns but does not believe that those concerns are justified. As the Secretary explained in the NPRM, if a third-party servicer is found to exhibit indicators of a questionable past performance, the servicer would be prohibited from entering into a written contract with an institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. However, notwithstanding this prohibition, the Secretary would consider the servicer still eligible to contract with an institution if persons or entities with substantial control over the servicer agree to be responsible for any potential liability arising from the servicer's administration of the Title IV, HEA programs.
