FR940404-2-00197 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Fifth Meeting of the Secondary Surveillance Radar Improvements and Collision Avoidance Systems Panel (SICASP/5), International Civil Aviation Organization, Montreal, November 1&hyph;19, 1993 Representative Ronald D. Jones, Aeronautical Data Link Program, Satellite Communications Program, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Jack D. Howell, Technical Programs Division, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Adviser Thomas Williamson, Traffic Collision Avoidance Systems, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Private Sector Adviser Vincent Orlando, Systems Design and Evaluation, Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington, Massachusetts United States Delegation to the First Radiocommunication Assembly, Radiocommunication Bureau, International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Geneva, November 8&hyph;16, 1993 Representative Warren G. Richards, Chairman, Radiocommunication Sector National Committee, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Alternate Representatives William A. Luther, International Adviser, Field Operations Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Richard D. Parlow, Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Advisers Roger E. Beehler, Manager, Broadcast Services, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce, Boulder, Colorado John T. Gilsenan, Director, Radio Spectrum Policy, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Giselle Gomez, Office of Regulatory Affairs, United States Information Agency William T. Hatch, Program Manager, Office of Spectrum Management, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Alex C. Latker, Attorney Adviser, International Policy Division, Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Robert J. Mayher, Director, Spectrum Plans and Policy, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Donald Messer, General Engineer, Voice of America, United States Information Agency Lawrence M. Palmer, Associate Administrator, Office of International Affairs, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce John Reiser, Engineer, International Branch, Policy and Rules Division, Mass Media Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Charles Rush, Chief Scientist, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Robert M. Taylor, Spectrum Management Specialist, Spectrum Management Program, National Aeronautics and Space Administration Private Sector Advisers Roger Andrews, Senior Engineer, Atlantic Research Corporation, Sterling, Virginia William M. Borman, Vice President, Government Relations_International, Motorola, Inc., Washington, DC James R. Carroll, Sachs/Freeman Associates, Inc., Landover, Maryland Ben C. Fisher, Partner, Fisher, Wayland, Cooper & Leader, Washington, DC Robert Hopkins, Executive Director, Advanced TV Systems Committee, Washington, DC Robert Y. Huang, Director, Radio Communications and Spectrum Management, COMSAT World Systems, Bethesda, Maryland Donald M. Jansky, President, Jansky/Barmat Telecommunications, Washington, DC Harold Kimball, Consultant, Atlantic Research Corporation, Sterling, Virginia John McGrath, Manager of International Television, GE Americom, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey Eugene Rappoport, AT&T, Bedminster, New Jersey Edward E. Reinhart, Consultant, McLean, Virginia Frank Rose, Technical Consultant, American Radio Relay League, Bowie, Maryland Hans J. Weiss, Consultant, COMSAT, Washington, DC
