FR940405-2-00061 FR940405-2-00036 Expansion of the U.S. Plaza at Rainbow Bridge, Niagara Falls, NY; Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: General Services Administration (GSA). ACTION: Notice of Intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). SUMMARY: The GSA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an EIS will be prepared for the expansion of the U.S. plaza at the Rainbow Bridge in Niagara Falls, New York. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Peter A. Sneed, Director, Planning Staff_2PL, U.S. General Services Administration, Public Buildings Service, 26 Federal Plaza, room 1609, New York, NY 10278, (212) 264&hyph;3581. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The GSA will serve as lead agency in the preparation of an EIS for the expansion of the U.S. plaza at the Rainbow Bridge in Niagara Falls, New York. The project is sponsored by the Niagara Falls Bridge Commission (NFBC), and includes the demolition of existing plaza facilities and the construction of new, expanded facilities at the site. The GSA will lease space at the newly expanded facility for use by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and the U.S. Customs Service. The international border functions of the INS and Customs are severely hindered at the Rainbow Bridge due to increasing traffic volumes at the plaza and the limited size and functional obsolescence of the existing facilities. Therefore, the proposed project is being undertaken to accommodate the existing and projected growth in traffic and the resultant expansion requirements of INS and Customs. The proposed plaza facilities accommodate existing and future demand by providing approximately 48,000 square feet (SF) of interior and exterior space which will be leased to GSA for the essential functions of INS and Customs. The EIS will evaluate U.S. Rainbow Bridge plaza alternatives, including the non-action alternative. It will also evaluate impacts on the affected environment, including the following resource areas; subsurface and geological conditions, including water quality; landforms; vegetation and wildfire; natural hazards; air quality; noise; population and economic conditions; land use and zoning; archaeological, historic, architectural elements, and visual impacts; utilities; traffic and transportation; and hazardous wastes. The Rainbow Bridge plaza is located within the boundaries of the Niagara Reservation National Historic Landmark and issues related to Section 6(f) of the U.S. Land and Water Conservation Fund Act and Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act will be prominent in the EIS. Public Scoping Meeting To ensure that all issues relating to the proposed project are identified and all potentially significant issues are addressed and satisfied in the EIS, public comments and suggestions are being solicited. To facilitate the receipt of comments, public scoping meetings will be held on Tuesday, May 3, 1994 from 3 P.M. to 5 P.M. and from 7 P.M. to 9 P.M. at the Niagara Falls Public Library, Earl W. Brydges Library Building, 1425 Main Street, Niagara Fall, New York. Written comments may be mailed to the informational contact person no later than June 3, 1994. Issued in New York, NY, on May 25, 1994. Dated: March 18, 1994. Karen R. Adler, Regional Administrator, General Services Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8061 Filed 4&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;23&hyph;M
