FR940902-0-00126 FR940902-0-00010 (2) Non-governmental organizations. Each non-governmental recipient or subrecipient shall comply with OMB Circular A&hyph;133, ``Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions'', as implemented by the Department of Labor regulations at 29 CFR part 96. The provisions of this paragraph (a)(2) do not apply to any non-governmental organization that is: (i) A commercial organization; or (ii) A hospital or an institution of higher education for which State or local governments choose to apply OMB Circular A&hyph;128. (3) Commercial organizations. A commercial organization which is a recipient or subrecipient and which receives $25,000 or more a year in Federal financial assistance to operate a JTPA program shall have an audit that: (i) Is usually performed annually, but not less frequently than every two years; (ii) Is completed within one year after the end of the period covered by the audit and submitted to the awarding agency within one month after completion; (iii) Is either: (A) An independent financial and compliance audit of Federal funds that includes coverage of the JTPA program within its scope, and is conducted and prepared in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards; or (B) An organization-wide audit that includes financial and compliance coverage of the JTPA program within its scope. (b) Federal audits. The notice of audits conducted or arranged by the Office of Inspector General or the Comptroller General shall be provided in advance, as required by section 165(b) of the Act. (c) Audit reports. (1) Audit reports of recipient-level entities and other organizations which receive JTPA funds directly from the U.S. Department of Labor shall be submitted to the Office of Inspector General. (2) Audit reports of organizations other than those described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be submitted to the entity which provided the JTPA funds. (d) Each entity that receives JTPA program funds and awards a portion of those funds to one or more subrecipients shall: (1) Ensure that each subrecipient complies with the applicable audit requirements; (2) Resolve all audit findings that impact the JTPA program with its subrecipient and ensure that corrective action for all such findings is instituted within 6 months after receipt of the audit report (where appropriate, corrective action shall include debt collection action for all disallowed costs); and
