FR940223-2-00201 FR940223-2-00100 IV. Independence and Impartiality of Members A. A member shall be independent and impartial. A member shall act in a fair manner and shall avoid creating an appearance of impropriety or an apprehension of bias. B. A member shall not be influenced by self-interest, outside pressure, political considerations, public clamour, loyalty to a Party or fear of criticism. C. A member shall not, directly or indirectly, incur any obligation or accept any benefit that would in any way interfere, or appear to interfere, with the proper performance of the member's duties. D. A member shall not use the member's position on the panel or committee to advance any personal or private interests. A member shall avoid actions that may create the impression that others are in a special position to influence the member. A member shall make every effort to prevent or discourage others from representing themselves as being in such a position. E. A member shall not allow past or existing financial, business, professional, family or social relationships or responsibilities to influence the member's conduct or judgment. F. A member shall avoid entering into any relationship, or acquiring any financial interest, that is likely to affect the member's impartiality or that might reasonably create an appearance of impropriety or an apprehension of bias. V. Duties in Certain Situations A. For a period of one year after the completion of an Article 1904 proceeding, a former member shall not personally advise or represent any participant in the proceeding with regard to antidumping or countervailing duty matters. B. In the case of an Article 1904 proceeding, a member or a former member shall not represent a participant in an administrative proceeding, a domestic court proceeding or another Article 1904 proceeding involving the same goods. C. A former member shall avoid actions that may create the appearance that the member was biased in carrying out the member's duties or would benefit from the decision of the panel or committee. VI. Maintenance of Confidentiality A. A member or former member shall not at any time disclose or use any non-public information concerning the proceeding or acquired during the proceeding except for the purposes of the proceeding and shall not, in any case, disclose or use any such information to gain personal advantage or advantage for others or to affect adversely the interest of another. B. A member shall not disclose a declaratory opinion under Article 1903 or a panel or extraordinary challenge committee order or decision under Article 1904 prior to its issuance by the panel or committee. C. A member shall not disclose a special committee report or decision under Article 1905 prior to its public release by the Secretariat. A member or former member shall not at any time disclose which members are associated with majority or minority opinions in an Article 1905 proceeding. D. A member shall not disclose a panel report issued under Chapter 20 prior to its publication by the Commission. A member or former member shall not at any time disclose which members are associated with majority or minority opinions in a proceeding under Chapter 20. E. A member or former member shall not at any time disclose the deliberations of a panel or committee, or any member's view, except as required by law. VII. Responsibilities of Assistants and Staff Parts I (Responsibilities to the Process), II (Disclosure Obligations) and VI (Maintenance of Confidentiality) of this Code of Conduct apply also to assistants and staff. Dated: February 10, 1994. Timothy J. Hauser, Deputy Under Secretary for International Trade. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3930 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;GT&hyph;P
