FR940228-1-00026 FR940228-1-00003 Equipment used in industrial radiographic operations must meet the following minimum criteria: (a) Each radiographic exposure device and all associated equipment must meet the requirements specified in American National Standard N432&hyph;1980 ``Radiological Safety for the Design and Construction of Apparatus for Gamma Radiography,'' (published as NBS Handbook 136, issued January 1981). This publication has been approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). This publication may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402 and from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, New York 10018, Telephone (212) 642&hyph;4900. Copies of the document are available for inspection at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission Library, 7920 Norfolk Avenue, Lower Level, Bethesda, Maryland, 20814. A copy of the document is also on file at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., Washington, DC 20408. (b) In addition to the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the following requirements apply to radiographic exposure devices and associated equipment. (1) Each radiographic exposure device must have attached to it by the user, a durable, legible, clearly visible label bearing the_ (i) Chemical symbol and mass number of the radionuclide in the device; (ii) Activity and the date on which this activity was last measured; (iii) Model number and serial number of the sealed source; (iv) Manufacturer of the sealed source; and (v) Licensee's name, address, and telephone number. (2) Radiographic exposure devices intended for use as Type B transport containers must meet the applicable requirements of 10 CFR Part 71. (3) Modification of radiographic exposure devices and associated equipment is prohibited. (c) In addition to the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the following requirements apply to radiographic exposure devices, source assemblies, and associated equipment that allow the source to be moved out of the device for routine operation. (1) The coupling between the source assembly and the control cable must be designed in such a manner that the source assembly will not become disconnected if cranked outside the guide tube. The coupling must be such that it cannot be unintentionally disconnected under normal and reasonably foreseeable abnormal conditions. (2) The device must automatically secure the source assembly when it is cranked back into the fully shielded position within the device. This securing system may only be released by means of a deliberate operation on the exposure device. (3) The outlet fittings, lock box, and drive cable fittings on each radiographic exposure device must be equipped with safety plugs or covers which must be installed during storage and transportation to protect the source assembly from water, mud, sand or other foreign matter. (4) Each sealed source or source assembly must have attached to it or engraved on it, a durable, legible, visible label with the words: ``DANGER_RADIOACTIVE''. The label must not interfere with the safe operation of the exposure device or associated equipment. (5) The guide tube must have passed the crushing tests for the control tube as specified in ANSI N432 and a kinking resistance test that closely approximates the kinking forces likely to be encountered during use. (6) Guide tubes must be used when moving the source out of the device. (7) An exposure head or similar device designed to prevent the source assembly from passing out of the end of the guide tube must be attached to the outermost end of the guide tube during radiographic operations. (8) The guide tube exposure head connection must be able to withstand the tensile test for control units specified in ANSI N432. (9) Source changers must provide a system for ensuring that the source will not be accidentally withdrawn from the changer when connecting or disconnecting the drive cable to or from a source assembly. (d) All newly manufactured radiographic exposure devices and associated equipment acquired by licensees after January 10, 1992, must comply with the requirements of this section. (e) All radiographic exposure devices, source assemblies, and associated equipment in use after January 10, 1996, must comply with the requirements of this section. (f) All associated equipment acquired after January 10, 1996, must be labelled to identify that the components have met the requirements of this section. 15. Section 34.21 is revised to read as follows: ยง34.21 Limits on levels of radiation for radiographic exposure devices, storage containers, and source changers.
