FR940513-1-00051 FR940513-1-00012 (ii) Q is not convinced that the market for surplus-line companies is substantial enough to warrant such legislation and requests that B provide information on the amount and types of risks covered by surplus-line companies. After the meeting, B has employees of Z prepare estimates of the percentage of property and casualty insurance risks handled by surplus-line companies. B sends the estimates with a cover letter that simply refers to the enclosed materials. Although B's follow-up letter to Q does not refer to specific legislation or reflect a view on such legislation, B's letter supports the views reflected in the earlier communication. Therefore, the letter is a lobbying communication and Z is influencing legislation. (c) Purpose for engaging in an activity_ (1) In general. The purpose or purposes for which a taxpayer engages in an activity are determined based on all the facts and circumstances. (2) Multiple purposes. If a taxpayer engages in an activity both for the purpose of making or supporting a lobbying communication and for some non-lobbying purpose, the taxpayer must treat the activity as engaged in partially for a lobbying purpose and partially for a non-lobbying purpose. This division of the activity must result in a reasonable allocation of costs to influencing legislation. See ยง1.162&hyph;28 (allocation rules for certain expenditures to which section 162(e)(1) applies). A taxpayer's treatment will, in general, not result in a reasonable allocation if it allocates to influencing legislation_ (i) Only the incremental amount of costs that would not have been incurred but for the lobbying purpose; or (ii) An amount based on the number of purposes for engaging in that activity without regard to the relative importance of those purposes. (3) Presumption of non-lobbying purpose. If an activity relating to a lobbying communication is engaged in for a non-lobbying purpose prior to the first taxable year preceding the taxable year in which the communication is made, the activity is presumed to be engaged in for all periods solely for that non-lobbying purpose. The Commissioner can rebut this presumption in part by establishing that the activity was also engaged in for a lobbying purpose. See paragraph (c)(2) of this section relating to an activity engaged in for multiple purposes. (4) Presumption of lobbying purpose. If an activity relating to a lobbying communication is engaged in during the same taxable year as the communication is made or the immediately preceding taxable year, and is not within the presumption in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the activity is presumed to be engaged in for the sole purpose of making or supporting the lobbying communication. A taxpayer can rebut the presumption (in whole or part) by establishing that the activity was engaged in (entirely or partially) for a non-lobbying purpose. See paragraph (c)(2) of this section relating to an activity engaged in for multiple purposes. If, during the same taxable year, the taxpayer commences an activity that relates directly to the subject matter of specific legislation (then in existence) and makes a lobbying communication with respect to that legislation, it is expected that the taxpayer generally will be unable to rebut the presumption. (5) Activities treated as having no purpose to influence legislation. A taxpayer that engages in any of the following activities is treated as having done so without a purpose of making or supporting a lobbying communication_ (i) Prior to evidencing a purpose to influence any specific legislation referred to in this paragraph (c)(5)(i) (A) or (B) (or similar legislation)_ (A) Determining the existence or procedural status of specific legislation, or the time, place, and subject of any hearing to be held by a legislative body with respect to specific legislation; or (B) Preparing routine, brief summaries of the provisions of specific legislation. (ii) Performing an activity for purposes of complying with the requirements of any law. (iii) Reading any general circulation publications or viewing or listening to other mass media communications available to the general public. (6) Examples. The provisions of this paragraph (c) are illustrated by the following examples: Example 1. In 1995, Agency F issues proposed regulations relating to the business of Taxpayer W, a calendar year taxpayer. There is no specific legislation during 1995 that is similar to the regulatory proposal. W undertakes a study of the impact of the proposed regulations on its business. W incorporates the results of that study in comments sent to Agency F in 1995. In 1996, legislation is introduced in Congress that is similar to the regulatory proposal. W writes a letter to Senator P stating that it opposes the proposed legislation. With the letter, W encloses a copy of the comments it sent to Agency F. W's letter to Senator P refers to and reflects a view on specific legislation and therefore is a lobbying communication. Because W used the results of its study of the impact of the proposed regulations in its letter to Senator P in the taxable year following the taxable year the study was conducted, it is presumed under paragraph (c)(4) of this section that W engaged in the study for the sole purpose of making or supporting that lobbying communication. Based on these facts, however, W can rebut the presumption entirely by showing that its sole purpose for undertaking the study was to comment on the proposed regulations. Example 2. In the ordinary course of its business, Taxpayer Y, a calendar year manufacturing company, regularly keeps records of electricity consumption in its manufacturing process. Y has kept such records since 1970, the year in which Y began business, in order to track the cost of its manufacturing process. In 1995, the governor of State Q proposes a budget that includes a sales tax on electricity. Using its records of electricity consumption, Y estimates the additional costs that the budget proposal would impose upon its business. In the same year, Y writes to members of the state legislature and explains that it opposes the increased sales tax. In its letter, Y includes its estimate of the costs that the sales tax would impose on its business. The letter is a lobbying communication (because it refers to and reflects a view on specific legislation, the governor's proposed budget). Both the recordkeeping activities and the activity of estimating additional costs under the proposed sales tax relate to the lobbying communication because Y used the records to make the estimates, and Y used the estimates in its opposition to the governor's proposal. However, Y had a non-lobbying purpose for keeping the records and engaged in that activity prior to the first taxable year preceding the taxable year in which it made the lobbying communication. Therefore, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, it is presumed that Y kept these records solely for a non-lobbying purpose during all periods. Based on these facts, the Commissioner cannot rebut the presumption. In contrast, it is presumed, under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, that Y estimated the additional costs it would incur under the proposal solely to make or support the lobbying communication, because the activity commenced in the same taxable year as the lobbying communication was made. Based on these facts, because Y estimated its additional costs under the budget proposal to support the lobbying communication, Y cannot rebut the presumption as it relates to this activity.
