FR940927-0-00017 FR940927-0-00002 PART 457_COMMON CROP INSURANCE REGULATIONS; REGULATIONS FOR THE 1994 AND SUBSEQUENT CONTRACT YEARS 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 457 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1506, 1516. 2. 7 CFR part 457 is amended by adding §457.113 Coarse Grains Crop Insurance Provisions to read as follows: §457.113 Coarse Grains Crop Insurance Provisions. The Coarse Grains Crop Insurance Provisions for the 1995 and succeeding crop year are as follows: UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Coarse Grains Crop Provisions If a conflict exists among the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), these crop provisions, and the Special Provisions, the Special Provisions will control these crop provisions and the common policy and these crop provisions will control the common policy. 1. Definitions (a) Coarse grains_ Corn, grain sorghum, and soybeans. (b) Days_ Calendar days. (c) Final planting date_ The date contained in the Special Provisions for the insured crop by which the crop must initially be planted in order to be insured for the full production guarantee. (d) Good farming practices_ Good farming practices are the cultural practices generally in use in the county for the insured crop to make normal progress toward maturity and produce at least the yield used to determine the production guarantee and are those recognized by the Cooperative Extensive Service as compatible with agronomic and weather conditions in the area. (e) Grain sorghum_ The crop defined as sorghum under the United States Grain Standards Act. (f) Harvest_ Combining, threshing, or picking the insured crop for grain, or cutting for hay, silage, or fodder. (g) Interplanted_ Acreage on which two or more crops are planted in a manner that does not permit separate agronomic maintenance or harvest of the insured crop. (h) Irrigated practice_ A method of producing a crop by which water is artificially applied during the growing season by appropriate systems, and at the proper times, with the intention of providing the quantity of water needed to produce at least the yield used to establish the irrigated production guarantee on the irrigated acreage planted to the insured crop. (i) Late planted_ Acreage planted to the insured crop during the late planting period. (j) Late planting period_ The period that begins the day after the final planting date for the insured crop and ends twenty-five (25) days after the final planting date. (k) Local market price_ The cash grain price per bushel for the U.S. No. 2 yellow corn, U.S. No. 2 grain sorghum, or U.S. No. 1 soybeans, offered by buyers in the area in which you normally market the insured crop. The local market price will reflect the maximum limits of quality deficiencies allowable for the U.S. No. 2 grade for yellow corn and grain sorghum, or U.S. No. 1 grade for soybeans. Factors not associated with grading under the Official United Standards for Grain, including but not limited to protein and oil, will not be considered. (l) Planted acreage_ Land in which seed has been placed by a machine appropriate for the insured crop and planting method, at the correct depth, into a seedbed which as been properly prepared for the planting method and production practice. Coarse grains must initially be planted in rows to be considered planted. Corn must be planted in rows far enough apart to permit mechanical cultivation. Planting in any other manner will be considered as a failure to follow recognized good farming practices and any loss of production will not be insured unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement to insure such crop. (m) Practical to replant_ In lieu of subsection 1.(ff) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8) practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors including, but not limited to moisture availability, condition of the field, and time to crop maturity that replanting to the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period. It will not be considered practical to replant after the end of the late planting period unless replanting is generally occurring in the area. (n) Prevented planting_ Inability to plant the insured crop with proper equipment by: (1) The final planting date designated in the Special Provisions for the insured crop in the county; or (2) The end of the late planting period. You must have been unable to plant the insured crop due to an insured cause of loss that has prevented most producers in the surrounding area from planting due to similar insurable causes. The insured cause of prevented planting must occur between the sales closing date and the final planting date for the insured crop in the county or within the late planting period. (o) Production guarantee_ The number of bushels (tons for corn insured as silage) determined by multiplying the approved yield per acre by the coverage level percentage you elect. (p) Replanting_ Performing the cultural practices necessary to replace the seed of the same insured crop, and replacing the seed for the same crop in the insured acreage with the expectation of growing a successful crop. (q) Silage_ A product that results from severing the plant from the land and chopping it for the purpose of livestock feed. (r) Timely planted_ Planted on or before the final planting date designated in the Special Provisions for the insured crop in the county. (s) Ton_ Two thousand (2000) pounds avoirdupois. (t) Written agreement_ Designated terms of this policy may be altered by written agreement. Each agreement must be applied for by the insured in writing no later than the sales closing date and is valid for one year only. If not specifically renewed the following year, continuous insurance will be in accordance with the printed policy. All variable terms including, but not limited to, crop variety, guarantee, premium rate and price election must be set out in the written agreement. In specific instances, a written agreement may be applied for after the sales closing date and approved if, after a physical inspection of the acreage, there is a determination that the crop has the expectance of making at least the guaranteed yield. However, no prevented planting liability will be established as a result of any request submitted after the closing date. All applications for written agreements as submitted by the insured must contain all variable terms of the contract between the company and the insured that will be in effect if the written agreement is disapproved. 2. Unit Division Unless limited by the Special Provisions, a unit as defined in subsection 1.(tt) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), may be divided into optional units if, for each optional unit you meet all the conditions of this section or if a written agreement to such division exists. All optional units must be reflected on the acreage report for each crop year. (a) You must have records, which can be independently verified, of planted acreage and production for each optional unit for at least the last crop year used to determine your production guarantee.
