FR941122-2-00005 FR941122-2-00003 Based on findings in the 1988&hyph;89 review that home market sales of the subject merchandise were made by Saha Thai at prices below the cost of production (COP), the Department conducted a cost investigation in this review. In accordance with section 773(b) of the Act, and 19 CFR 353.51 of the Department's regulations, we examined whether home market sales were made below cost and in substantial quantities over an extended period of time, and whether such sales were made at prices which permitted recovery of all costs within a reasonable period of time in the normal course of trade. We calculated Saha Thai's COP as the sum of all reported materials costs, labor expenses, factory overhead, and general and selling expenses for the three types of pipe and tube that were sold in the home market during the POR (galvanized plain-end, black plain-end, and galvanized threaded-and-coupled). We compared COP to home market prices net of discounts, foreign inland freight, and an adjusted business tax, or value-added tax, depending on the time of sale. For each model where less than 10 percent, by quantity, of the home market sales during the POR were made at prices below the COP, we included all sales of that model in the computation of FMV. For each model where 10 percent or more, but less than 90 percent, of the home market sales during the POR were priced below the merchandise's COP, we excluded from the calculation of FMV those home market sales which were below the merchandise's COP, provided that these below-cost sales were made over an extended period of time. For each model where 90 percent or more of the home market sales during the POR were priced below the COP and were made over an extended period of time, we disregarded all sales of that model from our calculation of FMV and used the constructed value (CV) of those models as described below. To determine whether sales below cost had been made over an extended period of time, we compared the number of months in which sales below cost occurred for a particular type of pipe and tube to the number of months in which that type was sold. If the type was sold in fewer than three months, we did not disregard below-cost sales unless there were below-cost sales of that type in each month sold. If a type was sold in three or more months, we did not disregard below-cost sales unless there were sales below cost in at least three of the months in which the type was sold. Since Saha Thai has not submitted any information indicating that any of its sales below cost were at prices which would have permitted ``recovery of all costs within a reasonable period of time in the normal course of trade,'' as required by section 773(b)(2) of the Act, we are unable to conclude that the costs of production of such sales have been recovered within a reasonable period. As a result, we disregarded below-cost sales made over an extended period of time. Using the remaining sales, the Department calculated FMV on a monthly weighted-average basis. Home market prices were based on the price to unrelated purchasers. Where applicable, we made adjustments for transportation discounts, foreign inland freight, packing expenses, and business tax, or value-added tax, depending on the date of sale. We also made adjustments to FMV for differences in the physical characteristics of the merchandise, packing, credit expenses, and warranty expenses. We used CV as FMV to compare to those U.S. sales for which there were insufficient home market sales at or above the COP. Pursuant to section 773(e)(1) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.50(a) of the Department's regulations, CV consisted of the sum of materials, overhead, labor, U.S. packing, general and administrative expenses, and profit for each of the four types of pipe and tube sold in the United States during the POR (black plain-end, galvanized plain-end, galvanized threaded-and-coupled, and black threaded-and-coupled). Since Saha Thai's actual selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) and actual profits were greater than the statutory minima for SG&A and profit as provided in section 773(e)(1)(B) of the Act, we used the SG&A and profit reported by Saha Thai. We adjusted CV for selling, credit, and packing expenses. Preliminary Results As a result of our review, we preliminarily determine the dumping margin to be: ␣ 1Manufacturer/exporter 1Time period 1Margin (percent) Saha Thai Steel Pipe Company, Ltd. 3/1/92&hyph;2/28/93 5.83
