FR940817-0-00003 FR940817-0-00001 Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. We are amending the Fruits and Vegetables regulations by allowing the importation of Fuji variety apples from Japan and the Republic of Korea. According to an estimate by the International Apple Institute, U.S. growers produced approximately 160 million pounds of Fuji apples in 1993, about 1.5 percent of the total U.S. apple production for that year. It is likely that this estimate understates the amount of Fuji apples produced domestically, as Fuji acreage in California, Washington, and other States is expanding rapidly. About 75 percent of the Fuji variety apples grown in the United States are grown in California and Washington. In 1993, growers in California and Washington produced about 60 million pounds per State, while growers in other States produced a total of about 40 million pounds. Statistics on the number of domestic growers of Fuji apples and their sizes are not available. Most of the domestic production of Fuji apples is exported because demand, and consequently the price, for Fuji apples is quite low in the United States as compared to other countries, particularly in the Pacific Rim. Prices of $30 to $50 per 40-pound box (depending upon quality) are common in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and other Pacific Rim markets. Domestic buyers, however, have been paying less than half that price. Growers in the Republic of Korea produce annually about 923 million pounds of Fuji variety apples. APHIS estimates that about 220,000 to 440,000 pounds of Fuji variety apples might be exported per year from the Republic of Korea to the United States. This estimate assumes the Republic of Korea's exports to the United States will approach levels currently exported to European countries. Japanese growers produce annually about 1.18 billion pounds of Fuji variety apples, just over half of Japan's total annual apple production. APHIS estimates that exports to the United States of all varieties of Japanese apples would probably never exceed 2.2 million pounds. It is unlikely that imports of Fuji variety apples from Japan and the Republic of Korea will reach the estimated levels above, due to the low demand and low price for Fuji variety apples in the United States. However, even if imports were to reach 2.6 million pounds (2.2 million pounds from Japan and 440,000 pounds from the Republic of Korea), this would constitute less than 1.4 percent of domestic production of Fuji variety apples. Consequently, allowing Fuji variety apples to be imported from Japan and the Republic of Korea will not have a significant economic impact on domestic Fuji variety apple producers or other small entities. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12778 This rule allows Fuji variety apples to be imported into the United States from Japan and the Republic of Korea under certain conditions. State and local laws and regulations regarding Fuji variety apples imported under this rule will be preempted while the fruit is in foreign commerce. Fresh apples are generally imported for immediate distribution and sale to the consuming public, and will remain in foreign commerce until sold to the ultimate consumer. The question of when foreign commerce ceases in other cases must be addressed on a case-by-case basis. No retroactive effect will be given to this rule; and this rule will not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the information collection or recordkeeping requirements included in this final rule will be submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget. List of Subjects 7 CFR Part 300 Incorporation by reference, Plant diseases and pests, Quarantine. 7 CFR Part 319 Bees, Coffee, Cotton, Fruits, Honey, Imports, Incorporation by reference, Nursery Stock, Plant diseases and pests, Quarantine, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rice, Vegetables. Accordingly, title 7, chapter III, of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 300_INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE 1. The authority citation for part 300 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 150ee, 154, 161, 162, 167; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.51, and 371.2(c). 2. In §300.1, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: §300.1 Materials incorporated by reference. (a) The Plant Protection and Quarantine Treatment Manual, which was revised and reprinted November 30, 1992, and includes all revisions through August 1994, has been approved for incorporation by reference in 7 CFR chapter III by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. * * * * * PART 319_FOREIGN QUARANTINE NOTICES 3. The authority citation for part 319 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 150dd, 150ee, 150ff, 151&hyph;167, 450; 21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.51, and 371.2(c). 4. In Subpart_Fruits and Vegetables, a new §319.56&hyph;2cc is added to read as follows: §319.56&hyph;2cc Administrative instructions governing the entry of Fuji variety apples from Japan and the Republic of Korea. Fuji variety apples may be imported into the United States from Japan and the Republic of Korea only under the following conditions: (a) Treatment and fumigation. The apples must be cold treated and then fumigated, under the supervision of an Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) inspector, either in Japan or the Republic of Korea, for the peach fruit moth ( Carposina niponensis ), the yellow peach moth ( Conogethes punctiferalis ), the fruit tree spider mite ( Tetranychus viennensis ), and the kanzawa mite ( T. kanzawai ), in accordance with the Plant Protection and Quarantine Treatment Manual, which is incorporated by reference at §300.1 of this chapter. (b) APHIS inspection. The apples must be inspected upon completion of the treatments required by paragraph (a) of this section, prior to export from Japan or the Republic of Korea, by an APHIS inspector and an inspector from the national plant protection agency of Japan or the Republic of Korea. The apples shall be subject to further disinfection in the exporting country if plant pests are found prior to export. Imported Fuji variety apples inspected in Japan or the Republic of Korea are also subject to inspection and disinfection at the port of first arrival, as provided in §319.56&hyph;6. (c) Trust fund agreements. The national plant protection agency of the exporting country must enter into a trust fund agreement with APHIS before APHIS will provide the services necessary for Fuji variety apples to be imported into the United States from Japan or the Republic of Korea. The agreement requires the national plant protection agency to pay in advance of each shipping season all costs that APHIS estimates it will incur in providing services in Japan or the Republic of Korea during that shipping season. These costs include administrative expenses and all salaries (including overtime and the Federal share of employee benefits), travel expenses (including per diem expenses), and other incidental expenses incurred by APHIS in performing these services. The agreement requires the national plant protection agency to deposit a certified or cashiers check with APHIS for the amount of these costs, as estimated by APHIS. If the deposit is not sufficient to meet all costs incurred by APHIS, the agreement further requires the national plant protection agency to deposit with APHIS a certified or cashiers check for the amount of the remaining costs, as determined by APHIS, before APHIS will provide any more services necessary for Fuji variety apples to be imported into the United States from that country. After a final audit at the conclusion of each shipping season, any overpayment of funds will be returned to the national plant protection agency, or held on account until needed, at that agency's option. (d) Department not responsible for damage. The treatments prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section are judged from experimental tests to be safe for use with Fuji variety apples from Japan and the Republic of Korea. However, the Department assumes no responsibility for any damage sustained through or in the course of such treatment or by compliance with requirements under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. Done in Washington, DC, the 11th day of August 1994. William S. Wallace, Acting Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20181 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;34&hyph;P
