FR940405-2-00064 FR940405-2-00037 6. Expanded or innovative proposals by the State designed to meet an identified program need, enhance State data analysis capability, and promote the routine use and dissemination of analyzed data in the development of chronic disease program interventions and in directing chronic disease program management decisions. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient shall be responsible for the activities under A., below, and CDC shall be responsible for conducting activities under B., below: A. Recipient Activities 1. Formulate a plan for the development, implementation, and conduct of a BRFSS mechanism which conforms to recommended standards, or continue current BRFSS data collection activities in conformance with the BRFSS Operations Manual. (For ordering a copy of the BRFSS Operations Manual, see the section Where to Obtain Additional Information.) 2. Develop and implement plans and written procedures for ongoing analysis of behavioral risk factor data statewide and for selected local areas. 3. Develop and implement plans and written procedures to ensure the routine use of analyzed BRFSS data in directing program planning, evaluating programs, determining program priorities, developing specific interventions, developing policy, assessing trends, and targeting relevant population groups. 4. Develop and implement plans for the use of BRFSS to address emergency or critical chronic disease issues which may arise within the State. 5. Develop and implement procedures to increase collaboration with and among State, local, and, as appropriate, national public, private, voluntary, profit and non-profit agencies, organizations, and universities which analyze data or seek to reduce chronic disease morbidity and mortality. 6. Develop and maintain staff with the capability and expertise necessary to carry out proposed program activities. B. CDC Activities 1. Collaborate and assist in the compilation of specific risk factor information related to the leading causes of State morbidity and mortality in a periodic, standardized, and uniform manner. 2. Collaborate and assist in State staff training related to data collection, data analysis, interpretation, and utilization. 3. Assist in the development of program intervention strategies and evaluation of program impact. 4. Assist in the coordination of program activities among relevant agencies and in the assessment of achievement of program and Year 2000 objectives. 5. Coordinate and facilitate the interchange of technical information among cooperative agreement recipients. Evaluation Criteria Core Capacity Program and Enhanced Program applications will be allocated 100 points each and will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: A. Background and Need The extent to which the applicant justifies the need for the program. (Core 15 Points_Enhanced 20 Points) B. Goals and Objectives The extent to which (1) stated goal(s) are specific, measurable, realistic, and time-phased, (2) Objectives are related to Background and Need issues or Year 2000 objectives, and (3) There is a timetable for accomplishment of goals and objectives. (Core 10 Points_Enhanced 10 Points) C. Data Use Plan The extent to which the plan describes current or proposed data collection activities, methods employed for collection, and methods for using data to develop interventions and measure program achievements. (Core 25 Points_Enhanced 40 Points)
