FR940505-0-00054 FR940505-0-00015 (i) Preparation: clean and dry all parts in such a manner as to leave the surfaces free from grease, oil, soaps, alkalies, and other substances which would interfere with inspection. Vapor degreasing is generally suitable for this purpose. (ii) Penetrant Application Procedure: after preparation, spray or brush the parts with the penetrant, and allow to stand for not less than 5 minutes. The effectiveness of the penetrant increases if left standing for a longer time, as the penetrant will reach finer discontinuities. (iii) Penetrant Cleaning: clean the parts thoroughly using a medium which will remove penetrant from the surfaces of parts; wash with water when the penetrant is water soluble. When other than water soluble penetrants are used, the penetrant shall be removed with a suitable cleaner. Avoid excessive cleaning which would remove the penetrant from discontinuities. (iv) Drying: dry the parts as thoroughly as possible. Drying of parts may be accomplished by evaporation at room temperature or by placing the parts in a circulating warm air oven or in the air stream of a hot air dryer. Avoid excessive drying time or drying temperatures above 75 ○C (165 ○F) to prevent excessive evaporation of the penetrant. If heat is used for drying parts, cool parts to approximately 50 ○C (120 ○F) before proceeding to the developing procedure. (v) Developing: apply the developer to the dry parts as lightly and as evenly as possible, using as thin a coating of developer as is possible. A translucent film is adequate. Mix wet developer by agitation immediately prior to applying it. After applying the developer, take care that no penetrant indication is disturbed or obliterated in subsequent handling. (vi) Examination: examine the developed penetrant indications in accordance with the dye penetrant manufacturer's instructions. Examine parts for indications of discontinuities open to the surface. (vii) Final cleaning: clean the parts following the inspection to remove penetrant and developer. Note 1: Caution: Because of differences among penetrants, take care to ensure that the final cleaner, the penetrant, the penetrant remover, and the developer are suitable for use with each other. Note 2: Caution: All penetrant materials should be kept as free from moisture as possible. Note 3: Caution: Most penetrants, cleaning agents, and developer suspensions are low flash point material; use caution to prevent fires. (2) If no crack is detected, inspect in accordance with paragraph (a) of this AD at intervals not to exceed 500 hours TIS since the last inspection. (3) If a crack is detected, prior to further flight replace both the lower left engine mount bracket, P/N 630695, and lower right engine mount bracket, P/N 630694, with improved design engine mount brackets, P/N 653306 and 653305, respectively. (b) For all engines, replace both the lower left engine mount bracket, P/N 630695, and lower right engine mount bracket, P/N 630694, with improved design engine mount brackets, P/N 653306 and 653305, respectively, at the next engine removal after the effective date of this AD. (c) Installation of the improved design engine mount brackets, P/N 653306 and 653305, constitutes terminating action to the inspection requirements of this AD. (d) An alternative method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance time that provides an acceptable level of safety may be used if approved by the Manager, Atlanta Aircraft Certification Office. The request should be forwarded through an appropriate FAA Maintenance Inspector, who may add comments and then send it to the Manager, Atlanta Aircraft Certification Office.
