FR940318-1-00042 FR940318-1-00014 The maintenance plan submitted by Ohio includes federally mandated reductions in diesel fuel sulfur content and the expected power plant emission reductions due to acid rain requirements under Title IV of the Clean Air Act. In addition, Ohio maintains active tracking of the compliance status of sources and commences enforcement action upon identifying violators, thereby assuring prompt correction of any violations of the air quality standards attributable to the existing set of sources. Furthermore, for any new sources with the potential to cause air quality standard violations, Federal requirements for the Prevention of Significant Deterioration include provisions to prevent new violations of the standard. Therefore, USEPA considers the requirements of section 175A met, and is proposing to approve Ohio's maintenance plan for SO 2 for Morgan and Washington Counties. (For reasons stated previously, USEPA is not proposing action today with respect to the requests for Coshocton and Gallia Counties, and accordingly is also not proposing action on the maintenance plan for these counties.) If the maintenance plan for Morgan and Washington Counties is approved as proposed, Ohio would then satisfy the fourth criterion for redesignation of these counties to attainment. E. Requirements Under Section 110 and Part D The fifth criterion is that all requirements under section 110 and part D of Title I have been met. USEPA approved the SIP for the Morgan and Washington County nonattainment area on May 20, 1988, at 53 FR 18087. Accordingly, the fifth criterion is satisfied for this area. USEPA is not undertaking rulemaking today on whether the federally promulgated limits satisfy this criterion for Coshocton or Gallia Counties. III. Summary of Action USEPA has reviewed the State's submittals and other related material and has concluded that the maintenance plan and redesignation request for Morgan and Washington Counties satisfy the applicable criteria for approval. Consequently, USEPA proposes to approve the maintenance plan for SO 2 for Morgan and Washington Counties, and to redesignate these two counties to attainment. USEPA is deferring action with respect to Ohio's maintenance plans and redesignation requests for Coshocton and Gallia Counties. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq ., USEPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, USEPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small business, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. Redesignation of an area either to nonattainment or to attainment does not impose any new requirements on small entities. Redesignation is an action that affects the status of a geographical area and does not impose any regulatory requirements on sources. The Administrator certifies that the approval of the redesignation request will not affect a substantial number of small entities. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting, allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request redesignations. Each redesignation request shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. This action has been classified as a Table Two action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), based on revised SIP processing review tables approved by the Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation on October 4, 1993 (Michael Shapiro's memorandum to Regional Administrators). On January 6, 1989, the Office of Management and Budget waived Tables Two and Three SIP revisions (54 FR 222) from the requirements of section 3 of Executive Order 12291 for a period of 2 years. USEPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table 2 and Table 3 SIP revisions. OMB has agreed to continue the temporary waiver until such time as it rules on USEPA's request. This request continued in effect under Executive Order 12866, which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: February 18, 1994. David A. Ullrich, Acting Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6456 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
