FR940429-0-00274 FR940429-0-00015 (ii) The gravity of the institution's or servicer's misrepresentation; (2) The size of the institution; (3) The size of the servicer's business, including the number of institutions and students served by the servicer; (4) In the case of a violation by a third-party servicer, the extent to which the servicer can document that the institution contributed to that violation; and (5) For purposes of assessing a fine on a third-party servicer, the extent to which_ (i) Violations are caused by repeated mechanical systemic unintentional errors. The Secretary counts the total of violations caused by a repeated mechanical systemic unintentional error as a single violation, unless the servicer has been cited for a similar violation previously and had failed to make the appropriate corrections to the system; and (ii) The financial loss of Title IV, HEA program funds was attributable to a repeated mechanical systemic unintentional error. (b) In determining the gravity of the institution's or servicer's violation, failure, or misrepresentation under paragraph (a) of this section, the designated department official, hearing official, and Secretary take into account the amount of any liability owed by the institution and any third-party servicer that contracts with the institution, and the number of students affected as a result of that violation, failure, or misrepresentation on_ (1) Improperly expended or unspent Title IV, HEA program funds received by the institution or servicer, as applicable; or (2) Required refunds. (c) Upon the request of the institution or third-party servicer, the Secretary may compromise the fine. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 32. Section 668.93 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.93 Limitation. A limitation may include, as appropriate to the Title IV, HEA program in question_ (a) A limit on the number or percentage of students enrolled in an institution who may receive Title IV, HEA program funds; (b) A limit, for a stated period of time, on the percentage of an institution's total receipts from tuition and fees derived from Title IV, HEA program funds; (c) A limit on the number or size of institutions with which a third-party servicer may contract; (d) A limit on the number of borrower or loan accounts that a third-party servicer may service under a contract with an institution; (e) A limit on the responsibilities that a third-party servicer may perform under a contract with an institution; (f) A requirement for a third-party servicer to perform additional responsibilities under a contract with an institution; (g) A requirement that an institution obtain surety, in a specified amount, to assure its ability to meet its financial obligations to students who receive Title IV, HEA program funds; (h) A requirement that a third-party servicer obtain surety, in a specified amount, to assure the servicer's ability to meet the servicer's financial obligations under a contract; or (i) Other conditions as may be determined by the Secretary to be reasonable and appropriate. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 33. Section 668.94 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.94 Termination. (a) A termination. (1) Ends an institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program or ends a third-party servicer's eligibility to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program; (2) Ends the authority of a third-party servicer to administer any aspect of any institution's participation in that program; (3) Prohibits an institution or third-party servicer, as applicable, or the Secretary from making or increasing awards under that program; (4) Prohibits an institution or third-party servicer, as applicable, from making any other new commitments of funds under that program; and (5) If an institution's participation in the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, or Federal SLS Program has been terminated, prohibits further guarantee commitments by the Secretary for loans under that program to students to attend that institution, and, if the institution is a lender under that program, prohibits further disbursements by the institution (whether or not guarantee commitments have been issued by the Secretary or a guaranty agency for those disbursements). (b) After its participation in a Title IV, HEA program has been terminated, an institution may disburse or deliver funds under that Title IV, HEA program to students enrolled at the institution only in accordance with ยง668.26 and with any additional requirements imposed under this part. (c) If a third-party servicer's eligibility is terminated, the servicer must return to each institution that contracts with the servicer any funds received by the servicer under the applicable Title IV, HEA program on behalf of the institution or the institution's students or otherwise dispose of those funds under instructions from the Secretary. The servicer also must return to each institution that contracts with the servicer all records pertaining to the servicer's administration of that program on behalf of that institution. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 34. Section 668.95 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.95 Reimbursements, refunds, and offsets. (a) The designated department official, hearing official, or Secretary may require an institution or third-party servicer to take reasonable and appropriate corrective action to remedy the institution's or servicer's violation, as applicable, of any statutory provision of or applicable to Title IV of the HEA, any regulatory provision prescribed under that statutory authority, or any applicable special arrangement, agreement, or limitation entered into under the authority of statutes applicable to Title IV of the HEA. (b) The corrective action may include payment of any funds to the Secretary, or to designated recipients, that the institution or servicer, as applicable, improperly received, withheld, disbursed, or caused to be disbursed. Corrective action may, for example, relate to_ (1) With respect to the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs_ (i) Ineligible interest benefits, special allowances, or other claims paid by the Secretary; and (ii) Discounts, premiums, or excess interest paid in violation of 34 CFR part 682; and (2) With respect to all Title IV, HEA programs_ (i) Refunds required under program regulations; and (ii) Any grants, work-study assistance, or loans made in violation of program regulations.
