FR940318-2-00060 FR940318-2-00047 [OPPT&hyph;59332; FRL&hyph;4760&hyph;8] Certain Chemicals Approval of a Test Marketing Exemption AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice announces EPA's approval of an application for test marketing exemption (TME) under section 5(h)(1) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and 40 CFR 720.38. EPA has designated this application as TME&hyph;94&hyph;5. The test marketing conditions are described below. DATES: Effective Dates: February 15, 1994. Written comments will be received until April 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Shirley Howard, New Chemicals Branch, Chemical Control Division (7405), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E&hyph;611, 401 M St. SW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 260&hyph;3780. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 5(h)(1) of TSCA authorizes EPA to exempt persons from premanufacture notification (PMN) requirements and permit them to manufacture or import new chemical substances for test marketing purposes if the Agency finds that the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, and disposal of the substances for test marketing purposes will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment. EPA may impose restrictions on test marketing activities and may modify or revoke a test marketing exemption upon receipt of new information which casts significant doubt on its finding that the test marketing activity will not present an unreasonable risk of injury. EPA hereby approves TME&hyph;94&hyph;5. EPA has determined that test marketing of the new chemical substance described below, under the conditions set out in the TME application, and for the time period and restrictions specified below, will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment. The Production volume and the number of customers must not exceed that specified in the application. All other conditions and restrictions, including the stated use and the worker protection provisions described in the application, in the accompanying Material Safety Data Sheet, and in this notice must be met. Inadvertently, notice of receipt of the application was not published. Therefore, an opportunity to submit comments is being offered at this time. The complete nonconfidential document is available in the TSCA Nonconfidential Information Center (NCIC), Rm. ETG&hyph;102 at the above address between 12:00 noon and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. EPA may modify or revoke the test marketing exemption if comments are received which cast significant doubt on its finding that the test marketing activities will not present an unreasonable risk of injury. The following additional restrictions apply to TME&hyph;94&hyph;5. 1.␣ A bill of lading accompanying each shipment must state that the use of the substance is restricted to that approved in the TME. 2.␣ During manufacturing and processing of the substance at any site controlled by the Company, any person under the control of the Company, including employees and contractors, who may be exposed to the substance shall use a NIOSH&hyph;approved respirator. 3.␣ The applicant must ensure that employees are provided with information and training on the TME substance. This information and training must be provided at the time of each employee's initial assignment to a work area containing the TME substance and whenever the substance is introduced into the employee's work area for the first time. 4.␣ The company must affix a label to each container of the substance or formulations containing the substance during manufacturing and processing. The label shall include, at a minimum, the following statement: WARNING: Breathing of this substance may be harmful. Chemicals similar in structure to (insert appropriate name) have been found to cause genetic defects. To protect yourself, you must wear a NIOSH-approved respirator. 5.␣ If the applicant wishes to distribute the TME substance outside the Company for purposes of processing, the applicant must obtain in writing from the outside processor, an agreement to comply with the same worker protection, worker training, and labeling requirements applicable to the applicant. 6.␣ The applicant shall maintain the following records until 5 years after the date they are created, and shall make them available for inspection or copying in accordance with section 11 of TSCA: ␣a.␣ Records of the quantity of the TME substance produced and the date of manufacture. ␣b.␣ Records of dates of the shipments to each customer and the quantities supplied in each shipment. ␣c.␣ Copies of the labels affixed to containers of the substance or formulations containing the substance. ␣d.␣ Copies of the bill of lading that accompanies each shipment of the TME substance. ␣e.␣ A copy of the written agreements with processors outside the Company agreeing to comply with the same worker protection, worker training, and labeling requirements applicable to the applicant. T&hyph;94&hyph;5 Date of Receipt: December 27, 1993. The extended comment period will close April 4, 1994. Applicant: Confidential. Chemical: (G) Complex reaction product of t -butyl, dihydroxycarbopolycycle and bis (dimethylaminosubstituted) carbomonocyle. Use: (G) Internal component of manufactured contained use - consumer article. Production Volume: 900 kg. Number of Customers: Confidential. Test Marketing Period: Eighteen months. Commencing on first day of commercial manufacture. Risk Assessment: EPA identified human health concerns for mutagenicity based on data on an analogous chemical substance. However, the health concerns were mitigated by requiring workers potentially exposed to the TME substance via inhalation to wear a NIOSH-approved respirator. EPA identified aquatic toxicity based on analogous substance. However, during manufacturing, processing, and or use, the PMN substance is not expected to be released to the aquatic environment in significant amounts. Therefore, the Agency has determined that the test market activities will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. The Agency reserves the right to rescind approval or modify the conditions and restrictions of an exemption should any new information come to its attention which casts significant doubt on its finding that the test marketing activities will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. List of Subjects Environmental protection, Test marketing exemptions. Dated: February 15, 1994. Charles M. Auer, Director, Chemical Control Division, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6392 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
