FR940906-2-00116 FR940906-2-00083 (d) Ensure that marine fishery products available to the public are not contaminated. (e) Provide assistance and reference material for calibrating radiological instruments. (3) Department of Defense (DOD). (a) Provide radiological resources to include trained response personnel, specialized radiation instruments, mobile instrument calibration, repair capabilities, and expertise in site restoration. (b) Perform special sampling of airborne contamination on request. (4) Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). (a) In conjunction with USDA, inspect production, processing, storage, and distribution facilities for human food and animal feeds, which may be used in interstate commerce, to assure protection of the public health. (b) Collect samples of agricultural products to monitor and assess the extent of contamination as a basis for recommending or implementing protective actions. (5) Department of the Interior (DOI). (a) Provide hydrologic advice and assistance, including monitoring personnel, equipment, and laboratory support. (b) Advise and assist in evaluating processes affecting radioisotopes in soils, including personnel, equipment, and laboratory support. (c) Advise and assist in the development of geographical information systems (GIS) databases to be used in the analysis and assessment of contaminated areas including personnel, equipment, and databases. (6) Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). (a) Provide assistance in Federal radiological monitoring and assessment activities during incidents. (b) Provide continuous measurement of ambient radiation levels around NRC licensed facilities, primarily power reactors using thermoluminescent dosimeters (TLD). 4. Protective Action Recommendations Federal protective action recommendations provide advice to State and local governments on measures that they should take to avoid or reduce exposure of the public to radiation from a release of radioactive material. This includes emergency actions such as sheltering, evacuation, and prophylactic use of iodine. It also includes longer term measures to avoid or minimize exposure to residual radiation or exposure through the ingestion pathway such as restriction of food, temporary relocation, and permanent resettlement. a. Role of the Lead Federal Agency (LFA). The LFA will assist State and local authorities, if requested, by advising them on protective actions for the public. The development or evaluation of protective action recommendations will be based upon the Protective Action Guides (PAGs) issued by EPA and HHS. In providing such advice, the LFA will use advice from other Federal agencies with technical expertise on those matters whenever possible. The LFA's responsibilities for the development, evaluation, and presentation of protective action recommendations are to: (1) Respond to requests from State and local governments for technical information and assistance. (2) Consult with representatives from EPA, HHS, USDA, and other Federal agencies as needed to provide advice to the LFA on protective actions. (3) Review all recommendations made by other Federal agencies exercising statutory authorities related to protective actions to ensure consistency. (4) Prepare a coordinated Federal position on protective action recommendations whenever time permits. (5) Present the Federal assessment of protective action recommendations, in conjunction with FEMA and other Federal agencies when practical, to State or other offsite authorities. b. Role of the Advisory Team for Environment, Food, and Health. Advice on environment, food, and health matters will be provided to the LFA through the Advisory Team for Environment, Food, and Health (Advisory Team) consisting of representatives of EPA, HHS, and USDA supported by other Federal agencies, as warranted by the circumstances of the emergency. The Advisory Team provides direct support to the LFA and has no independent authority. The Advisory Team will not release information to the public or make recommendations on matters under the jurisdiction of a Federal agency unless authorized to do so by that agency. The Advisory Team will select a chairman for the Team. The Advisory Team will normally collocate with the FRMAC. For emergencies with potential for causing widespread radiological contamination where no onscene FRMAC is established, the functions of the Advisory Team may be accomplished in the LFA response facility in Washington, DC. The primary role of the Advisory Team is to provide a mechanism for timely, interagency coordination of advice to the LFA and other Federal agencies concerning matters related to the following areas: (1) Environmental assessments (field monitoring) required for developing recommendations. (2) PAGs and their application to the emergency. (3) Protective action recommendations using data and assessment from the FRMAC. (4) Protective actions to prevent or minimize contamination of milk, food, and water and to prevent or minimize exposure through ingestion. (5) Recommendations regarding the disposition of contaminated livestock and poultry. (6) Recommendations for minimizing losses of agricultural resources from radiation effects. (7) Availability of food, animal feed, and water supply inspection programs to assure wholesomeness.
