FR941207-2-00046 FR941207-2-00034 This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Felis lynx specimens from Latvia. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, Latvia has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the government of Latvia must notify the CITES Secretariat of the following: when an export quota of Felis lynx has been approved, and provide a clarification as to whether this quota includes specimens that can be hunted, skins already on hand, or both. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Felis lynx may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from Latvia, unless an exemption in CITES Article VII applies. G. Subject Lithuania: ban on imports of specimens of Eurasian lynx ( Felis lynx ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITIES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Felis lynx specimens from Lithuania. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, Lithuania has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITIES Standing Committee. Specifically, the government of Lithuania must comply with the primary recommendation of the CITES Animals committee for Felis lynx, which is designated as a significant trade species. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Felis lynx may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from Lithuania, unless an exemption in CITES Article VII applies. H. Subject Peru: ban on imports of specimens of Red-masked conure ( Aratinga erythrogenys ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITIES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Aratinga erythrogenys specimens from Peru. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, Peru has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing committee. Specifically, the Management Authority of Peru should notify the CITES Secretariat of the following: The establishment and announcement of an annual export quota for Aratinga erythrogenys that is consistent with sustainable offtake, and the scientific basis for the management program for Aratinga erythrogenys. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Aratinga erythrogenys may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from Peru. In addition, the Wild Bird Conservation Act of 1992 already prohibits the importation of specimens of Aratinga erythrogenys without the required permits being issued by the Service. I. Subject Republic of Moldova: ban on imports of specimens of Eurasian lynx ( Felis lynx ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITIES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Felis lynx specimens from the Republic of Moldova. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, the Republic of Moldova has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the government of the Republic of Moldova must comply with the primary recommendation of the CITES Animals Committee for Felis lynx , which is designated as a significant trade species. Although the Republic of Moldova is not a CITES Party, the Russian Federation continues to conduct all CITES permit matters for the Republic of Moldova. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Felis lynx may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from the Republic of Moldova, unless an exemption in CITES Article VII applies. J. Subject Togo: ban on imports of specimens of ball python ( Python regius ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States.
