FR940705-2-00111 FR940705-2-00078 Second, the Regulatory Circular notes that graduated fees will be assessed under CBOE Rules 8.16(a) and 24.16(a) for failure to observe the RAES log-off requirement. Third, the Regulatory Circular reflects the MPC's designation pursuant to CBOE Rules 8.16(b) and 24.16(b) that the expiration month log-on requirements reflected in those rules will be enforced in all classes of equity and SPX options for which RAES is available. Accordingly, any market maker who has logged onto RAES in accordance with CBOE Rules 8.16(a) or 24.16(a) during an expiration month for a given class of options must log on whenever present at the applicable trading station, until expiration. Fourth, the Regulatory Circular reflects a determination by the MPC, pursuant to its authority under CBOE Rules 8.16(d) and 24.16(d), that any market maker who fails to meet the log-on requirements under CBOE Rules 8.16(b) or 24.16(b) ordinarily will be suspended from participation on RAES at the applicable trading station for a period of 21 consecutive business days. 3 3 In contrast to this suspension provision, File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;12 proposes that members who fail to observe the RAES log-on requirements for OEX options would be subject to a fee. The CBOE has determined that suspensions, not fees, are the appropriate mechanisms to promote compliance with RAES log-on requirements for equity and SPX options. The CBOE states that it may introduce fees for failures to observe the log-on requirements for equity and SPX options at a later date if experience so dictates. The CBOE believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to enable the CBOE to enforce compliance with the Act, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and to protect investors and the public interest by assuring that equity and SPX options market makers are aware of and meet their responsibilities pertaining to RAES. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CBOE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reason for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by July 26, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16186 Filed 7&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
