FR940916-1-00160 FR940916-1-00016 (2) Trains operating in the push mode; (3) Trains with a manned, operational caboose; (4) Trains operating with a secondary, fully independent braking system capable of safely stopping the train in the event of failure of the primary system; (5) Trains that do not operate in mountain grade territory and do not exceed 30 mph; (6) Local trains that do not exceed 30 mph; (7) Work trains that do not exceed 30 mph; (8) Trains that operate exclusively on track that is not part of the general railroad system; and (9) Passenger trains with emergency brakes. §232.815 En route failures of train brake system components. (a) Speed reduction. When an en route failure of a train brake system component occurs that reduces the retarding force available to stop the train, the speed of the train shall be reduced in order that the train can be safely operated within the signal spacing with remaining available brake system retarding force. (b) A train with an en route brake system failure that reduces the retarding force available to stop the train shall not proceed beyond the next point where brake system repairs can be made to restore the full brake system retarding force. (c) Subject to the requirements contained in §232.17, an en route train may pick up a car with a power brake defect for the purpose of moving it to the nearest available point where repairs to that defect can be made; however, that train shall have the brakes operational and effective on no less than 85% of the cars in the train. That train shall not proceed beyond the point where its next Class 1 brake test is due with a car containing a power brake defect still part of the train. (d) Air flow indicator. When a train is equipped with an air flow indicator calibrated in cubic feet per minute, if the air flow exceeds 80 cfm, the engineer shall stop the train to determine the cause. (e) Excessive pressure gradient. When a train is equipped with an end-of-train or equivalent device, if the gradient exceeds 20 psi after recharging following a brake application, the engineer shall stop the train to determine the cause. If unable to make repairs the crew should arrange to set out defective cars and/or proceed at reduced speed and with due caution to the next location where corrective action can be taken. (f) Two-way end-of-train device. If a two-way end-of-train or equivalent device is unable to initiate an emergency brake application from the rear of the train, the speed of that train shall be limited to 30 mph. This limitation shall be applied to any device that uses an alternate technology to serve the purpose of a two-way end-of-train device. §232.817 Undesired emergency brake application. (a) If an undesired emergency brake application occurs on a train, the train shall not proceed until the crew has inspected the entire train to determine that it is safe to do so. (b) A car causing the undesired emergency application due to a mechanical defect may be moved only if necessary for repair of the defect and only to the nearest available point where repairs to that defect can be made. (c) A railroad shall have written procedures requiring written notification of the appropriate mechanical department official(s) that the car is a source of an undesired emergency brake application and shall be repaired. §232.819 Extreme operating conditions. (a) A railroad shall develop and make available to FRA upon request detailed written operating procedures tailored to the equipment and territory of that railroad to cover safe train handling for the following operations: (1) Cold weather operation. (2) Mountain territory operation. (3) Operation of heavy trains. (4) Operation of long trains. (b) FRA may impose additional operating limitations on a railroad if_ (1) A railroad does not have written operating procedures for the operations listed in paragraph (a) of this section, (2) The procedures are inadequate, or (3) The procedures are not enforced. §232.821 Operating requirements specific to conventional freight trains. (a) A conventional freight train operating under cold weather conditions shall be hauled by a controlling locomotive that is equipped with a 26&hyph;C brake valve or equivalent. (b) Feed valve braking is prohibited. (c) Unless the trailing equipment is designed for graduated brake release, the passenger position on the locomotive brake control stand shall not be used. (d) When a locomotive is detached from a train and the standing cars are not coupled to an air supply, the brake pipe pressure in the standing cars must be depleted. §232.823 Operating requirements specific to intermediate speed freight trains. (a) Operation of heavy trains. Heavy trains shall not be operated at speeds greater than 79 mph.
