FR941102-0-00069 FR941102-0-00020 7. Section 97.21 is revised to read as follows: ยง97.21 Application for a modified or renewed license. (a) A person who has been granted an amateur station license that has not expired: (1) Must apply for a modification of the license as necessary to show the correct mailing address, licensee name, club name, license trustee name, or license custodian name. The application document must be submitted to: FCC, 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, PA 17325&hyph;7245. For an operator/primary station license, the application must be made on FCC Form 610. For a club, military recreation, or RACES station license, the application must be made on FCC Form 610&hyph;B. (2) May apply for a modification of the license to show a higher operator class. The application must be made on FCC Form 610 and must be submitted to the VEs administering the qualifying examination. (3) May apply for renewal of the license for another term. (The FCC may mail to the licensee an FCC Form 610&hyph;R that may be used for this purpose.) The application may be made on the FCC Form 610&hyph;R if it is received from the FCC. If the Form 610&hyph;R is not received from the FCC at least 30 days before the expiration of the license, for an operator/primary station license, the application may be made on FCC Form 610. For a club, military recreation, or RACES station license, the application may be made on FCC Form 610&hyph;B. The application must be submitted no more than 90 days before its expiration to: FCC, 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, PA 17325&hyph;7245. When the application for renewal of the license has been received by the FCC at 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, PA 17325&hyph;7245 prior to the license expiration date, the license operating authority is continued until the final disposition of the application. (4) May apply for a modification of the license to show a different call sign selected by the sequential call sign system. The application document must be submitted to: FCC, 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, PA 17325&hyph;7245. The application must be made on FCC Form 610. This modification is not available to club, military recreation, or RACES stations. (b) A person who had been granted an amateur station license, but the license has expired, may apply for renewal of the license for another term during a 2 year filing grace period. The application document must be received by the FCC at 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, PA 17325&hyph;7245 prior to the end of the grace period. For an operator/primary station license, the application must be made on FCC Form 610. For a club, military recreation, or RACES station license, the application must be made on FCC Form 610&hyph;B. Unless and until the license is renewed, no privileges in this part are conferred. (c) Each application for a modified or renewed amateur service license must be accompanied by a photocopy (or the original) of the license document unless an application for renewal using FCC Form 610&hyph;R is being made, or unless the original document has been lost, mutilated or destroyed. (d) Unless the holder of a station license requests a change in call sign, the same call sign will be assigned to the station upon renewal or modification of a station license. (e) A reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee cannot be renewed. A new reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee may be issued upon proper application. 8. Section 97.23 is revised to read as follows: ยง97.23 Mailing address. (a) Each application for a license and each application for a reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee must show a mailing address in an area where the amateur service is regulated by the FCC and where the licensee or permittee can receive mail delivery by the United States Postal Service. Each application for a reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee must also show the permittee's mailing address in the country of citizenship. (b) When there is a change in the mailing address for a person who has been granted an amateur operator/primary station license, the person must file a timely application for a modification of the license. Revocation of the station license or suspension of the operator license may result when correspondence from the FCC is returned as undeliverable because the person failed to provide the correct mailing address. (c) When a person who has been granted a reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee changes the mailing address where he or she can receive mail delivery by the United States Postal Service, the person must file an application for a new permit. Cancellation of the reciprocal permit for alien amateur licensee may result when correspondence from the FCC is returned as undeliverable because the permittee failed to provide the correct mailing address.
