FR941230-2-00119 FR941230-2-00070 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Amador County, CA AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement will be prepared for a proposed highway project in Amador County, California. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dennis A. Scovill, Chief, District Operations, Federal Highway Administration, 980 9th Street, Suite 400, Sacramento, CA 95814&hyph;2724, Telephone: (916) 498&hyph;5034. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the California Department of Transportation, will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) on a proposal to improve State Route (SR) 49 in Amador County, California. The proposed project would provide a bypass of the existing SR 49 between Martell on the south near the junction with SR 88, and SR 16 on the north, a distance of 11.6 km. Improvements in this area are considered necessary to alleviate major deficiencies of the existing narrow roadbed, short-radius curves, inadequate sight distances and excessively steep grades; and the necessity for interregional traffic to traverse the narrow congested city streets of Sutter Creek, Amador City and Drytown. Alternatives under consideration include (1) taking no action; (2) constructing a two or four-lane, limited access highway on an alignment which partially utilizes the existing alignment; and (3) constructing a two or four-lane, limited access highway on an alignment which bypasses the existing route to the west. Travel demand on SR 49 is expected to double by the design year 2020, resulting in severe congestion and unacceptable levels of service. The proposed project has the potential of affecting a number of known historic resources, including one or more eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. Construction is expected to occur in several stages, with some portions of the route being built before others. Initial construction of all stages will be for two lanes with passing lanes provided where needed. However, Caltrans will initially purchase adequate right of way for the eventual four lane project. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State and local agencies, and to private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed or are known to have interest in this proposal. A public meeting will be held in January, 1995, for scoping purposes. Additional informal meetings are expected to be held with appropriate groups who express further interest in the project. A public hearing will be held. Public notice will be given of the time and place of all formal meetings and the hearing. The draft EIS will be available for public and agency review and comment prior to the public hearing. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on: December 22, 1994. Dennis A. Scovill, Chief, District Operations, Sacramento, California. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;32199 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
