FR940419-2-00157 FR940419-2-00086 V. Other Program Items (a) Turnkey III Developments (1) General Eligible physical improvement costs for existing Turnkey III developments are limited to work items under Emergency Modernization or Other Modernization which are not the responsibility of the homebuyer families and which are related to health and safety, correction of development deficiencies, physical accessibility, energy audits and cost-effective energy conservation measures, or LBP testing, interim containment, professional risk assessment and abatement. In addition, eligible costs include management improvements under the modernization type of Other Modernization. Work on any units which have been paid off, even though not conveyed by the time the CIAP Application is submitted, is ineligible. The cost of non-emergency health and safety work items shall increase the purchase price and amortization period for homebuyer families; other eligible costs shall not increase the purchase price and amortization period. (2) Ineligible Costs Nonroutine maintenance or replacements, dwelling additions, and items that are the responsibility of the homebuyer families are ineligible costs. (3) Exception for Vacant or Non-Homebuyer-occupied Turnkey III Units (i) Notwithstanding the requirements of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, an HA may carry out Other Modernization in a Turnkey III development, whenever a Turnkey III unit becomes vacant or is occupied by a non-homebuyer family. An HA that intends to use funds under this paragraph must identify in its CIAP Application, the estimated number of units proposed for Other Modernization and subsequent sale. In addition, an HA must certify that: the proposed modernization under this paragraph would result in bringing the identified units into full compliance with the homeownership objectives under the Turnkey III Program; and the HA has homebuyers who both are eligible for homeownership, in accordance with the regulatory requirements, and have demonstrated their intent to be placed into each of the Turnkey III units proposed for Other Modernization. (ii) Before an HA may be approved for Other Modernization of a unit under this paragraph, it must first deplete any Earned Home Payments Account (EHPA) or Non-Routine Maintenance Reserve (NRMR) pertaining to the unit, and request the maximum operating subsidy. Any increase in the value of a unit caused by its Other Modernization under this paragraph shall be reflected solely by its subsequent appraised value, and not by an automatic increase in its purchase price. (b) Mutual Help Developments Mutual Help developments are eligible for the same physical and management improvement costs as are rental developments. Work on any Mutual Help units which have been paid off, even though not conveyed, by the time the CIAP Application is submitted is ineligible. (c) Professional Risk Assessment for LBP An additional $11,956,923 set-aside will be made available for Professional Risk Assessments under a separate NOFA and Processing Notice. HAs with pre-1980 family developments are strongly encouraged to apply for these funds to conduct professional risk assessments. (d) In-Place Management (Interim Containment of LBP) Where the results of the professional risk assessment recommend that the HA undertake in-place management measures, the HA is strongly encouraged to apply for CIAP funds to carry out such measures. However, if the HA is not successful in obtaining CIAP funds for in-place management measures, the HA may request a budget revision of previously approved, but unobligated CIAP funds to accomplish such measures. Where the HA had a CIAP budget revision approved for this purpose in FY 1993, the HA may request FY 1994 CIAP funds to complete the items which were eliminated as a result of the budget revision.
