FR941121-0-00038 FR941121-0-00001 ii. Transaction and service fees that members reasonably expect to be imposed on an account on a regular basis (see comments 4(b)(4)&hyph;1 and 2). iii. A flat fee, such as a monthly service fee. iv. Fees imposed to deposit, withdraw or transfer funds, including per-check or per-transaction charges (for example, $.25 for each withdrawal, whether by check, in person). 4. Other fees. Examples of fees that are not maintenance or activity fees include: i. Fees that are not required to be disclosed under ยง707.4(b)(4). ii. Check printing fees of any type. iii. Fees for obtaining copies of checks, whether or not the original checks have been truncated or returned to the member periodically. iv. Balance inquiry fees. v. Fees assessed against a dormant account. vi. Fees for using an ATM. vii. Fees for electronic transfer services that are not required to obtain an account, such as preauthorized transfers or home electronic credit union services. viii. Stop payment fees and fees for share drafts or checks returned unpaid. 5. Similar terms. An advertisement may not use a term such as ``fees waived'' if a maintenance or activity fee may be imposed because it is similar to the terms ``free'' or ``no cost.'' 6. Specific account services. Credit unions may advertise a specific account service or feature as free as long as no fee is imposed for that service or feature. For example, credit unions offering an account that is free of deposit or withdrawal fees could advertise that fact, as long as the advertisement does not mislead members by implying that the account is free and that no other fee (a monthly service fee, for example) may be charged. 7. Free for limited time. If an account (or a specific account service) is free only for a limited period of time_for example, for one year following the account opening_the account (or service) may be advertised as free as long as the time period is stated. 8. Conditions not related to share accounts. Credit unions may advertise accounts as ``free'' for members that meet conditions not related to share accounts, such as the member's age. For example, credit unions may advertise a share draft account as ``free for persons over 65 years old,'' even though a maintenance or activity fee may be assessed on accounts held by members that are 65 or younger. (b) Permissible Rates 1. Tiered-rate accounts. An advertisement for a tiered-rate account that states an annual percentage yield must also state the annual percentage yield for each tier, along with corresponding minimum balance requirements. Any dividend rates stated must appear in conjunction with the annual percentage yields for each tier. 2. Stepped-rate accounts. An advertisement that states a dividend rate for a stepped-rate account must state all the dividend rates and the time period that each rate is in effect. 3. Representative examples. An advertisement that states an annual percentage yield for a type of account (such as a term share account for a specified term) need not state the annual percentage yield applicable to every variation offered by the credit union or indicate that other maturity terms are available. In an advertisement stating that rates for an account may vary depending on the amount of the initial deposit or the term of a term share account, credit unions need not list each balance level and term offered. Instead, the advertisement may: i. Provide a representative example of the annual percentage yields offered, clearly described as such. For example, if a credit union offers a $25 bonus on all term share accounts and the annual percentage yield will vary depending on the term selected, the credit union may provide a disclosure of the annual percentage yield as follows: ``For example, our 6-month share certificate currently pays a 3.15% annual percentage yield.'' ii. Indicate that various rates are available, such as by stating short-term and longer-term maturities along with the applicable annual percentage yields: ``We offer term share certificates of deposit with annual percentage yields that depend on the maturity you choose. For example, our one-month share certificate earns a 2.75% APY. Or, earn a 5.25% APY for three-year share certificate.'' (c) When Additional Disclosures are Required 1. Trigger terms. The following are examples of information stated in advertisements that are not ``trigger'' terms: i. ``One, three, and five year share certificates available''. ii. ``Bonus rates available''. iii. ``1% over our current rate,'' so long as the rates are not determinable from the advertisement. (c)(2) Time Annual Percentage Yield is Offered 1. Specified recent date. If an advertisement discloses an annual percentage yield as of a specified date, that date must be recent in relation to the publication or broadcast frequency of the media used. For example, the printing date of a brochure printed once for an account promotion that will be in effect for six months would be considered ``recent,'' even though rates change during the six-month period. Dividend rates published in a daily newspaper or on television must be a rate offered shortly before (or on) the date the rates are published or broadcast. Similarly, dividend rates published in a daily newspaper or on television must be a rate reflecting either the preceding dividend period, or a prospective rate, and the option chosen should be noted.
