FR940325-2-00085 FR940325-2-00046 When comments are submitted directly to ACF, they should be addressed to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, OCS&hyph;94&hyph;04, 6th Floor, 370 L'Enfant Promenade SW., Washington, DC 20447. A list of the Single Points of Contact for each State and Territory is included as Appendix G of this announcement. 4. Application Consideration Applications which meet the screening requirements in Sections 5a and 5b below will be reviewed competitively. Such applications will be referred to reviewers for a numerical score and explanatory comments based solely on responsiveness to program guidelines and evaluation criteria published in this announcement. Applications will be reviewed by persons outside of the OCS unit which would be directly responsible for programmatic management of the grant. The results of these reviews will assist OCS in considering competing applications. Reviewers' scores will weigh heavily in funding decisions but will not be the only factors considered. Applications will be ranked and generally considered in order of the average scores assigned by reviewers. However, highly ranked applications are not guaranteed funding since the other factors deemed relevant may be considered including, but not limited to, the timely and proper completion of projects funded with OCS funds granted in the past 5 years; comments of reviewers and government officials; staff evaluation and input; geographic distribution; previous program performance of applicants; compliance with grant terms under previous DHHS grants; audit reports; investigative reports; and applicant's progress in resolving any final audit disallowances on OCS or other Federal agency grants. OCS reserves the right to discuss applications with other Federal or non-Federal funding sources to ascertain the applicant's performance record. 5. Criteria for Screening Applications a. Initial screening. All applicants will receive an acknowledgement with an assigned identification number. This number, along with any other identifying codes, must be referenced in all subsequent communications concerning the application. If an acknowledgement is not received within three weeks after the deadline date, please notify ACF by telephone at (202) 401&hyph;9230. All applications that meet the published deadline for submission will be screened to determine completeness and conformity to the requirements of this announcement. Only those applications meeting the following requirements will be reviewed and evaluated competitively. Others will be returned to the applicants with a notation that they were unacceptable. (1) The application must contain a Standard Form 424 ``Application for Federal Assistance'' (SF&hyph;424), a budget (SF&hyph;424A), and signed ``Assurances'' (SF&hyph;424B) completed according to instructions published in Part F and Attachments A, B, and C of this program announcement. (2) A project narrative must also accompany the standard forms. (3) The SF&hyph;424 and the SF&hyph;424B must be signed by an official of the organization applying for the grant who has authority to obligate the organization legally. b. Pre-rating review. Applications which pass the initial screening will be forwarded to reviewers and/or OCS staff to verify, prior to the programmatic review, that the applications comply with this Program Announcement in the following areas: (1) Eligibility: Applicant meets the eligibility requirements found in Part C. Applicant also must be aware that the applicant's legal name as required on the SF 424 (Item 5) must match that listed as corresponding to the Employer Identification Number (Item 6). (2) Duration of Project: The application contains a project that can be successfully implemented in 12 months. (3) Target Populations: The application clearly targets the specific outcomes and benefits of the project to State staff recipients of CSBG funds and/or local providers of CSBG-funded services and activities. (4) Program Focus: The application must address development and implementation of a nationwide, comprehensive training and/or technical assistance or data collection activities as described in Part B of this announcement. An application may be disqualified from the competition and returned to the applicant if it does not conform to one or more of the above requirements. c. Evaluation criteria. Applications which pass the pre-rating review will be assessed and scored by reviewers. Each reviewer will give a numerical score for each application reviewed. These numerical scores will be supported by explanatory statements on a formal rating form describing major strengths and major weaknesses under each applicable criterion published in this announcement. The in-depth evaluation and review process will use the following criteria coupled with the specific requirements contained in Part B. (Note: The following review criteria reiterate collection of information requirements contained in Part F of this announcement. These requirements are approved under OMB Control Number 0970&hyph;0062.) Criteria for Review and Evaluation of Applications Submitted Under This Program Announcement (1) Criterion I: Need for Assistance (Maximum: 20 points) (a) The application documents that the project addresses a vital nationwide need related to the purposes of this Program Announcement (Part B) and provides statistics and other data and information in support of its contention (0&hyph;10 points). (b) Provides current supporting documentation or other testimonies from State CSBG Directors and local service providers or State and Regional organizations of local service providers (0&hyph;10 points). (2) Criterion II: Work Program (Maximum: 30 points). (a) Goals are appropriately related to needs and are specific and measurable (0&hyph;10 points).
