FR940607-2-00090 FR940607-2-00062 [Release No. 34&hyph;34134; File No. SR&hyph;GSCC 94&hyph;2] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Government Securities Clearing Corporation; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Comparison and Netting of Non-Member Trades May 31, 1994. On March 28, 1994, pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 the Government Securities Clearing Corporation (``GSCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change that will allow GSCC to continue to offer comparison and netting services for trades which have been submitted to GSCC by netting members on behalf of non-member executing firms. On April 25, 1994, the Commission published notice of the proposed rule change in the Federal Register to solicit comment from interested persons. 2 No comments were received. This order permanently approves the proposal. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33887 (April 8, 1994), 59 FR 19743. I. Description On December 13, 1991, the Commission approved, on a temporary basis through December 31, 1992, a rule change authorizing GSCC to implement a non-member, ``executing firm'' information feature as an enhancement to its comparison service. 3 On December 23, 1992, the Commission extended its temporary approval of the executing firm feature until June 30, 1994. 4 The proposed rule change allows GSCC netting members to submit trading activity of non-members to GSCC. The proposal effectively expands the scope of trades eligible for GSCC's comparison and netting systems by allowing GSCC to identify, compare, and net trades where one or both sides to the transaction are non-members that have entered into clearing or correspondent arrangements with a GSCC member. The proposal will not result in GSCC's interacting directly with non-members. 3Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30078 (December 13, 1991), 56 FR 66110. 4 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31651 (December 23, 1992), 57 FR 62586. Prior to its first submission on behalf of a non-member (``executing firm''), the GSCC member (``submitting member'') must provide notice to GSCC of each executing firm on whose behalf the submitting member intends to act. The submitting member must indicate whether the executing firm's trades are to be compared and netted, or compared only. The submitting member's obligations to GSCC with respect to the non-member trade are the same as if the submitting member had executed the trade. Therefore, if the submitting member permits non-member trades to be included in GSCC's netting system, such member's margin and clearing fund deposits will be calculated based on its trades and non-member trades submitted to the netting system. The submitting member also will be required to complete delivery, receipt, and payment on netted trades of executing firms. A submitting member would submit trades to GSCC on behalf of an executing firm that it clears for by indicating to the comparison system: (1) The name of the executing party associated with the member; and (2) the name of the executing party associated with the contra-party member. In general, for a comparison to be generated by GSCC, there must be an exact match of all required match data, 5 except for the contract value for which GSCC may set a tolerance on a systemwide basis. In order to minimize the number of uncompared trades that this system could initiate, GSCC in some instances may permit comparison even if certain fields do not match. If the identity of the executing firm does not match, GSCC may still compare a trade based on a match of submitting members. If the submitting party for the contra-party executing firm is incorrectly identified, GSCC may compare the trade if it has received notice from a GSCC member that it wishes to be deemed the appropriate submitting party for such executing firm. If data on a trade submitted against a member does not compare, but would compare if matched against data submitted by an affiliate of such member, GSCC may compare the transaction as if the member had submitted the trade against the affiliate. 6 If a trade is submitted without identifying an executing party, GSCC will compare the trade as if there is no executing party for that side of the trade. GSCC would, if requested, translate a member's internal contra-participant identifiers to a valid GSCC member identifying number. 7 5 The required items that must match are participant/contra-participant, par value, CUSIP number, buy versus sell indication, trade date, settlement date, final money or yield and commission, and executing firm/contra-executing firm. 6 Prior to this comparison, GSCC must have received notice from the two parties stating that they are affiliates and that each wishes to be presumed to be the correct contra-party to a side of a trade submitted with the other as contra-party. 7 This would assist GSCC members that, for operational reasons, have more than one contra-trading account set up for a given member. II. Discussion Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act provides that the rules of a clearing agency must promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and remove impediments to perfect the mechanism of a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. By accepting non-member trades into GSCC's comparison system, a greater number of trades are included in the national clearance and settlement system. These trades are given the benefit of a centralized clearance and settlement system.
