FR940916-1-00096 FR940916-1-00016 Section 232.11. This section contains the penalty provisions of the proposed rule, stating that all persons who violate the standards of the proposed rule or cause the violation of such standards are subject to a civil penalty, and explains the circumstances under which an individual may be assessed a penalty. The definition of ``person'' incorporates the expanded language contained in section 9 of the Rail Safety Enforcement and Review Act, which amended the definition of ``person'' contained in the Safety Appliance Acts and the FRSA. The clarified definition of ``person'' includes, but is not limited to, such entities as manufacturers and lessors of railroad equipment and independent contractors. Congress' purpose in amending the definition of ``person'' was to clarify the Secretary's existing power over entities whose activities relate to rail safety by explicitly defining that authority. See 1992 U.S. Code Cong. and Adm. News, p. 879. Congress made it clear that the included list of ``persons'' subject to the Secretary's authority was intended to be illustrative and not exhaustive. Section 232.13. This section contains a general provision concerning the preemptive effect of the proposed rule. The provision is based on the preemption clause contained in 49 U.S.C. §20106, formerly codified in the FRSA at 45 U.S.C. §434. Section 232.15. This section contains general requirements that are applicable to all train brake systems. FRA proposes to specifically include basic train brake system practices and procedures that form the foundation for the safe operation of all types of trains. Some of these basic principles are so obvious that they have not been specifically included in past rules. The most basic safety requirements for all train brake systems include the ability to stop a train within signal spacing, establishing an integral train brake communication line, and having the train brake system respond as intended to signals from the brake communication line. Several of the general requirements contained in this section are addressed in later sections of this proposed rule and will be discussed in further detail in those sections. FRA proposes to continue the requirement that prior to departure from an initial terminal point all trains shall have 100 percent functional train brake systems. Although a few commenters suggested the departure of trains from initial terminals with less than 100 percent functional brakes, based on a standard of tons per operative brake, none of the commenters provided any further guidance for developing such a standard. Furthermore, FRA and most of the commenters agree that having 100 percent functional brakes at initial terminal points is necessary for allowing trains to travel long distances between brake system tests. Since FRA is proposing incentives to allow railroads to increase the distances trains may travel between train brake system tests, this basic requirement takes on even greater importance in the proposed new rule. Requiring 100 percent functional brakes prior to departure from an initial terminal point sets the proper tone for the quality and thoroughness FRA expects from the industry on train brake system inspections, maintenance, and tests. FRA proposes a clear and absolute prohibition on train movement if more than 15 percent of the cars in a train have their brakes cut out or have otherwise defective brakes. This has long been an industry interpretation of the hauling-for-repair provision of 45 U.S.C. 13, recodified at 49 U.S.C. §§20303, 21302, and 21304, and has withstood the test of time. No major objections to this limitation on the hauling of cars with power brake defects for repair were raised by any of the commenters.
