FR941122-2-00091 FR941122-2-00071 Friday, December 9, 1994 8:30 a.m._8:35 a.m.: Opening Remarks by the ACRS Chairman (Open)_The ACRS Chairman will make opening remarks regarding conduct of the meeting. 8:35 a.m._10:15 a.m.: Update on the BWR Core Shroud Inspections/Reactor Vessel Integrity (Open)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding: the results of the core shroud inspections conducted at five BWR nuclear power plants (Monticello, Peach Bottom 2, Oyster Creek, Browns Ferry 2, and Fitzpatrick); the plans for future shroud inspections; and an update of European experience with this matter. Also, the Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding the results of the weld analysis performed by the Palisades nuclear power plant licensee in accordance with the requirements of the pressurized thermal shock (PTS) Rule. 10:30 a.m._12:00 Noon: Cracking in Nuclear Components (Open)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding the different types of cracking found in nuclear components, the associated cracking mechanisms, and ongoing and proposed research efforts in this area. 1:30 p.m._2:30 p.m.: Proposed Final Regulatory Guide, ``Evaluation of Reactor Pressure Vessels With Charpy Upper-Shelf Energy Less Than 50 ft. lb.'' (Open)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding the proposed final version of the Regulatory Guide on Evaluation of Reactor Pressure Vessels with Charpy Upper-Shelf Energy Less Than 50 ft. lb. 2:30 p.m._2:45 p.m.: Reconciliation of ACRS Comments and Recommendations (Open)_The Committee will discuss responses from the NRC Executive Director for Operations to ACRS comments and recommendations included in recent ACRS reports. 2:45 p.m._3:15 p.m.: Future ACRS Activities (Open)_The Committee will discuss topics proposed for consideration during future ACRS meetings. 3:15 p.m._4:00 p.m.: Report of the Planning and Procedures Subcommittee (Open/Closed)_The Committee will hear a report of the Planning and Procedures Subcommittee on matters related to the conduct of ACRS business and internal organizational and personnel matters relating to the ACRS staff members. A portion of this session may be closed to discuss matters that relate solely to internal personnel rules and practices of this Advisory Committee, and matters the release of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. 4:15 p.m._6:30 p.m.: Preparation of ACRS Reports (Open)_The Committee will discuss proposed ACRS reports on certain matters considered during this meeting.
