FR940706-2-00073 FR940706-2-00040 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order to Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted an agreement to a proposed consent order from Sears, Roebuck & Co., Hoffman Estates, Illinois (``Sears''). Sears is a national chain of retail department stores. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement and take other appropriate action, or make final the proposed order contained in the agreement. The complaint alleges that Sears has violated a Rule promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission (16 CFR 702.3(a)) pursuant to the Magnuson-Moss Consumer Warranty Act (15 U.S.C. ยง2301). This Rule requires Sears to make manufacturers' warranty information available to consumers. The purposes of this Act, and the Rule, are to improve the information available to consumers, to prevent deception, and to promote competition, in the marketing of consumer product warranties offered by manufacturers. The Rule, called the ``Pre-Sale Availability Rule,'' gives retailers the option of either (1) displaying the text of manufacturers' warranties in close proximity to the product display; or (2) furnishing the text of manufacturers' warranties to customers upon request, and prominently displaying signs advising of the availability of such warranties. The complaint alleges that Sears has not complied with either of these options. The proposed order requires Sears to comply with this Rule, to inform its retail store executives of their compliance responsibilities, and to develop a program for instructing its sales personnel about the availability and location of manufacturers' warranty information. Sears will be subject to civil penalties if it does not comply with the order. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed order. It is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16275 Filed 7&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
