FR940725-2-00086 FR940725-2-00053 The witness further testified that when the Cutler Ridge clinic building collapsed during Hurricane Andrew in August 1992, and reopened in a trailer in late September 1992, Respondent continued to see 40 to 50 patients per day despite difficult operating conditions. Another witness testified at the hearing that after the hurricane and prior to the reopening of the clinic, Respondent worked as a volunteer at the South Miami Hospital in Homestead, Florida, where he provided good medical care despite handling an increased patient load and working long hours. The Respondent testified, as did witnesses on his behalf, that he needed a DEA registration in order to obtain hospital privileges; that the lack of a controlled substances registration would adversely impact upon Respondent's ability to care for his patients; and that Respondent's ability to accept offers of employment at various health care facilities was contingent upon his obtaining a DEA Certificate of Registration. Respondent testified that his patients that required controlled substances were required to see another physician, and that the growth of the Cutler Ridge clinic practice required more patients to be admitted to hospitals, but that he was unable to apply for hospital privileges without a DEA registration. Respondent also testified that he did not want to ever again handle Dilaudid and that he would be in favor of such restrictions on his DEA registration as a prohibition on dispensing, requirements that he use triplicate prescriptions, and a blanket agreement to inspections at any time. Respondent attributed his misconduct to a mid-life crisis and his lack of character, and based on his rehabilitative effort as well as the support of his family, such misconduct would not be repeated. Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(f), the Deputy Administrator may deny an application for registration, if he determines that granting the registration would be inconsistent with the public interest. In determining the public interest, the following factors are considered: (1) The recommendation of the appropriate State licensing board or professional disciplinary authority. (2) The applicant's experience in dispensing controlled substances. (3) The applicant's conviction record under Federal or State laws relating to the distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances. (4) Compliance with applicable State, Federal, or local laws relating to controlled substances. (5) Such other conduct which may threaten the public health and safety. It is well established that these factors are to be considered in the disjunctive, i.e., the Deputy Administrator may properly rely on the disjunctive, i.e., the Deputy Administrator may properly rely on any one or a combination of the factors and give each factor the weight he deems appropriate. See Henry J. Schwarz, Jr., M.D., Docket No. 88&hyph;42, 54 FR 16422 (1989). In considering whether grounds exist to deny Respondent's application for registration pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(f), the administrative law judge found factors one through five relevant. Factor one is relevant in light of the September 25, 1992 letter from the counsel to the Board; factor two is applicable in light of Respondent's delivery of Dilaudid to the individual; factors three and four are relevant in view of Respondent's conviction for unlawfully distributing controlled substances; and factor five is relevant based upon Respondent's conviction for unlawful possession of a silencer. The administrative law judge further found that Respondent's practice of medicine was valuable to the community; that Respondent needs a DEA registration to fully serve his patients; and that Respondent demonstrated remorse for his past misconduct. Therefore, the administrative law judge recommended that Respondent's application for DEA registration be granted, with the following restrictions: (1) Respondent shall not dispense directly or administer any controlled substance except in a hospital setting; (2) Respondent shall use triplicate forms for all controlled substance prescriptions and shall maintain at his registered location one copy of each form and arrange for another copy to be received by the Special Agent in Charge of DEA's Miami Field Division or his designee; and (3) Respondent shall consent to inspections of his registered premises pursuant to notices of inspection as described in 21 U.S. C. 880. The Deputy Administrator having considered the entire record adopts the administrative law judge's findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommended ruling in its entirety. Accordingly, the Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, pursuant to the authority vested in him by 21 U.S.C. 823 and 28 CFR 0.1000(b) and 0.104 (59 FR 23637), hereby orders that the application for DEA registration submitted by Harold S. Stinson, D.O., be granted in Schedules II through V subject to the restrictions enumerated above. This order is effective July 25, 1994. Dated: July 18, 1994. Stephen H. Greene, Deputy Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17949 Filed 7&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;09&hyph;M
