FR940429-0-00224 FR940429-0-00015 Comments: Four commenters opposed the provision in this section that required an institution to be responsible for payment of any liability owed by the institution's third-party servicer for a violation of the institution's participation until the amount is paid in full. One of these commenters argued that the third-party servicer should be held entirely accountable for payment of any liabilities incurred for the servicer's violation of Title IV, HEA program requirements. Discussion: In the NPRM published on February 17, 1994, the Secretary repeatedly stated that an institution is always responsible for the actions of any of its third-party servicers. This responsibility includes assuming payment of any liability incurred by the servicer as a result of a violation of a Title IV, HEA program requirement by the servicer while administering aspects of the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. See §668.25(c)(3). No institution will be required to answer for servicer violations without the opportunity to have such determinations reviewed under the procedures established in these regulations. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters were concerned with the provision in this section governing the ability of the Secretary to perform an administrative offset to collect funds owed under the procedures of this section. One of these commenters suggested that the Secretary only use administrative offset to collect funds if a third-party servicer has not entered into an agreement with the Secretary to repay those funds. The other commenter thought that this provision amounted to the equivalent of an emergency action without having to afford an institution or third-party servicer a show-cause hearing. Several commenters were opposed to the provision in this section governing the ability of the Secretary to collect on a surety or third-party guarantee before the conclusion of appeal proceedings. These commenters contended that this provision assumes that the party is guilty before it is proven. Two of the commenters were also opposed to this provision on the grounds that audit findings of the Department of Education are sometimes insupportable or in error and that to collect on a surety or guarantee before those findings can be proven wrong is simply improper. Discussion: The provisions in this section governing additional steps that the Secretary may take to collect funds owed under the procedures of this section are necessary to allow the Secretary to act quickly to protect Federal funds and insure that funds are available for collection. Institutions have a distinct financial incentive to cause delay and prolong any appeal of audit determinations. Some institutions use delays to either hide assets or drain assets so that none remain for collection; others may attempt to draw increased amounts of Title IV, HEA program funds prior to any final determination. The commenters are incorrect in stating that administrative offset denies procedural protection. Under the Department's offset regulations in 34 CFR part 30, the Department provides written notice and an opportunity to inspect records and receive an oral hearing. The Department may offset prior to completing the procedural requirements where failure to offset may substantially prejudice its ability to collect. In such cases, the Secretary completes the procedural requirements promptly thereafter and returns any funds later found not to be owing. With respect to comments about the Secretary's ability to collect a surety or guarantee before final determinations are concluded or all appeal procedures are exhausted, the Secretary does not agree with the commenters. Financial surety is provided to the Department as a condition of participation to insure that funds are available to satisfy liabilities. The Secretary would only attempt recourse in cases where there is a need to provide relief to students or borrowers affected by the actions of the institution or third-party servicer, or where the terms of the surety do not guarantee that funds will be available after appeals are completed. For example, in the case of an institution that has failed to pay refunds owed to students that attended that institution, the Secretary believes that the need to collect in advance to pay those refunds outweighs deferring collection to final determinations or until the exhaustion of all appeal procedures are completed. Changes: The reference to 34 CFR 30.28 is revised to refer to 34 CFR part 30 to clarify that the procedural protections in that part related to administrative offset apply. Section 668.25␣Contracts Between an Institution and a Third-Party Servicer Comments: Many commenters supported fully the Secretary's proposal in this section that requires a third-party servicer to assume joint and several liability with an institution for any violation by the servicer of any statutory or regulatory provision relating to Title IV of the HEA. One of these commenters noted that only the assumption of full liability by a third-party servicer could ensure the protection of public funds. In addition, many commenters supported the application of some type of liability on a third-party servicer for the servicer's violation of a Title IV, HEA program requirement, although most of these commenters recommended that the Secretary cap liability at the fees and compensation received by the servicer from the institution. A few commenters supported the Secretary's compromise to limit the liability of a third-party servicer to the fees and compensation received from the institution if the servicer was not an affiliate of the institution and to assess full joint and several liability against the servicer if the servicer was an affiliate of the institution. Other commenters believed in the concept of joint and several liability for third-party servicers only to the extent that it could be unequivocally proven that the servicer is the one at fault, or that the violation of a Title IV, HEA program requirement was more serious than simple human error.
