FR940228-0-00005 FR940228-0-00002 Comment: Six comments suggested that the Crop Provisions should be delayed until after the 1994 crop year because: (1) Timeliness_Implementation of this program for the 1994 crop would cause confusion and disruption because companies had insufficient time for training and marketing of the program to agents and insureds; (2) Program Integrity_The effect upon the overall public acceptance and program integrity will be negative as a result of the inevitable service problems associated with ``rushing'' a program of such national scale; and (3) Changes_To a large degree, most of the proposed provisions are positive and will improve the program; however, by delaying implementation until the 1985 crop year specific provisions can be studied. Response: FCIC delayed implementation until the 1995 crop year. Comment: Two comments suggested the proposed Small Grains Crop Provisions undergo a pilot test in two to three county groupings located in (1) a predominantly spring wheat only area, (2) a winter wheat only area, and (3) an area having significant acreage of both winter and spring wheat. The comments stated that this approach would avoid undue risk of adverse effects to a wheat program currently working well for thousands of policyholders. An additional comment recommended that the proposal be tabled for further study and discussion to give all parties sufficient time to adequately assess the effects of the proposed changes. Response: The Small Grains Crop Provisions permit farmers to choose the same or nearly the same coverage as currently offered. FCIC does not anticipate significant problems with the proposed provisions, and sees no need to create a pilot program to test effectiveness. Comment: Two comments recommended that the term ``initially planted'' be defined for the purposes of unit division. Current farming practices are such that more than one use/interpretation of this term is possible. Another comment recommended that ``initially planted'' be defined as ``the first occurrence of planting the crop to the acreage for the crop year''. Response: FCIC agrees that the term ``initially planted'' should be defined and has done so. Comment: One comment stated that the definition of ``practical to replant'' contained in the Common Crop Insurance Policy conflicts with the Small Grains Crop Provisions. The Common Crop Insurance Policy indicates it is practical to replant until 20 days after the final planting date. The Small Grains Crop Provisions indicate that any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date must be replanted unless FCIC agrees that replanting is not practical. It was recommended that a definition of ``practical to replant'' be added to the Small Grains Crop Provisions that will override the definition contained in the Common Crop Insurance Policy. Response: The comment misapplies the definition of ``practical to replant'' in the Common Policy. That policy does not indicate that it is practical to replant until 20 days after the final planting date but, to the contrary, states that it is not practical to replant after that date. The provisions do not conflict. A new definition has not been added due to this comment. However, a new definition has been added that is compatible with the new 25 day late planting period. Comment: One comment noted that the definition of ``swathed'' indicates that a wheat crop that has been cut but not placed in windrows is considered ``swathed.'' The comment suggested rewording the definition to require that the crop be placed in a windrow. Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has appropriately modified the definition. Comment: One comment stated that the wording in the unit division section has significantly changed as has the unit division wording in the ``draft'' 1994 Crop Insurance Handbook (CIH). The comment recommended corresponding policy language with that in the CIH. Response: Language contained in the Crop Insurance Handbook is interpretive and procedural in nature. The Crop Insurance Handbook details unit division for various crops, and is intended for use by insurers and their agents to interpret the crop provisions. In the event of conflict the provisions control. The Small Grains Crop Provisions outline the unit structure for small grains in a concise manner and are controlling. Comment: One comment disagreed with requiring insureds to furnish records for each optional unit for at least the last crop year the unit was planted. According to current procedure, ``in order for optional units to apply, the insured must have provided production reports for the most recent year in the base period which support the optional units proposed by the insured.'' The comment asserts that unless all optional units are planted every year, the new policy could require an insured to furnish records for several years to qualify for optional units. This places an increased burden on all producers, particularly on those practicing crop rotation. The comment recommended revising the provision to ``You must have verifiable records of production for at least the last crop year used to determine your production guarantee.'' Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has modified the provision with language similar to that recommended. Comment: A comment inquired if the process of raising the planter for a few feet and then resuming planting, or leaving a space unplanted is sufficient for a ``clear and discernible break in the planting pattern''. The comment suggested further clarification of the term, ``clear and discernible break in the planting pattern''. Response: Requirements for separate units have been met if the break in the planting pattern is adequate to allow measurement of individual insurance units, and allow separate harvest of the units. The terms are self explanatory. Whether a break exists depends on whether these functions can occur. No changes in policy language are needed to clarify boundary requirements. Comment: Four comments supported initially planted spring wheat being treated as a separate unit. Each comment also indicated that there should not be a mandatory replant provision for damaged winter wheat. One of the four comments indicated that any premium increase caused by the separate optional units for spring and winter wheat should be minimal. Response: Separate optional units for initially planted winter and spring wheat are allowed by this regulation, although farmers who elect this choice will forgo the premium discount for maintaining a single unit. These terms are consistent with those terms given to a producer who elects to plant spring and winter wheat into separate sections.
