FR940627-0-00189 FR940627-0-00019 (D) The analytical method used to measure species of PAHs and NPAHs should be capable of detecting at least 1 ppm (equivalent to 0.001 microgram (μg) of compound per milligram of organic extract) of these compounds in the extractable organic matter. The concentration of each individual PAH or NPAH compound identified shall be reported in units of microgram per mile. Each compound which is present at 0.001 μg per mile or more must be identified, measured, and reported. The following individual species shall be measured: (1 ) PAHs: ( i ) Benzo( a )anthracene; ( ii ) Benzo[ b ]fluoranthene; ( iii ) Benzo[ k ]fluoranthene; ( iv ) Benzo( a )pyrene; ( v ) Chrysene; ( vi ) Dibenzo[ a,h ]anthracene; and ( vii ) Indeno[1,2,3- c,d ]pyrene. ( 2 ) NPAHs: ( i ) 7-Nitrobenzo[ a ]anthracene; ( ii ) 6-Nitrobenzo[ a ]pyrene; ( iii ) 6-Nitrochrysene; ( iv ) 2-Nitrofluorene; and ( v ) 1-Nitropyrene. (E) The analytical method used to measure species and classes of PCDD/PCDFs should be capable of detecting at least 1 part per trillion (ppt) (equivalent to 0.001 picogram (pg) of compound per milligram of organic extract) of these compounds in the extractable organic matter. The concentration of each individual PCDD/PCDF compound identified shall be reported in units of picograms (pg) per mile. Each compound which is present at 0.5 pg per mile or more must be identified, measured, and reported. ( 1 ) With respect to measurement of PCDD/PCDFs only, the liquid extracts from the particulate and semi-volatile emissions fractions may be combined into one sample for analysis. ( 2 ) The manufacturer is referred to 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 23 for a protocol which may be used to identify and measure any potential PCDD/PCDFs which might be present in exhaust emissions from a fuel or additive/base fuel mixture. ( 3 ) The following individual compounds and classes of compounds of PCDD/PCDFs shall be identified and measured: ( i ) Individual tetra-chloro-substituted dibenzodioxins (tetra-CDDs); (ii) Individual tetra-chloro-substituted dibenzofurans (tetra-CDFs); ( iii ) Penta-CDDs and penta-CDFs, as one class; ( iv ) Hexa-CDDs and hexa-CDFs, as one class; ( v ) Hepta-CDDs and hepta-CDFs as one class; and ( vi ) Octo-CDDs and octo-CDFs as one class. (iv) With respect to all phases (vapor, semi-volatile, and particulate) of combustion emissions generated from those fuels and additive/base fuel mixtures classified in the atypical categories (pursuant to §79.56), the identity and concentration of individual emission products containing such atypical elements shall also be determined. (3) For evaporative fuels and evaporative fuel additives, characterization of the evaporative emissions shall include: (i) Determination of the concentration of total hydrocarbons for the applicable vehicle type and class in 40 CFR part 86, subpart B (§§86.101 through 86.145). (ii) Determination of the identity and concentration of individual species of hydrocarbon compounds containing 12 or fewer carbon atoms. Such characterization shall begin within 30 minutes after emission collection is completed.
