FR940126-2-00034 FR940126-2-00020 (d) Cash Depositories. (1) Any money advanced to the LRO under the terms of this award must be deposited in a bank with Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) insurance coverage, and the balance exceeding the FDIC or FSLIC coverage must be collaterally secured. Interest income earned on these monies must be put back into program costs. (2) LROs are encouraged to use minority banks (a bank which is owned at least 50 percent by minority group members). This is consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for minority business enterprises. A list of minority-owned banks can be obtained from the Office of Minority Business Enterprises, Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20203. (e) Retention and custodial requirements for records. (1) Financial records, supporting documentation, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the award shall be retained for a period of three years, with the following exceptions: (i) If any litigation, claim or audit is started before the expiration of the three-year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved. (ii) Records for nonexpendable property, if any, acquired in part with Federal funds shall be retained for three years after submission of a final report. Nonexpendable property is defined as tangible property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of more than $300 per unit. (2) The retention period starts from the date of the submission by the LRO of the final expenditure report. (3) The National Board may request transfer of certain records to its custody from the LRO when it determines that the records possess long-term retention value. The LRO shall make such transfers as requested. (4) The Director of FEMA, the Comptroller General of the United States, and the National Board, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any pertinent books, documents, papers, and records of the recipient organization, and its subgrantees to make audits, examinations, excerpts and transcripts. (f) Financial management systems. (1) The LRO/fiscal agent or fiscal conduit shall maintain a financial management system that provides for the following: (i) Accurate, current and complete disclosures of the financial results of this program. (ii) Records that identify adequately the source and application of funds for federally supported activities. These records shall contain information pertaining to Federal awards, authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, outlays, and incomes. (iii) Effective control over and accountability for all funds, property, and other assets. (iv) Procedures for determining eligibility of costs in accordance with the provisions of the EFSP manual. (v) Accounting records that are supported by source documentation. The LRO must maintain and retain a register of cash receipts and disbursements and original supporting documentation such as purchase orders, invoices, canceled checks, and whatever other documentation is necessary to support its cost under the program. (vi) A systematic method to ensure timely and appropriate resolution of audit findings and recommendations. (vii) In cases where more than one civil jurisdiction (e.g., a city and a balance of county, or several counties) recommends awards to the same LRO, the organization can combine these funds in a single account. However, separate program records for each civil jurisdiction award must be kept. (g) Audit requirements. The LRO will be eligible to receive funds if it arranges for an audit of funds to coincide with the next scheduled annual audit of its financial affairs. An original and two copies of this audit will be provided to the National Board on request. It is not necessary to have a separate, independent audit for this award so long as program funds are treated as a separate element in the agency's regular annual audit. If the LRO does not have a certified annual audit, its audit must be provided by a Local Board-designated fiscal agent for the recipient organization willing to account for the funds. No funds will be issued to an LRO funded in the previous phase that has not completed an annual audit. All National Board-funded agencies (both governmental and not-for-profit) that receive $100,000 or more in Federal funds must comply with the Single Audit Act, OMB Circular A&hyph;133. This $100,000 could be exclusively EFSP funds or a combination of EFSP funds and other Federal funds which an agency might be receiving. In addition to compliance with the Single Audit Act, the National Board requires all EFSP-funded agencies to meet the requirements stated in this plan regarding program compliance, reporting, documentation and submission of documentation. (h) Payment . A first payment shall be made to the LRO by the Secretariat upon recommendation of the Local Board and approval by the National Board. An interim report will be mailed with the second and third check requests to be completed by each agency and mailed to the National Board. Second/third installments will be held until the jurisdiction's final Local Board report and documentation for the previous year has been reviewed and found to be clear.
