FR941221-0-00055 FR941221-0-00018 The preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule provided a detailed summary of the provisions of subtitle D, and readers are referred to the May 3, 1994 interim rule for a more complete discussion of the provisions of subtitle D. The following, however, provides a review of which section 8 housing projects are covered by subtitle D, and therefore eligible for the election of occupancy preferences authorized by subtitle D. Eligibility to Provide Preferences for Elderly Residents Section 651 of the HCD Act of 1992 provides in relevant part, ``[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, an owner of a covered section 8 housing project designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families, may in selecting tenants for units in the project that become available for occupancy, give preference to elderly families who have applied for occupancy in the housing *␣*␣*.'' (Emphasis added.) With regard to the phrase ``designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families,'' HUD believes that in using the term ``primarily,'' the Congress intended to limit the applicability of subtitle D to either the section 8 units in those covered projects in which a majority of the section 8 units were designed for elderly families (i.e., seniors 3 ), or to the section 8 units in covered projects where a distinct portion of the project (e.g., a tower or a wing of a project, but not just a floor) exists in which the majority of section 8 units were restricted to seniors only. Thus, section 651 may apply to the section 8 units in an entire project originally designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families (``covered section 8 housing project''), or section 651 may apply to the section 8 units in a portion of such project, but only where the section 8 units in this project or portion of the project were designed primarily for seniors. The preamble, at times, uses the term ``covered section 8 units'' to recognize that there are partially assisted projects whose section 8 units will be covered by this rule. Additionally, the term ``non-elderly disabled families'' is used to refer to disabled families who are not elderly or near-elderly families. 3 As used in this preamble, the term ``seniors'' refers to families whose heads of household, their spouses or sole members are 62 years or older. HUD points out that the statutory system of preferences authorized by subtitle D is only available to projects which qualify as ``covered section 8 housing projects designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families.'' HUD emphasizes that many projects that have section 8 assistance are not ``covered section 8 housing projects designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families'' (as discussed in the following section), and may not elect the subtitle D statutory system of preferences. Covered Section 8 Housing Project: Section 659 Subtitle D and this final rule (and the May 3, 1994 interim rule) define ``covered section 8 housing'' to mean housing that: (1) Was constructed or substantially rehabilitated pursuant to assistance provided under section 8(b)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (1937 Act), as in effect before October 1, 1983; (2) Is assisted under a contract for assistance under such section; and (3) Was originally designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families. 1. Projects that are Newly Constructed or Substantially Rehabilitated Pursuant to Assistance Provided Under Section 8(b)(2) of the 1937 Act, as in Effect Before October 1, 1983 HUD administers six section 8 programs that involve newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated housing. However, the system of preferences under subtitle D does not apply to all these programs. The programs to which subtitle D applies are: (1) The Section 8 New Construction Program, 24 CFR part 880; (2) The Section 8 Substantial Rehabilitation Program, 24 CFR part 881; (3) The State Housing Agencies program (insofar as it involves new construction and substantial rehabilitation), 24 CFR part 883; (4) The New Construction Set-Aside for Section 515 Rural Rental Housing Projects Program, 24 CFR part 884; and (5) The Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-Owned Projects (insofar as it involves substantial rehabilitation), 24 CFR part 886. 4 4 The ``Additional Assistance Program for Projects with HUD-Insured and HUD-Held Mortgages'' (see 24 CFR part 886, subpart A) involves only existing housing. However, the ``Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-owned Projects'' (see 24 CFR part 886, subpart C) involves substantially rehabilitated housing, in addition to existing housing. Accordingly, this rule would amend subpart C of 24 CFR part 886, but only for projects involving substantially rehabilitated housing. Other programs which may involve section 8 new construction or substantial rehabilitation assistance, but which are not covered by the preferences in subtitle D are identified in section 658 of the HCD Act of 1992. Under section 658 of the HCD Act of 1992, an owner of a project (or portion of a project) that was originally designed for occupancy by elderly families, and assisted under the Section 221(d)(3) Below Market Interest Rate (BMIR) program, the Section 236 Mortgage Insurance and Interest Reduction Payment for Rental Projects program, or the Section 202 Loans for Housing for the Elderly or Handicapped Program, may continue to restrict occupancy in such projects (or portion of such projects) to elderly families in accordance with the rules, standards and agreements in effect when the housing project was developed. Accordingly, under this rule, the subtitle D statutory system of preferences does not apply to newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated section 8 projects with HUD insurance or assistance under any of these three programs. 5 HUD emphasizes that it is critical that a project owner understand the type of assistance a project receives to determine eligibility under subtitle D and these regulations. 5 Although in this regard, the Department is aware of no Section 221(d)(3) BMIR projects or Section 236 projects with Section 8 new construction or substantial rehabilitation assistance. As such, by its terms, ``covered section 8 housing'' does not seem to encompass the Section 236 Mortgage Insurance and Interest Reduction Payment for Rental Projects program or the Section 221(d)(3) BMIR program.
