FR940413-0-00019 FR940413-0-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;29&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8879; AD 94&hyph;08&hyph;07] Airworthiness Directives; McDonnell Douglas Model MD&hyph;11 and MD&hyph;11F Series Airplanes Equipped With Honeywell Flight Management Computers AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain McDonnell Douglas Model MD&hyph;11 and MD&hyph;11F series airplanes. This action requires revising the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to ensure that the flight crews verify the accuracy of data provided by the Flight Management Computer (FMC) under certain conditions. This amendment is prompted by a report that certain FMC's may provide erroneous V speed data under certain conditions. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent the airplane from failing to achieve sufficient climb gradient, which may result in the airplane failing to achieve obstacle clearance. DATES: Effective April 28, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;29&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Information concerning this amendment may be obtained from or examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas A. Enyart, Aerospace Engineer, Flight Test Branch, ANM&hyph;162L, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California 90806&hyph;2425; telephone (310) 988&hyph;5372; fax (310) 988&hyph;5210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Recently, an operator of McDonnell Douglas Model MD&hyph;11 series airplanes reported that certain Honeywell Flight Management Computers (FMC) provided erroneous V speed data when the anti-ice system was turned ON during flex (assumed) temperature takeoffs. Investigation into this problem revealed that the takeoff decision speed (V 1 ) could be as low as 12 knots below the V 1 speed data published in the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM), and the rotation speed (V R ) could be as low as 4 knots below the V R speed data published in the FAA-approved AFM. An airplane rotating at low V R speeds could reach 35 feet at a speed less than the published minimum safety speed (V 2 ). This condition, if not corrected, could result in these airplanes failing to achieve sufficient climb gradient, which may lead to these airplanes failing to achieve obstacle clearance. The FMC's installed on Model MD&hyph;11 series airplanes are identical to those installed Model MD&hyph;11F series airplanes. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other McDonnell Douglas Model MD&hyph;11 and MD&hyph;11F series airplanes of the same type design equipped with certain Honeywell FMC's, this AD is being issued to prevent these airplanes from failing to achieve sufficient climb gradient, which may result in these airplanes failing to achieve obstacle clearance. This AD requires revising the FAA-approved AFM to ensure that the flight crews verify the accuracy of data provided by the FMC when the anti-ice system is turned ON during flex temperature takeoffs. This is considered to be interim action. The manufacturer of these airplanes is currently developing new software, in concert with the manufacturer of the FMC, that will address the unsafe condition addressed by this AD. Once this software is developed, approved, and available, the FAA may consider additional rulemaking. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;29&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter.
