FR940207-2-00153 FR940207-2-00073 (ii) New agreement for Canadian clearing members that settle through CDS. The Original Agreement between OCC and NSCC was amended in 1987 to include Canadian clearing members. 16 In connection with implementing the Second Restated Agreements, OCC will require each Canadian clearing member that settles through the Canadian Depository for Securities (``CDS'') to execute a new agreement. The primary purpose of the new agreement is to cause each such Canadian clearing member to acknowledge expressly that the obligations of the Canadian clearing member to OCC with respect to settlement of exercises and assignments are not satisfied until CDS has satisfied its obligations to the DCC of the Canadian clearing member arising from the exercises and assignments and, accordingly, that the uses that OCC may make of the Canadian clearing member's margin deposits and other assets include satisfying any obligation to the DCC incurred by OCC as a result of the DCC's settlement of the Canadian clearing member's exercises and assignments through CDS. The agreement also causes the Canadian clearing member to acknowledge that it will be deemed not to have designated a DCC for purposes of OCC's rules if CDS at any time should cease to be a participant in good standing of a CCC. The new agreement is designed to make the Canadian clearing member alternative settlement arrangement and related agreement as parallel as possible in form and in content to the appointing clearing member and the nominating clearing member alternative settlement arrangements and their related agreements. 17 16 Canadian clearing members are OCC clearing members that are organized in Canada and that settle exercises and assignments of equity options through the facilities of the Canadian Depository for Securities (``CDS''). 17 Currently, NSCC is the only CCC of which CDS is a participant. Accordingly, Canadian clearing members that wish to settle through CDS will be required to select NSCC as their DCC. However, provisions relating to Canadian clearing members that settle through CDS also are included in the MCC and the SCCP Second Restated Agreements in order to preserve the similarity of the three Second Restated Agreements as far as possible and in order to accommodate the possibility that MCC or SCCP may enter into a relationship with CDS at some time in the future. (iii) New agreement for nominating clearing members and nominated correspondents. Each Second Restated Agreement contains provisions addressing a new alternative settlement arrangement under which an OCC clearing member nominates an entity that is not an OCC clearing member but that is a participant in a CCC to effect settlement on its behalf. The need to accommodate the nominating clearing member alternative settlement arrangement came to OCC's attention as a result of a review of the records of OCC and NSCC relating to settlements of options exercises and assignments. In the course of that review, it was determined that NSCC's procedures will permit an NSCC participant that is not an OCC clearing member but that is affiliated with two OCC clearing members, neither of which is an NSCC participant, to effect settlement of options exercises and assignments on behalf of the two OCC clearing members. After considering such an arrangement, OCC has determined that it does not create any unusual risk for OCC or for the system for settling options exercises and assignments. OCC also has determined that such an arrangement will not involve any additional risk to OCC or to the system even if the entities involved are not affiliated. Accordingly, OCC has concluded that such arrangements should be expressly described in and permitted by its By-Laws and Rules. The new agreement to be used for this settlement alternative requires the nominating clearing member ( i.e., an OCC clearing member) to not only appoint its nominated correspondent ( i.e., a participant in a CCC that is not an OCC clearing member) but also to designate the CCC through which its settlements are to be made. 18 The nominating clearing member does not have to be a participant of the CCC which it designates as its DCC but the nominated correspondent must be a participant in good standing of the CCC designated as the DCC. The new agreement also requires that the DCC of the nominating clearing member acknowledge the appointment of the nominated correspondent. This additional acknowledgement is appropriate because OCC will report exercises and assignments of each nominating clearing member to the DCC using the OCC clearing member number of the nominating clearing member. 19 Therefore, OCC needs to be assured by the DCC that the DCC is aware of the appointment of the nominated correspondent and is prepared to recognize that settlements reported to it under the OCC clearing member number of the nominating clearing member are to be processed for the account of the nominated correspondent. In addition, the nominating clearing member is deemed to be the delivering or receiving clearing member, as the case may be, for purposes of OCC Rule 913, and accordingly, it is the recipient of delivery advices made available by OCC. 20 18 In contrast, an appointing clearing member is not required to designate a DCC because settlement is effected through the DCC of the appointed clearing member. 19 In contrast, OCC reports exercises and assignments of each appointing clearing member to the DCC of the appointed clearing member using the OCC clearing member number of the appointed clearing member. 20 In contrast, OCC Rule 913(f) provides that the appointed clearing member is deemed to be the delivering or receiving clearing member, as the case may be, and accordingly, the appointed clearing member is the recipient of delivery advices made available by OCC.
