FR940705-2-00152 FR940705-2-00090 Appendix Q-II-B&hyph;1-g-(7). The containment area shall be in accordance with state and Federal laws and animal care requirements. Appendix Q-II-B&hyph;1-g-(8). A biosafety manual shall be prepared or adopted. Personnel shall be advised of special hazards and required to read and follow instructions on practices and procedures. Appendix Q-II-B&hyph;2. Animal Facilities (BL2&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-B&hyph;2-a. Animals shall be contained within an enclosed structure (animal room or equivalent) to minimize the possibility of theft or unintentional release and to avoid arthropod access. The special provision to avoid the entry or escape of arthropods from the animal areas may be waived if the agent in use is not known to be transmitted by arthropods. Appendix Q-II-B&hyph;2-b. Surfaces shall be impervious to water and resistant to acids, alkalis, organic solvents, and moderate heat. Appendix Q-II-B&hyph;2-c. The animal containment area shall be designed so that it can be easily cleaned. Appendix Q-II-B&hyph;2-d. Windows that open shall be fitted with fly screens. Appendix Q-II-B&hyph;2-e. An autoclave shall be available for decontamination of laboratory wastes. Appendix Q-II-B&hyph;2-f. If arthropods are used in the experiment or the agent under study can be transmitted by an arthropod, interior work areas shall be appropriately screened (52 mesh). All perimeter joints and openings shall be sealed and additional arthropod control mechanisms used to minimize arthropod entry and propagation, including appropriate screening of access doors or the equivalent. Appendix Q-II-C. Biosafety Level 3_Animals (BL3&hyph;N) (See Appendix Q-III-B) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1. Standard Practices (BL3&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-a. Animal Facility Access (BL3&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-a-(1). The containment area shall be locked. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-a-(2). The containment area shall be patrolled or monitored at frequent intervals. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-a-(3). The containment building shall be controlled and have a locking access. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-a-(4). The Animal Facility Director shall establish policies and procedures whereby only persons who have been advised of the potential hazard and who meet any specific entry requirements (e.g., vaccination) shall enter the laboratory or animal rooms. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-a-(5). Animal room doors, gates, or other closures shall be kept closed when experiments are in progress. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-b. Decontamination and Inactivation (BL3&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-b-(1). The work surfaces of containment equipment shall be decontaminated when work with organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules is finished. Where feasible, plastic-backed paper toweling shall be used on nonporous work surfaces to facilitate clean-up. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-b-(2). All animals shall be euthanized at the end of their experimental usefulness and the carcasses decontaminated before disposal in an approved manner. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-b-(3). Needles and syringes shall be promptly placed in a puncture-resistant container and decontaminated, preferably by autoclaving, before discard or reuse. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-b-(4). Special safety testing, decontamination procedures, and Institutional Biosafety Committee approval shall be required to transfer agents or tissue/organ specimens from a BL3&hyph;N animal facility to a facility with a lower containment classification. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-b-(5). Liquid effluent from containment equipment, sinks, biological safety cabinets, animal rooms, primary barriers, floor drains, and sterilizers shall be decontaminated by heat treatment before being released into the sanitary system. The procedure used for heat decontamination of liquid wastes shall be monitored with a recording thermometer. The effectiveness of the heat decontamination process system shall be revalidated every 30 days with an indicator organism.
