FR940727-1-00024 FR940727-1-00012 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of the Secretary 43 CFR Part 4 Bureau of Land Management 43 CFR Parts 1780 and 4100 [WO&hyph;220&hyph;4320&hyph;02 24 1A] RIN 1004&hyph;AB89 Department Hearings and Appeals Procedures; Cooperative Relations; Grazing Administration_Exclusive of Alaska AGENCY: Office of the Secretary and the Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule; extension of comment period and additional request for comment. SUMMARY: The comment period on the Department's proposed rule pertaining primarily to the administration of livestock grazing on public lands is extended to provide additional opportunity for public comment. This document also solicits public comment on whether the Department of the Interior should consider reducing the fee that would be charged for grazing sheep on public lands. Comments on this issue will be considered along with comments on the proposed rule published in the Federal Register on March 25, 1994, in developing the Department's final rule. DATES: Comments on this proposed rule must be submitted in writing by September 9, 1994. Comments postmarked after this date will not be considered in the preparation of the final rule. ADDRESSES: Send comments on this proposed rule to Rangeland Reform '94, P.O. Box 66300, Washington, D.C. 20035&hyph;6300. Com ments delivered to an address other than above may not be considered in the preparation of the final rule. Comments on the proposed rule will be made available for public inspection during regular business hours (7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.), Monday through Friday. Viewing of the comments can be arranged by contacting the Bureau of Land Management at the telephone number provided below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark W. Stiles, Regulations Analyst, Division of Legislation and Regulatory Management, Bureau of Land Management, (202) 208&hyph;4256. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposed rule that would amend primarily the regulations that govern how the Secretary of the Interior, through the Bureau of Land Management, administers livestock grazing was published in the Federal Register March 25, 1994 (59 FR 14314). That proposed rule is a part of the Department's Rangeland Reform '94, an effort to improve the administration of grazing. The original comment period on the proposed rule was to end on July 28, 1994. The comment period is being extended until September 9, 1994. During the development of the proposed rule and since the opening of the comment period on the Rangeland Reform '94 proposal, the Governors of several States have organized groups to consider the Department's proposals. The Governor of Wyoming has established one such group which is developing comments and alternative actions to be considered. The Governor of Wyoming has requested an extension of the comment period to provide the Wyoming working group sufficient time to complete their model for rangeland reform. In keeping with the Department's intent to encourage collaborative efforts in the resolution of difficult public land management issues, the comment period on the proposed rule is being extended until September 9, 1994. Elements of Rangeland Reform '94 have been analyzed through a draft environmental impact statement (EIS), notice of which was published in the Federal Register on May 13, 1994 (59 FR 25118). The Forest Service is a cooperating agency in the preparation of the EIS. The comment period on the draft EIS ends August 11, 1994, but the Department is considering the need to extend the EIS comment period to coincide with the closing of the comment period on the related proposed rule. Any extension of the comment period for the draft EIS will be made through a separate Federal Register notice. A key provision of the Department's proposed rule published March 25, 1994, would raise the Federal grazing fee to a level more closely reflecting market value. Under the proposed rule the grazing fee would be charged for each animal unit month (AUM) of grazing on Federal lands. An AUM was defined, for billing purposes, as a month's use and occupancy of range by one cow, bull, steer, heifer, horse, burro, mule, five sheep, or five goats, over the age of six months at the time of entering the public lands or other lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM); for all such weaned animals regardless of age; and for such animals that will become 12 months of age during the authorized period of use. This document requests comment from the public regarding whether the definition of an AUM for billing purposes, as it pertains to sheep, should be six or seven sheep, rather than five sheep. The Department solicits comments on this aspect of the proposed rule in recognition of the decline in the number of sheep operators and number of sheep AUMs authorized on public lands over the last 20 years. During the period of 1975 through 1993 the number of sheep operators using public rangelands administered by the BLM dropped from 2,490 to 1,624. During the same period the number of AUMs authorized for sheep use dropped from about 1.8 million to about 1.2 million. The decline in sheep grazing on the public lands may be attributed to a number of factors, but has resulted in a shift from sheep to cattle in many areas where grazing by sheep would be environmentally and administratively preferable. It has come to the attention of the Department that the long-term trend in the shift from sheep to cattle may be accelerated by recent changes in market factors such as the phase-out of wool incentive and unshorn lamb payments. The public is asked to provide information addressing whether or how the proposed rule might affect the long-term trend in the shift from sheep to cattle. In particular, the Department is inviting comment on the effect of changing the definition of an AUM for billing purposes in a manner that would reduce the proposed grazing fee that would be charged for the use of public lands by sheep by 17 percent if the number of sheep per billing unit would be changed from five to six, or 28 percent if changed from five to seven. An adjustment in the definition of an AUM for billing purposes would not affect the manner in which sheep stocking rates are determined. It would only affect the price paid for the use of public lands by sheep. Stocking rates are determined by, among other things, assessing the capacity of the public lands for a given kind of livestock. The equivalency between cattle and sheep expressed in the definition of an AUM for billing purposes is not used by the BLM in determining stocking rates. The Department intends that any change in the definition of an AUM for billing purposes would not affect the proposed 30 percent incentive fee reduction.
