FR941130-0-00089 FR941130-0-00015 Section 674.31␣Promissory Note Comments: One commenter objected to the proposal that institutions be required to use the promissory note developed by the Secretary with no changes, saying that the proposal was in direct violation of the statute. Many commenters supported the provision but felt that some discretion should be retained with the format of the promissory note, as long as they retain the text provided by the Department. Another commenter recommended including language in this provision that would clarify that ``stated options'' (such as the minimum repayment) are not considered modifications for the purposes of this subsection. One of these commenters pointed out that it could use an NCR form by putting the signatures on the front of the form with all the text on the back, thereby allowing the borrower to pull one copy off the back for his or her records. Another of these commenters wondered whether the institution could still add the provision telling borrowers that their academic transcript would be withheld in the event of a default. Discussion: The promissory note is a key document in any legal action and serves as a permanent record for reaffirmation of any loans and, therefore, must remain as developed by the Secretary. Optional elements, such as the minimum monthly repayments, have been provided for institutions to use at their own discretion and will continue to be provided as options in the text of the promissory note. As such, the Secretary does not need to provide regulatory language to support the continuation of the optional language. The Secretary intends the text of the Department's Federal Perkins loan promissory note to remain unchanged. The ``text'' includes the order of the provisions and the placement of the signatures. These may not be changed. The current regulations have provided that the note approved by the Secretary may not have substantive changes made to it. Withholding the official academic transcript is in violation of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), regardless of whether the borrower has signed such a provision in his or her promissory note. Such a provision may not be included in the promissory note. The institution may change only the format of the note, e.g., the type, style, and paper size. Changes: None. Section 674.33␣Repayment Comments: Many commenters supported the forbearance provision. Several commenters felt that the proposed wording in section 674.33(d)(2) indicates that the minimum period of forbearance is 12 months and should be modified to read ``at intervals of up to 12 months.'' One commenter requested clarification of ``disposable income'' and ``poverty line.'' Another commenter suggested additional documentation to the Federal tax return for the purposes of documenting ``disposable income.'' Another commenter felt this provision should make reference to the national service award. Discussion: For a discussion of these issues as they relate to making provisions in the Federal Perkins Loan program comparable to similar provisions in the FFEL Program, the Secretary asks the commenters to refer to the discussion of the definition of ``disposable income'' under §674.2. The ``poverty line'' is determined in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community Service Block Grant Act, and information on the poverty line may be obtained by calling the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, Department of Health and Human Services, (202) 690&hyph;6141. The Secretary does not have the statutory authority to extend forbearance to borrowers serving in National Community Service jobs. However, the Secretary strongly encourages institutions to use their discretion, allowed under these regulatory provisions, to grant forbearance to borrowers serving in National Community Service jobs. Changes: The forbearance provision is amended to match the final FFEL Program regulatory provisions for forbearance, where appropriate. Section 674.34␣Deferment of Repayment Comments: Many commenters disagreed with the Secretary's proposal that if an institution no longer qualifies as an institution of higher education, the borrower's deferment ends on the date the institution ceases to qualify. The commenters argued that the borrower's eligibility should not be affected by circumstances that are beyond the borrower's control. The unanticipated cessation of a deferment would also pose an undue hardship on the borrower. One commenter suggested that to expect a borrower or an institution and its third party servicer to monitor another institution's qualification as an institution of higher education throughout the borrower's deferment period would be unduly burdensome for the institution and the servicer. One commenter agreed that borrowers who attend institutions that do not qualify as institutions of higher education should not receive deferments; however, this requirement should be eased for borrowers who begin an academic year at an eligible institution that subsequently loses its eligibility sometime during that academic year. The commenters suggested that, at a minimum, the borrowers should be granted a continuation of their deferment to the end of the academic year in which they are enrolled. A few commenters suggested that a borrower should continue to be eligible for a deferment for the remainder of the deferment period. Discussion: While the Secretary understands these concerns, the Secretary does not agree with the commenters. The statute is clear that a student must be attending an institution of higher education (IHE). The Secretary feels that very few borrowers would be in the situation in which an initially-eligible IHE would lose its eligibility. However, the Secretary is not requiring the deferment-granting institution to closely monitor this situation. Rather, in order to not unduly increase burden at the institution, the Secretary requires that if the deferment-granting institution becomes aware that an institution is no longer an IHE, the borrower's deferment must be terminated. This borrower then qualifies for a 6-month post-deferment grace period, which effectively reduces the impact on the borrowers. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter was concerned that dental residents would be ineligible for a ``student'' deferment because medical interns and residents are no longer eligible for deferments. This commenter noted that dental residents often receive little or no stipends, and a significant number pay tuition. This commenter suggested that §674.34(b)(2) be changed to include dental residents as eligible borrowers for a ``student'' deferment, as has been done in the FFEL and FDSL programs regulations. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Changes: A change has been made to include dental residents as eligible for a ``student'' deferment. Comments: One commenter recommended that the Secretary include in this section the same hardship deferment provisions as are included in redesignated §674.35(i), §674.36(e), and §674.37(e). The commenter believes that this would provide the opportunity for institutions to maintain their maximum flexibility in working with borrowers. Discussion: The Secretary feels that any benefits that accrued to borrowers under the ``old'' hardship deferment are now available under forbearance. Also, there is no statutory authorization for such a deferment in the Federal Perkins Loan program. Changes: None.
