FR940804-0-00104 FR940804-0-00024 II. Rulemaking History On November 22, 1992, the Department of Justice published in the Federal Register a proposed rule regarding communications with represented persons. 57 FR 54737. By December 21, 1992, the close of the comment period, the Department had received comments from 20 sources. The Department was concerned that not all interested parties had received sufficient opportunity to respond during the initial comment period. Noting ``the complex and important nature of the rule to the criminal and civil justice systems and the licenses and livelihoods of its attorneys,'' on July 26, 1993, the Department reissued the proposed rule for an additional 30-day comment period. 58 FR 39976. The Department received 219 comments following this second publication of the proposed rule. On March 3, 1994, the Department issued a new proposed rule governing the same subject matter for an additional 30-day comment period. 59 FR 10086. In response to concerns raised by bar organizations, bar counsel, state and federal judges, and others, that proposal reflected substantial changes from the earlier proposals. This publication of the proposed rule was accompanied by the issuance of companion provisions that the Department intends to include in the United States Attorneys' Manual, which set forth certain more restrictive policies with regard to overt investigatory communications. The discussion that follows summarizes the issues that were raised in response to the Department's latest publication of the proposed rule. III. Summary of Comments Received During the most recent comment period, which closed on April 4, 1994, timely comments were received from 31 sources, including nine individuals, nine organizations, four state court judges, one federal court judge, five U.S. Attorney's Offices, two Department of Justice components, and one other federal agency. Of the 31 comments received, nine comments supported promulgation of the proposed rule, 20 comments opposed the rule, and two other comments failed to take any definitive position on the proposed rule as a whole. As with previous versions of this rule, many writing in opposition to the Department's proposal argued that it unfairly permits the Department to hold its attorneys to ethical rules different from those that apply to all other attorneys. Other opponents of the proposed rule_most notably the ABA and a special committee of the Conference of State Supreme Court Chief Justices_challenged the proposed rule on constitutional and statutory grounds, arguing that the Department lacks authority to preempt state ethics rules or to supersede local federal district court rules. Those writing in support of the proposal generally praised it for bringing certainty and clear guidance to an area that previously has been unclear and disruptive of law enforcement functions. The Department has considered carefully each comment and appreciates the thoughtfulness reflected in them. The Department's responses to those comments are discussed below, either in the ``General Comments'' section or in the context of the particular section or paragraph to which they pertain as part of the ``Section-by-Section'' analysis. All revisions adopted in the final rule are indicated. IV. General Comments Comments were received on the following three general issues: (1) the need for the rule; (2) the constitutional and statutory authority for the rule; and (3) the sufficiency of the rule's internal enforcement mechanisms. These general comments essentially repeated comments received in response to previous versions of the proposed rule. After careful reconsideration of these recurring issues, the Department's position on many of these subjects_in particular, the constitutional and statutory basis for this rule and the need for and advisability of such a rule_remains the same. Therefore, the Department's response in this section builds upon responses published in previous commentaries. A. The Need for the Rule. One state court judge, one federal judge, five individuals, and six organizations criticized the proposed rule as holding government attorneys to lower ethical standards than those that apply to all other attorneys. This comment was formulated in a variety of ways, with the following as illustrative examples: ``[t]he rules apply to everyone, and it should especially apply to attorneys in Government service;'' ``I do not know why it is that the department somehow thinks [it] can exempt [its] attorneys from the rules of conduct that all of the lawyers must abide by;'' ``[Department] lawyers should be treated as subject to the same rule of law that applies to the conduct of all other lawyers;'' and ``[f]airness simply will not tolerate exalting the role of one adversary's advocate above the other.'' In response to these comments, the Department finds it important, first, to make clear that this rule is not designed to diminish the ethical responsibilities of government attorneys; it is intended to clarify those responsibilities. The current situation, in which state contact rules purport to govern the substantive conduct of federal law enforcement attorneys, has proven unsatisfactory because the standards of ethical conduct are uncertain and subject to unpredictable and varying interpretations. This uncertainty as to what constitutes appropriate conduct by Department attorneys has interfered with the responsible exercise of the law enforcement duties of Department attorneys. The basic purpose of this regulation is to provide a uniform rule of ethics regarding contacts with represented persons that can be consistently and predictably applied. By doing so, the regulation will allow all Department attorneys involved in a federal law enforcement proceeding to understand and abide by applicable standards. There is simply no basis for believing that there will be a reduction in compliance with ethical standards by federal prosecutors.
