FR940628-1-00098 FR940628-1-00016 (7) A requirement to maintain records sufficient to verify reports submitted under the order. The estimated maximum number of recordkeepers necessary to comply with this requirement is 1,750 each of whom would have an estimated annual burden of 15 minutes. Comments concerning the information collection requirements contained in this action should also be sent to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs; Office of Management and Budget; Washington, DC 20503. Attention: Desk Officer for Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. Background The Act authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary) to establish a national cut flowers and greens promotion and consumer information program. The program would be funded by an assessment levied on qualified handlers not to exceed 1 percent of their gross sales of cut flowers and greens. The Act provides for the submission of proposals for a cut flowers and greens promotion and consumer information order by industry organizations or any other interested person affected by the Act. The Act requires that such a proposed order provide for the establishment of a National PromoFlor Council. The Council would be composed of 25 voting members: 14 members representing qualified wholesale handlers of domestic and imported cut flowers and greens; 3 members representing producers who are qualified handlers of cut flowers and greens; 3 members representing importers who are qualified handlers of cut flowers and greens; 3 members representing traditional retailers of cut flowers and greens; and 2 members representing persons who produce cut flowers and greens. Each member shall have an alternate. The Department issued a news release on February 17, 1994, requesting proposals for an initial order or portions of an initial order. Proposal I An entire proposed order was submitted by the PromoFlor Organizing Group, Inc. (PromoFlor). PromoFlor is an industry group created and sponsored by 68 floral industry organizations and more than 700 floral businesses solely for the purpose of developing and implementing a promotion and consumer information order for cut flowers and greens. PromoFlor represents a substantial number of industry members who would be assessed under the proposed order. Once the order is established, PromoFlor would no longer exist. The Department is publishing PromoFlor's proposed order as Proposal I. The Department has modified PromoFlor's proposed text (1) to make it consistent with the Act and other similar national research and promotion programs supervised by the Department, (2) to simplify the language and format of some provisions, and (3) to add certain sections necessary for proper administration of the Order by the Department.
