FR940112-0-00084 FR940112-0-00021 Comment: Commenters requested clarification on how to apply the projection option when an individual leaves the institution before the end of the budget period: if eligibility is based on projected institutional expenses that are, in part, not actually incurred, how would a State handle this? Response: This would be treated by a State as a change of circumstances. Whenever a change of circumstances occurs during a budget period, a State is required by regulations at §435.916 to make a redetermination. The State should be alert for other changes in circumstances (e.g., changes in levels of institutional care) that could affect the projected amount of expenses and make any necessary redeterminations. Comment: Commenters asked that we clarify how projection of institutional expenses would operate when a third party is responsible for payment of a portion of an individual's institutional care. For example, if the first 60 days of institutionalization are paid by a third party, could those expenses be counted as a deduction from an individual's income under the spenddown process? Response: Except for the legislative change discussed in the note below, we have made no changes to the policy on treatment of expenses for which there is third party liability. Thus, in these final rules, as proposed (§§435.831(d) and 436.831(d)), we continue existing policy that only incurred medical expenses that are not subject to payment by a third party may be deducted from income. In the above comment's example, expenses for the first 60 days of institutionalization, for which a third party is liable, are not allowable deductions under this provision or under existing regulations. Note: Under 1987 legislation, States are required to deduct health care expenses reimbursed under another State or local public program. This amendment will be dealt with more fully in separate regulations. Comment: Several commenters thought that the provision for projection of institutional expenses at the Medicaid rate would be difficult to administer. They added that if there are many changes in the Medicaid rate, States would be required to reassess eligibility. Response: As discussed in response to an earlier comment, we have concluded that the Medicaid rate is the only appropriate rate to use for projecting institutional expenses. If a State finds projecting at the Medicaid rate undesirable, the State may discontinue the practice of projecting expenses and instead, use expenses as they are actually incurred. Comment: Several commenters expressed the opinion that the potential economic impact was greater than what we estimated in the NPRM and the commenters believe that we should develop regulatory impact and/or regulatory flexibility analyses. Response: We reviewed our estimates in light of the commenters' criticisms and concluded that the impacts of the provision are not such as to require regulatory impact or regulatory flexibility analyses. We acknowledge that these provisions will result in some economic effects. However, we do not believe that the impacts will approach the amounts (e.g., $195 million for provision ``A'' alone) that some of the commenters estimated. Further discussion about our estimate is included in section V (Regulatory Impact Statement) of the preamble. Provision B_Allow States To Combine Retroactive and Prospective Medically Needy Budget Periods Comment: Some commenters questioned the statutory basis for this revision. They asked whether the statute gives us the authority to make this option available to States.
