FR940304-1-00027 FR940304-1-00007 Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;213&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion Transport Canada Aviation, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Canadair Model CL&hyph;600&hyph;2B19 series airplanes. Transport Canada advises that the attitude and heading reference system (AHRS) could send conflicting input to the stall protection computer (SPC) on these airplanes. When the AHRS sends input to the SPC, the left- and right- hand channels on the SPC receive and compare that input. The SPC has a built-in feature that compares lateral acceleration from these channels. When the SPC recognizes unequal lateral acceleration signals of 0.03g or higher, it will inhibit the stall horn, light, and stick push command, and an ``SPS FAILURE'' caution message will display on the primary flight display. Due to a build-up effect of AHRS tolerances, these unequal signals may be detected within the SPC at a roll rate within the normal flight envelope. This condition, if not corrected, could result in the loss of stall warning protection on the airplane. Bombardier, Inc., has issued Regional Jet Canadair Alert Service Bulletin S.B. A601R&hyph;34&hyph;028, Revision `A,' dated October 22, 1993, that describes procedures for modification of the stall protection system (SPS) input wiring. The modification involves removing the right channel input wires from the connection to the SPC, capping and stowing the removed wires, installing splices from the left-hand channel input to the right- hand channel connection of the SPC, and installing a ground jumper wire. Accomplishment of these wiring changes will prevent a build-up effect of AHRS tolerances and unequal signals between the left- and right-hand SPC channels. Transport Canada Aviation classified this service bulletin as mandatory and issued Canadian Airworthiness Directive CF&hyph;93&hyph;27, dated October 26, 1993, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Canada. This airplane model is manufactured in Canada and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of Section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, Transport Canada Aviation has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of Transport Canada Aviation, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, the proposed AD would require modification of the SPS input wiring. The modification would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the alert service bulletin described previously. This proposed AD would also require revising the Normal Procedures section of the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to specify that a pre-flight check of the slip/skid indications must be conducted prior to engine start. Finally, this proposed AD would require modification of the AHRS to restore the dual AHRS inputs to the SPC. This modification would be required to be accomplished in accordance with a method approved by the FAA. It should be noted that Canadian AD CF&hyph;93&hyph;27 requires that the flight crew be advised of the possibility of an inadvertent inhibition of the stall horn, light, and stick push command at a roll rate within the normal flight envelope, and that an ``SPS FAILURE'' caution message will be displayed on the primary flight display. The Canadian AD requires that when such a message is displayed, appropriate abnormal procedures in the AFM should be followed. However, the FAA's position in this regard is that it is not necessary to include a requirement in this proposed AD to direct the flight crew to follow existing AFM procedures. The FAA estimates that 9 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would take approximately 2 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed actions, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. The cost for required parts would be minimal. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $990, or $110 per airplane. This total cost figure assumes that no operator has yet accomplished the proposed requirements of this AD action. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety.
