FR940711-2-00175 FR940711-2-00073 C. Unacceptable Applications (1) After the 14-calendar day technical deficiency correction period (refer to Section IV, Corrections to Deficient Applications, of this NOFA), the HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office will disapprove HA applications that it determines are not acceptable for processing (refer to Section III(F), Checklist of Technical Requirements, of this NOFA). The HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office notification of rejection letter must state the basis for the decision. (2) Applications that fall into any of the following categories will not be processed: (a) The Department of Justice has brought a civil rights suit against the applicant HA, and the suit is pending. (b) There has been an adjudication of a civil rights violation in a civil action brought against the HA by a private individual, unless the HA is operating in compliance with a court order, or implementing a HUD approved resident selection and assignment plan or compliance agreement designed to correct the areas of noncompliance. (c) There are outstanding findings of noncompliance with civil rights statutes, Executive Orders, or regulations, as a result of formal administrative proceedings, or the Secretary has issued a charge against the applicant under the Fair Housing Act, unless the applicant is operating under a conciliation or compliance agreement designed to correct the areas of non- compliance. (d) HUD has denied application processing under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Attorney General's Guidelines (28 CFR 50.3), and the HUD Title VI regulations (24 CFR 1.8) and procedures (HUD Handbook 8040.1), or under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and HUD regulations (24 CFR 8.57). (e) The HA has serious unaddressed, outstanding Inspector General audit findings, fair housing and equal opportunity monitoring review findings, or HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office management review findings for one or more of its Rental Voucher, Rental Certificate, or Moderate Rehabilitation Programs, or, in the case of an HA that is not currently administering a Rental Voucher, Rental Certificate, or Moderate Rehabilitation Program, for its Public Housing Program or Indian Housing Program. (f) The leasing rate for rental vouchers and rental certificates under ACC for at least one year is less than 85 percent, or, in the case of an HA not currently administering a Rental Voucher or Rental Certificate Program, the leasing rate for all units available for occupancy in the Public or Indian Housing Program is less than 85 percent. (For a State or regional HA, the HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office shall determine the HA's combined leasing rate for metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas, and shall use the combined rate in determining whether to accept the application under this paragraph.) (g) The HA is involved in litigation and HUD determines that the litigation may seriously impede the ability of the HA to administer an additional increment of rental vouchers or rental certificates. D. Local Government Comments Section 213 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 requires that HUD independently determine that there is a need for the housing assistance requested in applications, and solicit and consider comments relevant to this determination from the chief executive officer of the unit of general local government. The HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office will obtain Section 213 comments from the unit of general local government in accordance with 24 CFR part 791, subpart C, Applications for Housing Assistance in Areas Without Housing Assistance Plans. Comments submitted by the unit of general local government must be considered before an application can be approved. For purposes of expediting the application process, the HA should encourage the chief executive officer of the unit of general local government to submit a letter with the HA application commenting on the HA application in accordance with Section 213. Since HUD cannot approve an application until the 30-day comment period is closed, the Section 213 letter should not only comment on the application, but also state that HUD may consider the letter to be the final comments and that no additional comments will be forthcoming from the local unit of government. E. Funding Applications (1) Maximum Funding Allowed. The HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office may not approve funding for an HA under this NOFA for more than the greater of 10 percent of the HA rental vouchers and rental certificates under reservation or 50 units. (2) Minimum Funding Allowed. The HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office may not approve funding for an HA under this NOFA for less than 25 units, unless: (a) The HA requests fewer than 25 units; or (b) The residual budget authority in using the rank order funding process after funding higher ranked applications is insufficient to fund at least 25 units; or (c) The total budget authority available to the allocation area will fund less than 25 units. (3) Funding Procedure. The HUD State or Area Office must develop a procedure for approval of applications (including applications rated by the Native American Programs Office) for each allocation area in rank order until all the housing assistance budget authority is used. Where a HUD State or Area Office funds applications according to rank order for each allocation area, only to find it has some number of units left, but not enough to fund the next fundable application in its entirety or for the minimum of 25 units, that application can be funded to the extent of the number of units available. The HUD State or Area Office may elect to approve 100 percent of the units requested in all applications that score above a HUD State or Area Office-determined funding cut-off, up to the maximum number of units allowed.
