FR941007-0-00079 FR941007-0-00023 Comment 7: Because blocks cannot be divided under the Modified Block Proposal, seizure of assets by the Internal Revenue Service to collect on delinquent taxes would mean that the entire block would be seized, rather than just the portion of QS necessary to satisfy the delinquency. Response: This course of events (i.e., seizing the entire block to satisfy a debt) was evaluated during the formulation of the rule. NMFS decided that the administrative costs associated with dividing blocks was not justifiable, especially because any inconvenience that may occur by seizing the entire block is due to the QS block holder's own delinquency. QS blocks can be sold to satisfy the existing debt like any other indivisible asset. After the debt has been satisfied, excess funds can be returned to the person whose block had been seized. Comment 8: The Modified Block Proposal will create greater administrative and enforcement costs for NMFS. Response: There will be no significant increase in administrative or enforcement costs because of the Modified Block Proposal. The Modified Block Proposal will affect the initial allocation and transfer of QS. This can be monitored by the computer at Restricted Access Management Division, NMFS, Alaska Region, which is currently programmed to perform this task. The Modified Block Proposal will not affect IFQ resource harvesting or deliveries, minimizing any impacts on enforcement. Comment 9: The Modified Block Proposal will decrease consolidation of fishing operations under the IFQ program. Response: The Modified Block Proposal was intended to prevent excessive consolidation that might have occurred under the IFQ program. This rationale is discussed at length in the Analysis for the Modified Block Proposal and the proposed rule published in the Federal Register on June 28, 1994 (59 FR 33272). In brief, the Modified Block Proposal will prevent excessive consolidation by blocking a portion of the total amount of QS issued and by restricting the number of blocks that can be held by an individual. These actions will increase the potential minimum holders of QS to an amount greater than under the status quo. Comment 10: The Modified Block Proposal will create block sizes that will provide easy access to the IFQ fisheries and maintain diversity in the longline fleet. Response: Under the Modified Block Proposal, all initially issued QS that would result in less than 20,000 lb (9 mt) of IFQ using the 1994 total allowable catch (TAC) would be blocked. This means that a variety of block sizes will be created, and will be available for transfer. Persons who would like to enter the fishery would be able to secure a smaller block, and then subsequently transfer the smaller block for a larger block as the fishing operation grows and the experience of the person increases. This ``step'' approach, made possible by the Modified Block Proposal, assists in the growth of each operation to efficient economies of scale. Also, the size and amount of QS blocks will remain constant, except for consolidation of the smallest blocks under the ``sweep-up'' provision. This means that at least the minimum number of QS block holders will hold blocks of various sizes, providing diversity in the longline fleet. Comment 11: The Modified Block Proposal will benefit coastal communities dependent on the IFQ fisheries by reducing the amount of QS that can be consolidated into larger operations, ensuring a more uniform landing pattern of fishery product, and providing higher levels of harvesting employment. Response: NMFS concurs with this comment. Along with reducing excessive consolidation, the Modified Block Proposal was designed to benefit local coastal communities traditionally dependent on the Pacific halibut and sablefish fixed-gear fisheries. As explained earlier, QS blocks will maintain diversity in the longline fleet by reducing the amount of QS available for consolidation by larger operations. Also, smaller, locally owned and operated vessels are more likely to deliver to local communities than larger vessels. This is because large vessels typically have the capacity to store large quantities of fishery product for extended periods of time, thus enabling these vessels to deliver to ports other than those located in local coastal communities.
