FR940314-0-00036 FR940314-0-00007 Exemptions Pursuant to ยง55.7: (1) SBCAPCD shall transmit to the Administrator (through the Regional Office), the Minerals Management Service, and the U.S. Coast Guard, a copy of any permit application that includes an exemption request, or the request for exemption if no permit is required, within 5 days of its receipt. (2) SBCAPCD shall consult with the Minerals Management Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior and the U.S. Coast Guard to determine whether the exemption under ยง55.6(a)(2) will be granted or denied. (3) If SBCAPCD, the Minerals Management Service, and the U.S. Coast Guard do not reach a consensus decision within 90 days from the day the SBCAPCD received the exemption request, the request shall automatically be referred to the Administrator, who will process the referral in accordance with 40 CFR 55.7(f)(3). SBCAPCD shall transmit to the Administrator, within 91 days of its receipt, the exemption request and all materials submitted with the request, such as the permit application or the compliance plan, and any other information considered or developed during the consultation process. (4) SBCAPCD will process exemption requests submitted with an approval to construct or permit to operate application in accordance with the procedures outlined in 40 CFR part 55. Monitoring, Reporting, Inspections, and Compliance SBCAPCD may use any authority it possesses under state law to require monitoring and reporting, and to conduct inspections. The Administrator or SBCAPCD shall consult with the Minerals Management Service and the U.S. Coast Guard prior to inspections. This shall in no way interfere with the ability of EPA or SBCAPCD to conduct unannounced inspections. General Conditions (1) SBCAPCD shall implement and enforce the Federal requirements of 40 CFR 55.13 as well as the applicable state and local requirements contained in 40 CFR 55.14. (2) The primary responsibility for enforcement of the OCS air regulations delegated to the District shall rest with the SBCAPCD. This responsibility includes the District's implementation and enforcement of all the rules and regulations in part 55 specifically stated and interpreted by the District as being applicable to OCS sources, such as SBCAPCD's Rule 331 prohibiting routine venting of pollutants. (3) Nothing in this agreement shall prohibit EPA from enforcing the OCS requirements of the Clean Air Act, the OCS air regulations, or the terms and conditions of any permit issued by the District pursuant to this agreement. (4) In the event that the District does not enforce a provision of this delegation with respect to a source subject to the OCS air regulations, the District shall immediately notify the EPA Region 9 Regional Administrator. Failure to notify the Regional Administrator does not preclude EPA from exercising its enforcement authority.
