FR940610-2-00157 FR940610-2-00077 I. Description The standing instruction database is a central repository for customer account and settlement information furnished by institutions, agents, and broker-dealers. The information contained therein includes items such as the agent for an institutional customer, the agent's internal account number for the institutional customer, and interested parties. Using the standing instruction database, a broker-dealer can link its internal account numbers for its institutional customers with the institutional customers' internal account numbers. When entering trade data into the ID system, a broker-dealer can simply refer to its internal account number in the standing instruction database, and the ID system will extract the necessary information (such as customer name, agent, interested parties, and settlement related information) from the database and automatically will add the information to the confirmation. The standing instruction database will eliminate the need for the broker-dealer to provide such information each time that the broker-dealer enters trade data into the ID system. The standing instruction database is an account level optional feature for ID users. A broker-dealer with many institutional accounts can designate that only specified accounts access the standing instruction database. If an account is not designated to access the standing instruction database, the broker-dealer will provide the ID system with the type of information that is contained in the database. However, once a broker-dealer links its internal customer account number with account information furnished to the database by the institutional customer, the data will be used for certain fields in ID system processing when the broker-dealer submits trade data for that institutional customer's trades regardless of whether the broker-dealer submits data for those fields. Participants will have the ability to enter a standing instruction database change with a specific effective date by specifying on which date the addition, change, or deletion should take effect. II. Discussion Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act requires that the rules of a clearing agency, such as DTC, be designed to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. 6 As discussed below, the Commission believes that DTC's proposed rule change is consistent with this obligation. 6 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F). The institutional delivery system provides an effective electronic communication network that replaces the written documents that used to be passed among broker-dealers, investment managers, and custodian banks in order for these parties to settle transactions within the regular-way (five business day) settlement cycle. In order to facilitate timely settlement of institutional trades, which constitute a significant percentage of all market trades, several self-regulatory organizations amended their rules in 1982 to require broker-dealers that extend delivery versus payment credit privileges on transactions in depository eligible securities to use the facilities of a registered securities depository for the confirmation, affirmation, and settlement of these transactions. 7 Those changes were designed to facilitate routine trading volume of 100 million shares. In the twelve years since the use of a registered securities depository for generating confirmations and affirmations became mandatory, the U.S. securities markets have handled unprecedented volume and routinely settle trading of 300-400 million shares daily. 7 For a discussion of the necessity of such SRO rules, see Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 19227 (November 9, 1982), 47 FR 51658 and 33515 (January 24, 1994), 59 FR 4295 (orders approving proposed rule changes). DTC's proposal expands the range of functions available to users of the ID system. In particular, the proposal will allow broker-dealers, institutions, and agents to leave with DTC certain trade settlement information that routinely appears on each confirmation and to draw on that information quickly when formatting confirmations. This will promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions consistent with Section 17A of the Act. During the last twelve years, private vendors have offered services that are based on the ID system and encompass some of the features that DTC now proposes to offer its participants. One such service provides database features which allow institutions to advise broker-dealers how to allocate trades among institutional clients and which supply that data to DTC's ID system to be used in generating confirmation and affirmations. The Commission is satisfied that these private vendors will be able to continue to provide these services and supply data to ID. The standing instruction databases, along with the other enhancements to DTC's ID system, 8 also will facilitate the industry's conversion to a three business day settlement cycle which will be the standard settlement time for most broker-dealer trades beginning June 1, 1995. 9 8 Supra note 2. 9 For a detailed description and discussion of the conversion to a three business day settlement cycle, see Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33023 (October 13, 1993), 58 FR 52891 [File No. S7&hyph;5&hyph;93] (adopting Commission Rule 15c6&hyph;1). III. Conclusion On the basis of the foregoing, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and in particular with the requirements of Section 17A of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 10 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;94&hyph;01) be, and hereby is, approved. 10 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 11 11 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14125 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
