FR940722-1-00034 FR940722-1-00011 Claims of the type described in this section are only allowable subject to the restrictions noted: (a) Money or currency. Claims may be allowed for loss of money or currency (which includes coin collections) only when lost incident to fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, or by theft from quarters (as limited by ยง15.13(c)(1)). In incidents of theft from quarters, it must be conclusively shown that the quarters were locked at the time of the theft. Reimbursement for loss of money or currency is limited to an amount which is determined to have been reasonable for the claimant to have had in his or her possession at the time of the loss. (b) Government property. Claims may only be allowed for property owned by the United States for which the claimant is financially responsible to an agency of the Government other than the Department. (c) Estimate fees. Claims may include fees paid to obtain estimates of repairs only when it is clear that an estimate could not have been obtained without paying a fee. In that case, the fee may be allowed only in an amount determined to be reasonable in relation to the value of the property or the cost of the repairs. (d) Automobiles and other motor vehicles. Claims may only be allowed for damage to, or loss of automobiles and other motor vehicles if: (1) Such motor vehicles were required to be used for official Government business (official Government business, as used here, does not include travel, or parking incident thereto, between quarters and office, or use of vehicles for the convenience of the owner. However, it does include travel, and parking incident thereto, between quarters and an assigned place of duty specifically authorized by the employee's supervisor as being more advantageous to the Government,); or (2) Shipment of such motor vehicles was being furnished or provided by the Government, subject to the provisions of ยง15.16. (e) Computers and electronics. Claims may be allowed for loss of, or damage to, cellular phones, fax machines, computers and related hardware and software only when lost or damaged incident to fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, or by theft from quarters (as limited by ยง15.13((c)(1)) or unless it is being shipped as a part of a change of duty station paid for by the Department. In incidents of theft from quarters, it must be conclusively shown that the quarters were locked at the time of the theft. ยง15.15 Unallowable claims. Claims are not allowable for the following: (a) Unassigned quarters in United States. Property loss or damage in quarters occupied by the claimant within the 50 States or the District of Columbia that were not assigned to him or otherwise provided in kind by the United States. (b) Business property. Property used for business or profit.
