FR940128-1-00057 FR940128-1-00006 3. Time and Temperature The guidelines advise, in proposed Appendix A, section 3. e., f., g., and h., that HACCP plans prepared in accordance with subpart A of part 123 will normally identify cooling after cooking, processing after cooking, final product cooling, and refrigerated storage, as critical control points. The potential exists for some pathogenic microorganisms to survive the cooking process, regardless of the controls that are in place at that step. Likewise, despite a processor's efforts to minimize recontamination of the cooked product with pathogens, the potential exists for some pathogens to be reintroduced. For these reasons, it is imperative that exposure of the product after the cooking process to temperatures that permit the growth of pathogens be kept to a minimum, since larger numbers are frequently associated with a greater potential for disease. To control hazards as required by part 123, subpart A, the process must take steps to restrict time/temperature abuse of the cooked product to the point that pathogens such as Salmonella spp. do not enter the rapid (logarithmic) phase of growth. By restricting pathogen growth to the slow (lag) phase, pathogen numbers should remain constant or increase only slightly. Proposed Appendix A, section 6.a. provides a way to control the growth of pathogens immediately after cooking. It advises that, after cooking, the product should be cooled from 140 ○F (60 ○C) to 70 ○F (21.1 ○C) within two hours. This time/temperature combination is based on the upper limit for growth (i.e., 140 ○F) and the lower limit for rapid growth (i.e., 70 ○F) of such mesophilic pathogens as Salmonella spp. and S. aureus , and the typical length of the lag phase for the former microorganism (Refs. 23, 85, and 115). However, 70 ○F (21.1 ○C) will not fully control the growth of psychrotrophic pathogens. Consequently, further cooling from 70 ○F (21.1 ○C) to 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) within 4 additional hours is advisable, based on the minimum growth temperatures of such psychrotropic pathogens as L. monocytogenes, Salmonella spp. , and S. aureus , and the lag time of Salmonella spp. (Refs. 23, 78, and 79). These cooling recommendations are generally consistent with those of the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) of USDA (Ref. 115) and the National Food Processors Association (NFPA) (Ref. 78). FDA invites comments on the specifics in App. A, section 6.a. In those instances where further processing takes place before the achievement of the 70 ○F (21.1 ○C) or the 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) temperatures, further reduction in temperature need not take place. There is no need for production delays when in-process storage times are normally less than the 2 or 6 hours needed to achieve each of these temperatures. The time/temperature parameters employed to control the microbiological hazards associated with cooling after cooking can be confirmed by a program of routine time and temperature monitoring (Appendix A, section 6.a.1.). Real time documentation of this monitoring should be done to facilitate management and regulatory review. Alternately, the ability of the firm's processing procedures to consistently achieve the appropriate time/temperature parameters can be confirmed through scientifically conducted time/temperature studies that take into consideration the range of processing variations encountered at the firm. Examples of processing variations include product size, e.g., the range of shrimp sizes that the firm typically processes; the temperature of the cooling medium, e.g., the highest temperature normally experienced in the firm's cooling unit; and the amount of product normally placed in the cooling unit. In some instances in-process time/temperature monitoring may be impractical or needlessly redundant, particularly in continuous processing systems. A scientifically conducted study is especially appropriate for such situations, where it can be assured that in all plausible situations the time/temperature parameters will be met. Documentation and retention of the conduct and results of this study is required by §123.8. Appendix A, section 6.b. advises how processors can ensure that microbiological hazards associated with postcooking processing can be controlled. It advises that products not be exposed to ambient temperatures of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or higher for more than 4 hours during postcooking processing, again based on the minimum growth temperature of such psychrotropic pathogens as L. monocytogenes and on the normal lag phase of such mesophilic pathogens as Salmonella spp. The agency recognizes that, for many products, manipulation of the product after cooking, while undesirable from the standpoint of microbiological recontamination, is necessary for many cooked, ready-to-eat products. It is often impractical to perform this manipulation under refrigerated conditions. Consequently, the product will be exposed to some combination of time and temperature that may allow for microbiological growth. The recommended conditions will minimize the growth of pathogenic microorganisms and the production of heat stable toxins (e.g., staphylococcal enterotoxin). The ability of the firm's processing procedures to consistently achieve its time/temperature parameters can be confirmed by monitoring the length of time that the product is exposed to such ambient temperatures. Documentation of time/temperature monitoring must be in accordance with §123.8. to facilitate management and regulatory review.
