FR940919-2-00204 FR940919-2-00084 (f) Unjust Enrichment. Designated entities using installment payments, bidding credits or tax certificates to obtain a narrowband PCS license will be subject to the following unjust enrichment provisions: (1) If a small business paying for a narrowband PCS license in installment payments seeks to transfer a license to a non-small business entity during the term of the license, the remaining principal balance must be repaid as a condition of the license transfer. (2) If a licensee that utilizes installment financing under this section seeks to make any change in ownership structure that would result in the licensee losing eligibility for installment payments, the licensee shall first seek Commission approval and must make full payment of the remaining unpaid principal and any unpaid interest accrued through the date of the change as a condition of approval. Increases in gross revenues that result from equity investments that are not attributable to the licensee under §24.320(b)(2)(iv), revenues from operations, business development or expanded service shall not be considered changes in ownership structure under this paragraph. 7. Section 24.320 is added to read as follows: §24.320␣Definitions (a) Scope. The definitions in this section apply to §§24.309&hyph;24.315 of this subpart, unless otherwise specified in those sections. (b) Small Business; Consortium of Small Businesses. (1) A small business is an entity that (i) together with its affiliates has average annual gross revenues that are not more than $40 million for the preceding three calendar years; (ii) has no attributable investor or affiliate that has a personal net worth of $40 million or more; (iii) has a control group all of whose members and affiliates are considered in determining whether the entity meets the $40 million annual gross revenues and personal net worth standards; and (iv) such control group holds 50.1 percent of the entity's voting interest, if a corporation, and at least 25 percent of the entity's equity on a fully diluted basis, except that a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women (as defined in subsection (c)) may also qualify as a small business if a control group that is 100 percent composed of members of minority groups and/or women holds 50.1 percent of the entity's voting interests, if a corporation, and 50.1 percent of the entity's total equity on a fully diluted basis and no single other investor holds more than 49.9 percent of passive equity in the entity. (2) Attribution and Aggregation of Gross Revenues and Personal Net Worth. (i) Except as specified in paragraphs (iii) and (iv), the gross revenues of the applicant (or licensee) and its affiliates, and other persons that hold interests in the applicant (or licensee) and the affiliates shall be considered on a cumulative basis and aggregated for purposes of determining whether the applicant (or licensee) is a small business. (ii) The personal net worth of individual applicants (or licensees) and other persons that hold interests in the applicant (or licensee), and their affiliates, if less than $40 million, shall not be considered for purposes of determining whether the applicant (or licensee) is eligible to bid as a small business. (iii) Where an applicant (or licensee) is a consortium of small businesses, the gross revenues of each small business shall not be aggregated. (iv) (a) The gross revenues and personal net worth of a person that holds an interest in the applicant (or licensee) shall not be considered so long as (1) such person holds no more than 25 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) passive equity and is not a member of the applicant's or control group and (2) the applicant has a control group that owns at least 25 percent of the applicant's total equity and, if a corporation, holds at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's voting interests. (b) The gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth of a person that holds an interest in the applicant shall not be considered so long as (1) such person holds no more than 49.9 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) passive equity and is not a member of the applicant's control group; and (2) the applicant has a control group that consists entirely of members of minority groups and/or women and that owns at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's total equity and, if a corporation, at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's voting interests. Note: Ownership interests shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis; all agreements such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures will generally be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised, except that the such agreements may not be used to appear to terminate or divest ownership interests before they actually do so. (3) A small business consortium is a conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture between mutually-independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definition of a small business. (c) Business Owned by Members of Minority Groups and/or Women. A business owned by members of minority groups and/or women is an entity (i) that has a control group composed 100 percent of members of minority groups and/or women who are United States Citizens, and (ii) such control group owns and holds 50.1 percent of the voting interests, if a corporation, and (A) owns and holds 50.1 percent of the total equity in the entity, provided that all other investors hold passive interests; or (B) holds 25 percent of the total equity in the entity, provided that no single other investor holds more than 25 percent passive equity interests in the entity. In a partnership, all general partners must be members of minority groups and/or women. Ownership interests shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis; all agreements such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures will generally be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised, except that such agreements may not be used to appear to terminate or divest ownership interests before they actually do so. (d) Gross Revenues. Gross revenues shall mean all income received by an entity, whether earned or passive, before any deductions are made for costs of doing business ( e.g., cost of goods sold), as evidenced by audited quarterly financial statements for the relevant period. (e) Personal Net Worth. Personal net worth shall mean the market value of all assets (real and personal, tangible and intangible) owned by an individual, less all liabilities (including personal guarantees) owed by the individual in his individual capacity or as a joint obligor.
