FR940928-2-00099 FR940928-2-00067 Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, Docket No. 50&hyph;220, Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station Unit No. 1, Oswego County, New York Date of amendment request: August 26, 1994 Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment to Technical Specification 4.3.3.c(1) would allow a one-time extension of the 10 year service period for the Primary Containment Integrated Leakage Rate (Type A) Test. Specifically, the proposed one-time only change would extend the 10-year service interval requirement for performance of the Type A test to correspond with the end of the current inservice inspection interval (ISI). The interval extension would avoid the necessity of performing an additional Type A test only 22 months after the previous test. This would result in an extension of the second interval from 10 years to approximately 14 years and 46 months between the second and third test. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The operation of Nine Mile Point Unit 1, in accordance with the proposed amendment, will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed extension of the Type A test 10-year service interval does not increase the chances for a previously analyzed accident to occur. Containment integrity is required for the mitigation of accident consequences. Furthermore, containment leakage is not the precursor to any analyzed event. Extension of the Type A test surveillance interval will not affect the containment's ability to maintain leakage below that assumed in the safety analysis. The previous Type A test was completed successfully and no plant modifications have been made or are planned (other than those that require Type B or C testing) since the last test which could directly affect the test results. Type B and C testing of individual penetrations has been satisfactory and will continue to be performed in accordance with the Technical Specifications. There have been no pressure or temperature excursions in the containment which could have adversely affected containment integrity. Hence, the ability of containment to maintain leakage within the Type A test limits be maintained. Therefore, the proposed change will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The operation of Nine Mile Point Unit 1, in accordance with the proposed amendment, will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed one-time extension of the Type A test 10-year service interval will not affect the test methodology or acceptance criteria nor does it alter the physical containment structure or boundary in any way. There will be no addition or removal of plant hardware. No new plant operating modes are being introduced. Results of the previous Type A tests are well below allowable limits, and there have been no plant modifications (other than those that require Type B or C testing) since the last test nor are any planned, that could directly impact the previous Type A test results. Therefore, the proposed change will not create the possibility of a new or different accident from any previously evaluated. The operation of Nine Mile Point Unit 1, in accordance with the proposed amendment, will not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Safety margins are established through the Nine Mile Point Unit 1 safety analyses as reflected in the Technical Specification Limiting Conditions for Operation. Containment leak rates assumed in the safety analyses are not increased by the proposed change to the Type A test 10-year service interval. The acceptance criteria which must be met to verify that leak rates remain within assumed values will not be changed. Although the test frequency will be relaxed for the one-time extension, no plant modifications have been made or are planned which would invalidate the last Type A leak test results which confirm acceptable containment integrity. Furthermore, Type B and C testing of individual penetrations has been satisfactory and will continue to be performed in accordance with the Technical Specifications to assure that containment integrity is maintained. Therefore, the proposed change will not involve a significant reduction in a margin of a safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Reference and Documents Department, Penfield Library, State University of New York, Oswego, NY 13126. Attorney for licensee: Mark J. Wetterhahn, Esquire, Winston & Strawn, 1400 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005&hyph;3502. NRC Project Director: Michael J. Case.
