FR940202-2-00082 FR940202-2-00060 An NRSRO must have assigned a current rating to the issue that is no lower than the ratings in the S&P Corporation ``B'' category ( i.e. , ``B-'' or better) or another NRSRO's counterpart to the S&P Corporation rating. Alternatively, if no NRSRO has assigned a rating to the issue, an NRSRO must have currently assigned either an investment grade rating ( i.e. , an S&P Corporation rating no lower that ``BBB-'' or another NRSRO's counterpart to the S&P Corporation rating) to a senior issue or, in the case of a pari passu 2 or junior issue (including a preferred stock or debt security issue), a rating no lower than the ratings in the S&P Corporation ``B'' category ( i.e. , ``B-'' or better) or another NRSRO's counterpart to the S&P Corporation rating. 2 A pari passu issue would have equal standing with the debt issue to be listed. In the case of a listing for an unrated issue that is junior to an issue with an investment grade rating, the Exchange notes that a junior issue would generally be rated no more than one rating category below an immediate senior issue. Thus, the Exchange feels that such an unrated debt issue seeking to list would, if it were rated, receive a rating that satisfies the minimum ``B-'' rating standard. All other unrated debt issues of unaffiliated issuers must either be senior to or pari passu with an issue rated at least ``B-'' in order to qualify for listing on the Exchange. An ``unaffiliated'' issuer is one that has no equity securities listed on the Exchange; is not, directly or indirectly, majority-owned by, nor under common control with, an issuer of Exchange-listed equity securities; and is not issuing a debt security that an issuer of Exchange-listed equity securities is guaranteeing. Paragraph 103.05 makes the same changes to the listing standards for the debt securities of non-U.S. companies as Paragraph 102.03 makes in respect of the standards for domestic debt securities. Under Paragraph 810.00, the Exchange proposes to review the continued listing of a debt security convertible into an equity security when the equity security is delisted. In addition, the Exchange proposes to delist a debt security when the underlying equity security ceases to be subject to real-time trade reporting. Under Paragraph 802.00, the Exchange would no longer view inadequate interest coverage of an issuer or its parent or a subsidiary as reason for delisting a security. 3 3 See supra, note 1. In the case of a sovereign issue, the Exchange will evaluate whether to list the issue for trading on a case-by-case basis. The Exchange's current policy in respect of municipal securities is to list initially only term/dollar bonds. 4 4 A term/dollar municipal bond is issued with a single maturity date (as opposed to a serial bond), and is quoted in dollars or as a percentage of its par value (rather than by yield). As such, it resembles a corporate bond. Telephone conversation between Fred Siesel, Director, Fixed Income Markets, NYSE, and Beth Stekler, Attorney, SEC, on January 7, 1994. The Exchange believes that it should extend to a broader universe of debt securities the benefits that derive from the Exchange's unique bond market and price disclosure mechanism, especially for individual bond holders and small to mid-sized institutions. The debt security listing standard modifications that the proposed rule change proposes would effect such an extension to the betterment of the community of investors and debt securities. 2. Statutory Basis The basis under the Act for the proposed rule change is the requirement under Section 6(b)(5) that an exchange have rules that are designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest.
