FR940505-1-00415 FR940505-1-00012 (A) By May 15, 1995, submit to the Administrator the identification number and type of each unit subject to the section, the name and address of the plant where the unit is located, and the name and telephone number of the person responsible for demonstrating compliance with the section. For each unit identified, the following information shall be submitted to the Administrator: ( 1 ) The rated heat output capacity (in MW and brake horsepower units); type of fuel(s) (i.e., gaseous and/or liquid) that will be burned in the unit; anticipated annual heat output rate (Btu/kW-hr) corrected to the HHV for each type of fuel; hours of operation and fuel consumption (cubic feet of gas or gallons of liquid) for each type of fuel for the previous one year period; and manufacturer, model designation, and age of the unit. ( 2 ) Identification of the standards in paragraph (o)(3) of this section with which the unit will comply, and the control method selected for achieving compliance. (B) Any owner or operator subject to the compliance schedule specified in paragraph (o)(5) (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section shall notify the Administrator in writing of the following: ( 1 ) The date construction is commenced on all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. ( 2 ) The anticipated date of initial startup of the unit after completing all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. ( 3 ) The actual date of initial startup of the unit after completing all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. (C) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (o)(5) of this section, submit to the Administrator certification that the unit is in compliance with the applicable standard in paragraph (o)(3) of this section as demonstrated through a report of the initial compliance test performed in accordance with the applicable requirements of paragraph (o)(6)(ii) or (7) of this section. The owner or operator shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of the compliance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. (ii) Continuous Emissions Monitoring Requirements. Any owner or operator of a unit with a rated heat output capacity less than 2.9 MW that is subject to the requirements of paragraph (o)(3) of this section shall either comply with the requirements of paragraphs (o)(6)(ii) (A) or (B) and (o)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. Any owner or operator of a unit with a rated heat output capacity equal to or greater than 2.9 MW that is subject to the requirements of paragraph (o)(3) of this section shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (o)(6)(ii) (B) and (C) of this section. (A) Any owner or operator that chooses to monitor operating conditions shall comply with the following: ( 1 ) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (o)(5) of this section, submit a plan to the Administrator that includes the following: ( i ) Identify the specific operating conditions to be monitored and the relationship between the operating conditions and NO X , CO, and O 2 emission concentrations in the flue gas. For stationary gas turbines, the most important operating variables are turbine load (i.e., actual heat output/design maximum heat output or actual steam generating rate/design maximum steam generating capacity), the level of excess air (i.e., flue gas O 2 level), and type and nitrogen content of each fuel. ( ii ) In addition to those described in paragraph (o)(6)(ii)(A)( 1 )( i ) of this section, the water or steam-to- fuel ratio and turbine load are important operating variables to be monitored for water- or steam-injection systems. For selective catalytic reduction systems, the reagent (i.e., ammonia or urea)-to-NO X ratio and reagent injection pressure are important operating variables to be monitored. ( iii ) Include the data and information that will be used to identify the relationship between NO X , CO, and O 2 emission concentrations and the operating conditions. ( iv ) Describe how the relationship between the operating conditions (including turbine load and fuel type) and NO X , CO, and O 2 emission concentrations will be established during the initial compliance test. The relationship between the operating conditions and NO X , CO, and O 2 emission concentrations shall be based on the maximum operating conditions at which the unit can be operated. Once the plan has been approved by the Administrator, the operating conditions used to establish the relationship will be the optimum operating conditions under which the owner or operator should operate the unit. Deviations from these optimum operating conditions in excess of 10% (averaged over the fifteen minute period) shall be recorded and reported in accordance with paragraph (o)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. ( v ) Identify how the operating conditions, including turbine load and fuel type, will be monitored on a fifteen minute basis; the quality assurance procedures or practices that will be used to ensure that the data generated by monitoring the operating conditions will be representative and accurate; and the type and format of the records of the operating conditions, including turbine load and fuel type, that will be maintained by the owner or operator. ( 2 ) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (o)(5) of this section, and annually thereafter, submit to the Administrator certification that the turbine has been operated in accordance with all of the applicable requirements of this section specified under paragraphs (o)(3) and (o)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. (B) Any owner or operator that is required or chooses to install an in-stack continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) shall comply with the following:
