FR940114-1-00051 FR940114-1-00008 Establish a coalition or task force of individuals and organizations to actively promote use of occupant protection systems; Create an effective communications network among coalition members to keep members informed; and Provide materials and resources necessary to conduct occupant protection education programs, especially directed toward young people, in local settings. X. Evaluation Program Each State should conduct several different types of evaluation to effectively measure progress and to plan and implement new program strategies. Program management should: Conduct and publicize at least one statewide observational survey of safety belt and child safety seat use annually, making every effort to ensure that it meets applicable federal guidelines; Maintain trend data on child safety seat and belt use in fatal crashes; Identify target populations through observational surveys and crash statistics; Conduct and publicize statewide surveys of public knowledge and attitudes about occupant protection laws and systems; Obtain monthly or quarterly data from law enforcement agencies on the number of safety belt and child passenger safety citations and convictions; Evaluate the use of program resources and the effectiveness of existing general public and target population education programs; Obtain data on morbidity as well as the estimated cost of crashes in regards to safety belt usage and non-usage; and Ensure that evaluation results are an integral part of new program planning and problem identification. Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 21 Roadway Safety Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, should have a comprehensive roadway safety program that is directed toward reducing the number and severity of traffic crashes. I. Program Management The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) provides administrative oversight for the Roadway Safety portion of the section 402 highway safety program in close coordination with the State Highway Safety Agency (SHSA) and the State Highway Agency (SHA). Although section 402 dollars cannot be utilized for highway construction, maintenance or design activities, they can be used to develop and implement systems and procedures for carrying out safety construction and operational improvements. These funds can also be used to augment Federal-aid highway programs, such as the Hazard Elimination Program (Section 152) and the Rail-Highway Crossings Programs (Section 130), as well as other safety construction activities. An effective Roadway Safety program is based on sound analyses of roadway-related crash information and applies engineering principles in identifying highway design or operational improvements that will address the crash problem. The SHSA should: Assign program staff to work directly with the FHWA division safety engineer on roadway-related safety programs. Work in close harmony with the SHA, particularly with SHA staff who are responsible for traffic engineering, pedestrian and bicycle programs, CMV safety, rail-highway crossing safety issues, work zone safety, design and operational improvements, and hazardous roadway locations. Foster an ongoing dialogue among all disciplines with a vested interest in highway safety, including engineers, enforcement personnel, traffic safety specialists, driver licensing administrators, CMV safety specialists, and data specialists. Promote a multi-disciplinary approach to addressing highway safety issues which focuses on comprehensive solutions to identified problems. An example is assisting in the coordination and the implementation of Community/Corridor Traffic Safety Programs, and MCSAP, where appropriate. Become familiar with the various highway-safety related categories of Federal-aid highway funds_in addition to section 402_in order to maximize the safety benefits of the entire program. Become familiar with the State's traffic records system and play a role in the system's ongoing operation, maintenance and enhancement. Assist community leaders in managing and/or coordinating programs designed to address roadway safety issues and concerns which fall under the jurisdiction of local communities. Become familiar with MCSAP and coordinate MCSAP and section 402 program activities. II. Related Highway Safety Program Guidelines Roadway Safety applies to highway safety activities related to the roadway environment and includes activities which are described in the following Highway Safety Program Guidelines:
