FR940106-0-00089 FR940106-0-00021 MTINA amended the INA to clarify Congressional intent regarding lay offs, by specifying that a facility which has laid off a registered nurse other than a staff nurse still meets the ``no layoff'' requirement, if, in its attestation, the facility attests that it will not replace the nurse with an H&hyph;1A nurse (either through promotion or otherwise) for a period of 1 year after the date of the layoff. In the final rule, section § XXX .310(d)(1) has been revised to incorporate this statutory amendment. The definition of ``layoff'' in § XXX .302 has been revised to specify that if staff nurses are separated from one specialized activity, the retraining and retention they are offered must be in another activity involving direct patient care at the same facility in order for their separation not to be considered a ``layoff'', and a sentence has been expanded to indicate that a ``staff nurse'' means a nurse who provides nursing care directly to patients Item 8.a(i) on the Form ETA 9029 has also been modified to reflect the amendment to the ``no layoff'' provision. G. Technical and Clarifying Amendments in Final Rule 1. Decentralization to the Regional Offices The interim final rule required that attestations be submitted to the ETA National Office. This was done as a temporary measure, in order to allow the National Office, which is responsible for establishing the policies and procedures for administering the program, an opportunity to gain first-hand experience in administering an attestation program. It was believed that this experience would assist the National Office in developing regulations and in providing policy guidance for regional offices once they were assigned responsibility for administering the program. The final rule decentralizes the processing of attestations for four ETA regional offices_Boston, Chicago, Dallas, and Seattle_by revising § XXX .310(b) and by making the modifications required elsewhere, so that the entire body of the rule reflects this decentralization. Information on the addresses of the four regional offices and the States served by each has been added to the instructions for completing the Form ETA 9029. 2. Claims of Business Exigency Under § XXX .310(c)(1)(iii) of the interim final rule, a facility submitting an attestation prior to April 1, 1991, was allowed to claim business exigency as a basis for delaying the compilation of documentation supporting its attestation for up to 90 days after submission of its attestation. This provision, now obsolete, which was intended to ease the transition from the H&hyph;1 to the H&hyph;1A program, has been deleted from the final rule since the applicable date has passed. 3. Indicators of Substantial Disruption The third indicator of substantial disruption was described in § XXX .310(d)(2)(C) of the interim final rule as the elimination or curtailment of ``essential health care services that are otherwise not available in the community. *␣*␣*'' This indicator should have been described, in accordance with section 212(m)(2)(A)(i) of the INA, as the elimination or curtailment of essential health care services not otherwise available ``at the facility.'' Section 212(m)(2)(A)(i) of the INA requires the facility to attest that ``there would be a substantial disruption through no fault of the facility in the delivery of health care services of the facility without the services of [the] alien''. The final rule makes this change, so that the third indicator of substantial disruption, as described in XXX .310(d)(2)(C) of the final rule reads so that it applies to the elimination or curtailment of health services at the facility. 4. Timely and Significant Steps Section 212(m)(2)(E)(iv) of the INA provides that a violation will be found if a facility ``fail[s] to meet a condition attested to''. The regulation, § XXX .310(g)(1), has been modified, in accordance with this statutory directive, to specify that employers will be held responsible for all timely and significant steps to which they attest. If, for example, the employer attests it is taking four timely and significant steps, but is found in an investigation to be complying with only two, a violation will be cited. It should be noted that the INA requires a minimum of two steps, unless taking a second step would be unreasonable. The interim final rule required a facility taking the third timely and significant step specified in section 212(m)(2)(B)(iii) of the INA_the facility is paying nurses at a higher rate than nurses similarly employed in the_area to maintain documentation showing that its entire schedule of wages for nurses is at least 5 percent higher than the prevailing wages, as determined pursuant to 22 § XXX .310(e)(1). The question arose whether, in the case of a facility where wages for nurses are the result of arms-length collective bargaining, this regulation required the facility to pay at least 5 percent higher than the collectively-bargained rate in order to attest to the third statutory step. The Department has concluded that it is not reasonable to require that facilities pay 5 percent higher than a collectively-bargained rate, if such a wage is at least five percent higher than the prevailing wage for the geographic area as determined by the SESA. Therefore, in the final rule § XXX .310(g)(1)(i)(A)( 3 ) has been amended to allow a facility the option of attesting to the third timely and significant step if its entire schedule of collectively-bargained wage rates is 5 percent above the prevailing wage as determined by the SESA.
