FR940627-1-00007 FR940627-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Minerals Management Service 30 CFR Part 206 Establishment of the Federal Gas Valuation Negotiated Rulemaking Committee AGENCY: Minerals Management Service, Interior. ACTION: Establishment of advisory committee. SUMMARY: As required by Section 9(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), 5 U.S.C. App., the Department of the Interior (Department) is giving notice of the establishment of the Federal Gas Valuation Negotiated Rulemaking Committee (Committee) to develop specific recommendations with respect to Federal gas valuation pursuant to its responsibilities imposed by the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982, 30 U.S.C. 1701 et seq . (FOGRMA). The Department has determined that the establishment of this Committee is in the public interest and will assist the Agency in performing its duties under FOGRMA. Copies of the Committee's charter will be filed with the appropriate committees of Congress and the Library of Congress in accordance with section 9(c) of FACA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Deborah Gibbs Tschudy, Chief, Valuation and Standards Division, Minerals Management Service, Royalty Management Program, P.O. Box 25165, MS&hyph;3920, Denver, Colorado, 80225&hyph;0165, telephone number (303) 275&hyph;7200, fax number (303) 275&hyph;7227. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Through an informal study group, MMS has conducted discussions to receive input on the current gas market and identify the challenges facing royalty valuation of gas produced from Federal leases for royalty purposes. The discussions have gone well and needs for regulatory changes have been identified. The MMS now believes that using a negotiated rulemaking committee to make specific recommendations with respect to Federal gas valuation would help the agency in developing a rulemaking. The Department is, therefore, establishing the Federal Gas Valuation Negotiated Rulemaking Committee. Background Since the publication of the March 1, 1988, gas valuation regulations (30 CFR Part 206) many of MMS's constituents have expressed concern about the current ``tracing method'' of valuing production from unit and communization agreements. Of particular concern is determining the proper value, for royalty purposes, when the working interest owner sells none of the production allocated to him under the agreement. Likewise, constituents have pointed out difficulties with the current benchmark system utilized to value non-arm's-length and no-sales situations. Those difficulties include issues of comparability, certainty, and access to information. As part of Vice President Gore's National Performance Review (NPR), the Royalty Management Program recently initiated a Reinvention Laboratory Team to examine ways to streamline the royalty management process. One of the recommendations of that team was to improve the valuation benchmark system. The NPR Team recommended to the Royalty Management Advisory Committee (RMAC) that a pilot be conducted to evaluate the use of spot prices as the second benchmark. In commenting on the recommendations of the NPR Team, RMAC recommended that the entire benchmark system be evaluated and that the evaluation be limited to gas produced from Federal leases. Statutory Provisions Pursuant to FOGRMA (30 U.S.C. 1701 et seq .), 30 CFR Part 206 (1993) and Federal oil and gas lease and agreement terms, certain principles of royalty accounting will form the basis for a proposed rule: Volume: Royalties must be paid each month on the volume of production allocated to or produced from the Federal lease under the agreement terms. Royalty Rate: Royalties must be paid in accordance with the royalty rate specified in each lease unless specified otherwise under the terms of the agreement. Value of Production: Value should be determined at the time of production. Value should be based on the fair market value at the lease. Payment Responsibility: Federal lessees or their working interest owners are ultimately responsible for paying royalties, but other entities can be assigned the royalty payment responsibility. The Committee and Its Process During the winter and spring of 1994, MMS met with representatives of the oil and gas industry and States to receive input about the current gas market and identify regulatory changes needed to add certainty and simplicity to valuation, for royalty purposes, of gas produced from Federal leases in a new gas market. An informal study group format was used to obtain and clarify varying viewpoints. The materials received to date during the input sessions are available for inspection and copying at the address referenced above for Ms. Deborah Gibbs Tschudy. Members of the study group include representatives of the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Council of Petroleum Accountants Societies (COPAS), the Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association (RMOGA), the Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA), the Independent Petroleum Association of Mountain States (IPAMS), the Natural Gas Supply Association (NGSA), an independent marketer, and representatives of the States of Utah, North Dakota, Montana, and New Mexico. The MMS and the study group participants believe that the input sessions have been mutually beneficial. As a result, MMS now believes it would be appropriate for the study group to transform itself and make specific regulatory recommendations for implementing a rulemaking regarding Federal gas valuation. The Department is therefore establishing the Federal Gas Valuation Negotiated Rulemaking Committee.
