FR941104-1-00019 FR941104-1-00002 ยง353.102 Definitions. In this part: Agency means: (1) With respect to restoration following a compensable injury, any department, independent establishment, agency, or corporation in the executive branch, including the U.S. Postal Service and the Postal Rate Commission, and any agency in the legislative or judicial branch; and (2) With respect to military duty, all of the foregoing except for any agency in the legislative or judicial branch, but including the Government of the District of Columbia. Fully recovered means compensation payments have been terminated on the basis that the employee is able to perform all the duties of the position he or she left or an equivalent one. Injury means a compensable injury sustained under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 81, subchapter I, and includes, in addition to accidental injury, a disease proximately caused by the employment. Leave of absence means military leave, annual leave, leave without pay (LWOP), furlough, continuation of pay, or any combination of these. Military duty means a period of: (1) Active duty for training or for service in the Armed Forces of the United States; (2) Inactive duty training in the Armed Forces of the United States; and (3) Active duty in the Public Health Service that is covered by 38 U.S.C. 4304(b). For the purpose of coverage under 38 U.S.C. 4304 (c) and (d), full-time training or other full-time duty performed by a member of the National Guard under 32 U.S.C. 316, 502, 503, 504, or 505 is considered active duty for training in the Armed Forces of the United States. For the purpose of 38 U.S.C. 4304(d), inactive duty training performed by that member under 32 U.S.C. 502 or 37 U.S.C. 206, 301, 309, 402, or 1002 is considered inactive duty training. Partially recovered means an injured employee, though not yet able to resume the full range of his or her regular duties, has recovered sufficiently to return to part-time or light duty or to another position with less demanding physical requirements. Ordinarily, it is expected that a partially recovered employee will fully recover eventually. Physically disqualified means that: (1) (i) For medical reasons the employee is unable to perform the duties of the position formerly held or an equivalent one, or (ii) There is a medical reason to restrict the individual from some or all essential duties because of possible incapacitation (for example, a seizure) or because of risk of health impairment (such as further exposure to a toxic substance for an individual who has already shown the effects of such exposure). (2) The condition is considered permanent with little likelihood for improvement or recovery. ยง353.103 Persons covered. (a) The provisions of this part concerned with military duty cover each employee of an agency who enters on military duty from: (1) A career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service; or (2) An appointment without time limitation in a position outside the competitive service. (b) The provisions of this part concerning employee injury cover a civil officer or employee in any branch of the Government of the United States, including an officer or employee of an instrumentality wholly owned by the United States, who was separated or furloughed from an appointment without time limitation as a result of a compensable injury; but do not include_ (1) A commissioned officer of the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service; (2) A commissioned officer of the Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service on active duty; or (3) A commissioned officer of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (c) Section 353.111 covers the restoration rights of employees serving under temporary appointments pending establishment of a register (TAPER).
