FR940513-2-00071 FR940513-2-00039 F. Statutory Authority The statutory authority for awards made under the AoA Discretionary Funds Program is contained in Title II and Title IV of the Older Americans Act, (42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.), as amended by the Older American Act Amendments of 1992, Pub.L.102&hyph;375, September 30, 1992. G. Public Comments on this Announcement AoA invites comments on this Discretionary Funds Program Announcement. In addition, because the field of aging is characterized by rapidly unfolding events, new data, findings and interpretations, and a diversity of issues important to older people, the Administration on Aging is considering the publication of two Discretionary Funds Program Announcements in Fiscal Year 1995, in early Winter and late Spring. We invite comments on that possibility as well. Please direct your comments to: Office of Program Development, Administration on Aging, 330 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20201. Part II_Priority Areas Part II of the Discretionary Funds Program (DFP) Announcement sets forth the priority areas under which applications will be considered for funding by the Administration on Aging. Part II also provides general guidelines concerning eligible applicants as well as project costs and duration. More specific instructions regarding eligibility, the federal share of project costs, project duration, and deadline dates for the submission of applications may be found under the individual priority areas. Applications must be directly and explicitly responsive to the expressed concerns of the particular priority area under which they are submitted. A. Eligible Applicants As a general rule, any public or nonprofit agency, organization, or institution is eligible to apply under this Discretionary Funds Program Announcement. Where there are exceptions to this rule, they are specified in the appropriate priority area description. The Administration on Aging will not consider grant applications from individuals because they are ineligible to receive a grant award under the provisions of Title IV of the Older Americans Act. For-profit organizations are not eligible applicants, but may participate as subgrantees or subcontractors to eligible public or nonprofit agencies. Any nonprofit organization applying under this program announcement that is not now a DHHS grantee should include, with its application, Internal Revenue Service or other legally recognized documentation of its nonprofit status. A nonprofit applicant cannot be funded without proof of its status. B. Project Costs and Duration Under each priority area, AoA has estimated the number of projects to be funded and offered guidelines regarding both the duration of those projects and the anticipated federal share of project costs. Because applications are reviewed on a competitive basis within priority areas, they are expected to be comparable in terms of cost and duration. Therefore, applicants are strongly urged to adhere to those guidelines. C. Projects Funded Under Cooperative Agreement Awards Under certain priority areas, AoA has indicated it will use the mechanism of the cooperative agreement in making awards. Under the cooperative agreement mechanism, AoA and each project grantee will share responsibility for managing that project. The grantee organization will have the primary responsibility for developing and implementing the activities of the project. AoA will join with the grantee in deciding the major issues to be addressed by the project; use periodic briefings and ongoing consultation to share with the grantee its knowledge of the issues being addressed by the project as well as information about relevant activities being undertaken by others; provide feedback to the grantee about the usefulness to the field of its written products and information sharing activities; and participate as much as possible in the deliberations of the project advisory committee. The details of this relationship will be set forth in the cooperative agreement to be developed and signed by AoA and the prospective grantee prior to the issuance of the award. D. List of Priority Areas (1) Home and Community-Based Long Term Care 1.1␣Consumer Participation in Home and Community Based Care 1.2␣Capacity Building and Mentoring Program in Home and Community Based Care 1.3␣Aging and Disability: Models for Coordinated Service Systems 1.4␣Employment of Public Assistance Recipients in Home Care 1.5␣National Long Term Care Policy and Resource Center on Housing and Supportive Services 1.6␣Eldercare Locator (2) Older Women 2.1␣National Policy and Resource Center on Older Women 2.2␣Protecting Older Women Against Domestic Violence (3) Nutrition and Malnutrition Among the Elderly 3.1␣National Policy and Resource Center on Nutrition and Aging (4) Blueprint for An Aging Society 4.1␣National Academy on Aging
