FR940204-1-00015 FR940204-1-00002 FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION 12 CFR Part 630 RIN 3052&hyph;AB23 Disclosure to Investors in Systemwide and Consolidated Bank Debt Obligations of the Farm Credit System AGENCY: Farm Credit Administration. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Farm Credit Administration (FCA), by the FCA Board (Board), publishes for comment proposed regulations that would require each bank of the Farm Credit System (FCS or System), the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation (Funding Corporation), and the Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation (Financial Assistance Corporation) to jointly publish annual and quarterly reports to investors and potential investors in Systemwide debt obligations and consolidated bank debt obligations of the Farm Credit System (FCS debt obligations). The report to investors required by the proposed rule would contain Systemwide financial statements, supplemental financial statement information, and related analyses pertaining to System institutions presented on a combined basis. The proposed rule would ensure that timely and accurate Systemwide financial information continues to be disclosed to investors and the public to assist them in making informed decisions regarding FCS debt obligations and System institutions. The proposed rule would integrate individual System institutions' disclosure to shareholders with the Systemwide disclosure to investors. Though not required by existing FCA regulations, System institutions have developed the Farm Credit System Disclosure Program (System Disclosure Program) and currently publish a ``Report to Investors of the Farm Credit System'' (FCS Report). Included in the FCS Report are an Information Statement that contains financial data and a general report. The content of the report to investors that would be required by this proposed rule is similar to that of the Information Statement. The proposed regulations generally parallel the System Disclosure Program, and thus should not impose significant additional regulatory burdens on System institutions. Further, the proposed rule would not impose any new responsibilities for financial disclosure on FCS associations. However, it contains one provision that would affect the associations' engagements with external auditors; i.e., it would provide for direct communication between association external auditors and System banks regarding questions about associations' financial information that arise in the preparation of the report to investors. DATES: Written comments must be received on or before April 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments must be submitted in writing (in triplicate) to Patricia W. DiMuzio, Division Director, Regulation Development Division, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090. Copies of all communications received will be available for examination by interested parties in the Regulation Development Division, Farm Credit Administration. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tong-Ching Chang, Staff Accountant, Technical and Operations Division, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4483, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444, or William L. Larsen, Senior Attorney, Regulatory Operations Division, Office of General Counsel, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4020, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Farm Credit System institutions jointly publish the FCS Report on an annual basis. The FCS Report includes an Information Statement and a general report. The Information Statement contains combined financial statements and related analyses pertaining to all System institutions. The general report contains other information about the System, debt obligations issued by the System, and the external environments in which the System operates. Except for the quarter that coincides with the end of the fiscal year, System institutions also jointly publish quarterly Information Statements. In connection with the sale of debt securities, the Funding Corporation routinely distributes the FCS Report and quarterly Information Statements to the investment dealers and dealer banks (selling group) that sell FCS debt securities.
