FR941227-2-00004 FR941227-2-00001 (F) Natural Resources Conservation Service The Natural Resources Conservation Service is headed by a Chief who reports to the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment. The Service is assigned responsibility for all soil and water conservation programs formerly performed by the Soil Conservation Service, the Wetlands Reserve, Water Bank, Colorado River Basin Salinity Control, and Forestry Incentives programs formerly performed by the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, the Farms for the Future Act program formerly performed by the Farmers Home Administration, and such other functions related to natural resources conservation as are assigned. (G) Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service The Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service is established by the Act. It is headed by an Administrator who reports to the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Economics. The Service is assigned responsibility for all cooperative State and other research programs formerly performed by the Cooperative State Research Service, all cooperative education and extension programs formerly performed by the Extension Service, and such other functions related to cooperative research, education, and extension as are assigned. (H) Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration The Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration is headed by an Administrator who reports to the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs. The Administration is assigned responsibility for all programs and activities formerly by the Federal Grain Inspection Service and by the Packers and Stockyards Administration, and such other functions related to regulatory programs as are assigned. (I) National Appeals Division The National Appeals Division is headed by a Director who reports to the Secretary. The Division is assigned responsibility for all administrative appeals formerly performed by the National Appeals Division of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service and by the National Appeals Staff of the Farmers Home Administration, appeals arising from decisions of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation and the Soil Conservation Service, appeals arising from decisions of the successors to these agencies established by this Memorandum, and such other administrative appeals arising from decisions of agencies and offices of USDA as are assigned. (J) Office of Risk Assessment and Cost-Benefit Analysis The Office of Risk Assessment and Cost-Benefit Analysis is headed by a Director who reports to the Chief Economist. The Office is assigned responsibility for assessing the risks to human health, human safety, or the environment, and for preparing cost-benefit analyses, with respect to proposed major regulations, and for publishing such assessments and analyses in the Federal Register. The Office also has responsibility for such other analytical functions as are assigned. (3) Positions Abolished The following subcabinet positions were abolished: (A) Under Secretary of Agriculture for International Affairs and Commodity Programs.
