FR940816-1-00046 FR940816-1-00009 Before developing the guidelines, the Service reviewed available information on the current status of migratory bird populations and the current status of migratory bird hunting on Federal Indian reservations and evaluated the impact that adoption of the guidelines likely would have on migratory birds. The Service has concluded that the size of the migratory bird harvest by tribal members hunting on their reservations is normally too small to have significant impacts on the migratory bird resource. One area of interest in Indian migratory bird hunting regulations relates to hunting seasons for nontribal members on dates that are within Federal frameworks, but that are different from those established by the State(s) in which a Federal Indian reservation is located. A large influx of nontribal hunters onto a reservation at a time when the season is closed in the surrounding State(s) could result in adverse population impacts on one or more migratory bird species. The guidelines make such an event unlikely, however, because tribal proposals must include: (a) details on the harvest anticipated under the requested regulations; (b) methods that will be employed to measure or monitor harvest (bag checks, mail questionnaires, etc.); (c) steps that will be taken to limit level of harvest, where it could be shown that failure to limit such harvest would impact on the migratory bird resource; and (d) tribal capabilities to establish and enforce migratory bird hunting regulations. Based on a review of tribal proposals, the Service may require modifications, and regulations may be established experimentally, pending evaluation and confirmation of harvest information obtained by the tribes. The Service believes that the guidelines provide appropriate opportunity to accommodate the reserved hunting rights and management authority of Indian tribes while ensuring that the migratory bird resource receives necessary protection. The conservation of this important international resource is paramount. The guidelines should not be viewed as inflexible. In this regard, the Service notes that they have been employed successfully since 1985 to establish special hunting regulations for Indian tribes. Therefore, the Service believes they have been tested adequately and they were made final beginning with the 1988&hyph;89 hunting season (53 FR 31612). It should be stressed here, however, that use of the guidelines is not mandatory and no action is required if a tribe wishes to observe the hunting regulations established by the State(s) in which the reservation is located. It has been appropriate over the past several years to make a statement in this proposed rule qualifying the Service's intent with regard to approving duck seasons and limits because of the uncertainty of production. Although the Service notes that survey results in the 1993&hyph;94 season indicated duck numbers were not significantly changed from those of the previous few years, there is reason for cautious optimism that the trend of poor reproduction caused by a long period of drought in the Prairie Pothole Region of Canada and the United States may be in the early stages of reversal. Certainly there are indications that drought conditions are lessening, which may in turn set the stage for improved duck production. The extended drought has been especially severe in critical production areas, but in 1993&hyph;94 water conditions in many important local production areas were good. Although 1994 spring and early-summer ground water conditions appear to have improved greatly in most areas of the Prairie Pothole Region, preliminary results of breeding population surveys and production will not be known for some time. Thus, although the situation is expected to be improved, the Service will continue to assess production information as it becomes available over the summer and make final decisions on 1994&hyph;95 regulatory frameworks when all the customary data are in. In summary, the purpose of this document is to propose 1994&hyph;95 season migratory bird hunting regulations for participating tribes. Hunting Season Proposals from Indian Tribes and Organizations For the 1994&hyph;95 hunting season, the Service received requests from fifteen tribes and Indian organizations that followed the 1985 proposal guidelines and were appropriate for publication in the Federal Register without further and/or alternative actions. The Lower Brule Sioux (South Dakota), the Kalispel Tribe (Washington) and the Klamath Tribe (Oregon) are included in the regulations this year for the first time. On June 17, the Mille Lacs Band of Chippewa Indians (Minnesota) provided the Service with a proposal to continue with regulations for the upcoming season as per the Memorandum of Understanding between the Service and the band with regard to migratory bird hunting on the reservation. (The Mille Lacs Band is currently litigating off-reservation hunting and fishing rights with the State of Minnesota.) The Service and the Mille Lacs Band have cooperated in this fashion since the 1986&hyph;87 migratory bird hunting season. Similar agreements have been reached with other tribes in other hunting seasons. The Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin has indicated to the Service that they will seek such an agreement in the future.
