FR941012-2-00076 FR941012-2-00052 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Announcement Number 509] Grants for Unintentional Injury Prevention and Control Research Notice of Availability of Funds For Fiscal Year 1995 Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces that applications are being accepted for Injury Prevention and Control Research Grants for fiscal year (FY) 1995. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the Healthy People 2000 chapter on Unintentional Injuries. (To order a copy of Healthy People 2000, see the section Where to Obtain Additional Information.) Authority This program is authorized under Sections 301 and 391&hyph;394 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241 and 280b&hyph;280b&hyph;3). Program regulations are set forth in Title 42 CFR Part 52. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants include all non-profit and for-profit organizations. Thus State and local health departments and State and local governmental agencies, universities, colleges, research institutions, and other public and private organizations, including small, minority and/or woman-owned businesses are eligible for these research grants. Current holders of CDC injury control research projects are eligible to apply. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Availability of Funds Approximately $2.0 million is projected to be available in FY 1995 to fund 6 to 9 grants. The amount of funding actually available may vary and is subject to change. New grant awards will not exceed $300,000 per year (including both direct and indirect costs). Grant applications that exceed the $300,000 per year cap will be returned to the investigator as non-responsive. Research grant supplements will generally be no more than $75,000 (including both direct and indirect costs). Awards will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period not to exceed 3 years. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress demonstrated by investigators at work-in-progress monitoring workshops, the achievement of workplan milestones reflected in the continuation application, and the availability of Federal funds. In addition, if funds are available, continuation awards may be eligible for increased funding to offset inflationary costs. Purpose The purposes of this program are to: A. Support injury prevention and control research on priority issues as delineated in Injury Control in the 1990s: A National Plan for Action and Healthy People 2000. B. Encourage professionals from a wide spectrum of disciplines such as engineering, medicine, health care, public health, behavioral and social sciences, and others, to undertake research to prevent and control injuries. C. Evaluate current and new intervention methods and strategies for the prevention and control of injuries. D. Encourage professionals from a wide spectrum of disciplines such as medicine, health care, public health, behavioral and social sciences, and others to undertake research to prevent and control unintentional injuries.
