FR940617-1-00002 FR940617-1-00001 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 5 CFR Parts 870, 871, 872, 873, 874, and 890 RIN 3206&hyph;AF94 Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance and Federal Employees Health Benefits Programs; Reconsideration of Employing Office Enrollment Decisions AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Proposed regulations with request for comments. SUMMARY: In keeping with the Administration's initiative to reinvent Government, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is issuing proposed regulations to improve the administrative process used by the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) and Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) programs in resolving disputes between Federal employees and agencies over coverage and enrollment issues. The purpose of the proposed regulations is to improve the performance of the Government by delegating to Federal agencies the authority to reconsider disputes over coverage and enrollment issues in these two programs and to make retroactive as well as prospective corrections of errors. The proposed regulations would result in more efficient Government operations and improved service to individuals seeking benefits under the programs. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments may be sent to Lucretia F. Myers, Assistant Director for Insurance Programs, Retirement and Insurance Group, Office of Personnel Management, P.O. Box 57, Washington, DC 20044, or delivered to OPM, Room 3415, 1900 E Street, NW., Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Margaret Sears, (202) 606&hyph;0191. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under the FEGLI law, eligible employees are automatically insured under Basic Life insurance (generally equal to their annual pay, rounded to the next thousand, plus $2,000), unless they waive coverage. In addition, employees with Basic Life coverage may elect coverage under one or more of the 3 types of optional insurance available. (Standard Optional offers an additional $10,000 of insurance. Additional Optional offers insurance in an amount of one, two, three, four, or five times annual pay rounded to the next thousand. Family Optional offers $5,000 insurance for the spouse and $2,500 for each child.) OPM's regulations prescribe the circumstances under which employees cancel waivers of Basic Life, elect optional coverage, increase optional coverage, or drop coverage. Under the FEHB Program, eligible employees may enroll in FEHB when they are first hired. They may enroll or change enrollment during open season, when their family status changes, or at other times prescribed by OPM's regulations. The FEHB law also provides for enrollment by certain former employees, former spouses, and children when they lose regular FEHB coverage because of separation from service or loss of family member status. The specific conditions of their enrollment and opportunities to change enrollment are controlled by OPM's regulations.
