FR940920-1-00090 FR940920-1-00008 The top 12 percent MACT floor for the emission guidelines could be constructed in a number of different ways including a permit basis (this proposal), a technology basis, or an emissions data basis. Under a technology basis, MWC's would be ranked by their control technology to determine the technology used by the average or median of the top 12 percent of the MWC population, and the floor would be based on the performance of that technology. Under an emission data basis, data on the best top 12 percent of available test runs would be averaged to calculate the floor. Other approaches are also possible. The different approaches would result in noticeably different MACT floor performance levels. The EPA specifically requests comments on what approach is most appropriate and the rationale for that approach. Based on the EPA's review of comments received on this issue, as well as reanalysis of any data submitted, the MACT floor for the promulgated guidelines may be noticeably higher or lower than the floor included in the proposal. b. Discussion of the Selection of MACT for Large MWC Plants. After establishing the MACT floor for each pollutant based on permit limits, the EPA considered the cost, health and environmental impacts, and energy requirements of selecting MACT for each pollutant at a control level more stringent than the MACT floor. In selecting MACT for each pollutant for large plants, the EPA used principally the data base created for establishing the emission guidelines for MWC's proposed in 1989 and promulgated in 1991 under subpart Ca. For a few pollutants in this proposal, the EPA utilized more recent test data to supplement the 1989 data base. Because most of the test data used for this proposal are more than 4 years old, and in consideration of the fact that most MWC's retest at least once per year, the EPA requests submittal of the most recent MWC emissions test data. The EPA requests comment on which MWC emissions test data would be the most appropriate to use for establishing MACT for existing MWC's. For example, if the EPA has multiple emission tests for a given MWC over its operating history (which is common), should the EPA utilize the data from all of the emission tests performed for the unit or from only the most recent emission test, in determining the performance of the unit? Additionally, the EPA requests comment on suggestions of analytical methods to use for analyzing the data (e.g., analytical methods that could be used to address emissions variability, including methods for analyzing variable test data for one MWC collected over multiple years and methods of adjusting the best 12 percent of the emissions data to account for variability). The appropriate treatment of variability will be related to the format chosen for the standards (see discussion of alternative formats below). Based on the new data submitted and on the final choice of which test data and what analysis methods to use, the EPA may promulgate final emission guidelines that are more or less stringent than those proposed today. The following sections IV.F.3.c through IV.F.3.j present the EPA's rationale for selecting MACT for each pollutant for MWC's at large MWC facilities. c. MACT for Sulfur Dioxide for Large MWC Plants. Uncontrolled levels of SO 2 for MWC's are typically about 160 ppmv. The MACT floor for SO 2 at large plants is 35 ppmv. Therefore, acid gas control would be needed to achieve the MACT floor level of control. Both SD/ESP's and SD/FF's can meet the MACT floor level of control. Tests of many SD/FF's have demonstrated SO 2 control to levels below 35 ppmv. Although SD/FF systems can generally achieve slightly better SO 2 control than SD/ESP systems, the cost of requiring existing SD/ESP systems to retrofit an SD/FF to meet SO 2 control levels more stringent than the MACT floor would be prohibitively expensive and is considered unreasonable. For example, at a typical 1,400 Mg/day MWC plant already equipped with an SD/ESP, the capital cost to remove the ESP and retrofit a new FF (as part of an SD/FF system) would be about $14 million. This cost would be in addition to paying the remaining debt for the relatively new ESP (about $5 million including interest payments) and would result in a relatively small increase in control device efficiency. The incremental cost of control for requiring a retrofit from an SD/ESP to an SD/FF would be greater than $10,000/Mg of acid gas reduction and would increase SO 2 removal efficiency by only about 6 percent. Therefore, the EPA is proposing that the MACT guideline level for SO 2 remain at the MACT floor level of 35 ppmv. Additionally, the EPA is proposing an alternative SO 2 guideline level of 75-percent reduction to address SO 2 emissions variability. Therefore, the proposed MACT floor guideline level for SO 2 is either 35 ppmv or 75-percent reduction (24-hour averaging period), whichever is less stringent. d. MACT for Hydrogen Chloride for Large MWC Plants. Acid gas control would also be needed for large MWC's to reduce HCl emissions from uncontrolled levels of about 500 ppmv to the HCl MACT floor level of 35 ppmv. The same types of acid gas control systems needed to achieve the MACT control level for SO 2 will also meet the MACT floor levels of HCl. While it is expected that SD/FF systems could achieve slightly lower HCl levels than SD/ESP systems, it has not been demonstrated that existing SD/FF or SD/ESP systems can consistently meet HCl levels below the MACT floor. Therefore, the EPA is proposing that the MACT guideline level for HCl remain at the MACT floor level of 35 ppmv. Additionally, the EPA is proposing an alternative HCl guideline level of 95-percent reduction to address HCl emissions variability. Therefore, the proposed MACT floor guideline level for HCl is either 35 ppmv or 95-percent reduction, whichever is less stringent.
