FR941003-1-00091 FR941003-1-00006 (1) A description of the undertaking, with photographs, maps, and drawings, as necessary; (2) A description of the efforts to identify historic properties; (3) A description of the affected historic properties, with information on the significant characteristics of each property; (4) A description of the effects of the undertaking on historic properties and the basis for the determinations; (5) A description and evaluation of any alternatives or mitigation measures that the Agency Official proposes to resolve the undertaking's adverse effects; (6) A description of any alternatives or mitigation measures that were considered but not chosen, and the reasons for their rejection; (7) Documentation of consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer regarding the identification and evaluation of historic properties, assessment of effect, and any consideration of alternatives or mitigation measures; (8) A description of the Agency Official's efforts to obtain and consider the views of affected local governments, Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, and other interested parties; (9) The planning and approval schedule for the undertaking; (10) Copies or summaries of any views submitted to the Agency Official concerning the effects of the undertaking on historic properties and alternatives to reduce or avoid those effects; and (11) Any additional available information specifically requested by the Council. (f) Adequacy of documentation. The Council shall determine the adequacy of documentation prepared to meet the requirements of this part. If the Council determines that documentation is inadequate, the running of the time period specified at the relevant section of this part shall be suspended until adequate documentation is submitted. §800.15 Properties discovered after approval or during implementation of an undertaking. (a) Planning for discoveries. When the Agency Official's identification efforts in accordance with §800.8 indicate that historic properties are likely to be discovered during implementation of an undertaking, the Agency Official is encouraged to develop a plan for the resolution of any adverse effects upon such properties if discovered. The plan should be incorporated into any Memorandum of Agreement executed for the undertaking. (b) When properties are discovered_ (1) If a plan exists. When an Agency Official has completed the Section 106 process and prepared a plan in accordance with §800.15(a), the Agency Official shall satisfy the requirements of Section 106 concerning properties discovered during implementation of an undertaking by following the plan. (2) If no plan exists. When an Agency Official has completed the Section 106 process without preparing a plan in accordance with §800.15(a) and finds after beginning to carry out the undertaking that the undertaking will have an adverse effect upon a previously unidentified historic property, or adversely affect a known historic property in an unanticipated manner, the Agency Official shall resolve the adverse effects by: (i) Consulting pursuant to §800.10; (ii) Consulting pursuant to §800.15(c); or
