FR940214-1-00028 FR940214-1-00005 This proposed rule is not intended to have retroactive effect. There are no applicable administrative procedures that must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule. However, the administrative procedures specified in Part 335 of Federal meat inspection regulations and Part 381, Subpart W of the poultry products inspection regulations, must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule, if the challenge involves any decision of an inspector relating to inspection services provided under the FMIA and PPIA. Effects on Small Entities The Administrator, FSIS, has made an initial determination that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The proposal provides a time limit of 20 calendar days to appeal a decision to retain meat or poultry products that was made by the in-plant inspector and concurred in by the circuit supervisor, recondition or rework product, or properly dispose of the product. FSIS has determined that a 20-day time period provides ample time for the establishment to research and evaluate the situation and make a decision on whether to recondition or rework the product or request that the product be condemned by the inspector. In addition, the proposal would require that establishment management make such appeals in writing. The proposal would exempt establishments from the 20-day time limit for reconditioning and reworking product when establishments intend to accumulate product for re-examination by mechanical detecting devices. Because of the expense to establishments of renting mechanical detecting equipment and employing technicians to operate the equipment, some establishments may elect to store product suspected of being adulterated until a sufficient amount is accumulated to justify the cost of the detection equipment and technicians. However, the Agency would allow the accumulation of suspect product beyond the 20 days only if the establishment has written procedures on file that provide information to assure that the identity, location and security of suspect product is maintained. The Agency has determined that the additional paperwork burden associated with this proposed rule is necessary to maintain control of and assure proper disposition of product that may be adulterated. The Agency has reviewed the recordkeeping requirements and has determined that they do not impose a significant burden on small entities. Paperwork Requirements This proposal would require that establishments electing to accumulate product for re-examination with mechanical detection devices submit written procedures to the Regional Director for prior approval. Approval of the written procedure will be based on the establishment's ability to provide the physical space to store the accumulated product and its ability to assure that the identity and security of the product is maintained. These procedures would describe how the establishment will maintain the identity of the suspect product, where the suspect product will be stored, how long the product will be stored, and what measures will be taken to secure the product. The proposal would also require that appeals above the circuit supervisor's level be made in writing. These paperwork requirements will be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Background The Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) and the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 et seq. ) require the Secretary of Agriculture to administer an inspection program that assures consumers that meat and poultry products distributed in commerce are wholesome, not adulterated, and properly marked, labeled, and packaged. During processing, there are a number of ways that meat and poultry products may become adulterated or misbranded. When product is suspected of being adulterated or misbranded, FSIS inspectors place a ``U.S. Retain'' tag on the suspect product at the time of reinspection at the official establishment and the product is held for further inspection. Upon further inspection, if the product is found to be adulterated, it is subject to condemnation. However, the inspector may permit product to be reconditioned or reworked so it will not be misbranded or adulterated under certain conditions (9 CFR 318.2 and 381.99).
