FR940304-0-00058 FR940304-0-00017 (2) Trunking Basket PCI and API. (i) On the effective date, the PCI value for the trunking basket, as defined in §61.42(d)(3), shall be computed by multiplying the API value for the special access basket on the day preceding the transport restructure date, by a weighted average of the following: (A) The ratio of the PCI value that applied to the special access basket on the day preceding the transport restructure date, to the API value that applied to the special access basket on the day preceding the transport restructure date, weighted by the revenue weight of the special access services included in the trunking basket; and (B) The ratio of the PCI value that applied to the traffic sensitive basket on the day preceding the transport restructure date, to the API value that applied to the traffic sensitive basket on the day preceding the transport restructure date, weighted by the revenue weight of the transport services included in the trunking basket. (ii) On the effective date, the API value for the trunking basket referred to in §61.42(e)(2) shall be equal to the API value for the special access basket on the day preceding the transport restructure date. (3) Service Category and Subcategory Pricing Bands for Flat-Rated Transport and Special Access. From the effective date through the end of the tariff year, the following shall govern instead of §§61.47(e) and 61.47(g)(1). The pricing bands established for the voice grade and high capacity service categories referred to in §§61.42(e)(2)(i) and 61.42(e)(2)(iii) and the DS1 and DS3 service subcategories referred to in §§ 61.42(e)(2)(iii)(A) and 61.42(e)(2)(iii)(B), shall limit the pricing flexibility of the service category or subcategory, as reflected in its SBI, as follows: (i) The upper pricing band shall be a weighted average of the following: (A) The upper pricing band that applied to the special access services included in the category or subcategory on the day preceding the transport restructure date, weighted by the revenue weight of the special access services included in the category or subcategory; and (B) 1.05 times the SBI value for the special access services included in the category or subcategory on the day preceding the transport restructure date, weighted by the revenue weight of the transport services included in the category or subcategory. (ii) The lower pricing band shall be a weighted average of the following: (A) The lower pricing band that applied to the special access services included in the category or subcategory on the day preceding the transport restructure date, weighted by the revenue weight of the special access services included in the category or subcategory; and (B) 0.95 times the SBI value for the special access services included in the category or subcategory on the day preceding the transport restructure date, weighted by the revenue weight of the transport services included in the category or subcategory. (iii) On the effective date, the SBI value for the category or subcategory shall be equal to the SBI value for the corresponding special access category or subcategory on the day preceding the effective date. (4) Tandem-Switched Transport and Interconnection Charge SBIs. On the effective date, the SBIs for the tandem-switched transport and interconnection charge service categories defined in §61.42(e)(2) (v) and (vi) shall be assigned an initial value prior to adjustment of 100, corresponding to the initial restructured rates in those categories. (5) Tandem-Switched Transport and Interconnection Charge Service Category Pricing Bands. From the effective date through the end of the tariff year, the following shall govern instead of §61.47 (g)(2) and (g)(3): (i) The upper pricing band for the tandem-switched transport service category shall limit the upward pricing flexibility for this service category, as reflected in its SBI, to two percent, measured from the initial restructured rates for tandem-switched transport. The lower pricing band for the tandem-switched transport service category shall limit the downward pricing flexibility for this service category, as reflected in its SBI, to five percent, measured from the initial restructured rates for tandem-switched transport. (ii) The upper pricing band for the interconnection charge service category shall limit the upward pricing flexibility for this service category, as reflected in its SBI, to zero percent, measured from the initial restructured rate for the interconnection charge. (i) Transport and Special Access Density Pricing Zone Transition Rules_ (1) Definitions. The following definitions apply for purposes of paragraph (i) of this section:
