FR940216-0-00071 FR940216-0-00010 4. Eligibility of Fuel Properties for Testing In providing for augmentation of the complex model through vehicle testing, EPA's intent is to provide refiners with the ability to take advantage of new or ongoing research into the relationship between fuel properties and exhaust emissions. As discussed elsewhere in this section, however, the Agency believes that the complex model is more accurate and reliable than any single test program for the parameters included in the model. Therefore, augmentation by testing will be permitted only for certain fuel parameters and for certain levels of those parameters. Augmentations will not be permitted for fuel parameters that are included and quantified in the complex model database, regardless of whether they appear in the complex model itself. Such parameters were either not identified or identified and later rejected during the rulemaking process, which included a series of regulatory negotiation meetings, public workshops, and public meetings. EPA believes that the opportunities for error far exceed the potential emission benefits from allowing model augmentations using parameters that did not survive the peer review process. Augmentation through vehicle testing will be permitted to extend the valid range of the complex model for parameters already included in the model. The purpose of such testing would be to determine the behavior of the parameter within this extended range. Augmentations also will be permitted for parameters that neither have been included in today's complex model nor were measured for the fuels contained in the complex model database. The purpose of testing in this case would be to determine the behavior of new parameters, including any dilution and interactive effects. The test requirements differ for these two cases to reflect differences in existing knowledge and environmental risk. 5. Test Fuels The Agency has three major goals that must be satisfied before accepting an augmentation to the complex model. First, the augmentation must provide proper credit for fuel modifications. Second, the augmentation must account for dilution effects properly. Third, the augmentation must account for interactive effects between the parameter being tested and other fuel parameters properly. EPA believes that these three goals cannot be met without specifying at least some of the characteristics of fuels to be included in a test program. The remainder of this section describes the basic characteristics of the fuels required as part of a vehicle test program. a. Fuels required to extend the range of existing complex model parameters. Three ``extension fuels'' must be included in test programs intended to extend the range of the complex model for a given parameter to a more extreme level. Extension fuel # 1 would contain the more extreme level of the parameter being extended in order to determine the parameter's effects on emissions at this more extreme level. Extension fuel # 2 would contain the parameter being extended at levels at or near its current lower limit in the model. Extension fuel # 3 would contain the parameter being extended at levels at or near its current upper limit in the model. These latter two fuels are necessary in order to estimate the size and significance of squared terms involving the parameter being extended. For all three fuels, the levels of other complex model parameters are to be set at the levels specified in Table V.2, which the Agency believes are representative of levels that will be found in typical reformulated fuels. In addition, all three fuels must be blended from representative refinery streams to the extent practicable. The three extension fuels must meet the requirements presented in Tables V.1 and V.2 to within the blending tolerances specified in Table V.4. If the Complex Model contains interactive effects between the parameter in question and other parameters, two additional fuels must be tested to quantify the magnitude of any such effect at extended levels of the parameter in question. For each interacting parameter, the two additional fuels would contain the parameter being tested at levels identical to that found in Extension Fuel # 1. The interacting parameter would be present at the levels specified in Table V.1 for Extension Fuels 2 and 3, respectively, in the two additional fuels in order to quantify the size of the interactive effect over its full range. Other parameters would be set at the levels specified in Table V.2. It should be noted that since today's complex model includes only one interactive term (involving aromatics and E300), this situation would arise relatively infrequently. Table V. 1._ Level of Existing Complex Model Parameters Being Extended 1Fuel property being extended 1Extension fuel # 1Extension fuel # 2 1Extension fuel # 3 Sulfur, ppm Extension Level 80 450 Benzene, vol% Extension Level 0.5 1.5 RVP, psi Extension Level 6.7 8.0 E200, % Extension Level 38 61 E300, % Extension Level 78 92 Aromatics, vol% Extension Level 20 45 Olefins, vol% Extension Level 3.0 18 Oxygen, wt% Extension Level 1.7 2.7 Octane, R+M/2 87.5 87.5 87.5 Table V. 2._ Levels for Fuel Parameters Other Than Those Being Extended 1Fuel property 1Extension fuel # 1 1Extension fuel # 2 1Extension fuel # 3 Sulfur, ppm 150 150 150 Benzene, vol% 1.0 1.0 1.0 RVP, psi 7.5 7.5 7.5 E200, % 50 50 50 E300, % 85 85 85 Aromatics, vol% 25 25 25 Olefins, vol% 9.0 9.0 9.0 Oxygen, wt% 2.0 2.0 2.0 Octane, R+M/2 87.5 87.5 87.5 b. Fuels required to qualify new complex model fuel parameters. Seven ``addition fuels'' must be included in test programs intended to augment the complex model with fuel parameters not included in the model. These fuels are intended to provide the data necessary to estimate linear, squared, and interactive emission effects for the parameter being tested. The fuel parameter values for all seven addition fuels are specified in Table V.3; these values must be met to within the blending tolerance ranges specified in Table V.4.
