FR940711-2-00118 FR940711-2-00049 The core measures will be the basis for identifying SDA's that are candidates for technical assistance and for imposing sanctions. At least 75 percent of the funds set aside for performance incentives must be related to these measures and the out-of-school youth and employer-assisted benefits criteria, in accordance with section 106(b)(7)(E). 2. Cost standards cannot be used for incentive award purposes. However, States are reminded of the integral role of financial reviews in program management. States are encouraged to explore ways of relating overall costs of job training to more direct measures of long-term employment, earnings and reductions in welfare. 3. Incentive policies may include adjustments to incentive award amounts based upon factors such as grant size, additional services to the hard-to-serve, intensity of service, and expenditure level. 4. A Secretary's standard for service to the hard-to-serve, as required by section 106(b)(7)(B) of JTPA, has been established in the form of a stand-alone eligibility criterion (``gate'') for incentive awards. In order for an SDA to be eligible to receive any incentive award, at least 65 percent of both the SDA's (a) Title II&hyph;A and (b) Title II&hyph;C (in-school and out-of-school youth combined) participants receiving training and/or other service beyond objective assessment must be hard-to-serve. The definitions of hard-to-serve are to be consistent with the definitions in sections 203(b), 263(b), and 263(d) of the Act. For the purpose of determining compliance with this requirement, Governors are to include any SDA-defined barriers that have been approved by the Governor, as well as the characteristics of participants in school-wide projects under section 263(g) and participants in five percent-funded projects. 5. For those SDA's that successfully ``pass through'' the gate, three criteria (in addition to any funds set aside for Governors' standards) will determine the amount of the incentive award: (1) exceeding the Secretary's performance standards, (2) providing quality service to out-of-school youth, and (3) placing participants in employment that provides employer-assisted benefits. _The definition of ``employer-assisted benefits'' is to be consistent with the SPIR definition (see Attachment 4). For the purposes of reporting and performance standards, fringe benefits count so long as they are an acknowledged component of employment conditions, whether actually received at the time of placement or not. Thus, State incentive policies will be structured to include benefit information for those participants who entered employment at termination, and Governors will have considerable latitude in implementing this incentive policy requirement.
