FR941230-1-00058 FR941230-1-00004 (2) Amount of nonqualified bonds . For failures described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the nonqualified bonds for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section are those bonds having an amount that, if treated as redeemed, would result in the net proceeds of the remaining bonds of the issue satisfying the requirement for the percentage of the net proceeds to be used for qualifying costs. ยง1.141&hyph;13 Deliberate actions and related remedial actions. (a) Remedial action. An action that causes the private business tests or the private loan financing test to be met is not treated as a deliberate action if the issuer takes a remedial action described in paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section with respect to the nonqualified bonds and all of the following requirements are met: (1) Required covenants . The issuer covenants on the issue date in the bond documents for the issue that it will take no action that would cause the bonds to be private activity bonds and that it will not fail to take any action that would prevent the bonds from being private activity bonds, and the issuer established reasonable procedures to ensure compliance with this covenant. (2) Fair market value consideration . The terms of any agreements that result in satisfaction of either the private business tests or the private loan financing test are bona fide and arm's-length, and the new user pays consideration equal to the fair market value for the use of the financed property. (3) Expectations must be certified . An officer of the issuer responsible for issuing the bonds, in good faith, certifies as part of the bond documents the issuer's expectations as of the issue date, including the facts and estimates that form the basis for the issuer's expectations regarding the use of proceeds of the issue. The certification is evidence of the issuer's expectations, but does not establish any conclusions or presumptions of law or fact. A certification under this paragraph (a)(3) is not required if the issue price of the issue does not exceed $1,000,000. (4) No abuse . No circumstances are present that indicate an attempt to avoid directly or indirectly the requirements of section 141. (b) Redemption of nonqualified bonds _(1) Transfer for cash . If the financed facility is transferred exclusively for cash (a transfer for cash ), the requirements of this paragraph (b) are satisfied if an amount equal to the disposition proceeds are used to redeem a pro rata portion of the nonqualified bonds at the earliest call date after the deliberate action. If the bonds are not redeemed within 90 days of the date of the transfer, the disposition proceeds must be used to establish a defeasance escrow for those bonds within 90 days of that date. (2) Other deliberate actions . If the deliberate action does not exclusively involve a transfer for cash, funds other than proceeds of a tax-exempt bond must be used to redeem all the nonqualified bonds. If the bonds are not redeemed within 90 days of the date of the deliberate act, a defeasance escrow must be established for those bonds within 90 days of that date. (3) Notice of defeasance . The issuer must provide written notice to the Commissioner of the establishment of the defeasance escrow within 180 days of the date of the transfer. (4) Special limitation . The establishment of a defeasance escrow does not satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (b) if_ (i) The terms of the nonqualified bonds do not provide for a redemption of those bonds within 6 months of the date of the deliberate action; and (ii) As of the issue date of the nonqualified bonds, there was more than a remote possibility that the financed property would be transferred to a nongovernmental person during the period beginning on the issue date and ending on the date the bonds can first be redeemed by the issuer. For this purpose, the possibility of transfer to a nongovernmental person is treated as remote if the facility is of a type that is not customarily owned and operated by nongovernmental persons. (5) Defeasance escrow defined . A defeasance escrow is an irrevocable escrow established to redeem bonds at their earliest call date in an amount that, together with investment earnings, is sufficient to pay all the principal of the interest and call premium on the related bonds from the date the escrow is established to the earliest call date. If the amount of the nonqualified bonds is limited to the amount of the disposition proceeds, the amount required to be deposited in the defeasance escrow is limited to that amount. The escrow may not be invested in higher yielding investments or in any investment under which the obligor is a user of the proceeds of the related bonds.
