FR940404-2-00150 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Working Group on Insurance Statistics, 19th Session, November 23, and Insurance Committee, 50th Session, November 24&hyph;25, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris, November 23&hyph;25, 1992 Representative M. Bruce McAdam, Industry Specialist, Office of Finance, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce Adviser Kathleen Reddy, United States Mission to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Paris Private Sector Advisers Janet Belkin, Professor, College of Insurance, Merrick, New York Kevin T. Cronin, Washington Counsel, National Association of Insurance Commissioners, Washington, DC George H. Henry, Vice President, Federal Relations, American Insurance Association, Washington, DC Hans Miller, Vice President for International Development, Hartford Fire International, Hartford, Connecticut David Walsh, Director, Insurance Division, Department of Commerce, State of Alaska, Anchorage, Alaska United States Delegation to the Diplomatic Conference to Consider Draft Protocols to the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, and the International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage, 1971, International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, November 23&hyph;27, 1992 Representative Daniel F. Sheehan, Director, National Pollution Funds Center, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative David J. Kantor, Captain, Office of Chief Counsel, Maritime and International Law Division, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Robert C. Blumberg, Deputy Director, Office of Oceans Law and Policy, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State James B. Carmichael, Captain, National Pollution Funds Center, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers Curry Lawless, Director, Legislative Affairs, American Institute of Merchant Shipping, Washington, DC Sidney Wallace, Rear Admiral, Retired, Maritime Law Association, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the International Copper Study Group (ICSG), First Special Session, Santiago, November 23&hyph;27, 1992 Representative Robert C. Reiley, Director, Office of Materials, Machinery, and Chemicals, Department of Commerce Alternate Robert J. McSwain, International Economist, Economic Bureau, Department of State Advisers George Coakley, Division of International Minerals, Bureau of Mines, Department of the Interior Barbara Males, Copper Industry Specialist, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Arthur Meile, Vice President, Marketing, Phelps Dodge Corporation, Phoenix, Arizona Robert M. Payne, President, Copper Development Association, New York, New York United States Delegation to the Second Meeting of the Aeronautical Mobile Communications Panel, International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Montreal, November 23&hyph;December 4, 1992 Member Joseph J. Fee, Manager, Oceanic Program, Systems Engineering Service, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Advisers David Anderson, Office of Spectrum Management, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Bruce Eckstein, System Engineer, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Victor E. Foose, Manager, Frequency Engineering Branch, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers Lawrence F. Chesto, Director, Telecommunications Systems, Industry Activities, Aeronautical Radio, Inc., Annapolis, Maryland Kris E. Hutchinson, Director, Frequency Management, Industry Activities, Aeronautical Radio, Inc., Annapolis, Maryland
