FR941116-0-00122 FR941116-0-00022 ยง718.13 Denial of program benefits. (a) * * * (3) Fails to maintain acreage designated as ACR, CU for payment, or CRP as provided in parts 1413 and 1410, respectively, of this title. * * * * * 8. Section 718.21 is amended by revising paragraph (b) and adding paragraph (e) to read as follows: ยง718.21 Measurement services. * * * * * (b) The acreage requested to be measured by staking and referencing shall not exceed the effective farm allotment for marketing quota crops or maximum permitted acreage for program crops plus the available flex acreage with respect to other program crops enrolled in that crop's production adjustment program for that year. * * * * * (e) When a measurement service reveals acreage in excess of the permitted acreage plus the available flex acreage with respect to other program crops enrolled in that crop's production adjustment program for that year, the producer must do either of the following in order to keep the measurement service guarantee: (1) Destroy the excess acreage and pay for an authorized employee of ASCS to verify destruction, (2) Pay for measurement service for an authorized employee of ASCS to verify destruction of an acreage of another crop on the farm that is enrolled in a production adjustment program equal to the excess acreage, if such other crop acreage is within permitted acreage established for the farm for that crop. 9. Section 718.22 is revised to read as follows: ยง718.22 Acreage reports. (a) To be eligible for program benefits, a report of acreage shall be required for all cropland on farms that produce an agricultural commodity that includes: (1) Number of acres, (2) Land use, (3) Production, including zero production, (4) Prevented or failed acreage, (5) Crop disposition, if required according to 7 CFR 1413.21, and (6) Other program requirements. (b) The reports required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be timely filed by the farm operator, farm owner, or a duly authorized representative with the county committee by the final reporting date applicable to the crop as established by the county committee. Such final reporting dates are available at the applicable State and county ASCS offices. (c) Small grain acreage may be destroyed beyond the crop disposition date by haying or grazing provided the farm operator, prior to using or delivering for sale hay derived from such small grain acreage:
