FR940812-0-00021 FR940812-0-00008 Nonprofit institutions _Any organization or institution, including an accredited institution of higher education, no part of the net earnings of which inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. Project _The undertaking for which funds will be used to develop or operate a technology and/or cooperative development center. Public body _Any State, county, city, township, incorporated towns and villages, boroughs, authorities, districts, locally-based areawide economic development organizations, and Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations, and other federally recognized Indian tribes in rural areas. Servicing office _Any FmHA State Office. Small business _A business which does not exceed the maximum number of employees or annual receipts allowed for a concern (including its affiliates) to be considered small according to the established size standards for Small Business Administration (SBA) assistance as set forth in 13 CFR, part 121. The business may be operated on a profit or nonprofit basis but must rely primarily on revenues of the business for operation. Technology _The application of science to industrial or commercial objectives. The entire body of methods and material used to achieve such objectives. Technology development _The creation of new technology or the use and application of existing technology to promote the development and commercialization of new products, new processes, and new services that can be produced or provided in rural areas. Rural and rural area _Includes all territory of a State, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Mariana Islands that is not within the outer boundary of any city having a population of 50,000 or more and its immediately adjacent urbanized and urbanizing areas with a population density of more than 100 persons per square mile, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture according to the latest decennial census of the United States. Urbanized area _An area immediately adjacent to a city having a population of 50,000 or more which, for general social and economic purposes, constitutes a single community and has a boundary contiguous with that of the city. Such community may be incorporated or unincorporated to extend from the contiguous boundary(ies) to recognizable open country, less densely settled areas, or natural boundaries such as forests or water. Minor open spaces such as airports, industrial sites, recreational facilities, or public parks shall be disregarded. Outer boundaries of an incorporated community extend at least to its legal boundaries. Cities which may have a contiguous border with another city, but are located across a river from such city, are recognized as a separate community and are not otherwise considered a part of an urbanized or urbanizing area, as defined in this section, are not in a nonrural area. Urbanizing area _A community which is not now, or within the foreseeable future not likely to be, clearly separate from and independent of a city of 50,000 or more population and its immediately adjacent urbanized areas. A community is considered ``separate from'' when it is separated from the city and its immediately adjacent urbanized area by open country, less densely settled areas, or natural barriers such as forests or water. Minor open spaces such as airports, industrial sites, recreational facilities, or public parks shall be disregarded. A community is considered ``independent of'' when its social and economic structure (e.g., government; educational, health, and recreational facilities; and business; industry, tax base, and employment opportunities) is not primarily dependent on the city and its immediately adjacent urbanized areas. §4284.505 Applicant eligibility. (a) Grants may be made to public bodies or nonprofit institutions. (1) The approval official will proceed as follows in rural area determinations: When the approval official determines an area to be urbanized or urbanizing, he/she must then determine the population density per square mile. If the project otherwise appears to be eligible, the approval official will request the National Office to provide the correct density figure. (2) All such density determinations will be made on the basis of minor civil division or census county division as used by the Bureau of the Census. In making the density calculations, large nonresidential tracts devoted to urban land uses such as railroad yards, airports, industrial sites, parks, golf courses, and cemeteries or land set aside for such purposes will be excluded. (b) An outstanding judgement obtained against an applicant by the United States in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgement is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. RDA grant funds may not be used to satisfy the judgement. Questions about whether or not a judgement is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel (OGC). §§4284.506&hyph;4284.514 [Reserved] §4284.515 Grant purposes. Grant funds may be used to pay up to 75 percent of the costs for establishing and/or operating centers for rural technology and/or cooperative development. Applicant's contribution may be in cash or third-party in-kind contribution in accordance with parts 3015 and 3016 of this title. Grant funds may be used for, but are not limited to, the following purposes: (a) Technology research, investigations, and basic feasibility studies in any field or discipline for the purpose of generating principles, facts, technical knowledge, new technology, or other information that may be useful to rural industries, cooperatives, agribusinesses, and other persons or entities in rural areas served by such centers in the development and commercialization of new products, processes, or services.
