FR940810-1-00022 FR940810-1-00006 Wednesday August 10, 1994 Part V Department of Education Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services 34 CFR Parts 350, et al. National Institute on Disability Rehabilitation Research; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 153␣/␣Wednesday, August 10, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services 34 CFR Parts 350, 351, 352, and 353 RIN 1820&hyph;AB01 National Institute on Disability Rehabilitation Research AGENCY: Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Secretary proposes to amend existing regulations for certain programs administered by the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR). These proposed amendments result primarily from the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992 (the Amendments). The proposed regulations add new definitions and program activities consistent with the Amendments and reflect new statutory requirements. DATES: Comments must be received on or before September 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed regulations should be addressed to Betty Jo Berland, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20202, Switzer Building, Room 3422. A copy of any comments that concern information collection requirements should also be sent to the Office of Management and Budget at the address listed in the Paperwork Reduction Act section of this preamble. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Betty Jo Berland. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;9739. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at (202) 205&hyph;5516. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: These proposed regulations primarily implement statutory changes made by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;569). Some of the changes are to conform terminology of the regulations with terminology in the Act, specifically in the use of ``individual with a disability'', ``children with disabilities'', ``individual with a mental disability'', and similar phrases to replace phrases using the word ``handicapped'', ``handicapped individual'', or ``disabled individual''. These proposed regulations in §350.4 include new statutory definitions for many of the terms used in Section 7 of the Rehabilitation Act, including the definitions of such key terms as ``disability'', ``individual with a disability'', ``rehabilitation technology'' and ``rehabilitation engineering'', and ``research utilization''. The NPRM further reflects new statements in the statute about the purpose of each of the programs and the activities authorized within them. These proposed regulations in §350.21 implement Section 21(b)(6) of the Act, which states that all applicants must address the needs of individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds. They also include suggestions for ways to meet this requirement, and incorporate attention to needs of minorities with disabilities into the selection criteria for each of the four programs addressed in this NPRM. The NPRM in §350.41 reflects the new statutory requirement in Section 20 of the Act that all funded projects must make applicants for or recipients of vocational rehabilitation services and their families aware of the Client Assistance Program in their States. These proposed regulations in §§352.33 and 353.33 also include the new statutory standard 60-month grant periods for RRTCs in Section 204(b)(2)(L) and RERCs in Section 204(b)(3)(E), and specify conditions under which awards of lesser duration are appropriate under the law. The NPRM in §350.20 describes the conditions under which applicants must send copies of their applications to the Vocational Rehabilitation agencies in their States, as required by statute. This provision clarifies Sections 204(c) and 301(i) of the current law and regulations by describing the context in which transmittal of these applications would be appropriate. These proposed regulations in §§352.40 and 353.40 state that each RRTC and RERC must have an advisory board, of which the majority of the members must be individuals with disabilities, their parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives. This would extend the new statutory requirement in Section 204(b)(3)(D)(II) of the Act_that certain types of RERCs must have such advisory boards_to all RERCs and RRTCs. The Secretary has determined that most RRTCs and RERCs have advisory boards that meet or approach meeting this requirement. It should not be a hardship for the remaining centers to meet this requirement. The overwhelming importance of involving the Department's constituents_in this case, individuals with disabilities and their families or representatives_in activities supported by the Department makes this requirement imperative. These proposed regulations support the National Education Goals, particularly National Education Goal 5, which calls for every adult American to be literate and to possess the skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. Executive Order 12866 1. Assessment of Costs and Benefits These proposed regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the proposed regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements, if any, are identified and explained elsewhere in this preamble under the heading Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of the proposed regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the proposed regulations justify the costs.
