FR940603-0-00079 FR940603-0-00028 All of the adopted proposals were recommended for adoption by the respective Regional Councils and were based on meeting customary and traditional harvest practices or protecting wildlife populations. Detailed information relating to justification on each proposal may be found in the transcripts for the Board meeting, available for review at the Office of Subsistence Management at the address listed previously. •Throughout the document, minor editorial revisions were made to simplify wording or reduce redundancy. •The Board adopted one proposal that had Statewide impacts. This proposal modified and in many areas aligned seasons or harvest limits on wolves to correspond with State regulations. The Board generally adopted the Regional Council recommendations that in some regions modified the proposed season dates. •Modifications were made to provide for the harvest of moose for the Nuchalawoyya Potlatch and for the Kaltag/Nulato Stickdance that the Board had approved at an earlier meeting but had not yet been incorporated in the regulations. Southeast Region Six proposals affecting the Southeast Region were acted on by the Board and have resulted in changes to regulations found in § XX .25. The following Board actions affect the Southeast Region and have been incorporated in this final rule: •Modified boundaries to provide a consistent description with ADF&G within a portion of Unit 4. •Deleted the prohibition against the taking of ungulates from a boat in Unit 4. •Eliminated the public lands closure for deer in Unit 4. •Closed the marten, mink, and weasel trapping season on Chichagof Island to protect the viability of the marten population. •Changed the brown bear harvest limit in Unit 5 to one bear every year with no sealing requirements but with some harvest reporting requirements. •Established a community harvest in Unit 5(A) for the take of up to 10 moose for ceremonial uses. Southcentral Region The Board evaluated and acted upon one proposal affecting the Southcentral Region. Resulting changes in the regulations are contained in § XX .25. •Lengthened the beaver trapping season in Unit 13, providing uniformity with State seasons. Kodiak/Aleutians Region The Board evaluated and acted upon two proposals affecting the Kodiak/Aleutians Region. Resulting changes in the regulations are contained in § XX .25. •Closed the caribou season in Unit 9(D) and 10 (Unimak Island) due to rapid population declines. •Modified boundaries to provide a consistent description with ADF&G within a portion of Unit 8. Bristol Bay Region Nine proposals affecting the Bristol Bay Region were acted on by the Board and resulted in changes to regulations contained in § XX .25. As a result of Board actions, the following changes are incorporated into this final rule: •Extended the beaver trapping season in Unit 9(B) and 17 and allowed for the use of firearms in the later part of the season in Unit 9(B). •Changed the brown bear harvest limit for residents of Nondalton to a bear every year and modified the reporting requirements. •Extended the caribou season in Units 9(B), 17(B), and 17(C) and increased the harvest limit. •Provided for the take of moose for ceremonial potlatches for Nondalton residents. •Lengthened the moose season in Unit 9(B) and eliminated a permit requirement for moose harvest in Unit 9(C). •Opened a limited hunt for caribou on the Nushagak Peninsula in Units 17(A) and 17(C). Yukon-Kuskokwim Region Three proposals affecting the Yukon-Kuskokwim Region were acted on by the Board and have changed Subpart D regulations found in § XX .25. The following actions affect the Yukon-Kuskokwim Region and are incorporated into this final rule: •Opened a moose season in the lower Yukon River Area of Unit 18. •Extended the moose season in Unit 18 to accommodate local customary and traditional use patterns. •Increased the harvest limit for wolves in Unit 18. Western Interior Region The Board acted on three proposals affecting the Western Interior Region resulting in changes to Subpart D regulations in § XX .25. The following board actions affect the Western Interior Region and are included in this final rule: •Modified restrictions on use of firearms in the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area. This clarification will reduce confusion during future hunts.
