FR940805-1-00123 FR940805-1-00013 (iii) recognition of signs, symptoms and actions required in potential emergency situations; (iv) recognition of chronic illness; (v) administration of first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); (vi) methods of obtaining assistance from the health care provider; (vii) recognition of signs and symptoms of and management of inmates with mental illness, retardation, emotional disturbance, chemical dependency and suicidal behavior; and (viii) procedures for patient transfers to appropriate medical facilities or health care providers. (9) Unimpeded access to care . The administrator or designee shall provide for the collection and referral of inmate requests for health care. (10) Twenty-four-hour emergency care . The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan for the provision of twenty-four hour emergency medical, dental and mental health care. The administrator and health authority shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. At a minimum, the plan shall include: (i) emergency evacuation of the inmate from the facility; (ii) emergency evaluation of the inmate for medical or mental health problems; (iii) use of an emergency medical vehicle; (iv) use of one or more designated hospital, clinic, emergency on-call physician, dentist, psychiatrist, qualified psychologist or otherwise qualified clinician; and (v) security procedures that provide for the immediate transfer of inmates when appropriate. (11) Health care treatment . Health care staff or health-trained officers shall perform treatment pursuant to written direct orders by personnel authorized by law to give such orders. (12) Medical/mental health management of inmates . Qualified health care personnel, in conjunction with facility staff, shall develop a written plan for the management of inmates with medical, mental health and substance abuse problems, including suicide risks. (13) Licensure requirements . The health authority shall comply with all applicable federal law, licensure requirements, rules, regulations and medical protocols in the delivery of health care services to the inmate population. (14) Traditional practitioners . The facility shall allow inmates to participate in or receive traditional healing ceremonies and to use traditional healing methods, limited only to the degree necessary to preserve institutional security and order. (15) Prohibited use of detainees . Inmates shall not perform duties in the health program. (16) Management of medications . The administrator and health authority shall provide for the proper management of individual doses of medications that are kept in the facility. The administrator and the health authority shall review the policy annually and update it as needed. (17) Administration of medications . The administrator or designee shall ensure that persons administering medications have received training appropriate to their assignment. Employees shall administer medications according to direct or physician orders and shall record the administration of medications in a manner and on a form approved by the responsible physician. (18) Preliminary health care screening . Health-trained staff shall perform medical screening of all inmates on arrival at the facility and record findings on a printed screening form approved by the health authority. The screening process shall include: (i) inquiry into: (A) current and chronic illness and health problems, including dental problems and suicidal thoughts; (B) sexually transmitted diseases and other infectious diseases; (C) medication taken and special health requirements; (D) use of alcohol and other drugs, which includes types of drugs used, mode of use, amount used, frequency used, date or time of last use and history of problems that may have occurred after ceasing use (e.g., convulsions); (E) past or present treatment or hospitalization for mental disturbance or suicide; (F) other health problems designated by the responsible physician; and (G) mental illness; (ii) observation of: (A) behavior, which includes state of consciousness, mental status, appearance, conduct, tremor or sweating; and (B) body deformities, trauma markings, bruises, lesions, jaundice and ease of movements; and (iii) disposition to: (A) housing in general population; (B) general population and referral to appropriate health care service or substance abuse treatment provider; and/or (C) referral to appropriate health care service on an emergency basis. (19) First aid kits . The administrator shall ensure that first aid kits are available in designated areas of the facility as determined by the Safety Officer during the annual inspection. The health care provider shall determine the appropriate content of first aid kits. (20) Serious and infectious disease . The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan for the management of inmates with serious and infectious disease. The administrator and health authority shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. The plan shall include, at a minimum: (i) precautions taken to prevent the spread of disease; (ii) special needs or requirements of the inmate; and (iii) procedures for treatment, limiting activities, if appropriate, legally mandated reporting and medical pass-on as directed by the health authority. (21) Detoxification . The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan to guide the clinical management of chemically dependent inmates. The plan shall specify the process for involving the health authority and the substance abuse program on both a continuing and crisis-intervention basis. The plan shall include: (i) assessment as warranted;
