FR941206-1-00102 FR941206-1-00008 VI. Process Description and Control Technologies This section describes the painting process and technologies that can be used to control organic HAP emissions from painting operations at shipyards. For more detailed description of the process and control technologies, consult the BID for the proposed standards (see ADDRESSES at the beginning of this Preamble). Over 99 percent of HAP emissions at shipyards are organic solvents associated with paints and cleaning. Other activities that collectively contribute the remaining 1 percent include welding, metal forming/cutting, and abrasive blasting. The proposed standards will affect operations involving the use of paint and organic solvents. A. Painting Process Marine coatings are applied to the surface of ship components to form a protective, functional or decorative films. The basic components of a coating are the vehicle (resin or binder), solvent, pigment (except in clear coatings), and a variety of additives. Different coatings are used for different purposes; depending on where it is applied, the intended use of the ship, ship activity, travel routes, desired time between coatings (service life), aesthetic desires of the ship owner or commanding officer, and fuel costs. Marine coatings are vital for protecting the ship from corrosive and biotic attacks from the water environment. Many marine coatings serve specific functions, such as corrosion protection, heat/fire resistance, or antifouling (to prevent the settlement and growth of marine organisms on the ship's underwater hull). The most popular techniques for applying coatings to marine vessels are brushing, rolling, air-atomizing, and airless spraying. Brushing and rolling are primarily used for touchup and recessed surfaces where spraying is not practical. Spraying is used for all other surfaces because of its high application speed. Thinning solvent is sometimes added to coatings before application even though paint manufacturers state that it is unnecessary. Temperature, reportedly can play a big part in the decision to thin; cold increases paint viscosity. For such cases, the appropriate solvent to use for each coating is specified by the manufacturer. Typically these paints and thinning solvents contain one or more of the following HAP: xylene, toluene, and/or methyl ethyl ketone. B. Control Technologies for Painting Operations Emissions of VOHAP result primarily from solvent evaporation_both solvent in the paint ``as supplied'' by the manufacturer and any solvent used by the shipyard to thin the paint. Reaction by-products released during the cure of some coatings may also contain HAP. Essentially, all organic solvents, including those which are HAP, are emitted either as the paint is applied or when it dries/cures. The shipyard may limit emissions of HAP from, ``as supplied'' or ``as applied,'' coatings as discussed below.
