FR940822-2-00110 FR940822-2-00061 2. Specific Categories. The Board has designated the areas set forth below as ``Special Interest'' program categories. The order of listing does not imply any ordering of priorities among the categories. a. Improving Public Confidence in the Courts. This category includes research, demonstration, evaluation and education projects designed to improve the public's confidence in the State courts' ability to administer justice fairly, and to test innovative methods for eliminating economic, racial, ethnic, cultural or gender-based barriers to justice. Applicants should be aware that the Institute is supporting two national conferences addressing issues on the relationship between the courts and the communities they serve. The National Conference on Eliminating Race and Ethnic Bias in the Courts will be held March 2&hyph;5, 1995 in Albuquerque, New Mexico; the National Videoconference Town Hall Meeting on Enhancing Public Confidence in the Courts is scheduled for June, 1995 at sites to be selected. (See also, section II.B.2.i, infra.) The Institute is particularly interested in supporting innovative projects that examine, develop, and test methods that trial or appellate courts may use to: •respond to the needs of the culturally, demographically, economically and physically diverse public the courts serve; •address court-community problems resulting from the influx of legal and illegal immigrants, including projects to define the impact of immigration on State courts; design and assess procedures for use in custody, visitation, and other domestic relations cases when key family members or property are outside the United States; facilitate communication with Federal authorities when illegal aliens are involved in State court proceedings; and develop protocols to facilitate service of process, the enforcement of orders of judgment, and the disposition of criminal and juvenile cases when a non-U.S. citizen or corporation is involved; •handle cases involving pro se litigants fairly and effectively; and
