FR941116-0-00005 FR941116-0-00001 Ramey is binding in the District of Columbia Circuit where a great many of the employees within the Board's jurisdiction are employed and would be bringing suit. While there exists the possibility that another circuit might some day render a different interpretation, it is clear that the Board has no authority to define the jurisdiction of the Federal courts. A Board regulation on this subject, therefore, could not be binding and might have the effect of giving employees erroneous advice on their judicial remedies. For this reason, the Board has decided to confine the scope of its regulations to the conduct of matters before the Board, and to eliminate any interpretations concerning what alternate judicial remedies might be available to employees. The Board has, therefore, deleted §28.100 in its entirety and eliminated all cross references to that section. See changes to §§28.17, 28.90, 28.100, and 28.101. The Board will retain §28.90 which informs employees of the procedures for seeking judicial review of a final Board decision before the Federal Circuit. This is retained because such appeals are explicitly authorized by the Board's governing statute and because there is no legal dispute about an employee's right to file such appeals. The legal uncertainty highlighted by the Ramey case concerns whether GAO employees have any other options for obtaining judicial consideration of their claims of discrimination. The Board will leave that matter for resolution by the courts. List of Subjects 4 CFR Part 28 Administrative practice and procedure, Equal employment opportunity, Government employees, Labor-management relations. 4 CFR Part 29 Administrative practice and procedure, Equal employment opportunity, Government employees. For the reasons set out in the preamble, Title 4, Chapter I, Subchapter B, Code of Federal Regulations, is amended as follows. 1. The authority citation for Part 28 continues to read as follows: Authority: 31 U.S.C. 753. 2. The heading of Part 28 is revised to read as follows: PART 28_GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE PERSONNEL APPEALS BOARD; PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO CLAIMS CONCERNING EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES AT THE GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE 3. and 4. Section 28.1 is revised to read as follows: §28.1 Purpose and scope. (a) The regulations in this part implement the Board's authority with respect to employment practices within the General Accounting Office (GAO), pursuant to the General Accounting Office Personnel Act of 1980, 31 U.S.C. 751&hyph;755. Regulations implementing the Board's authority with respect to employment practices within the Architect of the Capitol, pursuant to the Architect of the Capitol Human Resources Act, Public Law 103&hyph;283, sec. 312, 108 Stat. 1443 (July 22, 1994), appear in 4 CFR part 29. (b) The purpose of the rules in this part is to establish the procedures to be followed: (1) By the GAO, in its dealings with the Board; (2) By employees of the GAO or applicants for employment with the GAO, or by groups or organizations claiming to be affected adversely by the operations of the GAO personnel system; (3) By employees or organizations petitioning for protection of rights or extension of benefits granted to them under Subchapters III and IV of Chapter 7 of Title 31, U.S.C.; and (4) By the Board, in carrying out its responsibilities under Subchapters III and IV of Chapter 7 of Title 31, U.S.C. (c) The scope of the Board's operations encompasses the investigation and, where necessary, adjudication of cases arising under 31 U.S.C. 753. In addition, the Board has authority for oversight of the equal employment opportunity program at GAO. This includes the review of policies and evaluation of operations as they relate to EEO objectives and, where necessary, the ordering of corrective action for violation of or inconsistencies with equal employment opportunity laws. (d) In considering any procedural matter not specifically addressed in these rules, the Board will be guided, but not bound, by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. 5. Paragraph (b) of §28.11 is revised to read as follows: §28.11 Filing a charge with the General Counsel. * * * * * (b) When to file. (1) Charges relating to adverse and performance-based actions must be filed within 30 days after the effective date of the action.
