FR941116-0-00076 FR941116-0-00012 D. Statement D_Competitive Alternatives In Statement D, the Commission is requiring the oil pipeline to describe available transportation alternatives in competition with the oil pipeline in the relevant markets and other competition constraining the oil pipeline's rates in those markets. To the extent available, Statement D must include all pertinent data about transportation alternatives and other constraining competition. For example, the oil pipeline would have to include data similar to that provided for its own facilities and services in Statement C, including cost and mileage data in specific reference to the oil pipeline's terminals and major consuming markets. The following transport and other competition might be included in a market power calculation: Other pipelines, including private pipelines and those passing through the geographic market but without terminals, pipelines passing near the geographic market, barges, trucks, and refineries within the geographic market. The Commission is not excluding any alternative form of transport or other competition, including, for example, local consumption in origin markets. However, the burden is on the oil pipeline to justify its inclusion of transportation alternatives and other competition in its market power analysis. The AOPL maintains that the Statement D-type information lies largely beyond a pipeline's reach. It declares it highly unlikely that a competing pipeline will provide information such as throughput, origin market receipts, destination market deliveries, and deliveries to major consuming markets, particularly by commodity. It states that to do so would be illegal. It also argues that Statement D potentially requires the production of much ultimately useless information. It requests the Commission to require ``only information or estimates concerning matters ultimately affecting the Commission's determination of market power'' and to require only ``publicly available information or [the oil pipeline's] best estimate of competitive alternatives.'' 51 51 Comments at 46. The Commission denies the AOPL's first request. As stated above, permitting the oil pipeline to submit information or estimates that only affects the Commission's determination of market power will enable it to make that determination at the outset. With respect to the second request, the Commission has modified the proposal in the NOPR to require the oil pipeline to include pertinent data only to the extent available. Hence, as requested by the AOPL, the oil pipeline need only file information that is publicly available or its best estimates of competitive alternatives, unless the oil pipeline possesses additional information. Of course, it is in the oil pipeline's interest to make its best case to satisfy its burden of proof. E. Statement E_Potential Competition In Statement E, the Commission is requiring the oil pipeline to describe potential competition in the relevant markets. To the extent available, Statement E must include data about the potential competitors such as a potential entrant's costs and their distance in miles from the oil pipeline's terminal and major consuming markets. The AOPL asserts that the most reliable information is possessed by shippers and not pipelines. It states that it has no objection so long as the pipeline's best estimates of potential competition drawn from publicly available information are acceptable. The Commission has modified the proposal in the NOPR to require the oil pipeline to include data only to the extent available. Hence, as proposed by the AOPL, an oil pipeline need only submit its best estimates of potential competition drawn from publicly available information, unless the oil pipeline possesses additional information. Of course, it is in the oil pipeline's interest to make its best case to satisfy its burden of proof. F. Statement F_Maps In Statement F, the Commission is requiring maps showing the oil pipeline's principal transportation facilities and the points at which service is rendered under its tariff, the direction of flow of each line, the location of each of the oil pipeline's terminals, the location of each of its major consuming markets (cities, airports, and the like, as appropriate), and the location of alternatives to the oil pipeline, including their distance in miles from oil pipeline's terminals and major consuming markets. The statement must include a general system map and maps by geographic markets and the information required by this statement may be on separate pages. No commenter opposed Statement F. G. Statement G_Market Power Measures In Statement G, the Commission is requiring the oil pipeline to set forth the calculation of the HHI 52 and its market share with respect to the relevant markets and the calculation of other market power measures relied on by the oil pipeline, along with complete particulars about those calculations. The Commission believes that it is useful to obtain a showing of market concentration using the HHI. The HHI must include the oil pipeline and the competitive alternatives set forth in Statements D and E. The burden is on the oil pipeline to justify the individual market shares used in calculating the HHIs. In addition, the Commission is not proposing any particular HHI level, such as 1800 or 2500, as a screen or presumption, rebuttable or otherwise. All factors must be considered in determining whether an oil pipeline lacks significant market power. 52 Id. The Commission also is requiring the oil pipeline to submit a market share calculation based on its receipts in its origin markets and its deliveries in its destination markets, if the HHIs are not based on those factors. For example, if the destination HHIs are based on capacity determined market shares, the oil pipeline would have to submit a calculation showing its share of the market based on deliveries in the respective destination markets. The Commission is not proposing any screen or presumption, rebuttable or otherwise, about particular market share levels. All factors must be considered in determining whether an oil pipeline lacks significant market power. The oil pipeline may also include other indicators of the lack of significant market power for example, it could present evidence about water transportation as an indication that the oil pipeline lacks significant market power. The AOPL objects to the inclusion of origin market information in HHI and market share calculations and to the production of underlying HHI and market share calculations as part of an initial submission, particularly where a market's HHI or pipeline market share is so low as to preclude a challenge to the market's competitiveness. The AOPL also maintains that market share data for HHIs should reflect market capacity and not market deliveries. It argues that the use of delivery data distorts the analysis of market behavior because it is at best a ``snapshot'' of the market as it existed prior to any purported try to exercise market power rather than a gauge of the potential of the market to respond to such an exercise. It maintains that this prospective response can be evaluated best by considering the market's capacity to respond. It also argues that delivery data are not readily available and of questionable accuracy unlike capacity data which tend to be a matter of public information and more readily available.
