FR940325-0-00061 FR940325-0-00014 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 24 RIN 1018&hyph;AB28 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Designated Ports for Listed Plants AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (the Service) hereby amends the regulations concerning the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants by adding the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) ports at Mobile, AL, Savannah, GA, Baltimore, MD, Morehead City and Wilmington, NC, Philadelphia, PA, Charleston, SC, and Norfolk, VA, as designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from trees that are listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (the Act), or listed under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). The Service is also designating the USDA port at Wilmington, NC, as a port for the exportation of Venus flytrap ( Dionaea muscipula ) plants. The USDA has adequate facilities and personnel at these ports to qualify the ports as designated ports for the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants under the terms of the Act and CITES. The addition of these ports to the list of designated ports will facilitate trade and the enforcement of the Act and CITES. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 25, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marshall P. Jones, Chief, Office of Management Authority, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1849 C Street, NW., (MS 420 C ARLSQ), Washington, DC 20240, telephone (703) 358&hyph;2095. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (the Act), requires, among other things, that plants be imported, exported, or reexported only at designated ports or, under certain limited circumstances, at nondesignated ports. Section 9(f) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1538[f]) provides for the designation of ports. Under section 9(f)(1), the Secretary of the Interior (the Secretary) has the authority to establish designated ports based on a finding that such an action would facilitate enforcement of the Act and reduce the costs of that enforcement. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Secretary are responsible for enforcing provisions of the Act and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) relating to the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants listed as endangered or threatened under the Act or listed under CITES. The regulations in 50 CFR part 24, ``Importation and Exportation of Plants,'' are for the purpose of establishing ports for the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants. Plants that are listed as endangered or threatened in 50 CFR 17.12 or in the appendices to CITES in 50 CFR 23.23 are required to be accompanied by documentation and may be imported, exported, or reexported only at one of the USDA ports listed in section 24.12(a) of the regulations. Certain other USDA ports are designated for the importation, exportation, or reexportation of specific listed plants. Section 24.12(e) of the regulations contains a list of USDA ports that are, for the purposes of the Act and CITES, designated ports for the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants that are not listed as endangered or threatened. (The USDA regulations in 7 CFR 319.37 contain additional prohibitions and restrictions governing the importation of plants through those ports.) In a July 21, 1993, Federal Register notice (58 FR 39003), the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposed that the USDA ports at Mobile, AL, Savannah, GA, Baltimore, MD, Morehead City and Wilmington, NC, Philadelphia, PA, Charleston, SC, and Norfolk, VA, be listed as designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from trees that are listed as endangered or threatened under the Act or CITES. The Service further proposed to designate the port at Wilmington, NC, as a port for the exportation of Venus flytrap ( Dionaea muscipula ) plants. Finally, the Service acted to correct a typographical error in the regulations. Comments Submitted The Service's July 21, 1993, notice invited the submission of written comments regarding the proposal for a 60-day comment period ending on September 20, 1993. Four comments were received by that date, from a lumber company, a lumber trade association, a U.S. Senator, and a State port authority. All four commenters asked that Gulfport, MS, be added to the list of designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from trees that are listed as endangered or threatened under the Act or CITES. In addition, one of the commenters asked that the ports at Portland, OR, and Vancouver, WA, also be added to that list.
