FR941207-0-00125 FR941207-0-00022 39. Furthermore, we decline to adopt the suggestion that we eliminate the affiliation rules on the grounds that these rules are unduly complex or overburdensome. Affiliation rules are an established and essential element in determining an applicant's compliance with a gross revenues (or other) size standard. Their use ensures that all financial and other resources available to a company will be considered in assessing its size status. The Commission's affiliation rules, in conjunction with its attribution rules, are intended to include in this calculation: (1) All individuals and entities that directly or indirectly control the applicant, any member of its control group, or any other investor having an attributable interest in the applicant; (2) any other entities also controlled by such individual or entity; (3) all entities over which the applicant has direct control or indirect control through an intermediary; and (4) all other entities over which a member of its control group or any other attributable investor has direct or indirect control. Elimination of the affiliation rules would result in an underassessment of an applicant's size and would present an unrealistic picture of the applicant's need for bidding credits, installment payments and reduced up front payments. 40. We are persuaded, however, that a limited exception to our affiliation rules is appropriate for minority-owned applicants and applicants owned by a combination of minorities and women. The exception will apply to affiliates controlled by investors who are members of minority groups who are attributable members of an applicant's control group. Under the exception, the gross revenues and assets of affiliates that the minority investor controls will not be counted in determining the applicant's compliance with the financial caps, both for purposes of the entry into the entrepreneurs' block and for purposes of the applicant qualifying as a small business. 41. This exception will permit minority investors that control other concerns to be members of an applicant's control group and to bring their management skills and financial resources to bear in its operation without the assets and revenues of those other concerns being counted as part of the applicant's total assets and revenues. By making such an exception, we further our goal of addressing traditional problems minorities have of accessing capital. As we documented in the Fifth Report & Order, minorities have faced and continue to face unique barriers to capital from traditional, non-minority sources. To raise capital for a new business venture, therefore, minorities need the ability to draw upon the financial strength and business experience of successful minorities and minority-owned businesses within their own communities; they may not have access to any other source of funds on which to draw. Moreover, this exception permits minority applicants to pool their resources with other minority-owned businesses and draw on the expertise of those who have faced similar barriers to raising capital in the past. 20 We therefore conclude that further tailoring of our affiliation rules to the specific capital formation problems of minorities is necessary to avoid eliminating a traditional source of capital for minority businesses_the minority community itself. We note that this exception applies only to affiliates controlled by minority investors in the applicant or members of the applicant's control group. The exception does not apply to affiliates of such investors or businesses that control the applicant or that have an attributable interest in the applicant. Thus, a minority-owned firm that exceeds the financial caps would not be able to create a subsidiary to participate in a PCS applicant's control group. 21 20 See, e.g., Ellis, B., ``Black Community Needs to Focus on Capital Formation,'' The Philadelphia Tribune, May 20, 1994, at 6A (``[R]ecent immigrants (in the African-American community) have utilized family and friends as a means of pooling their savings_ i.e. , to form capital); Lee, E., ``Korean American Grocers All Over the Country Hit Hard By Recession and Crime,'' AsianWeek, Dec. 17, 1993, Vol. 15, No. 17 at 1 (``[F]amily members often employed [in Korean-owned businesses] and informal Korean credit organizations give many business owners their starts *␣*␣*.''); Lesly, E., and Mallory, M., ``Inside the Black Business Network,'' Business Week, Nov. 29, 1993, at 70 (``African Americans are forming pools of capital and new opportunities that are helping to overcome traditional barriers to success.''); Miller, Y., ``Improvements Seen in Minority Business Loans,'' Bay State Banner, Nov. 21, 1993, Vol. 29, No. 14, at 1 (``Many entrepreneurs in the minority community have their business cash flow tied up in their personal assets and expenses *␣*␣*.''); Stone, S., ``Why Can't We All Get Along? Many Blacks, Koreans Find Understanding,'' The Philadelphia Tribune, Nov. 23, 1993, Vol. 110, No. 100 at la (``Koreans don't usually go to banks␣*␣*␣*. What they have done is form their own [credit] pools. *␣*␣* Chinese-Americans also have lending pools; many Jamaicans have the same thing.''); Wynter, L., ``Understanding Capital is Key to Getting It,'' Emerge, Aug. 31, 1993, Vol. 9, No. 4, at 22 (minority venture capital firm finances several black-owned firms including Essence Communications and Earl G. Graves. Ltd). 21 For example, if M, an attributable minority investor in the applicant, controls Corporation C with assets of $500 million, but Corporation C does not control applicant A and is not an attributable investor in Applicant A, the assets and revenues of Corporation C will not be counted in assessing A's compliance with the financial caps for either the entrepreneurs' blocks or small business size status. On the other hand, if M Corporation, a minority-owned company with an attributable interest in Applicant A, is controlled by Corporation C in the above example, or is under common control with Corporation C, the assets and revenues of M Corporation's affiliates are attributable. 42. As we established in our Order on Reconsideration, we treat Indian tribes differently under our affiliation rules for purposes of our entrepreneurs' block financial caps because of their unique legal status. Specifically, we exclude the gross revenues and total assets of Indian tribes in our calculations for purposes of determining whether an affiliated applicant satisfies our entrepreneurs' block financial caps. After considering the arguments of petitioners, we also will exclude generally the revenues of Indian tribes in our calculations for purposes of determining small business eligibility. 43. In response to MasTec's and BET's concerns about special treatment for a particular minority group, we clarify that we exempt Indian tribes generally from our affiliation rules because Congress has imposed unique legal constraints on the way they can utilize their revenues and assets. Cook Inlet contends that, while other minority-owned businesses can issue debt and equity securities and pledge their assets and securities to raise capital, the real and personal property interests held by Alaska Native Corporations are subject to a number of constraints_both legal and cultural_that affect their ability to manage and dispose of property. For example, under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., the stock held by Native corporations is subject to strict alienability restrictions_it cannot be sold, pledged, mortgaged, or otherwise encumbered. Thus, Native corporations are precluded from two of the most important means of raising capital enjoyed by virtually every other corporation: (1) The ability to pledge stock of the company against ordinary borrowings, and (2) the ability to issue new stock or debt securities. In addition, assets held by Indian tribes include land holdings that cannot be used as collateral for purposes of raising capital, because the land holdings are owned in trust by the federal government or are subject to a restraint on alienation in the government's favor. Congress has not placed similar legal constraints on the assets and revenues of enterprises owned by any other minority group. We agree with Cook Inlet that such legal restraints on assets and revenues place Indian tribes at a disadvantage vis-a-vis other minority groups with similar revenues and assets. Finally, as we noted in our Order on Reconsideration, Congress has mandated that the SBA determine the size of a business concern owned by a Tribe without regard to the concern's affiliation with the Indian tribe. Our policy mirrors this congressional mandate.
