FR941006-2-00165 FR941006-2-00113 7. Do procedures for submitting requests for reimbursement or advance payment differ for renewal grants or package grants? The basic procedures are the same for any grant. A continuation or an on-going support grant should be considered as a supplement to and extension of the original award, and the payment requests numbered accordingly. For example, if the last payment request under the original award is number nine, then the first request for funds from the continuation award should be number ten. Recipients of a package grant should file separate requests for each project in the package. For example, if there are three projects within a package grant, a grantee should prepare three separate payment requests, each identified by the letter of the alphabet designated in the award document (e.g., SJI&hyph;93&hyph;15R-J&hyph;001&hyph;A; SJI&hyph;93&hyph;15R-J&hyph;001&hyph;B; SJI&hyph;93&hyph;15R-J&hyph;001&hyph;C). Subsequent payment requests should be numbered consecutively for each project within the package (e.g., project SJI&hyph;93&hyph;15R-J&hyph;001&hyph;A payment number 2; SJI&hyph;93&hyph;15R-J&hyph;001&hyph;B payment number 4; etc.). 8. If things change during the grant period, can funds be reallocated from one budget category to another? The Institute recognizes that some flexibility is required in implementing a project design and budget. Thus, grantees may shift funds among direct cost budget categories. When any one reallocation or the cumulative total of reallocations are expected to exceed five percent of the approved project budget, a grantee must specify the proposed changes, explain the reasons for the changes, and request Institute approval. The same standard applies to renewal grants and package grants. In addition, prior written Institute approval is required to shift leftover funds from the original award to cover activities to be conducted under the renewal award, or to use renewal grant monies to cover costs incurred during the original grant period. Prior written Institute approval also is needed to shift funds between projects included in a package grant. 9. What is the 90-day close-out period? Following the last day of the grant, a 90-day period is provided to allow for all grant-related bills to be received and posted, and grant funds drawn down to cover these expenses. No obligations of grant funds may be incurred during this period. The last day on which an expenditure of grant funds can be obligated is the end date of the grant period. Similarly, the 90-day period is not intended as an opportunity to finish and disseminate grant products. This should occur before the end of the grant period. Starting the day after the end of the award period, and during the following 90 days, all monies that have been obligated should be expended. All payment requests must be received by the end of the 90-day ``close-out-period.'' Any unexpended monies held by the grantee that remain after the 90-day follow-up period must be returned to the Institute. Any funds remaining in the grant that have not been drawn down by the grantee will be deobligated. 10. Are funds granted by SJI ``Federal'' funds? The State Justice Institute Act provides that, except for purposes unrelated to this question, ``the Institute shall not be considered a department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal Government.'' 42 U.S.C. 10704(c)(1). Because SJI receives appropriations from Congress, some grantee auditors have reported SJI grants funds as ``Other Federal Assistance.'' This classification is acceptable to SJI but is not required. 11. If SJI is not a Federal Agency, do OMB circulars apply with respect to audits? Except to the extent that they are inconsistent with the express provisions of the SJI Grant Guideline, OMB Circulars A&hyph;110, A&hyph;21, A&hyph;87, A&hyph;88, A&hyph;102, A&hyph;122, A&hyph;128 and A&hyph;133 are incorporated into the Grant Guideline by reference. Because the Institute's enabling legislation specifically requires the Institute to ``conduct, or require each recipient to provide for, an annual fiscal audit'' [see 42 U.S.C. 10711(c)(1)], the Grant Guideline sets forth options for grantees to comply with this statutory requirement. (See Section XI.J.) Prior to FY 1994, the Institute did not require grantees to comply with the audit-related provisions of OMB circulars A&hyph;110, A&hyph;128, or A&hyph;133, but did require that grantees, lacking an audit report prepared for a Federal agency, conduct an independent audit in compliance with generally accepted auditing standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The current Guideline makes it clear that SJI will accept audits conducted in accordance with the Single Audit Act of 1984 and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars A&hyph;128, or A&hyph;133, in satisfaction of the annual fiscal audit requirement. Grantees who are required to undertake these audits in conjunction with Federal grants may include SJI funds as part of the audit even if the receipt of SJI funds would not require such audits. This approach gives grantees an option to fold SJI funds into the governmental audit rather than to undertake a separate audit to satisfy SJI's Guideline requirements ’.
