FR941006-1-00043 FR941006-1-00008 ยง344.7 Subscription for purchase. (a) Subscription requirements. Subscriptions for purchase of securities under this offering must be submitted to the Division of Special Investments, Bureau of the Public Debt, 200 Third Street, PO Box 396, Parkersburg, WV 26102&hyph;0396. Subscriptions must be submitted on a designated Treasury form, must specify the principal amount to be invested and the issue date, and must be signed by an official authorized to make the purchase. The Bureau of the Public Debt must receive the subscription at least three business days before the issue date. The subscription may be submitted by certified or registered mail, or by other carrier. The subscription may also be submitted by facsimile equipment at (304) 480&hyph;6818, at least three business days before the issue date, provided that the original subscription form is submitted by mail, or by other carrier, and is received by the Division of Special Investments by 3 p.m., Eastern time, on the issue date. (b) Amending subscriptions. The principal amount to be invested may be changed without penalty on or before the issue date, but no later than 1 p.m. Eastern time, on the issue date. Notification may be telecopied by facsimile equipment to the Division of Special Investments at (304) 480&hyph;6818, provided the request is clearly identified as an amendment and is immediately followed by the submission, by mail or other carrier, of written notification. Where an amendment is not submitted timely, the Division of Special Investments may determine, pursuant to the provisions governing waiver of regulations set forth under 31 CFR 306.126, that such an amendment is acceptable on an exception basis. Where an amendment is determined to be acceptable on an exception basis, the amended information shall be used as the basis for issuing the securities, and an administrative fee of $100 per subscription will be assessed. The Secretary reserves the right to reject amendments which are not submitted timely. (c) Certification. By completing the subscription form, subscribers certify to the following: (1) Neither the aggregate issue price nor the stated redemption price at maturity of the bonds that are part of the tax-exempt issue exceeds $35 million. Issue price and stated redemption price at maturity have the meanings given such terms in sections 1273 and 1274 of the Internal Revenue Code; (2) No portion of the tax-exempt bond issue has been or will be issued or permitted to remain outstanding, and the expenditure of gross proceeds of the tax-exempt bond issue has not and will not be delayed, for the principal purpose of investing in demand deposit securities; (3) Only eligible gross proceeds of the tax-exempt bond issue have been and will be submitted in payment for demand deposit securities. Eligible gross proceeds are all gross proceeds of the tax-exempt bond issue except_ (i) Gross proceeds of an advance refunding issue to be used to discharge another issue; (ii) Gross proceeds accumulated in a reserve or replacement fund (other than a bona fide debt service or reasonably required reserve or replacement fund); and (iii) Solely for purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), gross proceeds previously invested at any time pursuant to any exception in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, other than paragraph (c)(5)(vi) (Exception 6) (relating to amounts of less than $25,000) and paragraph (c)(5)(viii) (Exception 8) (relating to inadvertent error). (4) At least 25 percent of the eligible gross proceeds received from the sale of the tax-exempt bond issue have been or will be invested in demand deposit securities within three business days of the date of receipt thereof; (5) All eligible gross proceeds of the tax-exempt bond issue have been and will be invested within four business days of the date of receipt thereof in demand deposit securities (principal repayments on purpose investments are treated as gross proceeds received on the date of repayment). This paragraph (c)(5) shall not apply to gross proceeds that are at all times (prior to the date of expenditure thereof) invested pursuant to one of the exceptions: (i) Exception 1. Gross proceeds that are invested solely in investments the earnings on which are not subject to rebate under section 148(f) or 143(g)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (whichever applies). (ii) Exception 2. Gross proceeds that are invested in obligations the earnings on which are not reasonably expected to be subject to rebate by reason of section 148(f)(4)(A)(ii) (relating to certain bona fide debt service funds) of the Internal Revenue Code or section 148(f)(4)(B) (relating to exception for temporary investments) of the Internal Revenue Code. (iii) Exception 3. Gross proceeds that are not reasonably expected to be gross proceeds of the tax-exempt bond issue for more than seven business days.
