FR940503-2-00149 FR940503-2-00096 Application Requirements Proposals must be structured in accordance with the instructions contained in the Application Package. Confirmation letters from U.S. and foreign co-sponsors noting their intention to participate in the program will enhance a proposal. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the Application Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will be reviewed by the appropriate geographic area offices and the budget and contract offices. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of General Counsel or other Agency offices. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. The award of any grant is subject to availability of funds. The U.S. Government reserves the right to reject any or all applications received. USIA will not pay for design and development costs associated with submitting a proposal. Applications are submitted at the risk of the applicant; should circumstances prevent award of a grant, all preparation and submission costs are at the applicant's expense. USIA will not award funds for activities conducted prior to the actual grant award. Review Criteria USIA will consider proposals based on the following criteria: 1. Quality of program idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, rigor, and relevance to the Agency mission. They should demonstrate the matching of U.S. resources to a clearly defined need. 2. Institutional reputation and ability: Applicant institutions should demonstrate their potential for excellence in program design and implementation and/or provide documentation of successful programs. If an applicant is a previous USIA grant recipient, responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts (M/KG) will be considered. Relevant substantive evaluations of previous projects may also be considered in this assessment. 3. Project personnel: The thematic and logistical expertise of project personnel should be relevant to the proposed program. Resumes or C.V.s should be relevant to the specific proposal and no longer than two pages each. 4. Program planning: A detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive rigor and logistical capacity. 5. Thematic expertise: Proposal should demonstrate the organization's expertise in the subject area which promises an effective sharing of information. 6. Cross-cultural sensitivity and area expertise: Evidence should be provided of sensitivity to historical, linguistic, religious, and other cross-cultural factors, as well as relevant knowledge of the target geographic area/country. 7. Ability to achieve program objectives: Objectives should be realistic and feasible. The proposal should clearly demonstrate how the grantee institution will meet program objectives. 8. Multiplier effect: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding and contribute to maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual ties. 9. Cost-effectiveness: Costs to USIA per exchange participant (American and foreign) should be kept to a minimum, and all items proposed for USIA funding should be necessary and appropriate to achieve the program's objectives. 10. Cost-sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as direct funding contributions and/or in-kind support from the prospective grantee institution and its partners. 11. Follow-on activities: Proposals should provide a plan for continued exchange activity (without USIA support) which ensures that USIA-supported programs are not isolated events. 12. Project evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the activity's success. USIA recommends that the proposal include a draft survey questionnaire or other technique plus description of a methodology to use to link outcomes to original project objectives. Grantees will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded or quarterly, whichever is less frequent. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency which contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the U.S. Government. Awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress and allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about September 5, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: April 22, 1994. Barry Fulton, Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10587 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
