FR941102-1-00123 FR941102-1-00020 Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 211␣/␣Wednesday, November 2, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 17 CFR Part 240 [Release No. 34&hyph;34903; File No. S7&hyph;30&hyph;94] RIN 3235&hyph;AG00 Internalized/Affiliate Practices, Payment for Order Flow and Order Routing Practices AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission. ACTION: Proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission is proposing to revise its rules governing disclosure to customers by broker-dealers of practices related to the routing of order flow, including payment for order flow, internalization of order flow, and affiliate practices. The proposed amendments are intended to provide customers with more useful information in evaluating the quality of executions. DATES: Comments should be submitted on or before December 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons should submit three copies of their written data, views and opinions to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549, and should refer to File No. S7&hyph;30&hyph;94. All submissions will be made available for public inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, Room 1024, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington DC 20549. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jill W. Ostergaard, 202/942&hyph;3197, Attorney, Office of Market Supervision, Division of Market Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission (Mail Stop 5&hyph;1), 450 5th Street, NW., Washington DC 20549. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction and Background The Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') is proposing to amend its rules governing disclosure of broker-dealer payment for order flow and the practice of executing orders as principal or routing orders to an affiliated broker-dealer or exchange specialist (``internalized/affiliate practices''), Rule 10b&hyph;10 (17 CFR 240.10b&hyph;10) and Rule 11Ac1&hyph;3 (17 CFR 240.11Ac1&hyph;3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''). As described below and in a related release, both payment for order flow and internalized/affiliate practices have been the subject of extensive debate. 1 1 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34902 (October 27, 1994) (``Adopting Release''). The proposed Rule amendments regarding payment for order flow also are intended to enhance disclosure to customers of compensation their broker-dealer may receive from market centers 2 in return for routing customer orders to them for execution. 3 The amendments would require broker-dealers receiving payment for order flow to provide customers additional information regarding the value of the compensation received. The proposed additional disclosures would include, for monetary payment for order flow, the range of payments received on a per share basis and on an aggregate basis annually, and for non-monetary payment for order flow, an estimate of the range of payment for order flow on a per share basis and on an aggregate basis annually. These disclosures would be required when a customer opens an account, on an annual basis thereafter, and in abbreviated fashion on required confirmations. The proposed amendments would require similar disclosure with respect to the value of order flow subject to internalized/affiliate practices. 2 As used in this release, the term market center includes exchanges and dealers acting as market makers. See 17 CFR 240.11Ac1&hyph;2(a)(14) (defining ``reporting market center''). 3 The Commission is also soliciting comment whether certain inducements to routing order flow should be included in the definition of payment for order flow. The Commission also is proposing that broker-dealers disclose to their customers information regarding their order routing practices generally, regardless of whether they receive payment for order flow or engage in internalized/affiliate practices. The proposed amendments regarding internalized/affiliate practices are intended to address comments the Commission received in connection with its consideration of payment for order flow practices and to elicit further discussion regarding their implications. In connection with the Adopting Release, six commenters indicated that the internalization of order flow by broker-dealers presents issues similar to those commonly associated with payment for order flow. These commenters argued that the opportunity to capture the spread through internalized/affiliate practices encourages broker-dealers to execute orders in house or to send orders to an affiliated broker-dealer or exchange specialist. At the most basic level, under each practice the broker-dealer is influenced with respect to where it will route customer orders. The proposed amendments would require broker-dealers to inform customers on new account and annual disclosure statements whether they execute orders as principal or route those orders to affiliated firms. These amendments are designed to provide customers with more information about firms' order routing decisions, especially in light of changes that might result from requiring additional disclosure of payment for order flow practices. Finally, the proposed rule amendments would extend confirmation and account statement disclosure of payment for order flow to transactions in standardized options. In the Adopting Release issued today, the Commission adopted requirements for additional disclosure of payment for order flow practices. 4 Commenters are encouraged to review the Adopting Release in considering the amendments proposed today. The discussion that follows describes the proposed amendments and solicits views regarding those amendments. 4 See Adopting Release, supra note 1.
