FR940628-1-00074 FR940628-1-00014 Table 1._ Results of Logistic Regression Analysis for All Vehicles for Which Tilt Table Angle (TTA) and Critical Sliding Velocity (CSV) Are Known 1Model 1Percent variability explained 1Percent variability explained, which is not explained by D/R/E only model D/R/E only 23 NA D/R/E & TTA 65 55 D/R/E & CSV 75 68 The linear regression analysis also demonstrates the predictive power of tilt table angle and critical sliding velocity. This analysis showed that tilt table angle accounts for about 53 percent of the variability in rollover risk remaining after adjustment for differences in driver and road characteristics. The analysis showed that critical sliding velocity accounts for about 66 percent of the variability in rollover risk remaining after adjustments for driver and road characteristics. These compare to the 55 percent and 68 percent values found by logistic regression. These figures demonstrate that the two analytic methods are essentially in agreement regarding the statistical significance of stability metrics to the prediction of rollover. The results of both the logistic and linear regression analyses performed by the agency suggest that a vehicle stability metric alone can account for approximately 50 percent of the variability in rollover risk in single vehicle accidents, for the population of make/models studied. While ideally it would be desirable to have these variables explain 100 percent of the remaining variability, such statistical correlations are almost never achieved. The agency views these analyses as demonstrating sound statistical and causal relationships between these variables and the likelihood of rollover. At the same time, the analyses show that other factors in addition to those analyzed are affecting rollover risk, as 35 percent to 25 percent of the variability in rollover risk is still unexplained after accounting for the driver, roadway, and tilt table angle or critical sliding velocity, respectively. The above analyses used a Michigan accident data base combining passenger cars, pickup trucks, vans, and sport utility vehicles. As explained in section I, the rate of rollover fatalities and injuries per million registered vehicles is higher for sport utility vehicles and compact pickup trucks, but the absolute majority of harm occurs in passenger cars, because of their large numbers in use. In the current vehicle fleet, passenger cars generally have higher measured stability than light trucks. Thus, a safety standard requiring a minimum level of stability appropriate for all light duty vehicles would not be expected to affect many present or future small cars and therefore would not result in significant safety benefits. (For a further discussion of the problems associated with a minimum standard, see the section below entitled, ``Estimate of the Costs of a Standard.'') Hence, the agency also examined the relative predictive capability of the stability metrics to rollover risk for passenger cars and light trucks separately, to investigate the possibility of setting a higher minimum level of stability for passenger cars. The results are shown in the table below, including a comparison to the results for all vehicles considered as a single group (see Table 1). As with the analysis of all vehicles considered as a single group, these analyses were limited to make/models for which both tilt table angle and critical sliding velocity were known.
