FR940328-1-00007 FR940328-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement 30 CFR Part 778 Availability of Petition To Initiate Rulemaking; Minimum Requirements for Legal, Financial, Compliance, and Related Information AGENCY: Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Interior. ACTION: Notice of availability of a petition to initiate rulemaking and request for comment. SUMMARY: The Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) of the United States Department of the Interior (DOI) seeks comments concerning the rule changes requested in a petition, submitted pursuant to the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA or the Act). The petition requests OSM to amend its regulations governing the right-of-entry information (30 CFR 778.15) that must be submitted in a permit application to meet the minimum requirements for legal, financial, compliance, and related information. Comments will assist the Director of OSM in making the decision whether to grant or deny the petition. DATES: Written Comments: OSM will accept written comments on the petition until 5 p.m. Eastern time on April 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written Comments: Mail comments to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Administrative Record, room 660&hyph;NC, 1951 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20240; or hand-deliver the comments to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Administrative Record, room 660, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Scott Boyce, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1951 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20240; Telephone; 202&hyph;343&hyph;3839. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Public Comment Procedure. II. Background and Substance of Petition. III. Procedural Matters. I. Public Comment Procedures Written Comments: Written comments on the requested change should be specific, should be confined to issues pertinent to the proposed revision, and should explain the reason for the comment. Where practicable, commenter should submit three copies of their comments. Comments received after the close of the comment peirod (see DATES ) or delivered to an address other than those listed (see ADDRESSES ) may not necessarily be considered or included in the Administrative Record on the petition. Availability of Copies: Additional copies of the petition, copies of 30 CFR part 778, and other OSM and Kentucky State program regulations relevant to the right-of-entry requirements for permit applications are available for inspection and may be obtained at the location listed under ADDRESSES.
