FR940217-2-00055 FR940217-2-00031 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Program Background and Objectives The Emergency Medical Services for Children statute (Section 1910 of the PHS Act, as amended) establishes a program of two-year grants to States, through a State-designated agency, or to an accredited medical school within the State, for projects for the expansion and improvement of emergency medical services for children who need treatment for trauma or critical illness. For purposes of this grant program, the term ``State'' includes the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia. The term ``school of medicine'' is defined as having the same meaning as set forth in Section 799(1)(A) of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 295p(1)(A)). ``Accredited'' in this context has the same meaning as set forth in section 799(1)(E) of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 295p(1)(E)). It is the intent of this grant program to stimulate further development or expansion of ongoing efforts in the States to reduce the problems of life-threatening pediatric trauma and critical illness. The Department does not intend to award grants which would duplicate grants previously funded under the Emergency Medical Services Systems Act of 1972 or which would be used simply to increase the availability of emergency medical services funds allotted to the State under the Preventive Health Services Block Grant. Funding Categories There will be four categories of competition for funding this year: State planning grants, State systems grants, targeted issue grants, and resource capacity grants. States may apply for only one of the first two categories, but are not restricted in applying for the last two categories. Category (1): State Planning Grants Planning grants are intended for States that have never received an EMSC grant and that are not at a stage of readiness to initiate a full-scale implementation project. States (or medical schools within those States) that have not received prior EMSC implementation grants are the only applicants eligible for this category. Planning grants are designed to enable a State to assess needs and develop a strategy to begin to address those needs. Funds may be used to hire staff to assist in the assessment of EMSC needs of the State; obtain technical assistance from national, State, regional or local resources; help formulate a State plan for the integration of EMSC services into the existing State EMS plan; and plan a more comprehensive grant proposal based upon a needs assessment performed during the planning grant project period. A comprehensive approach, addressing physical, psychological, and social aspects of EMSC along the continuum of care, should be reflected. An ongoing working relationship with Federal EMSC program staff and resource center staff, beginning with the initiation of a planning grant application, is strongly encouraged. Budget requests in this category should not exceed $50,000, The project period is for one year only, with no renewal. Applications in this category are due earlier than other categories. The application deadline is March 25, 1994. Category (2): State Systems Grants This category of grants has two subcategories: implementation grants and system enhancement grants. Proposals for State systems grants may be framed within the context of the changing conditions of health care delivery anticipated under health care reform. Subcategory (A): implementation grants. Implementation grants will improve the capacity of a State's Emergency Medical Services program to address the particular needs of children. Implementation grants are used to assist States in integrating research-based knowledge and state-of-the-art systems development approaches into the existing State EMS/trauma systems using the experience and products of previous EMSC grantees. Grants of up to $250,000 per award for each twelve month budget period are anticipated. Project periods are up to two years. Up to five grants will be awarded. For this competition, we intend to fund applications from States (and medical schools within those States) that have not as yet received support, or that have received only partial support under this program as part of a regional alliance. This means that approved applications from States (and medical schools within those States) with no or very limited prior EMSC program support will be funded before approved applications from outside this group. Applications will not be accepted for both planning grants and implementation grants simultaneously from the same State.
