FR940324-2-00096 FR940324-2-00044 Review Criteria: The following criteria will be included in the technical merit review of all applications and apply to priority areas A, B, C and D. Additional criteria specific to replications are identified in Module D. General •Potential as a demonstration project to make a significant contribution to knowledge of effective substance abuse prevention strategies for youth of different ages, of different cultures, and/or from different environments, e.g., urban, suburban, or rural areas. Proposed Approach and Activities •Adherence to the risk/protective factor framework and the logic model in conceptualizing the proposal or adequate explanation of and rationale for alternative framework(s) selected. •Comprehensiveness and clarity of the applicant's approach, and appropriateness of the identified intermediate and long-term objectives. (For Modules A, B, and C, a comprehensive approach is defined as one with interventions targeting three or more risk factor domains. For Module D, applicants are expected to address the same domains as in the replicant project. For Modules A, B, C, and D, applicants not using the risk/protective factor model are expected to demonstrate the comprehensiveness of the selected alternative approach.) •Adequacy and appropriateness of the proposed strategies and interventions to fulfill the applicant's stated objectives for the specified population, taking age, culture, and gender into consideration. •Accessibility and acceptability of program to the target population and community; adequacy of procedures to identify, recruit, and retain the target population; and adequacy of procedures to empower program participants such that they actively participate in the planning and implementation of the prevention process, including the inclusion of youth and other community members in the identification of risk and protective factors and interventions (or, in the case of projects proposing an alternative conceptual framework, inclusion of youth and other community members in identifying problems and approaches in terms consistent with the conceptual framework selected). •Commitment and ability to implement a gender-appropriate and culturally competent project, as evidenced in such areas as staffing, intervention strategies, instrumentation, and evaluation. Evaluation Plan •Clarity, feasibility, appropriateness, completeness, and adequacy, including adequacy of resources of the evaluation plan to meet the requirements for process and outcome evaluation as outlined in this Announcement. For the outcome evaluation, particularly, the adequacy of the design and methodology to demonstrate the effectiveness of the intervention must be shown. Personnel, Management Plan, and Resources •Evidence of (1) capability and experience of the applicant organization; (2) appropriate qualifications of the Program Director, Chief Evaluator, and other key personnel. •Feasibility of the proposed project in terms of (1) time frames, (2) adequacy, availability and accessibility of facilities and resources, and (3) reasonable and effective project management plan.
