FR941012-1-00056 FR941012-1-00010 (i) Form BMC&hyph;91 or 91X or BMC 82 surety bond _Bodily injury and property damage (motor property and passenger carriers; household goods freight forwarders that provide pickup or delivery service directly or by using a local delivery service under their control). (ii) Form BMC&hyph;84 _Surety bond or Form BMC&hyph;85_trust fund agreement (property brokers of general commodities and household goods). (iii) Form BMC&hyph;34 or BMC 83 surety bond _Cargo liability (motor property common carriers and household goods freight forwarders). (6) All applications also must be accompanied by Form BOC&hyph;3_designation of legal process agents. (b) A summary of the application will be published as a preliminary grant of authority in the ICC Register to give notice to the public in case anyone wishes to oppose the application. §1160.6 Appeals to rejections of the application. (a) An applicant has the right to appeal rejection of the application. The appeal must be filed at the Commission within 10 days of the date of the letter of rejection. (b) If the appeal is successful and the filing is found to be proper, the application shall be deemed to have been properly filed as of the decision date of the appeal. §1160.7 Changing the request for authority or filing supplementary evidence after the application is filed. (a) Once the application is filed, the applicant may supplement evidence only with approval of the Commission. (b) Amendments to the application generally are not permitted, but in appropriate instances may be entertained at the discretion of the Commission. §1160.8 After publication in the ICC Register. (a) Interested persons have 5 days from the date of ICC Register publication to file protests. See Subpart B of this part. (b) If no one opposes the application, the grant published in the ICC Register will become effective by issuance of a certificate, permit, or license. §1160.9 Obtaining a copy of the application. After publication, interested persons may request a copy of the application by writing to the Commission-designated contract agent (as identified in the ICC Register ), Room 2229, Interstate Commerce Commission Building. §1160.10 Opposed applications. If the application is opposed, opposing parties are required to send a copy of their protest to the applicant. §1160.11 Filing a reply statement. (a) If the application is opposed, applicant may file a reply statement. This statement is due within 15 days after ICC Register publication. (b) The reply statement may not contain new evidence. It shall only rebut or further explain matters previously raised. (c) The reply statement need not be notarized or verified. Applicant understands that the oath in the application form applies to all evidence submitted in the application. Separate legal arguments by counsel need not be notarized or verified. §1160.12 Applicant withdrawal. If the applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it shall request dismissal in writing. Subpart B_How To Oppose Requests for Authority §1160.40 Definitions. A person wishing to oppose a request for permanent authority files a protest. A person filing a valid protest becomes a protestant. §1160.41 Time for filing. A protest shall be filed (received at the Commission) within 5 days after notice of the application appears in the ICC Register. A copy of the protest shall be sent to applicant's representative at the same time. Failure timely to file a protest waives further participation in the proceeding. §1160.42 Contents of the protest. (a) All information upon which the protestant plans to rely is put into the protest.
