FR940622-1-00071 FR940622-1-00029 Section 674.54␣Teacher Cancellation_Federal Perkins Loans and Direct Loans Made Before July 23, 1992 The Secretary is proposing to amend §674.54 to reflect the statutory elimination of the 50-percent limitation on all Chapter 1 schools in a State. Teaching in any Chapter 1 school will now qualify a borrower for a loan cancellation. Section 674.56␣Employment Cancellation_Federal Perkins Loans and Direct Loans Made On or After July 23, 1992 The Amendments expanded the cancellation provisions for loans made on or after July 23, 1992, to include the following services: (1) A full-time nurse or medical technician; (2) a full-time employee of a public or private nonprofit child or family service agency who is providing or supervising the provision of services to high-risk children and their families from low-income communities; or (3) a full-time qualified professional provider of early intervention services in a public or other nonprofit program under public supervision by the lead agency. The Secretary proposes to add this section to incorporate these changes. Section 674.57␣Cancellation for Law Enforcement or Corrections Officer Service Section 465(a)(2) of the HEA was amended by the Police Recruitment and Education Program (PREP), a provision of the Crime Control Act of 1990. PREP provides for Federal Perkins Loan and National Direct Student Loan cancellation benefits for full-time law enforcement or corrections officers providing service to local, State, and Federal law enforcement or corrections agencies. The provision only applies to Federal Perkins Loans and Direct Loans made on or after November 29, 1990. The Secretary is proposing to add a new §674.57 to the regulations to reflect these provisions. In developing §674.57, the Secretary relied on the experience gained from the Law Enforcement Education Program (LEEP), a highly successful program in the 1970's that provided financial assistance to law enforcement officers to attend an institution of higher education. The concepts of an eligible agency, a law enforcement officer, and eligible service were drawn from LEEP. Section 674.61␣Cancellation for Death or Disability The Secretary is proposing to amend the definition of permanent and total disability in §674.61 to include the inability of the borrower to attend an institution. Federal Work-Study Programs Program Name Change The three (3) Federal work-study programs under section 441 of the HEA are the Federal Work-Study program under subpart A (formerly named the College Work-Study program), the Job Location and Development program under subpart B, and the Work-Colleges program under the new subpart C. These programs will be known collectively as the Federal Work-Study programs. Section 675.1␣Purpose and Identification of Common Provisions The National and Community Service Act Amendments of 1990 authorized the creation of full- and part-time national and community service programs. In an effort to increase participation in community service, Congress amended the statement of purpose for the FWS program, in section 441(a) of the HEA, to encourage students receiving program assistance to participate in community service activities. The Secretary proposes to amend §675.1(a) in accordance with the statute. Section 675.2␣Definitions The Secretary proposes to amend the definitions section to add a new definition of ``low-income individual'' for purposes of community services. The Secretary is proposing to use the same definition provided for in §674.33(c) of the Federal Perkins Loan program regulations. The Secretary believes that the ``income protection allowance'' (IPA) is the best indicator of a ``low-income individual.'' Also, the IPA charts are very accessible because the Secretary publishes annually in the Federal Register the revised IPA table that is mailed to all institutions participating in title IV, HEA programs. Section 675.8␣Program Participation Agreement The Secretary is proposing to amend the provisions governing the program participation agreement between the Secretary and the institution in §675.8 in accordance with the statutory change in section 443(b) of the HEA to add assurances that: (1) employment under the program may be used to support programs for supportive services to students with disabilities; and (2) institutions will inform all eligible students of the opportunity to perform community service and will consult with local nonprofit, governmental, and community-based organizations to identify community service opportunities. In identifying community service opportunities, the Secretary expects institutions to consult with their students. Section 675.18␣Use of Funds The Secretary is proposing several amendments to §675.18. First, in accordance with section 448(b)(1) of the HEA, the Secretary is proposing to amend §675.18(a) to provide that institutions participating in the Work-Colleges program may use funds allocated under section 442 of the HEA for meeting costs of the Work-Colleges program. Second, in accordance with section 447 of the HEA, the Secretary is proposing to amend §675.18(b)(5) to eliminate the institutional administrative expense allowance for work-study for community service learning. Institutions would, however, be allowed to use up to 10 percent of the funds available for the institution's administrative cost allowance and attributable to the institution's FWS program expenditures to cover expenses incurred for its program of community services. Third, in accordance with section 488 of the HEA, the Secretary is proposing to amend §675.18(f)(1) to increase the amount of an institution's allocation under the FWS programs that may be transferred to the FSEOG program from 10 percent to 25 percent.
