FR940602-2-00004 FR940602-2-00003 Forest Service Rocky Mountain Region; AA Production, Inc.; Twin-Creeks-Unit; Grand Mesa, Uncompahgre and Gunnison National Forests; Gunnison County, Colorado; Notice AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on an AA Production, Inc., proposal to drill 4 coal bed methane wells on existing leases and construct a transportation system to these wells within the Clear Creek Roadless Area on the Gunnison National Forest, Paonia Ranger District, approximately 23 miles north, northwest of the town of Paonia, Colorado. DATES: An open house is scheduled for June 9, 1994, at the Panonia Town Hall from 2&hyph;5 p.m. and from 6&hyph;9 p.m. to display and discuss the Twin-Creeks-Unit proposal. Comments concerning the scope and issues of the analysis should be received by July 15, 1994; Publication of Draft EIS: December, 1994; final EIS: July, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Twin-Creeks-Unit, Paonia Ranger District, PO Box 1030, North Rio Grande Ave., Paonia, CO 81428. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mike Ward, Paonia Ranger District, PO Box 1030, North Rio Grande Ave., Paoni, CO 81428, (303) 527&hyph;4260. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: AA Production, Inc. has submitted a proposal to drill 4 coal bed methane wells with foreseeable development of additional wells if the first 4 are successful. Drilling would occur on existing leases granted before 1980 in the Clear Creek Roadless area between Deadhorse Creek and Jones Park. The wells would be located within one mile of an existing road (FDR 844) and a pipeline which parallels the road. The 4 proposed wells are more precisely located in the Southwest Quarter of Section 21_Township 10 South_Range 90 West of the 6th Principal Meridian. It is important to remain clear about the decisions to be made on the Twin-Creeks-Unit proposal. Decisions on whether or not this area of the Forest will or will not be available for oil and gas leasing have already been made. AA Production, Inc., holds valid oil & gas leases and have a legal right to drill on their leases. The 1993 Forest Oil & Gas Leasing EIS has allocated the Clear Creek Roadless area to oil & gas development. These decisions will not be revisited, unless an unavoidable effect on some very significant resource is discovered through this analysis. At this point, we do not anticipate any effects such as this. We do have an obligation to consider all environmental factors, analyzed to the latest standards, before we allow the proposed oil and gas development to occur so appropriate protection or mitigation measures can be developed and implemented. This EIS will accomplish this. The Forest Service will decide how, when, and exactly where, oil & gas development will occur while minimizing effects on the human environment to the extent practical. The Forest Service has responsibility for managing surface resources. Specifically, Forest Service decisions to be made are: 1. Determine specifically where, how, when, and under what conditions the transportation system and well pads will be developed for the 4 wells proposed for drilling. 2. Determine general locations for the foreseeable wells, and any other mitigation needed in addition to those for the first 4 proposed wells. 3. Determine if there are site specific unavoidable effects on very significant resources in the area which would preclude drilling or surface occupancy. Any well development other than the current proposal to drill 4 wells will require additional site specific environmental analysis. The Bureau of Land Management is responsible for deciding how actual down-hole drilling activities will occur and has the authority to approve the Application For Permit To Drill (APD). Preliminary scoping has identified nine issues. These issued are: (1) Visual Quality, (2) The proposed wells are within a roadless area identified during the 1979 RARE II process, (3) Transportation System, Development, (4) Wildlife Management and Protection including Threatened, Endangered, & Sensitive Wildlife & Plants, (5) Retention of Water Quality, Wetlands, and Riparian areas, (6) Soils & Geologic Hazards, (7) Effects on Recreation Opportunities & Outfitter Guides, (8) Social & Economic Effects, (9) Cultural & Historic Resources. Scoping will consist of public meetings, news releases, and a scoping letter sent to people, organizations, and public agencies who may be interested in this project. An open house is scheduled for June 9, 1994. A new release to local media and interested parties is being made in conjunction with the June 9 meeting.
