FR940428-2-00154 FR940428-2-00072 The remaining conditions of the permit are based on the NPDES regulations 40 CFR parts 122 through 125 and consist primarily of management requirements common to all permits. V. State (401) Certification Section 401 of the CWA provides that no Federal license or permit, including NPDES permits, to conduct any activity that may result in any discharge into navigable waters shall be granted until the State in which the discharge originates certifies that the discharge will comply with the applicable provisions of sections 301, 302, 303, 306, and 307 of the CWA. The section 401 certification process has been completed for all States covered by today's general permit. The following summary indicates where additional permit requirements have been added as a result of the certification process. The following changes apply to all States. Part III (Part I.B.1. in the draft permit) Description of Non-Contact Cooling Water Discharges has been changed to include non-contact cooling water instead of just cooling water in the description. Part IV.A. (Part II.A. in the draft) Geographic Areas has been changed to include specific reference to all state water quality standards which would apply to the discharges covered under the permit. Part IV.B. (Part II.B. in the draft) Notification by Permittees has been modified to include specific State requirements (see final permit). Massachusetts: see Appendix B, Massachusetts General Permit. Under Part I.A.1. (Appendix A., Number 1, Part I.A.1. in the draft) the State has included a provision for the flow requirements in the final permit. The provision allows for a discharge flow of greater than 1 MGD to be covered under the general permit on a case by case basis as determined by the State (see footnote in final permit). The discharge limitations for pH have been modified to include the requirements specific to each water classification type (see Part I.A.i. or j. in the final permit). LC 50 & C-NOEC, the testing requirements for whole effluent toxicity (WET), have been changed. WET testing will only be required upon request by EPA and/or the State (see Part I.A.1.k. of the final permit). Parts I.A.1.b, c, d & e have been added to the final permit, these provisions are specific to the temperature exceedence allowances in accordance with the State water quality standards. Any requirements referring to Class C or SC water bodies found in the draft general permit have been deleted since there are no Class C or SC segments in the State. New Hampshire: see Appendix B, New Hampshire General Permit. Under Part I.A.1. (Appendix A., Section c., Part I.A.1. in the draft) the temperature limit and designation for a warm water fishery have been added under Part I.A.1.a. The reference for pH has been changed to include specific State permit conditions (see Part I.B. of the final permit). LC 50 & C-NOEC, the testing requirements for whole effluent toxicity (WET), have been changed. WET testing will only be required upon request by EPA and/or the State (see Part I.A.1.f. of the final permit). VI. Administrative Aspects A. Request To Be Covered A facility is not covered by any of these general permits until it meets the following requirements. First, it must send a notice of intent to EPA and the appropriate State indicating it meets the requirements of the permit and wants to be covered. And second, it must be notified in writing by EPA that it is covered by this general permit. Any facility operating under an effective individual NPDES permit may request that the individual permit be revoked and that coverage under the general permit granted, as outlined in 40 CFR 122.28(b)(3)(v). If EPA grants coverage under the general permit, EPA will so notify the facility and revoke the individual permit. Facilities with expired individual permits that have been administratively continued in accordance with §122.6 may apply for coverage under this general permit. When coverage is granted the expired individual permit automatically will cease being in effect. B. The Coastal Zone Management Act The Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA), 16 U.S.C. §§1451 et seq., and its implementing regulations [15 CFR Part 930] require that any federally licensed activity affecting the coastal zone with an approved Coastal Zone Management Program (CZMP) be determined to be consistent with the CZMP. EPA, Region I, has determined that these general NPDES permits are consistent with the CZMP. EPA has received consistency from the Massachusetts, Maine, and New Hampshire coastal zone agencies for a determination that these three permits are consistent with their respective State policies. C. The Endangered Species Act EPA Region I has concluded that the existing discharges that obtain coverage under this general NPDES permit will not affect or jeopardize the continued existence of any endangered or threatened species or adversely affect its critical habitat. EPA has submitted a ``no-effect'' determination to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service to confirm this conclusion. D. Environmental Impact Statement Requirements The general permits do not authorize the construction of any water resources project or the impoundment of any water body or have any effect on historical property, and are not major Federal activities needing preparation of any Environmental Impact Statement. Therefore, the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, 16 U.S.C. §§1273 et seq. , the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 16 U.S.C §§470 et seq. , the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, 16 U.S.C. §§661 et seq. , and the National Environmental Policy Act, 33 U.S.C. §§4321 et seq. , do not apply to the issuance of these general NPDES permits.
