FR940613-1-00048 FR940613-1-00006 b. Actions that are not participation in management . Participation in the following activities will not exclusively, in themselves, exceed the bounds of this proposed regulatory exemption: Policing the loan, undertaking financial work out with a borrower where the obligation is in default or in threat of default, undertaking foreclosing and winding up operations (as described later in this proposal), or preparing the UST or UST system for sale or liquidation. In addition, the holder is not considered to be participating in the management of the UST or UST system by monitoring the borrower's business; by requiring or conducting on-site investigations, including site assessments, inspections, and audits, of the environmental condition of the UST or UST system or the borrower's financial condition; by monitoring other aspects of the UST or UST system considered relevant or necessary by the holder; by requiring certification of financial information or compliance with applicable duties, laws, or regulations, or by requiring other similar actions, provided that the holder does not otherwise participate in the management or operation of the UST or UST system, as provided in this proposed regulation. Such oversight and obligations of compliance imposed by the holder are not considered part of the management of an UST or UST system. Although such requirements and oversight may inform and perhaps strongly influence the borrower's management of an UST or UST system, the holder is not considered to be participating in management where the borrower continues to make operational decisions concerning the UST or UST system. The protected activities of a holder that are specifically identified in this rule are consistent with the language of RCRA section 9003(h)(9) and the overall purpose of subtitle I. Judicial decisions construing the substantially similar language of CERCLA section 101(20)(A) have addressed the issue of the appropriate degree of a holder's involvement at a facility in which it held a security interest (i.e., the standard of ``participation in management''). Although the cases articulated the CERCLA standard using different language, these cases generally held that the exemption is abrogated once a holder has divested the borrower or debtor of its management authority prior to foreclosure, such as when the holder becomes involved in the facility's day-to-day operations, where it becomes overly entangled in the affairs of the facility, or where its involvement otherwise affects a facility's hazardous waste practices. See United States v. Maryland Bank & Trust Co. , 632 F. Supp. 573 (D. Md. 1986); United States v. Mirabile , 15 Envtl. L. Rep. (Envtl. L. Inst.) 20994 (E.D. Pa. 1985) (participation in financial management insufficient to void the security interest exception to owner liability); United States v. Fleet Factors Corp. , 901 F.2d 1550 (11th Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 111 S.Ct. 752 (1991). Other cases interpreting the provisions of CERCLA established that a holder's involvement in financially related matters_such as periodic monitoring or inspections of secured property, loan refinancing and restructuring, financial advice, and similar activities_will not void the exemption. See Guidice v. BFG Electroplating and Manufacturing Co. , 732 F. Supp. 556 (W.D. Pa. 1989); United States v. Nicolet , 29 Envtl. Rep. Cas. (BNA) 1851 (E.D. Pa. 1989); United States v. Mirabile , 15 Envtl. L. Rep. (Envtl. L. Inst.) 20994 (E.D. Pa. 1985) (participation in financial management insufficient to void the security interest exception to owner liability). The variations in the courts' articulations of the standard, however, left unclear the precise degree of involvement that could be undertaken without voiding the CERCLA exemption. See, e.g., Fleet Factors Corp. , 901 F.2d at 1557 (secured creditor may incur CERCLA liability by participating in the financial management of a facility to a degree indicating a capacity to influence the corporation's treatment of hazardous waste); In re Bergsoe Metal Corp. , 910 F.2d 668 (9th Cir. 1990) (``there must be some actual management of the facility before a secured creditor will fall outside the exception [found in CERCLA section 101(20)(A)]''). However, more recent cases under CERCLA have articulated a standard of management participation that is substantially similar to that in this proposed rule. See United States v. McLamb , 5 F. 3d 69 (4th Cir. 1993); Waterville Industries, Inc. v. Finance Authority of Maine , 984 F 2d. 549 (1st Cir. 1993). While the cases listed above describe particular activities and draw a line between the actions of a holder that are and are not evidence of management participation for purposes of CERCLA, there remains uncertainty about the effect of activities commonly or routinely undertaken by a holder in the course of managing a loan secured by an UST or UST system. EPA believes that the uncertainty created for holders examining their potential for liability under CERCLA also exist when holders assess their potential obligations under RCRA subtitle I. Therefore, this proposed rule is intended to specify the compliance obligations for lenders when conducting normal business activities and to define with greater precision the point at which a holder's actions pass from loan oversight and advice to actual UST or UST system management. The following sections discuss and describe the specific activities of a holder that the proposed rule defines as either activities that indicate the holder's participation in the management of an UST or UST system or those that are not instances of participation in the management of an UST or UST system by a person holding indicia of ownership primarily to protect a security interest in the UST or UST system. It bears repeating, however, that the activities identified in this proposed rule do not specify the only activities that may be undertaken by a holder without losing the protection of the proposed security interest regulatory exemption, and one should not infer that activities not specifically mentioned in this rule are automatically considered evidence of participation in an UST or UST system's management_those must be addressed on a case-by-case basis based on the general test provided in this rule. (1) Actions at the inception of the loan or other transaction giving rise to a security interest. Actions undertaken by a holder prior to the inception of a transaction in which indicia of ownership are held primarily to protect a security interest are irrelevant with respect to the general test of participation in management, and thus are not considered evidence of participation in the management of the UST or UST system. Thus, consultation and negotiation concerning the structure and terms of the loan or other obligation, the payment of interest, the payment period, and specific or general financial or other advice, suggestions, counseling, guidance, or other actions at or prior to the time that indicia of ownership are first held are not considered evidence of participation in the management of the UST or UST system for purposes of this proposed rule. Activities that take place prior to holding indicia of ownership are not relevant for determining whether the holder has participated in the management of the UST or UST system after the time that the holder acquires indicia of ownership.
