FR941006-1-00134 FR941006-1-00016 The placement of the warning statement on the principal display panel of the retail package will make it likely that the warning statement will be seen at the time the product is purchased. The statement will inform the purchaser of the product's potential to cause poisoning and of the need to keep the product away from children when it is brought into the house. FDA tentatively concludes that placement of the warning statement on the principal display panel is necessary to fulfill the requirement of sections 403(f) and 502(c) of the act, that information required to appear on the label of a food or a drug be placed with conspicuousness (as compared with other printed matter) as to render it likely to be read by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of use. Moreover, placement of the warning statement on the principal display panel is consistent with the requirement that FDA established for protein product warning statements discussed previously. In both cases, the products in question could cause serious, even life-threatening, problems if misused. Thus, FDA tentatively concludes that the standard of conspicuousness established in the protein products case should also be adopted for iron-containing products. The agency tentatively concludes that placement of the warning statement on the immediate container is also necessary to fulfill the requirement of sections 403(f) and 502(c) of the act because, under customary conditions of use, the retail container is frequently disposed of, and individuals other than the purchaser may use the product. Therefore, the warning statement must be printed on the immediate container if this statement is to perform its function throughout the life of the product. Regulating the placement of the warning is consistent with other labeling requirements that the agency has imposed. In 21 CFR 201.314(h)(1) and (h)(2), FDA has required that the labeling of orally or rectally administered aspirin and aspirin-containing drug products intended for sale without prescription bear a warning that reads: ``WARNING: Children and teenagers should not use this medicine for chicken pox or flu symptoms before a doctor is consulted about Reye syndrome, a rare but serious illness reported to be associated with aspirin.'' The warning must appear on the immediate container labeling. In cases where the immediate container is not the retail package, the retail package must also bear the warning statement. (see 51 FR 8180, March 7, 1986).
