FR940523-2-00006 FR940523-2-00003 Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest, Georgia Forest Supervisor Decisions The Times, published daily in Gainesville, GA. District Ranger Decisions Armuches Ranger District: Walker County Messenger, published bi-weekly (Wednesday & Friday) in LaFayette, GA. Toccoa Ranger District: The News Observer published weekly (Wednesday) in Blue Ridge, GA. Chestatee Ranger District: Dahlonega Nugget, published weekly (Thursday) in Dahlonega, GA. Brasstown Ranger District: North Georgia News, published weekly (Tuesday) in Blairsville, GA. Towns County Herald, published weekly (Tuesday) in Hiawesse, GA. Tallulah Ranger District: Clayton Tribune, published weekly (Thursday) in Clayton, GA. Chattooga Ranger District: Northeast Georgian, published weekly (Wednesday) in Clarksville, GA. Toccoa Record, published weekly (Thursday) in Toccoa, GA. The Telegraph, published weekly (Wednesday) in Cleveland, GA. Cohutta Ranger District: Chatsworth Times, published weekly (Tuesday) in Chatsworth, GA. Oconee Ranger District: Monticello News, published weekly (Thursday) in Monticello, GA. Cherokee National Forest, Tennessee Forest Supervisor Decisions Knoxville News Sentinel, published daily in Knoxville, TN (covering McMinn, Monroe, and Polk Counties). Johnson City Press, published daily in Johnson City, TN (covering Carter, Cocke, Greene, Johnson, Sullivan, Unicoi and Washington Counties). District Rangers Decisions Ocoee Ranger District: Polk County News, published weekly (Wednesday) in Benton, TN. Hiwassee Ranger District: Daily Post-Athenian, published weekly (Monday&hyph;Friday) in Athens, TN. Tellico Ranger District: Monroe County Advocate, published weekly (Thursday) in Sweetwater, TN. Nolichucky Ranger District: Greeneville Sun, published daily (Monday&hyph;Saturday) in Greeneville, TN. Unaka Ranger District: Johnson City Press, published daily in Johnson City, TN. Watauga Ranger District: Elizabethton Star, published daily (Sunday&hyph;Friday) in Elizabethton, TN. Daniel Boone National Forest, Kentucky Forest Supervisor Decisions Lexington Herald-Leader, published daily in Lexington, KY. District Rangers Decisions Morehead Ranger District: Morehead News, published bi-weekly (Tuesday and Friday) in Morehead, KY. Stanton Ranger District: The Clay City Times, published weekly (Thursday) in Clay City, KY. Berea Ranger District: Jackson County Sun, published weekly (Thursday) in McKee, KY. London Ranger District: The Sentinel-Echo, published tri-weekly (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) in London, KY. Somerset Ranger District: Commonwealth-Journal, published daily (Sunday through Friday) Somerset, KY. Stearns Ranger District: McCreary County Record, published weekly (Tuesday) in Whitley City, KY. Redbird Ranger District: Manchester Enterprise, published weekly (Thursday) in Manchester, KY. National Forests in Florida, Florida Forest Supervisor Decisions The Tallahassee Democrat, published daily in Tallahassee, FL. District Rangers Decisions Apalachiocla Ranger District: The Weekly Journal, published weekly (Wednesday) in Bristol, FL. Lake George Ranger District: The Ocala Star Banner, published daily in Ocala, FL. Osceola Ranger District: The Lake City Reporter, published daily (Monday&hyph;Saturday) in Lake City, FL. Seminole Ranger District: The Daily Commercial, published daily in Leesburg, FL. Wakulla Ranger District: The Tallahassee Democrat, published daily in Tallahassee, FL. Francis Marion & Sumter National Forest, South Carolina Forest Supervisor Decisions
