FR940318-0-00029 FR940318-0-00006 PART 124_[AMENDED] 5. The authority citation for part 124 continues to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 634(b)(6), 636(j), 637(a), 637(d) and Public Law 99&hyph;661, sec. 1207, Public Law 100&hyph;656, and Public Law 101&hyph;37. 6. Section 124.107 is amended by revising the introductory text, by redesignating paragraphs (b) and (c) as paragraphs (c) and (d), respectively, by revising paragraph (a), and by adding a new paragraph (b) to read as follows: ยง124.107 Potential for success. Except for tribally-owned applicant concerns which must meet the requirements of ยง124.112(c)(6), SBA will approve a concern for Program Participation only when it finds that the applicant concern possesses reasonable prospects for success in competing in the private sector and has been in business in its primary industry classification for two full years, unless a waiver for the two-year in business requirement is granted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. (a) Unless a waiver is granted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, an applicant concern must demonstrate that it has been in business in the primary industry classification in which it seeks 8(a) certification for two full years prior to the date of its 8(a) application by submitting income tax returns showing revenues for each of the two previous years. (b) The requirement that an applicant concern be in business for two full years may be waived, and the concern shall be considered to have demonstrated reasonable prospects for success, if each of the five conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are met. (1) The two-year in business requirement may be waived if_ (i) The individual or individuals upon whom eligibility is to be based have substantial and demonstrated business management experience; (ii) The prospective Program Participant has demonstrated technical experience to carry out its business plan with a substantial likelihood for success; (iii) The prospective Program Participant has adequate capital to sustain its operations and carry out its business plan; (iv) The prospective Program Participant has a record of successful performance on contracts from governmental and/or nongovernmental sources in the primary industry category in which the prospective Program Participant is seeking Program certification; and (v) The prospective Program Participant has, or can demonstrate its ability to timely obtain, the personnel, facilities, equipment, and any other requirements needed to perform such contracts. (2) In order to be eligible for a waiver of the two-year in business requirement, an applicant concern that has been in business for less than two years must indicate in its application that it seeks a waiver, must provide information on governmental and nongovernmental contracts in progress and completed (including letters of reference) to establish successful contract performance, and must demonstrate how it otherwise meets the five conditions for waiver. (3) SBA shall consider an applicant's performance on both government and private sector contracts if the applicant has performed contracts in both arenas. In such a case, an applicant's performance on both types of contracts will be reviewed to determine whether the firm has an overall successful performance record. If, however, the applicant has performed only government contracts or only private sector contracts, the applicant's performance on those contracts alone will be reviewed to determine whether the applicant possesses a record of successful performance. * * * * * 7. Section 124.111(a)(2)(ii) is revised to read as follows:
