FR940217-1-00114 FR940217-1-00014 (i) For any period beginning on the date of a failure by the lender or servicer, with respect to the loan, to comply with any of the requirements set forth in §682.406(a)(1)-(a)(6), (a)(9), and (a)(12); (ii) For any period beginning on the date of a failure by the lender or servicer, with respect to the loan, to meet a condition of guarantee coverage established by the guaranty agency, to the date, if any, on which the guaranty agency reinstated the guarantee coverage pursuant to policies and procedures established by the agency; (iii) For any period in which the lender or servicer, with respect to the loan, violates the requirements of subpart C of this part; and (iv) For any period beginning on the day after the Secretary's obligation to pay special allowance on the loan terminates under §682.302(d). (2) For purposes of this section, a lender and any applicable third-party servicer shall be considered jointly and severally liable for the repayment of any interest benefits and special allowance paid as a result of a violation of applicable requirements by the servicer in administering the lender's FFEL programs. (3) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the relevant third party servicer shall repay any outstanding liabilities under paragraph (a)(2) of this section only if_ (i) The lender has not repaid in full the amount of the liability within 30 days; or (ii) The lender has not made other satisfactory arrangements to pay the amount of the liability. (b) The Secretary requires a guaranty agency to repay reinsurance payments received on a loan if the lender, third-party servicer, if applicable, or the agency failed to meet the requirements of §682.406(a). (c)(1) In addition to requiring repayment of reinsurance payments pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary may take one or more of the following remedial actions against a guaranty agency or third-party servicer administering any aspect of the FFEL programs under a contract with the guaranty agency, that makes an incomplete or incorrect statement in connection with any agreement entered into under this part or violates any applicable Federal requirement: (i) Require the agency to return payments made by the Secretary to the agency. (ii) Withhold payments to the agency. (iii) Limit the terms and conditions of the agency's continued participation in the FFEL programs. (iv) Suspend or terminate agreements with the agency. (v) Impose a fine on the agency or servicer. For purposes of assessing a fine, repeated mechanical systemic unintentional errors shall be counted as one violation. (vi) Require repayment from the agency and servicer pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, of interest, special allowance, and reinsurance paid on Consolidation loan amounts attributed to Consolidation loans that violate §682.206(f)(1). (vii) Require repayment from the agency or servicer, pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, of any related payments that the Secretary became obligated to make to others as a result of an incomplete or incorrect statement or a violation of an applicable Federal requirement. (2) For purposes of this section, a guaranty agency and any applicable third-party servicer shall be considered jointly and severally liable for the repayment of any interest benefits, special allowance, reinsurance paid, or other compensation on Consolidation loan amounts attributed to Consolidation loans that violate §682.206(f)(1) as a result of a violation by the servicer administering any aspect of the FFEL programs under a contract with that guaranty agency. (3) For purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the relevant third-party servicer shall repay any outstanding liabilities under paragraph (c)(2) of this section only if_ (i) The Secretary has determined that the servicer is jointly and severally liable for the liabilities; and (ii)(A) The guaranty agency has not repaid in full the amount of the liability within 30 days; or
