FR940428-2-00140 FR940428-2-00065 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Office of the Secretary Privacy Act of 1974 DOT/ALL 9 Identification Media Record Systems The Department of Transportation (DOT) herewith publishes a notice of proposal to amend and redesignate a system of records. Any person or agency may submit written comments on the proposed amended and redesignated system to the Office of Secretary, M&hyph;70, ATTN: Ms. Evie Burch, 400 7th Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Comments to be considered must be received by June 22, 1994. If no comments are received, the proposed changes will become effective 30 days from the date of issuance. If comments are received, the comments will be considered and, where adopted, the document will be republished with the changes. Issued in Washington, DC, April 18, 1994. Paul T. Weiss, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Administration. DOT/ALL 009 System name: Identification Media Record Systems. System location: Department of Transportation (DOT). a. Office of the Secretary (OST), Office of Security, M&hyph;70, 400 7th Street SW., Washington, DC 20590; for OST and all DOT Operating Administrations except those below. b. Commandant, G&hyph;CAS, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, G&hyph;0, Washington, DC 20591 and District and Area Offices. c. Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Civil Aviation Security, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591; and each FAA Regional and Center Civil Aviation Security Divisions/Staff. d. Federal Highway Administration, Operations and Services Divisions, 400 7th Street SW., Washington, DC 20590, and all FHWA Regional Offices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Present and former employees and contractor employees in the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Coast Guard, Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Highway Administration, Federal Transit Administration, Federal Railroad Administration, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Research and Special Programs Administration, Bureau of Transportation Statistics, and Maritime Administration. Categories of records in the system: Applications, photographs, receipts for DOT identification cards and official credentials, temporary building passes, security badges, and applications for other identification needed for official duties. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Records are maintained for control and accountability of DOT identification cards, credentials, and security badges issued to DOT employees, former employees, and contractors for identification purposes and admittance to the DOT facilities or for other official duties. See Preparatory Statement of General Routine Uses.
