FR940620-2-00076 FR940620-2-00047 [Release No. IC&hyph;20354; 812&hyph;8848] Massachusetts Investors Trust, et al.; Notice of Application June 14, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for an Order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``Act''). APPLICANTS: Massachusetts Investors Trust, MFS Series Trust I, MFS Series Trust II, MFS Series Trust III, MFS Series Trust IV, MFS Series Trust V, MFS Series Trust VI, MFS Series Trust VII, MFS Series Trust VIII, MFS Fixed Income Trust, MFS Municipal Series Trust, MFS Growth Opportunities Fund, MFS Government Mortgage Fund, MFS Government Securities Fund, Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund, MFS Government Limited Maturity Fund, MFS Institutional Trust, MFS Municipal Income Trust, MFS Intermediate Income Trust, MFS Multimarket Income Trust, MFS Government Markets Income Trust, MFS Charter Income Trust, MFS Special Value Trust, MFS Union Standard Trust, MFS Variable Insurance Trust, Money Market Variable Account, High Yield Variable Account, Capital Appreciation Variable Account, Government Securities Variable Account, World Governments Variable Account, Total Return Variable Account, Managed Sectors Variable Account, MFS/Sun Life Series Trust, Sun Growth Variable Annuity Fund, Inc. and MFS Variable Insurance Trust (collectively, the ``Trusts''), and Massachusetts Financial Services Company (``MFS'') on their own behalf and on behalf of (i) all existing and future series of each Trust, (ii) all existing and future investment companies (and all existing and future series thereof) not currently advised by MFS but for which MFS (or an existing or future company controlled by or under common control with MFS) in the future acts as investment adviser thereof (such Trusts, investment companies and series are collectively referred to herein as the ``Funds''), and (iii) any existing or future company controlled by or under common control with MFS that in the future serves as investment adviser to any Fund (collectively with MFS referred to as the ``Adviser''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek to amend an existing order that permits certain applicants to operate a joint trading account that invests solely in commercial paper with a maturity of 30 days or less, repurchase agreements with maturities of seven days or less, and securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government or its agencies, authorities, or instrumentalities (``U.S. Government Securities'') with a maturity of 30 days or less. 1 The amended order would permit (a) cash contributed to the joint account also to be invested in (i) tax-exempt variable rate demand notes (``VRDNs'') with demand features providing for maturities of up to 30 days or one month and (ii) securities (other than VRDNs) exempt from federal and/or state income tax with remaining maturities of up to 60 days, (b) commercial paper and U.S. Government Securities held in the joint account to have remaining maturities of up to 60 days (as opposed to 30 days as permitted in the Prior Order), and (c) repurchase agreements held in the joint account to have maturities of up to 60 days (as opposed to seven days as permitted by the Prior Order). Applicants also seek to amend the prior order by adding certain additional investment company applicants. 1 MFS Capital Development Fund, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 19109 (Nov. 19, 1992) (notice) and 19158 (Dec. 16, 1992) (order) (the ``Prior Order''). FILING DATE: The application was filed on February 18, 1994 and amended on April 15, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on July 11, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request such notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 500 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02116. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James M. Curtis, Senior Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0563, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Office of Investment Company Regulation, Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Each of the existing Funds is an open-end or a closed-end management investment company registered under the Act. MFS is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.S.), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada. MFS is a registered investment adviser. Each of the existing Funds is advised by MFS. 2. Each of the existing Funds except MFS Series Trust and MFS Municipal Income Trust (the ``Existing Funds'') is currently authorized to invest through a joint account pursuant to the Prior Order. The Prior Order permits each of the Existing Funds to participate in a joint account (the ``Joint Account'') to pool cash balances and reserves for the purpose of investing in (i) commercial paper with a remaining maturity of 30 days or less, (ii) one or more repurchase agreements with a bank or major brokerage house with a maturity of seven days or less, or (iii) U.S. Government Securities with remaining maturities of 30 days or less. 3. Applicants propose to continue to operate the Joint Account in the same manner as permitted by the Prior Order, except for the modifications discussed below.
