FR941220-1-00033 FR941220-1-00009 Reverse Osmosis. RO uses semi-permeable membranes to remove a high percentage of almost all inorganic ions. The technology is relatively insensitive to flow and total dissolved solids (TDS). The effectiveness of RO is adversely affected by the presence of turbidity, iron, manganese, silica, or scale-producing constituents in the source water. If pretreatment is not already in place to remove these constituents, additional costs may be incurred to install other technologies (e.g., pH adjustment, filtration, or scale-prevention additives). The cost generated by the model includes the cost of a scale inhibitor. On the other hand, in situations where high dissolved solids and/or several contaminants may have to be removed simultaneously, the RO process may offer an especially desirable and cost-effective approach to their removal. Less chlorine may be needed due to removal of many bacteria and viruses during the RO process. Disadvantages to RO include fouling of membranes either from scaling or from water with high organic content and a reject stream of 20% to 50% of the water flow. It is also possible that corrosion control chemicals will be needed after RO, and a more qualified operator may be needed. Full scale tests indicate that RO is capable of removing between 86 and 97 percent of the sulfate, and is effectively used for the reduction of contaminants other than sulfate. Estimated cost for reducing sulfate by RO range from $3.50/1,000 gallons for systems serving between 500 and 1,000 persons to $1.00/1,000 gallons for systems serving more than 1,000,000 persons. High sulfate levels are typically associated with high levels of TDS, which can indicate the presence of other inorganics; in such cases, RO becomes a cost effective treatment technology because it removes those other inorganics as well. Since the removal efficiency required for sulfate will typically be less than 86 percent, a portion of the water can be treated and blended with an untreated portion to reduce the cost of this process. Commenters to the Phase V proposed rule expressed concerns regarding the potential costs associated with disposal of wastes generated by treatment processes such as RO, particularly in water-scarce regions. The Agency believes that wastewater would be minimized, since only a portion of source water containing elevated sulfate levels would need to be treated, and would then be blended with source water. With an MCL of 500 mg/L, EPA believes blending treated water and source water would greatly reduce the reject stream. Ion Exchange. IE reduces sulfate concentrations to levels below the MCLG of 500 mg/L at reasonable costs to large systems. Typical sulfate anion removals using IE are greater than 75 percent in full-scale studies that evaluated influent concentrations close to drinking water levels. Estimated costs for IE to reduce sulfate concentrations range from $2.90/1,000 gallons for systems serving between 500 and 1,000 persons to $1.40/1,000 gallons for systems serving more than 1,000,000 people. When the removal efficiency required for sulfate is less than 75 percent, a portion of the water can be treated and blended with an untreated portion to reduce cost. For those systems with other anions that need to be removed (such as nitrate), the removal efficiency will decrease for those anions since sulfate binds more strongly to the exchange resin than other anions. A disadvantage of IE is that it may not be feasible at high levels of TDS. EPA received a number of public comments on the proposal to select RO and IE as BATs for the Phase V inorganic contaminants in general and for sulfate in particular. EPA's responses are in the comment-response document for the Phase V rulemaking and in the preamble to the final rule (57 FR 31809&hyph;12). In the preamble, EPA responded to comments on sulfate in particular concerning the disposal of wash brines from IE and RO treatments in water-scarce areas and on the costs of using RO and IE to treat for sulfate. EPA is not aware of any new information on these two technologies or costs since the proposal. Interested parties are invited to submit any new public comments or new information on the selection of RO and IE as BAT for sulfate. Electrodialysis. Since the Phase V proposal, EPA has identified electrodialysis (ED) as an additional proposed BAT. EPA requests comment on its conclusion that electrodialysis should also be considered BAT for sulfate. ED was the first membrane process developed for desalting brackish waters, and was commercially available in the 1950's. In the early 1970's, a major technological improvement was made, called electrodialysis reversal. Recovery ratios increased from the 50% to 60% range to 80% to 90% recovery. In ED, feed water containing dissolved ions is pumped across electrified membranes. The positive ions migrate to the negative electrode, and the negative ions migrate to the positive electrode, and are effectively trapped in alternating compartments. The partially deionized/dilute stream is circulated through additional stages until the desired purity is obtained. Since this is a unidirectional process, membrane fouling and mineral scale formation tend to degrade system performance. Some pretreatment may be required, such as clarification, presoftening, or treatment with acid or anti-scaling agents. Electrodialysis reversal (EDR) is the same process but with the polarity of the current automatically reversed at regular 15 to 30-minute intervals. This changes the direction of ion movement within the membrane stack. As a result, foulants and scale tend to be removed from the membrane surfaces and carried away during the purge period. EDR requires minimum pretreatment and is very tolerant of system upsets, shock chlorination, and long-term operation at temperatures up to 45 C. Sulfate removal of 84% was achieved in a 1990 pilot study in Virginia, in which efficiency and costs for RO and EDR were compared (AWWA, 1991). Operating costs for EDR are comparable to those for RO. All reference to ED as BAT for sulfate removal in this notice will refer to electrodialysis reversal, rather than unidirectional electrodialysis. Table 3 summarizes the efficiency and cost of the treatment technologies proposed as BATs for sulfate, and indicates that each can reduce the contaminant level from the maximum expected occurrence level to below the proposed MCLG. The costs in Table 3 are representative of annual operation and maintenance (O & M) costs plus annualized capital costs, and may differ depending on local conditions. Costs may be lower if sulfate concentration levels encountered in the raw water are lower than those used for the calculations, or higher if additional system-specific treatment or storage requirements are needed. The general assumptions used to develop the treatment costs include: Capital costs amortized over 20 years at a 7 percent interest rate; engineering fees; contractor overhead and profit; late 1991 power, fuel, labor and chemical costs. The removal efficiencies cited in Table 3 are what is possible, and are not directly linked with the cited costs. These costs are linked with the efficiency needed to achieve the sulfate MCL. Table 3. Annual Costs of Proposed 1412 BAT for Sulfate (1991 Dollars) 1BAT 1Percent removal 1Cost per 1,000 gallons 500&hyph;1000 population 1Cost per 1,000 gallons 3,300&hyph;10,000 population 1Cost per 1,000 gallons 1,000,000 population Reverse osmosis 86&hyph;97 $3.50 $2.20 $1.00 Ion Exchange >75 2.90 1.90 1.40 Electrodialysis 80&hyph;90 3.50 2.20 1.00
