FR941206-0-00081 FR941206-0-00011 Sum the mass corresponding to each bag (W b ) used during the evacuation to calculate the total mass (W o ). ( iv ) Calculate the efficiency by the equation in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section. ( 2 ) Collect a Tedlar bag (or equivalent collection device) sample at 1-minute intervals throughout the test cycle. (The first bag must be in place and sampling at t=15 seconds. A fresh bag shall be in place and sampling exhaust gas at each 1-minute mark after time zero.) Collect enough sample gas in each bag to complete the analysis. Each bag sample shall be labeled with the sampling time and run number. ( i ) Follow the procedures in section 6 of Method 18 and choose the appropriate column, analytical apparatus, and calibration gases for the analysis of the bag samples collected. The bag samples shall be analyzed within 8 hours of collection. (Syringe samples should be analyzed within 4 hours.) ( ii ) Plot a concentration versus time curve using the average concentration, in ppmv, determined in each bag sample. Prepare another graph of volumetric flow rate versus time. Calculate the mass flow at each 1-minute interval point by selecting the concentration (C) and volumetric flow rate corrected to standard conditions (F v ) at each 1-min point. ( iii ) Use the following equation to determine the mass flow rate of ethylene oxide exiting the control device: E:GRAPHICSER06de94.029 where: W t = mass flow rate of ethylene oxide ( iv ) Plot a curve of mass flow rate versus time and integrate for total mass of ethylene oxide for the control device outlet (W o ). ( v ) Calculate efficiency by the equations in paragraphs (b)(1) (v) and (vi) of this section. (C) As an alternative to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the direct interface sampling and analysis procedure described in Method 18, section 7.2, may be used to continuously monitor ethylene oxide concentration at the inlet and outlet of the control device using a gas chromatograph with flame ionization detector (GC/FID) or photoionization detector (GC/PID). This procedure may be used only if a vent sample may be sampled and analyzed by the GC/FID or GC/PID at least once per minute. ( 1 ) Follow the procedures in section 6 of Method 18 and choose the appropriate column, analytical apparatus, and calibration gases for the analysis of the sample. ( 2 ) Follow the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(B)( 2 ) ( ii ) through ( v ) of this section. (v) Determine control device efficiency (% Eff) using the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER06de94.030 where: % Eff = percent efficiency W i = mass flow rate into the control device W o = mass flow rate out of the control device (vi) Repeat the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) (i) through (v) of this section three times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control device. (2) Last evacuation of the sterilization chamber. One of the following procedures (paragraph (b)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section) shall be performed during the last evacuation of the sterilization chamber: (i) The direct interface sampling and analysis procedure described in Method 18, section 7.2, may be used to continuously monitor ethylene oxide concentration at the inlet and outlet of the control device using a GC/FID or GC/PID; this procedure may be used only if a vent may be sampled and analyzed by the GC/FID or GC/PID once per minute for the duration of the last cycle. (A) Follow the procedures in section 6 of Method 18 and choose the appropriate column, analytical apparatus, and calibration gases for the analysis of the sample. (B) Follow the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(B)( 2 )( ii ) through ( iv ) of this section. (C) Determine control device efficiency (% Eff) using the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER06de94.031 where: % Eff = percent efficiency W i = mass flow rate into the control device W o = mass flow rate out of the control device (D) Repeat the procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) (A) through (C) of this section three times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control device. (ii) The Tedlar bag sampling procedure in section 7.1 of Method 18, may be used to collect samples of inlet and exhaust gas for the duration of the last cycle. (A) Continuously sample a slipstream of the control device inlet and outlet into a Tedlar bag by having a Tedlar bag attached to the slipstream for the entire duration of the run for an integrated bag sample. Whenever a Tedlar bag is full, a new bag must be reattached immediately. Note the time the bag is changed so the sample time and corresponding flow rates can be determined for each bag.
