FR940805-1-00102 FR940805-1-00013 (4) Property management compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with Agency property management directives. If operated by a Tribe, the facility shall comply with Tribal property management directives. (5) Federal acquisition regulation compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with Agency directives for facility services, equipment and supply purchases. If operated by a tribe, the facility shall comply with tribal directives for facility services, equipment and supply purchases. (6) Space and equipment needs and deficiencies. The administrator shall report space and equipment needs and deficiencies annually to the Area Director through the Agency Superintendent. (7) Program needs and deficiencies. The administrator shall report program needs and deficiencies, i.e., staffing, supplies, training and contract services, annually to the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, through the Area Director and Agency Superintendent. (8) Cost of resident board. The facility shall charge all contract users at the same rate. (9) Fund accounts. The administrator shall arrange for an independent audit of resident fund accounts, including canteen or commissary, following standard accounting practices. The administrator shall use any profit or interest which accrues for the benefit of the residents. (c) Personnel _(1) Personnel policy. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with Agency personnel management directives. If operated by a Tribe, the facility shall comply with Tribal personnel management directives. (2) Personnel manual. The administrator shall make a copy of the applicable personnel manuals and regulations available to every employee. (3) Staffing requirements. The administrator shall review employee workload annually to ensure that residents have access to staff, programs and services. The administrator shall develop and update the facility's shift relief factor annually. (4) Criminal record check. In accordance with the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act of 1990 (25 U.S.C. 3201), the administrator or designee shall conduct a criminal record check of all new employees prior to employment to determine if there are criminal convictions that have a specific relationship to job performance. (5) Physical examination. All employees who have direct contact with residents shall have a pre-employment physical examination. There shall be provisions for re-examination. (6) Physical fitness. Juvenile community residential workers shall meet BIA or comparable tribal standards for physical fitness. (7) Code of ethics. The facility shall have a written Code of Ethics that outlines the professional standards expected of all employees and recognizes that community residential personnel may be held to a higher behavioral standard because of the nature of their duties. (8) Confidentiality. Consultants, contract personnel, employees of other public and private agencies and volunteers who work with residents shall agree to comply with the facility's policies on confidentiality of information. (d) Training and staff development _(1) Management of training programs. A qualified employee, who has received training in training delivery methods, shall plan, coordinate and supervise employee and volunteer training programs. The administrator shall identify, evaluate and update job-related training needs annually. (2) Training curriculum approval. The Chief, Division of the Law Enforcement, in conjunction with the Indian Police Academy, shall approve training programs and curriculum required by these standards. (3) Outside resources. The facility shall support the integration of IHS-approved and other training with the approval of the administrator. (4) Education and training. The administrator shall encourage employees to continue their education and training. (5) Cultural awareness. Orientation training shall include a component on cultural issues relative to the local tribe(s). (6) Juvenile community residential worker orientation training. All new full or part-time juvenile community residential workers shall receive the number of hours of orientation training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, during their first year of employment. Employees shall complete forty of these hours prior to being independently assigned to work in the facility. (7) Juvenile community residential worker in-service training. All full or part-time juvenile community residential workers shall receive an additional forty hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (8) Clerical and support staff orientation training. All new clerical and support staff who have minimal resident contact shall receive the number of hours of orientation training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, within their first year of employment. (9) Clerical and support staff in-service training. All clerical and support staff shall receive an additional sixteen hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (10) Administrative and managerial staff orientation training. New administrative and managerial staff shall receive at least the number of hours of training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, within their first year of employment in this position. (11) Administrative and managerial staff in-service training. Administrative and managerial staff shall receive at least twenty-four hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (12) Specialized training. At least one juvenile community residential worker per shift shall be certified as an emergency medical technician. All community residential staff who have contact with residents shall receive training in advanced first aid and CPR. (e) Facility records _(1) Compliance. The facility shall comply with 5 U.S.C. 552 (the Freedom of Information Act), 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974), as amended, 43 CFR 2.79(a), or comparable tribal regulations. (2) Records management. The facility shall have a system for the management, dissemination, retrieval, storage, archiving and (when appropriate) destruction of information and community residential records. (3) Law enforcement sensitive information. Law enforcement sensitive records and information shall be marked privileged. The administrator or designee shall keep these records in a locked cabinet or file room.
