FR940720-2-00089 FR940720-2-00068 NRC Project Director: Michael L. Boyle. Detroit Edison Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;16, Enrico Fermi Power Plant, Unit 1, Monroe County, Michigan Date of application for amendment: December 9, 1993 (Reference NRC&hyph;93&hyph;0143) Brief description of amendment: This Licensee Amendment Request (LAR) proposes to revise the Enrico Fermi Power Plant, Unit 1, Technical Specifications (TS) to bring the TS into conformance with a revision of 10 CFR Part 20 (56 FR 23360). Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: a. Does the change involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated? The proposed changes are administrative in nature and do not impact the SAFSTOR status or design of any plant structures, systems or components. As a result, this proposed change cannot increase the probability or the consequences of any accident previously evaluated. b. Does the change create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated? The proposed changes do not affect the plant SAFSTOR status as defined. As a result, the proposed changes cannot create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. c. Does the change involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety? The proposed changes do not affect the plant SAFSTOR status. The changes will not increase the amounts or change the types of effluents that may be released offsite. These changes only ensure compliance with revised 10 CFR 20. These changes do not alter any of the requirements or responsibilities for protection of the public against radiation hazards. As a result, these changes do not reduce the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment requests involve no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Monroe County Library System, 3700 South Custer Road, Monroe, Michigan 48161. Attorney for licensee: John Flynn, Esq., Detroit Edison Company, 2000 Second Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226. NRC Branch Chief: John H. Austin. Duquesne Light Company, et al., Docket Nos. 50&hyph;334 and 50&hyph;412, Beaver Valley Power Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, Shippingport, Pennsylvania Date of amendment request: September 16, 1992, as superseded February 4, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would supersede in its entirety a previous proposed amendment which was submitted by letter dated September 16, 1992. A notice of application and proposed no significant hazards consideration determination for the September 16, 1992, submittal was published in the Federal Register on January 21, 1993 (58 FR 5429); this notice supersedes the January 21, 1993, notice in its entirety. The proposed amendment would modify the Technical Specifications (TSs) related to containment air locks to make them as close to the Improved Standard TSs in NUREG&hyph;1431 as the plant-specific design will permit. The proposed changes in TS 3.6.1.1 and 3.6.1.3 would modify surveillance requirements and limiting conditions of operation and effect numerous administrative and format changes. The changes relate to air lock operability, leak testing, and door interlocks. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. Does the change involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated? The probability of occurrence of a previously evaluated accident is not increased because the containment air locks do not effect the initiation of any design basis accident [DBA]. The consequences of an accident are also not significantly increased because the proposed revisions to the action statements will continue to ensure that at least one door in each air lock is maintained closed. A single door in each air lock is capable of withstanding a pressure in excess of the maximum expected pressure following a DBA. The structural integrity and leak tightness of the containment will not be changed by this proposed revision. For the brief period of time that the operable air lock door is open and the inoperable door is providing the single containment barrier, the consequences of [2an] accident may be increased. However, the probability of an event occurring requiring containment integrity is sufficiently remote to justify limited access when required. Therefore, based on the continued ability of the containment air locks to provide a barrier to limit leakage from containment during a DBA, this proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. Does the change create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated? Air lock operation does not interface with the reactor coolant pressure boundary or any other mechanical or electrical controls which could impact the operations of the reactor or its direct support systems. Containment air locks are designed for the purpose of containment entry and exit. During this operation, the air lock maintains containment integrity by providing at least one door which is capable of providing a leak tight barrier during a DBA. The proposed changes will continue to ensure that air lock operation is performed as assumed in the original design of the plant. During the period when the operable door is open and the other door inoperable, at least one door is being maintained closed as designed. This condition is ensured due to the subatmospheric conditions that exist during plant operation. The operable air lock door cannot be safely opened unless the inoperable door is closed due to the approximately 5 psi pressure differential that exists. The operable air lock door would only be opened long enough to allow personnel to enter the air lock. Therefore, this proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. Does the change involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety? The applicable margin of safety consists of maintaining the primary containment leak rates within the assumptions of the DBA analysis. These leak rates are maintained provided at least one operable air lock door remains closed during the event. The proposed revisions will continue to ensure that at least one air lock door is maintained closed. During the brief period of time that an operable air lock door is open and the inoperable door is providing the single containment barrier, the margin of safety is decreased. The inoperable door may not limit containment leak rates within the assumptions of the DBA analysis. However, the probability of an event requiring the inoperable air lock door to limit containment leakage occurring during this time period is sufficiently low and the overall margin of safety would not be decreased by a significant amount. The proposed increase in allowable door seal leakage will not affect the overall ability of the containment air locks to restrict the release of fission products to the environment. The overall air lock leakage limit of less than or equal to .05 L a remain unchanged. The amount of leakage which the air lock(s) are permitted to contribute to the combined containment leakage limit of 0.60 L a remain unchanged. Therefore, the margin of safety due to increasing the door seal leakage limit remains unchanged. Therefore, this proposed change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: B.F. Jones Memorial Library, 663 Franklin Avenue, Aliquippa, Pennsylvania 15001.
