FR940817-1-00060 FR940817-1-00014 D. Value Derived from Market Price of an Equity Security Numerous interpretive questions, particularly in the employee benefit area, have been raised concerning the treatment of performance units and similar instruments as derivative securities. To provide clarification, the proposed rules would revise the definition of derivative security to codify the staff interpretive view that an instrument is not within the scope of Section 16 if it includes a material non-market price based condition (such as return on equity) to exercise or settlement. 42 As proposed, rights under which benefits are subject to a material condition (other than the passage of time or continued employment) not tied to the market price of an equity security of the issuer would be excluded from the definition of derivative security for purposes of Section 16. 43 Commenters are requested to address whether the proposed rule sets forth an appropriate standard for exclusion, and whether the language of the proposed rule articulates the standard in a workable manner. 42 See General Mills, Inc. (Jan. 31, 1992); and Certilman Balin Adler & Hyman (April 20, 1992). See also Boston Edison Company (Mar. 19, 1992); Merrill Lynch & Co. (Aug. 28, 1992) Q. 4. (Registrant discretion to adjust the applicable performance measure, as to either duration or level of performance, excludes a performance unit from being a derivative security.) 43 Proposed Rule 16a&hyph;1(c)(9). E. Surrender and Withholding Rights in Connection With Exercise or Tax Withholding Employee benefit plans commonly provide participants with the right to have securities withheld, or to deliver securities already owned, either in payment of the exercise price of an option or to satisfy the tax withholding consequences of an option exercise or the vesting of restricted securities. While a tax withholding right currently is treated as a derivative security separate from the equity or derivative security to which it relates, 44 it appears that this right, as well as the right to have securities withheld in satisfaction of an exercise price, properly may be viewed as an integral feature of the related security. 45 Accordingly, a newly proposed rule would exclude from the definition of ``derivative security'' these withholding rights, as well as rights to surrender previously owned securities in satisfaction of either a tax obligation or an exercise price. 46 44 As an alternative to separate reporting, a tax withholding right currently may be noted as a feature of the equity or derivative security to which it relates. See The Clorox Company (Mar. 27, 1992). A failure to report such right does not give rise to a disclosure obligation under Item 405 of Regulation S&hyph;B or Regulation S&hyph;K. See Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (June 8, 1992). 45 Cf. Xerox Corporation (Jul. 7, 1992) (the staff reached this conclusion with respect to a mandatory tax withholding feature). 46 Proposed Rule 16a&hyph;1(c)(8). Of course, when the related derivative security is exercised, the surrender or withholding of shares would continue to be reported in connection with the exercise. See Kirkpatrick & Lockhart (Feb. 11, 1992). See Section III.B, below, regarding reporting of cashless exercises. Today, when withholding rights are exercised or securities delivered, the exemptive treatment of the exercise transactions differs, depending on whether securities are withheld by or tendered to the employer. The delivery of previously owned shares with respect to shares of the same class is exempt without further conditions except for compliance with the general plan requirements of Rule 16b&hyph;3. 47 In contrast, the withholding of an equity security is exempt only when additional conditions applicable to stock appreciation rights_information about the issuer, plan administration requirements, window period restrictions and a six-month holding period_are met. 48 47 Rule 16b&hyph;3(f)(2) [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;3(f)(2)] (exercise price). See also Simpson Thacher & Bartlett (Apr. 29, 1991) Q. 4 (c) (tax withholding). 48 Rule 16b&hyph;3(e) [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;3(e)]. Consistent with the view that each such right functions as an integral feature of the security to which it relates, the proposal would make the exemption for surrender transactions available to withholding transactions as well. 49 49 Rule 16b&hyph;3(e) would be amended to delete the clause that deems the cash settlement of a tax withholding right to be a stock appreciation right. Rule 16b&hyph;3(f)(2) would be amended to exempt withholding by the issuer, as well as surrender or delivery to the issuer, of shares of its stock as payment for the exercise of a derivative security. Similarly, proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(f)(3) would be added to exempt the cash settlement of a tax withholding right, either by withholding shares or the surrender of shares previously owned. The tax withholding right could be in connection with an option exercise or the vesting of restricted shares. Transaction Code F would continue to be used for withholding transactions, and would be expanded to cover the withholding and surrender of securities in connection with the vesting of restricted shares. Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(f)(3) would be substituted for current Rule 16b&hyph;3(f)(3) [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;3(f)(3)], which would be replaced substantively by proposed Rule 16b&hyph;5(b), as discussed in Section IV.A, below. Comment is requested as to whether this approach, if adopted, also should be applied to withholding and surrender transactions that occur in the employer-employee context but outside Rule 16b&hyph;3 plans. If so, commenters should describe the situations in which such an exemption would be useful. F. Stock Appreciation Rights In addition to deletion of the clause that deems the cash settlement of a tax withholding right to be a stock appreciation right, 50 the rule would be amended so that it would not preclude insiders of newly public companies from relying on the exemption for the cash settlement of stock appreciation rights. 50 See Section II.E, above.
