FR940325-2-00181 FR940325-2-00085 Cover Letter for RI 20&hyph;63 (If Annuitant Requests Information On Providing Less Than the Maximum Survivor Benefit) Name: Address: CSA Number: Dear ␣␣␣␣: This is in response to your request for information on providing a monthly survivor benefit of $␣␣␣ for your spouse. As explained in our previous letter, you may elect a survivor annuity for a spouse you married after retirement. You must take your election within two years of your marriage. Your election cannot be effective sooner than nine months after your marriage. Your annuity will be reduced to reflect the benefit payable to your spouse upon your death. There will be two reductions to your annuity. The first reduction will be for the regular cost of a survivor benefit. The reduction will be eliminated should your marriage end. This reduction is currently $␣␣␣ per month. The second reduction is permanent (even if your marriage ends) and represents the amount your annuity would have been reduced for the survivor benefit (plus interest) had you been married since your date of retirement. As of ␣␣␣␣, this amount is $␣␣␣ and the monthly reduction to pay it back is $␣␣␣. The reduction is based on your life expectancy and the amount you owe. These amounts will increase each month as principal and interest accumulates and as you age (that is, on your birthday), up until the time we receive your election. Therefore, the amount shown below as your reduced gross annuity rate may be smaller if you delay your election. Taken together, the reductions to provide the above survivor benefit will reduce your current gross annuity of $␣␣␣ to $␣␣␣ per month. If you want to provide a survivor benefit, please complete and return the enclosed election within the time limit. If we can be of further assistance, please let us know. ␣␣␣Sincerely, Benefits Specialist, Claims Correspondence Section, (412) 794&hyph;8442. Enclosure BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M E:GraphicsEN25MR94.006 BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;C Privacy Act and Public Burden Statements Chapter 83, title 5, U.S. Code, authorizes solicitation of this information. The data you furnish will be used to determine your eligibility to receive a reduced annuity and to give a survivor annuity to your spouse. This information may be shared and is subject to verification, via paper, electronic media, or through the use of computer matching programs, with national, state, local, or other charitable or social security administrative agencies to determine and issue benefits under their programs, to obtain information necessary for determination or continuation of benefits under this program, or to report income for tax purposes. It may also be shared and verified, as noted above, with law enforcement agencies when they are investigating a violation or potential violation of civil or criminal law. Provision of this information is voluntary; however, failure to supply all of the requested information may result in an inability to reduce your annuity for your spouse. We also request that you provide your spouse's Social Security number so that it may be used as an individual identifier in the Civil Service Retirement System. Executive Order 9397, dated November 22, 1943, allows Federal agencies to use the Social Security number as an individual identifier to distinguish between people with the same or similar names. We think this form takes an average 20 minutes per response to complete, including the time for reviewing instructions, getting the needed data, and reviewing the completed form. Send comments regarding our estimate or any other aspect of this form, including suggestions for reducing completion time, to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project, (3206&hyph;0174), Washington, DC 20503. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7044 Filed 3&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M
