FR940721-2-00151 FR940721-2-00086 2. Governance and social and economic development are interrelated. In order to move toward self-sufficiency, development in one area should be balanced with development in the others. Consequently, comprehensive development strategies should address all aspects of the governmental, economic, and social infrastructures needed to promote self-sufficient communities. ANA's SEDS policy is based on the use of the following definitions: •``Governmental infrastructure'' includes the constitutional, legal, and administrative development requisite for independent governance. •``Economic infrastructure'' includes the physical, commercial, industrial and/or agricultural components necessary for a functioning local economy which supports the life-style embraced by the Native American community. •``Social infrastructure'' includes those components through which health, economic well-being and culture are maintained within the community and that support governance and economic goals. These definitions should be kept in mind as a local social and economic development strategy is developed as part of a grant application. A community's movement toward self-sufficiency could be jeopardized if a careful balance between governmental, economic and social development is not maintained. For example, expansion of social services, without providing opportunities for employment and economic development, could lead to dependency on social services. Conversely, inadequate support services and training could seriously impede productivity and local economic development. Additionally, the necessary infrastructures must be developed or expanded at the community level to support social and economic development and growth. In designing their social and economic development strategies, ANA encourages an applicant to use or leverage all available human, natural, financial, and physical resources. In discussing their community-based, long-range goals, and the objectives for the proposed projects, ANA recommends that non-Federally recognized and off-reservation groups include a description of what constitutes their specific community. ANA encourages the development and maintenance of comprehensive strategic plans which are an integral part of attaining and supporting the balance necessary for successful activities that lead to self-sufficiency. C. Proposed Projects To Be Funded This section provides descriptions of activities which are consistent with the SEDS philosophy. Proposed activities should be tailored to reflect the governance, social and economic development needs of the local community and should be consistent and supportive of the proposed project objectives. The types of projects which ANA may fund include, but are not limited to, the following: Governance •Improvements in the governmental, judicial and/or administrative infrastructures of tribal and village governments (such as strengthening or streamlining management procedures or the development of tribal court systems); •Increasing the ability of tribes, villages, and Native American groups and organizations to plan, develop, and administer a comprehensive program to support community social and economic self-sufficiency (including strategic planning); •Increasing awareness of and exercising the legal rights and benefits to which Native Americans are entitled, by either treaties, the Federal trust relationship, legislative authority, or as citizens of a particular state, or of the United States. •Status clarification activities for Native groups seeking Federal or State tribal recognition, such as performing research or any other function necessary to submit a petition for Federal acknowledgement or in response to any obvious deficiencies cited by the Bureau of Acknowledgement and Research (BAR), Department of Interior, in a petition from a Native group seeking Federal recognition; and •Amendments to tribal constitutions, court procedures and functions, by-laws or codes, and council or executive branch duties and functions.
