FR940621-2-00098 FR940621-2-00061 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34215; File No. SR&hyph;CSE&hyph;94&hyph;04] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc.; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Concerning Chinese Wall Procedures for Designated Dealers June 15, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on March 17, 1994, the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Incorporated (``CSE or Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the CSE. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc. proposes to adopt Chinese Wall procedures relating to the activity of the Exchange's Designated Dealers (``specialists''). The text of the proposal follows; the proposed additions are italicized. The Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Incorporated Chapter V Supervision Rule 5.5. Chinese Wall Procedures (a) An Exchange Designated Dealer (``specialist'') must establish a functional separation (``Chinese Wall'') between the specialist operation and any associated or affiliated persons as appropriate to its operation and further establish, maintain and enforce written procedures reasonably designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information, which includes review of employee and proprietary trading, memorialization and documentation of procedures, substantive supervision of inter-departmental communications by the Exchange specialist firm's Compliance Department and procedures concerning proprietary trading when the firm is in possession of material, non-public information. The Exchange specialist firm must obtain the prior written approval of the Exchange that it has complied with the requirements above in establishing functional separation as appropriate to the operation and that it has established proper compliance and audit procedures to ensure the maintenance of the functional separation. A copy of these Chinese Wall procedures, and any amendments thereto, must be filed with the Exchange's Surveillance Department. (b) The following are the minimum procedural and maintenance requirements: (1) The associate or affiliated person can have no influence on specific specialist trading decisions. (2) Material, non-public corporate or market information obtained by the associated or affiliated person from the issuer may not be made available to the specialist. (3) Clearing and margin financing information regarding the specialist may be routed only to employees engaged in such work and managerial employees engaged in overseeing operations of the affiliated or associated persons and specialist entities. (c) Information that may be made available to others: (1) A broker affiliated with an associated or affiliated person may make available to the specialist only the market information that he would make available to an unaffiliated specialist in the normal course of his trading and ``market probing'' activity. (2) A specialist may make known to a broker affiliated with an affiliated or associated person only the information about market conditions in specialty stocks that he would make available in the normal course of specializing to any other broker and in the same manner as it would make such information available to any other broker. (3) An affiliated or associated person can popularize a specialty stock provided it makes adequate disclosure about the existence of possible conflicts of interest. (d) A specialist who becomes privy to material, non-public information must communicate that fact promptly to his firm's compliance officer or other designated official. The specialist shall seek guidance from the compliance officer or other designated official as to what procedures the specialist should follow after receipt of such information or such other action that should be taken. Appropriate records shall be maintained by the compliance officer or other designated official. The record should include a summary of the information received by the specialist and a description of the action taken by the compliance officer or other designated official. (e) The Exchange has established the following procedures to monitor compliance with this rule: (1) Examination of the Chinese Wall procedures established by Exchange specialist firms. (2) Surveillance of proprietary trades effected by an affiliated or associate person and its affiliated or associated specialist (``designated dealer'') firm. Accordingly, the Exchange will conduct periodic examinations of the specialist firm's Chinese Wall procedures to ensure that a functional separation between the associated or affiliated person and the specialist has been created and thereafter maintained. The Exchange will also monitor the trading activities of affiliated or associated persons and affiliated or associated specialists in the specialist firms' specialty stocks in order to monitor the possible trading while in possession of material, non-public information through the periodic review of trade and comparison reports generated by the Exchange. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the CSE included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The CSE has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant parts of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (1) Purpose The purpose of the proposed new rule is to require specialists to establish the appropriate functional separation to their operations while maintaining and enforcing written procedures reasonably designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information by employee, affiliated individual and proprietary accounts. The proposed rule further requires that a copy of such procedures be provided to the Exchange for review and approval, and sets forth specific guidelines for designated dealers to follow in adopting, maintaining and enforcing Chinese Wall procedures. (2) Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it promotes just and equitable principals of trade and protects investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CSE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CSE&hyph;94&hyph;04 and should be submitted by July 12, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to the delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15043 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
