FR940817-0-00017 FR940817-0-00009 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Fiscal Service 31 CFR Part 337 RIN 1505&hyph;AA52 Supplemental Regulations Governing Federal Housing Administration Debentures AGENCY: Department of the Treasury, Fiscal Service, Bureau of the Public Debt. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule implements provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 that authorize the issuance of Federal Housing Administration debentures in book-entry form. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 16, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Fred Pyatt, Director, Division of Special Investments, (304) 480&hyph;7752, or Cindy Reese, Deputy Chief Counsel, Office of the Chief Counsel, (202) 219&hyph;3320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Federal Housing Administration (FHA) debentures have been issued since 1938 in registered certificated form in payment of certain insured mortgages in default. FHA debentures are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States. The Treasury acts as the fiscal agent of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in administering its debenture issues. The general regulations of the Department of the Treasury governing U.S. securities (31 CFR Part 306) have been adopted by HUD to govern transactions in its debentures. The Treasury regulations at 31 CFR part 337 supplement the general regulations, setting out provisions that apply specifically to the debentures. In 1986, the Department of the Treasury began issuing its marketable securities exclusively in book-entry form. This action was taken as book-entry technology was determined to be quicker, more efficient, and less costly than issuing certificated securities. To take advantage of this technology, HUD successfully secured legislation, i.e., the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;550, ยง516, 106 Stat. 3790 (1992), authorizing the issuance of FHA debentures in book-entry form. This rule revises and expands 31 CFR Part 337 to include provisions relating to book-entry debentures. Book-entry debentures will be governed by the rules for the TREASURY DIRECT Book-Entry Securities System (31 CFR part 357) with several exceptions which reflect the unique nature of the debentures. First, book-entry debentures, unlike Treasury's book-entry marketable securities, may not be transferred to, or held in, Treasury's commercial book-entry system; they may be transferred only between accounts in the FHA book-entry debenture system. Second, while debenture payments will be made by the direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) method, prenotification messages or test payment messages will not be used to verify payment instructions since accurate payment information will have entities seeking settlement of defaulted insured mortgages. Third, since debentures are issued in settlement of defaulted mortgages rather than through an auction process, no issue price information will be maintained for the debentures. Book-entry debentures will be maintained in the FHA book-entry debenture system operated for Treasury by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia acting as fiscal agent of the United States. Debentures in certificated form may be exchanged for similar debentures in book-entry form, but, once exchanged, may not be reissued in certificated form. Debentures issued in book-entry form may not be exchanged for debentures in certificated form. This rule also revises 31 CFR Part 337 to reflect the centralization of processing of debentures in both certificated and book-entry form at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, and to eliminate the obsolete requirement that the registered owner or assignee must assign certificated debentures presented for redemption when payment is to be made to the registered owner or assignee. Special Analysis It has been determined that the rule does not constitute a ``significant regulatory action'' for purposes of Executive Order No. 12866. It has also been determined that prior notice of proposed rulemaking is unnecessary and impracticable because the rule sets out procedures that merely implement legislation authorizing the issuance of debentures in book-entry form. Because no notice of proposed rulemaking is required, the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601, et seq. ) do not apply to this rule. List of Subjects in 31 CFR Part 337 Banks, Banking, Electronic funds transfers, Government Securities, Federal Reserve System, Housing. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 31 CFR Part 337 is revised to read as follows:
