FR940928-0-00033 FR940928-0-00011 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 180 [OPP&hyph;300362; FRL&hyph;4912&hyph;5] RIN 2070&hyph;AB78 Neomycin Phosphotransferase II; Tolerance Exemption AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This document establishes an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance for residues of neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPTII) and the genetic material necessary for its production when used as a plant pesticide inert ingredient. Monsanto Co. petitioned EPA for this exemption. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation becomes effective September 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written objections and hearing requests, identified by the document control number, [OPP-300362], may be submitted to: Hearing Clerk (1900), Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. M3708, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. A copy of any objections and hearing requests filed with the Hearing Clerk should be identified by the document control number and submitted to: Public Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person, bring copy of objections and hearing requests to: Rm. 1132, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202. Fees accompanying objections shall be labeled ``Tolerance Petition Fees'' and forwarded to: EPA Headquarters Accounting Operations Branch, OPP (tolerance fees), P.O. Box 36027M, Pittsburgh, PA 15251. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Phillip O. Hutton, Product Manager (PM 18), Registration Division (7505C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC. Office location and telephone number: Rm. 213, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202, (703)-305-7690. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the Federal Register of December 8, 1993 (58 FR 64582, 64583), EPA issued notices which announced that Monsanto Co., 700 Chesterfield Parkway North, St. Louis, MO 63193, had submitted a pesticide petition (PP 3F4273) to EPA proposing to amend 40 CFR part 180 to establish an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance for neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPTII), and the genetic material necessary to produce NPTII when produced in plants as a plant pesticide inert ingredient. The Agency did not receive any comments on the notices. Selectable markers such as NPTII are considered inert ingredients by the Agency when they are introduced into a plant in order to ensure or confirm the presence of a plant pesticide. The genetic material necessary to produce NPTII (the NPTII gene) is also considered part of the inert ingredient; therefore, the NPTII gene is also addressed in this final rule. Neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPTII) is uniquely different from other types of inert ingredients because it is a selectable marker used to identify plant cells early in the product development that had been successfully transformed to express the active ingredient. The data submitted in the petition and other relevant material have been evaluated and deemed sufficient to support the tolerance. The rationale for this decision is described below. Assessment of Data The Agency has evaluated the toxicology data, information on product identity, equivalence of microbially and plant produced NPTII, and other information provided by the petitioner. The information showed that the plant and microbially produced protein are similar with respect to the protein characteristics of amino acid sequence, enzyme activity, electrophoretic mobility, lack of glycosylation, and specific antibody recognition. These findings justified the use of microbial protein in the toxicity studies. The registrant provided the following studies: Acute Oral Toxicity of NPTII in Mice and an In Vitro Digestion of the NPTII Protein. A single oral exposure dose of 5 g/kg NPTII protein produced no adverse effects in mice. The In Vitro Digestion study showed that the protein was rapidly degraded in simulated gastric or intestinal digestive fluids to fragments that were no longer recognized by specific antibodies to NPTII. These results suggest the NPTII protein will not survive passage through the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, the Agency concluded that the information provided was sufficient to assess the acute toxicity of NPTII when used as a marker gene in transgenic plants expressing plant pesticides and to justify an exemption from the requirement for a food tolerance for residues of the inert. The Agency recognizes that alternative information could be used to indicate the lack of mammalian toxicity and to justify a tolerance exemption. Since no toxicity was indicated, residue chemistry data were not required. Residue data are necessary only if the submitted toxicity studies indicate that additional toxicology data were needed. These additional data were not needed. Therefore, no residue data are required in order to grant an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance for the plant pesticide inert ingredient neomycin phosphotransferase II when used as a plant pesticide inert ingredient, as expressed in plant cells. The exemption from a tolerance for the genetic material which encodes for production of NPTII is based on the fact that the nucleic acids which form the genetic material are found in all foods and have not, by themselves, been associated with toxic or pathogenic effects in animals and humans. None of the constituents of nucleic acids are known to be acute toxicants by themselves but, like proteins and other normal constituents in food, may cause indirect, adverse metabolic effects if consumed exclusively at high doses over a long period of time in the absence of a normal diet. The NPTII gene will not occur at these high amounts in plants. Thus, EPA does not believe there is a potential for adverse health effects related to the consumption of plants containing the NPTII gene. Acceptable daily intake (ADI) and maximum permissible intake (MPI) considerations are not relevant to this petition because the data/information submitted demonstrate that this plant-pesticide inert ingredient (NPTII) and the NPTII gene are not toxic to mammalian species. No enforcement actions are expected based upon the level of residue for NPTII and the genetic material necessary for its production. Therefore, the requirement for an analytical method for enforcement purposes is not applicable to this exemption. Based on the above information and review of its use, EPA has found that when used in accordance with good agricultural practice, this ingredient is useful for the purpose for which the tolerance exemption is sought. Based on the information considered, EPA concludes that a tolerance is not necessary to protect the public health. Therefore, the exemption from the requirement of a tolerance is established as set forth below. Any person adversely affected by this regulation may, within 30 days after publication of this document in the Federal Register , file written objections and/or a request for a hearing with the Hearing Clerk, at the address given above (40 CFR 178.20). A copy of the objections and hearing requests filed with the Hearing Clerk should be submitted to the OPP docket for this rulemaking. The objections submitted must specify the provisions of the regulation deemed objectionable and the grounds for the objections (40 CFR 178.25). Each objection must be accompanied by the fee prescribed by 40 CFR 180.33(i). If a hearing is requested, the objections must include a statement of the factual issue(s) on which a hearing is requested, the requestor's contentions on each such issue, and a summary of any evidence relied upon by the objector (40 CFR 178.27). A request for a hearing will be granted if the Administrator determines that the material submitted shows the following: There is a genuine and substantial issue of fact; there is a reasonable possibility that available evidence identified by the requestor would, if established, resolve one or more of such issues in favor of the requestor, taking into account uncontested claims or facts to the contrary; and resolution of the factual issue(s) in the manner sought by the requestor would be adequate to justify the action requested (40 CFR 178.32). The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this rule from the requirements of section 2 of Executive Order 12866. Pursuant to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96-354, 94 Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. 601-612), the Administrator has determined that regulations establishing new tolerances or raising tolerance levels or establishing exemptions from tolerance requirements do not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities. A certification statement to this effect was published in the Federal Register of May 4, 1981 (49 FR 24950). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 180 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Agricultural commodities, Pesticides and pests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 19, 1994. Stephen L. Johnson, Director, Registration Division, Office of Pesticide Programs. Therefore, 40 CFR part 180 is amended as follows: PART 180_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 180 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 346a and 371. 2. In subpart D, by adding new ยง180.1134, to read as follows: ยง180.1134 Neomycin phosphotransferase II and genetic material necessary for its production; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance. The neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPTII) and the genetic material necessary for the production of this protein are exempted from the requirement of a tolerance in or on all raw agricultural commodities when used as a plant-pesticide inert ingredient. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23762 Filed 9&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
