FR940822-2-00132 FR940822-2-00061 3. Need for the Project If the project is to be conducted in a specific location(s), a discussion of the particular needs of the project site(s) to be addressed by the project and why those needs are not being met through the use of existing materials, programs, procedures, services or other resources. If the project is not site specific, a discussion of the problems that the proposed project will address, and why existing materials, programs, procedures, services or other resources do not adequately resolve those problems. The discussion should include specific references to the relevant literature and to the experience in the field. An application requesting a package grant to support more than one project also must describe how the proposed projects in the package are related; how their operation and administration would be enhanced if they were funded as a package rather than as individual projects; and what disadvantages, if any, would accrue by considering or funding them separately. 4. Tasks, Methods and Evaluation a. Tasks and Methods. A delineation of the tasks to be performed in achieving the project objectives and the methods to be used for accomplishing each task. For example: i. For research and evaluation projects, the data sources, data collection strategies, variables to be examined, and analytic procedures to be used for conducting the research or evaluation and ensuring the validity and general applicability of the results. For projects involving human subjects, the discussion of methods should address the procedures for obtaining respondents' informed consent, ensuring the respondents' privacy and freedom from risk or harm, and the protection of others who are not the subjects of research but would be affected by the research. If the potential exists for risk or harm to the human subjects, a discussion should be included of the value of the proposed research and the methods to be used to minimize or eliminate such risk. ii. For education and training projects, the adult education techniques to be used in designing and presenting the program, including the teaching/ learning objectives of the educational design, the teaching methods to be used, and the opportunities for structured interaction among the participants; how faculty will be recruited, selected, and trained; the proposed number and length of the conferences, courses, seminars or workshops to be conducted; the materials to be provided and how they will be developed; and the cost to participants. iii. For demonstration projects, the demonstration sites and the reasons they were selected, or if the sites have not been chosen, how they will be identified and their cooperation obtained; how the program or procedures will be implemented and monitored. iv. For technical assistance projects, the types of assistance that will be provided; the particular issues and problems for which assistance will be provided; how requests will be obtained and the type of assistance determined; how suitable providers will be selected and briefed; how reports will be reviewed; and the cost to recipients.
