FR940314-0-00013 FR940314-0-00003 Subpart B_Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program 2. In §1703.12 of this subpart B, the following definitions are added in alphabetical order to read as follows: §1703.12 Definitions. * * * * * Revolving loan program _a program established and operated by the Borrower, using grant funds, the Borrower's contribution and loan repayments to make loans to businesses or others for rural economic development and job creation purposes. RTB _the Rural Telephone Bank, established as a body corporate and an instrumentality of the United States, to obtain supplemental funds from non-Federal sources and utilize them in making loans, for the purposes of financing, or refinancing, the construction, improvement, expansion, acquisition, and operation of telephone lines, facilities, or systems, for REA Borrowers financed under sections 201 and 408 of the Act. * * * * * Rural economic development _job creation or preservation or community facilities improvement projects in rural areas. * * * * * Scope of work _a detailed plan, which has been approved by the Administrator, covering the work to be performed by the loan and/or grant recipient using the loan and/or grant funds. * * * * * Technical assistance _analysis of facilities or processes, managerial, financial and operational consultation by independent qualified entities to assist project owners to identify and evaluate problems or potential problems and provide training to enable project owners to successfully implement, manage, operate and maintain viable projects. * * * * * 3. Paragraph (c) of §1703.17 is added to read as follows: §1703.17 Uses of zero-interest loans and grants. * * * * * (c) Zero-interest loans and grants may be used for Projects that enhance rural economic development by providing advanced telecommunications services and computer networks for medical and educational services, as follows: (1) For telecommunications end use and/or transmission facilities; and (2) Other portions of the project, such as modifications to buildings necessary to accommodate telecommunications equipment for medical care and other services, public or private education, and employment training. 4. Sections 1703.18 and 1703.19 are added to read as follows: §1703.18 Types of projects eligible for grant funding. Grants may be made for the following purposes: (a) The establishment and operation of a revolving loan program by Borrowers in accordance with §1703.22; (b) Project feasibility studies to assist for-profit and non-profit entities in conjunction with a loan for an authorized project. Feasibility studies will include management assistance, consultation, and research for planning individual projects that the Borrower has determined will benefit the rural community. Feasibility studies which may be financed under this section must be performed by qualified entities subject to §1703.19(i), General requirements for grant funding. Feasibility studies must address the important aspects of project assessment and planning to ensure, to the extent practicable, the success of projects. These include the market, technical, economic, financial, and managerial issues related to project feasibility. Feasibility studies may be funded in connection with viable projects as a reimbursement to the project owner for expenses incurred during the initial planning stages of the project prior to project funding by REA; (c) The acquisition of technical assistance in conjunction with projects funded with zero-interest loans to enable for-profit and non-profit entities to obtain analysis of facilities and processes, managerial, financial and operational consultation. Grant funds may also be used in conjunction with zero-interest loans to enable non-profit business incubators to provide technical assistance. Technical assistance will enable project owners to identify and evaluate problems or potential problems and provide training in order that they may ultimately implement, manage, operate and maintain viable projects which are financed with zero-interest loan funds. Technical assistance financed under this section must be performed by qualified entities which are independent of the project owner subject to §1703.19(i), General requirements for grant funding; (d) Business incubators established by non-profit organizations to assist in developing emerging enterprises. Business incubators funded in conjunction with zero-interest loans will include those facilities in which single or multiple businesses may use premises, support staff, computer software, hardware, telecommunications equipment, machinery, janitorial services, utilities, or other overhead facilities. Grant funding may also be provided to allow business incubators to provide feasibility studies and technical assistance in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section; (e) Community development assistance to non-profit entities and public bodies for employment creation projects, or other projects which provide needed community facilities and services; (f) Facilities and equipment to public, for-profit and non-profit entities to provide education and training to rural residents to facilitate economic development. Equipment and facilities may be funded to enable rural businesses to provide educational and job enhancement skills to employees; (g) Facilities and equipment to public, for-profit and non-profit entities to provide medical care to rural residents. Equipment and facilities may be funded to enable eligible entities to provide medical training and related professional health care skills to rural health care providers; (h) Projects which utilize advanced telecommunications and/or computer networks to facilitate medical or educational services or job training in accordance with paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.
