FR941213-0-00009 FR941213-0-00003 In the 40 States that increased their speed limits to 65 mph on rural interstates during 1987 and 1988, deaths on these roads were 17 percent higher in 1992, compared with the average number of deaths on the same roads during 1982&hyph;86. In contrast, deaths on rural interstates where the 55 mph limit was retained were 28 percent lower in 1992 compared with 1982&hyph;86. In the 40 States that raised their rural interstate speed limit, the urban interstate limit speed remained unchanged and on those highways, deaths in 1992 were 8 percent lower than in 1982&hyph;86 (IIHS, 1993b). The agencies continue to conclude that speeding is a problem of national concern. Have Effective Speed Control Countermeasures Been Developed? The agencies identified, in the NPRM, a number of speed control countermeasures that they consider to be effective. They indicated that NHTSA has identified and evaluated, and is currently demonstrating in the law enforcement community a number of new law enforcement technologies to further advance speed control efforts, including radar, VASCAR, laser speed measuring devices, aerial speed measurement, photo radar and electronic signing. The NPRM stated that NHTSA studies show that one of the best methods for obtaining compliance with speed limits is to combine an aggressive enforcement campaign with a vigorous public information and education effort. It also cited other effective countermeasures, such as saturation patrols and multi-agency, multi-jurisdictional enforcement efforts. In the areas of highway design and traffic control, the agencies explained that freeway design, culminating in the Interstate System, has eliminated at-grade intersections and provided for free flow traffic, which has resulted in a significant reduction in speed variance and the promotion of uniform operating speed. Other effective countermeasures were also mentioned. For example, the NPRM indicated that variable message speed signs have been developed to control speed for varying conditions and that real time regulatory variable speed limits are now being tested in the State of Washington. The NPRM indicated that these efforts can be further enhanced through the development of comprehensive speed control programs. The commenters cited many of the same countermeasures and technologies in their responses to the NPRM, and indicated they considered them to be effective. IIHS, for example, indicated it believes VASCAR and laser technologies can be effective at increasing the proportion of speeders cited for violations since they are not detectable by radar detectors. IIHS recommended also the use of radar detector detectors (RDDs) as an effective countermeasure for identifying individuals who are likely to be ``professional speeders.'' No commenters suggested that no effective speed control countermeasures have been developed, and the agencies continue to conclude that effective countermeasures have been developed.
