FR940817-1-00037 FR940817-1-00013 Principal Issues Establishment of a Separate Subpart for Aviation Maintenance Personnel The FAA proposes to establish a new Part 66 under the title, Certification: Aviation Maintenance Technicians and Aviation Repair Specialists. This new part would be created by removing Subparts D (Mechanics) and E (Repairmen) from the current Part 65 and using these existing subparts as the nucleus for the newly created Subparts B (Aviation Maintenance Technicians) and C (Aviation Repair Specialists) under Part 66. The sections of the current Part 65 Subpart A (General) that apply only to aviation maintenance personnel would be included in Subpart A of the proposed Part 66. In addition to regulating the certification requirements for aviation maintenance personnel, Part 65 also currently regulates the certification of airmen such as aircraft dispatchers, air traffic controllers, and parachute riggers, whose certification requirements and duties differ markedly from those of aviation maintenance personnel. Currently, there are more than 145,000 certificated mechanics and repairmen. The number of certificated aviation maintenance personnel is second only to the number of certificated pilots. Aviation maintenance personnel work in all aspects of the aviation environment, perform tasks vastly different from those performed by other airmen, and are affected by training and currency requirements that are substantially more extensive than those affecting other airmen currently regulated by Part 65. The aviation maintenance sector is one of the most complex sectors of the aviation community and all aviation maintenance personnel must possess many technical skills. The addition of this part to the FAR is warranted because of the complexity of the certification and training requirements affecting aviation maintenance personnel. In addition, the certification requirements for aviation maintenance personnel are expanding under this proposed rule, and additional certificates and ratings are proposed for creation under phase II of the regulatory review. Removal of Gender-Specific Terms In accordance with the FAA's policy of implementing gender-neutral regulations and maintaining conformity with other recently revised airman certification regulations that are now gender-neutral, and in view of the increased role of women in the aviation maintenance profession, the FAA proposes to eliminate all gender-specific references in current Part 65 and proposed Part 66. These changes are reflected in the proposed amendment; however, specific changes are not listed in the section-by-section general analysis.
