FR941227-1-00049 FR941227-1-00013 50 CFR Part 628 [I.D. 120994B] Atlantic Bluefish Fishery; Public Hearings AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS); request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS announces the intention of the Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council (Council) to prepare an EIS for proposed Amendment 1 to the Atlantic Bluefish Fishery Management Plan (FMP). Current stock assessment information indicates that bluefish are overfished, and the FMP contains no fishing mortality rate reduction strategy. Additional management measures are necessary for both the recreational and the commercial fisheries. In the development of Amendment 1, the Council proposes to consider additional management measures for both recreational and commercial fisheries along with a reevaluation of existing management objectives. The Council also announces a public process for determining the scope of issues to be addressed and for identifying the significant issues relating to revising the management of bluefish. The purpose of this document is to inform the public of the commencement of a scoping process and to provide the opportunity for public participation in the development of Amendment 1 to the FMP. All persons affected by, or otherwise interested in, the proposed amendment are invited to participate in determining the scope of significant issues to be considered in the EIS by submitting written comments. The scoping process also will identify and eliminate from detailed study issues that are not significant. DATES: The Council will discuss Amendment 1 at regularly scheduled meetings. The public will be notified (by a Federal Register document) of the specific agendas and starting times at least 2␣weeks prior to Council meetings. The currently scheduled scoping meetings will be held on December 21, 1994, and throughout January 1995 (see SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION ). ADDRESSES: Send written comments on the scoping process and the scope of the EIS to David R. Keifer, Executive Director, Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council, Room 2115 Federal Building, 300 South New Street, Dover, DE 19904&hyph;6790. The meetings will be held in NJ, FL, NC, NY, VA, RI, MA, and MD (see SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION ). As additional meetings are scheduled, they will be announced in the Federal Register . Public hearings will be scheduled after completion of the Draft EIS; notification of the hearings will be published in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David R. Keifer, Executive Director, 302&hyph;674&hyph;2331; FAX: 302&hyph;674&hyph;5399. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The scheduled scoping meetings are as follows: 1. December 21, 1994, 7 p.m., Long Branch_Hilton, 1 Ocean Blvd., Long Branch, NJ 2. January 4, 1995, 6 p.m., Stuart_Stuart City Hall, 121 SW. Flagler Ave., Stuart, FL 3. January 9, 1995, 7 p.m., Washington_Beaufort County Community College, Hwy. 264, Washington, NC 4. January 9, 1995, 7:30 p.m., Ronkonkoma_Holiday Inn, 3845 Veterans Memorial Hwy., Ronkonkoma, NY 5. January 10, 1995, 7 p.m., Norfolk_Quality Inn Lake Wright, 6280 Northampton Blvd., Norfolk, VA 6. January 10, 1995, 7 p.m., Galilee_Dutch Inn, 307 Great Island Road, Galilee, RI 7. January 11, 1995, 7 p.m., Cape May_Cape May Extension Office, Dennisville Road, Cape May, NJ 8. January 11, 1995, 5 p.m., Danvers_Kings Grant Inn, Rt. 128, Danvers, MA 9. January 12, 1995, 7 p.m., Ocean City_Carousel, 118th St. & Coastal Highway, Ocean City, MD The management unit for Atlantic bluefish ( Pomatomus saltatrix ) is all bluefish in U.S. waters in the western Atlantic Ocean. Current stock assessment information indicates that bluefish are overfished. Based on the overfishing definition in the FMP, the exploitation rate would have to be reduced by 50 percent to end overfishing. Because the FMP contains no strategy for reducing fishing mortality, additional management measures are necessary in both the recreational and the commercial fisheries. Bluefish management is further complicated by the multi-species/multi-gear nature of the fishery. Any management program developed for this Amendment must recognize that bluefish may continue to be caught and killed if these gears continue to be fished, even though their use may be directed at other species. Possible Management Measures Current Management Objectives . Part of the scoping process is the possible reevaluation of the existing objectives. The major goal of the FMP is to conserve the bluefish resource along the Atlantic coast. Five major objectives have been adopted to achieve this goal: 1. Increase understanding of the stock and of the fishery. 2. Provide the highest availability of bluefish to U.S. fishermen while maintaining, within limits, traditional uses of bluefish (defined as the commercial fishery not exceeding 20 percent of total catch). 3. Provide for cooperation among the coastal states, the various Regional Marine Fishery Management Councils, and Federal agencies involved along the coast to enhance the management of bluefish throughout its range. 4. Prevent recruitment overfishing. 5. Reduce waste in both commercial and recreational fisheries. Fishery Management Measures . Possible management measures for the commercial fishery include, but are not limited to, minimum and/or maximum fish size, minimum mesh size, closed seasons and areas, quotas (including adjustments among states), a moratorium on vessels, individual transferable quotas, dealer and vessel permits and reports, operator permits, trip limits, and gear restrictions. Possible management measures for the recreational fishery (including that sector of the fishery that carries recreational fishermen for hire) include, but are not limited to, minimum and/or maximum fish size, maximum possession limit, closed seasons and areas, gear restrictions, quotas (including adjustment among states), restrictions on the sale of recreationally caught fish, dealer and vessel permits and reports, and operator permits. It is anticipated that permits would be mandatory for: Vessels landing bluefish for sale; dealers purchasing bluefish from permitted vessels; party and charter boats in the Atlantic bluefish fishery. Further, it is anticipated that vessels landing bluefish for sale would need to submit logbooks; dealers purchasing bluefish from permitted commercial vessels would need to submit reports; and operators of charter and party boats would need to submit logbooks. In the Paperwork Reduction Act forms (SF&hyph;83) prepared by NMFS for Amendment 2 to the Summer Flounder FMP, the Dealer Purchase Report was estimated to involve 1,255 respondents and 26+ responses per respondent per year, for a total of 33,135 responses at 0.0448 hours per response, for a total of 1,485 burden hours. The Vessel Logbook was estimated at 1,314 respondents, 12 responses per respondent, at 0.08 hours per response, for a total of 1,261 burden hours. The Vessel Permit was estimated at 24,943 annual responses at 0.2878 hours per response, for a total of 7,179 burden hours. Similar burden hours should be experienced through bluefish management. There may be a reduction because vessels with summer flounder permits may qualify for the bluefish fishery. Currently, operating permits are required in the Northeast Multispecies, Atlantic Sea Scallop, and Summer Flounder FMPs. It is expected that the burden hours for the operator permit will be similar to those estimated for the Summer Flounder Operator Permit. Timetable for EIS Preparation and Decisionmaking The Council has adopted a tentative amendment preparation, review, and approval schedule for Amendment 1. Under this schedule, the Draft EIS is planned for completion prior to the Council's September 1995 meeting. If an acceptable Draft is completed, the Council would decide at that meeting whether to submit the draft EIS for public review. Oral comments to the Council on their decision could be made at that meeting. If the Council's decision is affirmative, public review of the draft EIS would occur during 45 days in October and November 1995. At its January 1996 meeting, the Council would decide on any revisions to the proposed management regime of bluefish, and oral comments on the decision could be made to the Council at that meeting. If the Council's decision is affirmative, the EIS would be made final and submitted with the amendment recommendation and other rulemaking documents to NMFS for review and approval. The Council reserves the right to modify or abandon this schedule if necessary. Under the Magnuson Act, NMFS review and approval of a proposed amendment is completed in no more than 95 days and includes concurrent public comment periods on the amendment and proposed regulations. If approved by NMFS under this schedule, the revised bluefish management measures would be effective in 1996. Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq . Dated: December 20, 1994. David S. Crestin, Acting Director, Office of Fisheries Conservation and Management, National Marine Fisheries Service [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31649 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;F
