FR940927-1-00005 FR940927-1-00002 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 2 Reexamination of the NRC Enforcement Policy AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Request for public comment. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is expanding its reexamination of its enforcement program to include the issue of Notices of Enforcement Discretion for operating power reactors and requests public comment on issues associated with that matter. The NRC is soliciting comments from interested public interest groups, the regulated industry, states, and concerned citizens. This request is intended to assist the NRC in a review of its enforcement program which is being conducted to make recommendations for improvements in the regulatory process. DATES: The comment period expires October 24, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to assure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments to: David Meyer, Chief, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publication Services, Office of Administration, Mail Stop: T6D59, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. Hand deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm, Federal workdays. Copies of comments received may be examined at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. Comments may also be provided electronically by accessing the NRC bulletin board system (BBS) that is a subsystem of FedWorld, which is operated by the National Technical Information Service. The NRC BBS can be accessed directly by a toll free number, (800) 303&hyph;9672, at modem speeds up to 9600 Baud with communication parameters set at 8 data bits, no parity, 1 stop bit, full duplex, and ANSI terminal emulation. Select the ``Subsystems/Databases'' option from the ``NRC Main Menu'' and then the ``Enforcement Program'' option. The ``Help/Information Center'' from the ``Enforcement Program Menu'' provides selections on ``Request for Comments on the Enforcement Policy'' and ``How to Leave an Official Comment.'' The NRC BBS can also be accessed from the FedWorld ``Subsystems/Databases'' menu, which would facilitate user access using the Internet. FedWorld's access via Internet is Telnet access: fedworld.gov (192.239.92.3); FTP site access: ftp.fedworld.gov (192.239.92.205), and World Wide Web (Home Page): www.fedworld.gov (this is the URL). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James Lieberman, Director, Office of Enforcement, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, (301) 504&hyph;2741. Questions on the NRC BBS may be directed to Tom Dunning at (301) 504&hyph;1189. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 23, 1994 (59 FR 43298) 1 , the Review Team for the Reexamination of the NRC Enforcement Program issued a Federal Register notice announcing a reexamination of the NRC enforcement program and requesting comments on the enforcement program. The comment period will close for that notice on October 24, 1994. Comments for this notice should also be submitted by October 24, 1994. 1 This notice was corrected on September 6, 1994 (59 FR 46004), by deleting the reference to a ``Proposed rule'' appearing in the action line of the August 23, 1994 notice. The purpose of this review effort is to (i) Perform an assessment of the NRC's enforcement program to determine whether the defined purposes of the enforcement program are appropriate, (ii) determine whether the NRC's enforcement practices and procedures for issuing enforcement actions are consistent with those purposes, and (iii) provide recommendations on any changes the Review Team believes advisable. It is expected that the Review Team will complete its review and issue its report, including recommendations, by the end of January 1995. In the August 23, 1994 notice comments were requested on a variety of matters associated with the enforcement program. Item G. of the notice, entitled ``Exercise of Discretion,'' raised two issues associated with the exercise of enforcement discretion. However, a note was included under Item G. that provided that the enforcement review was not addressing section VII.C. of the Enforcement Policy entitled, ``Exercise of Discretion for an Operating Reactor'' that addresses ``Notices of Enforcement Discretion'' (NOEDs). 59 FR 43303. The Review Team has since reconsidered its position and concluded that this issue should be considered as part of the reexamination. Comments are now requested on this issue as described below. On September 12, 1994, a report entitled, ``Notice of Enforcement Discretion Review Team Report,'' was issued which addressed a number of issues associated with the issuances of NOEDs. The recommendations in this report have not yet been adopted by the NRC. The report and its recommendations are undergoing staff review. A copy of that report is available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Document Room. In addition it is available on the NRC bulletin board system (BBS) that is a subsystem of FedWorld. Access to the NRC BBS is described in the ADDRESSES section above. In providing comments on the issue addressed below, please key comments to the numbering system used to identify the specific issues by providing the issue number before the particular comment (e.g., Response to K.1). General or anecdotal comments (such as a general comment to the effect that some enforcement conferences have not been effective or that some enforcement cases have been inconsistent with the Enforcement Policy) will not be particularly useful. Rather comments should be as specific as possible and should reference specific cases, as appropriate, so that the Review Team can understand and evaluate the comment. Responses which call for a ``yes'' or ``no'' answer should be accompanied with an explanation as to why the commenter agrees or disagrees with the issue. When the term licensee is used in the issues listed below, it refers, as applicable, to licensees, vendors, and other persons subject to NRC enforcement actions. Comments may be provided in hard copy or through the NRC electronic bulletin board (BBS). Instructions for accessing the NRC BBS are provided in the ADDRESSES section above. Comments are requested on the following specific issues:
