FR941003-1-00076 FR941003-1-00006 (b) Programmatic Agreements. At the request of the appropriate Agency Official, the Council and the Agency Official may negotiate a Programmatic Agreement to govern the implementation of a particular program. (1) The negotiation shall involve State Historic Preservation Officers, Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations, other Federal agencies, and other interested parties as appropriate. (2) The Agency Official shall arrange for public notice and involvement appropriate to the subject matter and the scope of the program. Views from the public will be invited and considered during the negotiation of the Programmatic Agreement. (3) A Programmatic Agreement shall meet the requirements for consistency with the Council's regulations as set forth in ยง800.4. The Programmatic Agreement shall result in specific internal agency procedures that shall be issued in accordance with the agency's procedures and policies. (4) Compliance with the procedures established by an approved Programmatic Agreement satisfies the agency's Section 106 responsibilities for all individual undertakings covered by the agreement until it expires or is terminated. (5) The Agency Official shall publish notice of an approved Programmatic Agreement in the Federal Register and make the agency procedures implementing the Programmatic Agreement readily available to the Council, State Historic Preservation Officers, and the public. (6) If the Council determines that the terms of a Programmatic Agreement are not carried out, or if such an agreement is terminated, the Agency Official shall comply with Subpart C of this part with regard to individual undertakings covered by the agreement. (c) Exempted categories _(1) Criteria for establishing. When an agency has in place a preservation program meeting the requirements of Section 110(a) of the Act, or when an agency is developing a procedure to implement Section 106 in accordance with this subpart, an Agency Official may propose a category of agency undertakings that may be exempted from review under the provisions of this part, if the category meets all of the following criteria: (i) The action would otherwise qualify as an undertaking in accordance with ยง800.2(dd); (ii) The potential effects of the undertakings within the category upon historic properties are foreseeable and do not by their nature have the potential to result in changes to the character or use of historic properties; (iii) The agency's procedures establish the category of undertakings as a categorical exclusion under the National Environmental Policy Act, if applicable, consistent with the provisions of 40 CFR 1508.4; (iv) The agency's procedures provide that the exempted category will not be applicable if the Agency Official, the SHPO, the Tribal Preservation Officer, if participating, or the Council determines that the normally exempted excluded undertaking may have an adverse effect. (2) Council review of proposed exempted categories. The Council membership shall review a request for an exemption that is supported by documentation demonstrating that the criteria of ยง800.5(c)(1) have been met. Unless further information is requested by the Council, it shall approve or reject the proposed exemption within 30 days of its submission. If the Council fails to respond within 30 days of a request for an exemption which is supported by adequate documentation, then the requested exemption becomes effective.
