FR940912-1-00039 FR940912-1-00010 In the absence of implementing any of the regulatory alternatives (baseline), nationwide, fifth-year wastewater VOC emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed SOCMI process units are estimated to be approximately 37.2 thousand Mg/yr. Assuming implementation of the individual regulatory alternatives, the emissions are 24.1 thousand Mg/yr for Regulatory Alternative 1, an emission reduction from baseline of 13.0 thousand Mg/yr achieved at total annual cost of about $4.3 million; 23.1 thousand Mg/yr for Regulatory Alternative 2, an emission reduction from baseline of 14.0 thousand Mg/yr achieved at total annual cost of about $5.2 million; 21.0 thousand Mg/yr for Regulatory Alternative 3, an emission reduction from baseline of 16.2 thousand Mg/yr achieved at total annual cost of about $8.8 million; 18.6 thousand Mg/yr for Regulatory Alternative 4, an emission reduction from baseline of 18.6 thousand Mg/yr achieved at total annual cost of about $15.6 million; and 14.2 thousand Mg/yr for Regulatory Alternative 5, an emission reduction from baseline of 22.9 thousand Mg/yr achieved at total annual cost of about $41.1 million. The control costs reflect the fact that most plants affected by the NSPS will also be affected by the HON, and they are expected to install a steam stripper for treating wastewater streams regulated by the HON. The proposed NSPS will require these SOCMI plants to control additional wastewater streams that do not require control under the HON. In estimating cost impacts of the NSPS, the EPA assumed that those plants affected by both regulations would increase the capacity of the steam stripper required under the HON rule to provide sufficient capacity to handle the additional wastewater streams that would require control under the NSPS. The costs associated with the NSPS is the difference in costs for the two steam strippers, one with the capacity to handle wastewater streams regulated by the HON and the other with the capacity to handle wastewater streams regulated by both the HON and the NSPS. After considering the alternatives and the emission reductions achieved, the resulting control costs, and other associated impacts, the EPA concluded that the control requirements in Regulatory Alternative 3 reflect the application of the best system of emission reduction that has been adequately demonstrated. A more stringent level of emissions limitation was not selected because control beyond Regulatory Alternative 3 would result in costs that are disproportionately large compared to the additional emission reduction achieved. Regulatory Alternatives 4 and 5 were estimated to achieve an additional emission reduction of about 2.4 thousand and 6.7 thousand Mg/yr, respectively, at an additional cost of about $6.8 million or $32.3 million for the two alternatives. Under the proposed rule, the control requirements for new, modified, and reconstructed SOCMI process units would apply to two sets of wastewater streams: streams with flow rates of 1 Lpm or greater and a volatile organic concentration of 500 ppmw or greater; and any stream with a volatile organic concentration of 10,000 ppmw or greater (regardless of flow rate). 2. Process Wastewater Collection System As discussed previously, effective control of SOCMI process unit wastewater emissions requires control from the point of generation until treated to comply with the treatment standards, or until recycled to a controlled process unit that is in compliance with the standards. The proposed standards require that emissions be controlled during wastewater collection and transport in piping or individual drain systems and during handling and treatment in wastewater tanks, containers, surface impoundments, and treatment devices by using covers, lids, water seals, roofs, and enclosures designed to reduce emissions. Proper work practices, including periodic monitoring, inspection, and repair, are also required to ensure that the equipment will control emissions. Emissions from these wastewater collection, transport, and handling systems are believed to be significant, thereby requiring the use of controls to effectively reduce air emissions. 3. Process Wastewater Treatment The proposed regulation provides four options for demonstrating compliance with the SOCMI process unit wastewater treatment standards: three treatment options based on numerical emission limitations and an equipment and design specification. Of the options based on numerical emission limitations, the first option may be adopted by all affected sources. The remaining options based on numerical emission limitations may only be used by certain classes of sources, as discussed below. Any facility may choose to use the equipment and design specification as an alternative to the emission limitation requirements. The first treatment process compliance option is removal of VOC from the wastewater based on the removal efficiency of the BDT, which is a design steam stripper (i.e., a steam stripper meeting specific design and operational criteria). Under this equipment and design standard option for demonstrating compliance with the process wastewater treatment standard, if the owner or operator installs and operates a steam stripper that meets the requirements, listed below, the treatment unit is in compliance with the treatment process standard of the rule. These design and operating parameters include: (1) Minimum active column height of 5 meters; (2) Countercurrent flow configuration with a minimum of 10 actual trays; (3) Minimum steam flow rate of 0.04 kilograms of steam per liter of wastewater feed; (4) Minimum wastewater feed temperature to the steam stripper of 95 degrees Centigrade; (5) Maximum liquid loading of 67,100 liters per hour per square meter; and
