FR940111-0-00008 FR940111-0-00003 7 CFR Part 906 [Docket No. FV93&hyph;906&hyph;3FR] Oranges and Grapefruit Grown in the Lower Rio Grande Valley in Texas; Revision of the Handling Requirements for Oranges and Grapefruit AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule finalizes without change an interim final rule which revised the handling requirements for Texas oranges and grapefruit to require handlers to ensure that an inspection certificate accompanies each shipment of fruit when it is transported by motor vehicle, and that such inspection certificates are surrendered upon leaving the production area when requested by Texas Department of Agriculture (TDA) road guard station personnel designated as agents of the Texas Valley Citrus Committee (committee). This revision was designed to help the Texas citrus industry ensure that all fresh oranges and grapefruit are inspected prior to shipment from the production area. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 10, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Belinda Garza, McAllen Marketing Field Office, Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, USDA, 1313 East Hackberry, McAllen, Texas 78501, telephone: (210) 682&hyph;2833; or Charles L. Rush, Marketing Order Administration Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, USDA, P.O. Box 96456, Room 2523&hyph;S, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456, telephone: (202) 720&hyph;2431. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This final rule is issued under Marketing Agreement and Order No. 906 (7 CFR Part 906) regulating the handling of oranges and grapefruit grown in the Lower Rio Grande Valley in Texas, hereinafter referred to as the order. The agreement and order are effective under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674), hereinafter referred to as the ``Act.'' The Department of Agriculture (Department) is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12788, Civil Justice Reform. This action is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule will not preempt any state or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this action. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under section 608c(15)(A) of the Act, any handler subject to an order may file with the Secretary a petition stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not in accordance with law and requesting a modification of the order or to be exempted therefrom. Such handler is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After the hearing the Secretary would rule on the petition. The Act provides that the district court of the United States in any district in which the handler is an inhabitant, or has his or her principal place of business, has jurisdiction in equity to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, provided a bill in equity is filed not later than 20 days after date of the entry of the ruling. Pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this rule on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility. There are approximately 15 handlers of oranges and grapefruit regulated under the marketing order each season and approximately 750 orange and grapefruit producers in Texas. Small agricultural producers have been defined by the Small Business Administration [13 CFR ยง121.601] as those having annual receipts of less than $500,000, and small agricultural service firms are defined as those whose annual receipts are less than $3,500,000. The majority of these handlers and producers may be classified as small entities. The committee met on August 3, 1993, and unanimously recommended revising paragraph (a)(5) of ยง906.365 to require handlers to ensure that an inspection certificate accompanies each shipment of fruit when it is transported by motor vehicle, and that such inspection certificates are surrendered upon leaving the production area when requested by Texas Department of Agriculture (TDA) road guard station personnel designated as agents of the committee. The committee meets prior to and during each season to review the handling regulations effective on a continuous basis for fruit regulated under the marketing order. Committee meetings are open to the public, and interested persons may express their views at these meetings. The committee recommended this action after discussions with TDA road guard station personnel on the subject of operating road guard stations located on the major roads leading out of the production area for Texas oranges and grapefruit. TDA informed the committee that, heretofore, TDA road guard station personnel had not been authorized to require handlers to surrender a copy of their inspection certificates to them, when checking fruit being transported from the production area to determine if it had been inspected and certified as meeting order requirements. Requiring handlers to surrender a copy of their inspection certificates to the TDA will enable TDA personnel to determine whether the fruit meets order requirements, thereby helping ensure compliance with order provisions. The Department reviews committee recommendations and information, as well as information from other sources, to determine whether modification, suspension, or termination of the handling regulation is needed. The interim final rule was issued on October 4, 1993, with an effective date of October 8, 1993, and published in the Federal Register (58 FR 52400, October 8, 1993). The interim final rule provided a 30-comment period ending November 8, 1993, and no comments were received. The interim final rule amended ยง906.365 by adding the following sentence at the end of paragraph (a)(5). ``No handler may transport by motor vehicle or cause the transportation of any shipment of fruit for which an inspection certificate is required unless each such shipment is accompanied by a copy of the inspection certificate applicable thereto, and a copy of such inspection certificate is surrendered upon request to Texas Department of Agriculture Road Guard personnel as designated by the committee.''
