FR941028-2-00019 FR941028-2-00012 COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION Financial Products Advisory Committee November 17, 1994. This is to give notice, pursuant to section 10(a) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. App. 2 section 10(a) and 41 CFR 101&hyph;6.1015(b), that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's Financial Products Advisory Committee will conduct a public meeting in the Lower Level Hearing Room (B&hyph;1) at the Commission's Washington, D.C. headquarters located at 2033 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581, on November 17, 1994, beginning at 1:30 p.m. and lasting until 5 p.m. The agenda will consist of: Agenda 1. A briefing by the CFTC staff on the status of the CFTC's proposed risk assessment rules, followed by discussion/comments on the CFTC's proposed rules by FPAC members. 2. A briefing by the CME on its new trading procedures for strips of Eurodollar futures contracts and proposals to tighten EFP rules on Eurodollars. 3. A briefing by the SEC on its recently released report regarding mutual fund use of OTC derivatives, including possible revisions to restrictions on leveraged transactions; the staff will also provide an update on the status of the SEC's proposed rules on third party custodial accounts. 4. A panel discussion of customer protection issues in OTC derivative markets, including the perceived need for a ``suitability'' standard to apply to OTC derivative transactions. The panel will include perspectives from the end-user community; the OCC and its experience in applying its ``appropriateness'' standard; as well as views from Congressional staff about the possibility of suitability legislation. 5. A briefing by CFTC staff regarding the Commission's proposed rules to grant exemptive relief from certain requirements of the CEA under Section 4(c) for professional trading markets. 6. Wrap-up, discussion of other committee business and future agenda items. The purpose of this meeting is to solicit the views of the Committee on these agenda matters. The Advisory Committee was created by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the purpose of advising the Commission on the assessment of issues concerning individuals and industries interested in or affected by financial markets regulated by the Commission. The purposes and objectives of the Advisory Committee are more fully set forth in the April 23, 1993 Charter of the Advisory Committee. The meeting is open to the public. The Chairman of the Advisory Committee, CFTC Commissioner Sheila C. Bair, is empowered to conduct the meeting in a fashion that will, in her judgment, facilitate the orderly conduct of business. Any member of the public who wishes to file a written statement with the Advisory Committee should mail a copy of the statement to the attention of: the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Financial Products Advisory Committee, c/o Kristyn H. Burnett, 2033 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581, before the meeting. Members of the public who wish to make oral statements should also inform Ms. Burnett in writing at the foregoing address at least three business days before the meeting. Reasonable provision will be made, if time permits, for an oral presentation of no more than five minutes each in duration. Issued by the Commission in Washington, D.C., on October 24, 1994. Jean A. Webb, Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26751 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6351&hyph;01&hyph;M
