FR941019-0-00074 FR941019-0-00008 (1) Furnish the information required by the following table: Compensation Table 1(1) Name of person, position ␣ 1(2) Aggregate compensation from registrant ␣ 1(3) Pension or retirement benefits accrued as part of fund expenses 1(4) Estimated annual benefits upon retirement ␣ 1(5) Total compensation from registrant and fund complex paid to directors ␣ Instructions. 1. For column (1), indicate, if necessary, the capacity in which the remuneration is received. For Compensated Persons that are directors of the Registrant, compensation is amounts received for service as a director. 2. If the Registrant has not completed its first full year since its organization, furnish the information for the current fiscal year, estimating future payments that would be made pursuant to an existing agreement or understanding. Disclose in a footnote to the Compensation Table the period for which the information is furnished. 3. Include in column (2) amounts deferred at the election of the Compensated Person, whether pursuant to a plan established under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code [26 U.S.C. 401(k)] or otherwise for the fiscal year in which earned. Disclose in a footnote to the Compensation Table the total amount of deferred compensation (including interest) payable to or accrued for any Compensated Person. 4. Include in columns (3) and (4) all pension or retirement benefits proposed to be paid under any existing plan in the event of retirement at normal retirement date, directly or indirectly, by the Registrant, any of its subsidiaries, or any other companies in the Fund Complex. Omit column (4) where retirement benefits are not determinable. 5. For any defined benefit or actuarial plan under which benefits are determined primarily by final compensation (or average final compensation) and years of service, provide the information required in column (4) in a separate table showing estimated annual benefits payable upon retirement (including amounts attributable to any defined benefit supplementary or excess pension award plans) in specified compensation and years of service classifications. Also provide the estimated credited years of service for each Compensated Person. 6. Include in column (5) only aggregate compensation paid to a director for service on the board and all other boards of related Funds in a Fund Complex specifying the number of such other Funds. 7. No information is required to be provided concerning the officers of the sponsoring insurance company who are not directly or indirectly engaged in activities related to the separate account. (2) Describe briefly the material provisions of any pension, retirement, or other plan or any arrangement other than fee arrangements disclosed in paragraph (1) pursuant to which Compensated Persons are or may be compensated for any services provided, including amounts paid, if any, to the Compensated Person under any such arrangements during the most recently completed fiscal year. Specifically include the criteria used to determine amounts payable under the plan, the length of service or vesting period required by the plan, the retirement age or other event which gives rise to payments under the plan, and whether the payment of benefits is secured or funded by the Registrant. * * * * * 27. By amending Item 27 of Form N&hyph;3 (referenced in §§239.17a and 274.11b) to remove the ``and'' at the end of Instructions 4(ii) and 5(ii) to paragraph (a), to remove the period at the end of Instructions 4(iii) and 5(iii) to paragraph (a) and to add at the end of the Instructions ``; and'', and to add Instructions 4(iv) and 5(iv) to read as follows: Form N&hyph;3 * * * * * Item 27. Financial Statements * * * * * Instructions * * * * * 4. *␣*␣* (iv) the information concerning changes in and disagreements with accountants and on accounting and financial disclosure required by Item 304 of Regulation S&hyph;K (§229.304 of this chapter). 5. *␣*␣* (iv) the information concerning changes in and disagreements with accountants and on accounting and financial disclosure required by Item 304 of Regulation S&hyph;K (§229.304 of this chapter). * * * * * Dated: October 13, 1994. By the Commission. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary.
