FR940303-2-00209 FR940303-2-00099 Subject to availability of funds, project awards to U.S. institutions will range from $50,000 to $300,000; USIA anticipates awarding approximately ten grants. The Agency reserves the right to reduce, increase or otherwise modify proposal budgets in accordance with the needs of the program. For organizations with less than four years of experience in international exchange activities, grants will be limited to a maximum of $60,000. All organizations must submit a comprehensive line item budget, the details and format of which are contained in the application packet. Cost Sharing Cost-sharing may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as cost to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A110, Attachment E. Cost-sharing and matching should be described in the proposal. In the event the recipient does not provide the minimum amount of cost sharing as stipulated in the recipient's budget, the USIA contribution will be reduced in proportion to the recipient's contribution. The recipient's proposal shall include the cost of an audit that: 1. Complies with the requirements of OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions; 2. Complies with the requirements of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 92&hyph;9; and 3. Includes review by the recipient's independent auditor of a recipient-prepared supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation, if such a rate is being proposed. The audit costs shall be identified separately for: 1. Preparation of basic financial statements and other accounting services; and 2. Preparation of the supplemental reports and schedules required by OMB Circular A&hyph;133, AICPA SOP 92&hyph;9, and the review of the supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation. Allowable Costs Program Costs 1. International travel (via U.S. flag carriers); 2. Domestic travel; 3. Maintenance (including lodging, meals and incidental expenses); 4. Educational materials (including books, reference materials, computers, costs related to workshops, seminars, etc.) not to exceed 35% of budget request; 5. Honoraria or compensation for in-country work, not to exceed $100 per day per person; 6. Visa fees for foreign participants; 7. Medical insurance for foreign participants during U.S. visits (U.S. project directors must ensure that all participants are covered by a comprehensive health insurance plan); 8. Salaries and benefits of U.S. participant(s) in residence at foreign partner institution for one academic year or longer. Total costs for the U.S. participant(s) in residence must not exceed 30 percent of the total budget. Administrative Costs (Not to exceed 20% of requested budget, including administrative expenses for orientation. Indirect costs must be cost-shared.) 1. Salaries and benefits; 2. Communications (e.g. fax, telephone, postage); 3. Office Supplies; 4. Other Direct Costs.
