FR940428-1-00019 FR940428-1-00008 ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Rangeland Reform '94, P.O. Box 66300, Washington, DC 20035&hyph;6300. Comments on the proposed rule will be made available for public inspection during the regular business hours (7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.), Monday through Friday. Viewing of the comments can be arranged by contacting the Forest Service. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David M. Stewart, Range Management Staff, (202) 205&hyph;1746. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The existing rule governing rangeland management and livestock use on National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control (36 CFR part 222, subpart A) provides guidance for management of the range environment and addresses the issuance and modification of grazing and livestock use permits, compensation for permittees' interest in authorized permanent improvements, cooperation in management, rangeland improvements, the use of the range betterment fund, and grazing advisory boards. The current rule was adopted October 28, 1977 (42 FR 56732). As required by Departmental Regulation 1512&hyph;1, Forest Service personnel involved with rangeland management participated in a review of the existing grazing regulations in 1987. This review identified some parts of the existing regulations that required revision and clarification, and other parts that were outdated and required removal. In addition, several issues not covered by the regulations were identified that need to be addressed in the rules. The Forest Service published a proposed rule responding to the findings of the review on August 16, 1988 (53 FR 30954). That proposed rule was not finalized, but principal features of and comments received on that proposed rule have been considered in the current effort to identify needed changes to the rangeland management and grazing regulations. The 1990 RPA Program, entitled ``The Forest Service Program for Forest and Rangeland Resource,'' states the following: ``The condition of public rangeland is better today than it has been at any other time this century. However, the Forest Service is deeply concerned about those rangelands in unsatisfactory condition, which, in 1989, consisted of 27 percent of all suitable National Forest System rangeland acres.'' The 1990 RPA Program further discussed the role of rangelands in providing forage, habitat, water, recreational opportunities, and open space and signaled the agency's commitment to improve rangeland conditions and management. More recently, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior sponsored a series of public meetings on livestock grazing on federal lands. Issues and concerns raised at those meetings have provided additional momentum to develop grazing regulations that are more responsive to the current need for improved management of rangeland resources. Accordingly, on Friday, August 13, 1993, an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) was published in the Federal Register , (58 FR 43202), in which the Department of Agriculture gave notice of its intent to revise its grazing and livestock use and grazing fee (36 CFR 222 subpart A and subpart C) rules to respond to the Administration's commitment to implement federal rangeland management reform. The Department of the Interior issued an ANPR concurrent (58 FR 43208) with the Department of Agriculture's in which it announced its proposed grazing regulation changes for BLM lands, including the grazing fee system. A total of about 12,600 letters were received on the ANPR's published by the Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture. These letters included over 56,000 separate comments on various aspects of grazing administration and fees. The greatest number of comments addressed possible changes in the grazing fee. Comments also identified a need for protection of rangeland ecosystems through an ecosystem approach to management and the use of locally developed standards and guidelines. Other concerns included the suitability of land for grazing and the need for balance between livestock grazing and other forest uses with the ability to implement and enforce the necessary management. A healthy and productive human environment with opportunities for public participation in planning decisions also received support from many respondents. Also, frequently noted in the comments was the longstanding role of land steward played by grazing permittees. A large number of comments highlighted the need for consistency between regulations of the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service. Based on the comment received on the ANPR, the Secretary of Agriculture has decided to separate the rulemaking for grazing fees from the rulemaking for other grazing and livestock use proposals identified in the ANPR. Comments on the grazing fee portion of the ANPR will be considered in the development of the final grazing fee rule. Reviewers need not resubmit comments they filed on the Department of Agriculture's ANPR in order for them to be considered by the agency in the preparation of the final rule. All comments received on the Department of Agriculture's ANPR and this proposed rule will be considered in the preparation of a final rule. Also, by separate rule, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) is proposing a revision of their grazing management regulations and a revised system for determining livestock grazing fees on the public lands they administer. The fee system proposed by the BLM is similar to that proposed by the Forest Service. Proposed Revisions to 36 CFR Part 222, Subpart A The rules of Subpart A currently focus exclusively on issuance and administration of livestock grazing permits. Under the proposed rule, this Subpart would be retitled ``Management of Grazing Use Within Rangeland Ecosystems'' signaling the Department's intent to plan for rangeland activities and to regulate grazing use within an ecosystem management framework. In addition, the structure of the Subpart would be extensively revised to improve the flow and order of the text. To assist readers, a redesignation table which shows the disposition of provisions of the current rule is set out at the end of this preamble. Finally, extensive editorial revisions have been made to existing provisions to improve clarity of the rule, to remove gender specific pronoun references, to remove passive voice, and to correct spelling and punctuation.
