FR940324-1-00013 FR940324-1-00004 On the positive side, this option may ensure that more firms could participate in the export program than would be the case under licensing option # 1. This option also would assure everyone who applies would get some portion of the authorized export volume. On the negative side, this option would entail active government involvement in administering an export prorationing regime on a year round basis. In addition, a prorationing scheme could be difficult to administer and could result in economically not viable volumes. The volume of California heavy crude oil exports (25 MB/D) allowed under the President's October 22, 1992 decision amounts to one-half of the volume authorized for the ANS/Canada export regime (50 MB/D). Over the past four years the demand for ANS exports to Western Canada has not forced the Department to prorate exports among competing applications. This may not be the case in the California situation where the volume is much smaller and more firms have expressed an interest in participating in this program. Although several licensees with small volumes could possibly combine volumes to make one shipment, it would not help exporters that had contracts to deliver large volumes. Option # 3_Pre-Qualification With Export Nominations This option would result in a greater degree of government management than would be the case under any of the other options described above because it would involve a two step review process of all export licensing transactions. Under this procedure, potential exporters would provide enough information to allow the Department to pre-qualify a firm as an exporter and subsequently grant final export authorization to the firm upon the provision of satisfactory information regarding end-users and intermediate consignees, if any. The first step would involve the Department pre-qualifying exporters based upon the following criteria: (1) The firm is a commercial entity that is interested in exporting California heavy crude oil; (2) the applicant can demonstrate that an end-user is interested in purchasing oil from them as evidenced by a letter/telex. The nominations process_step 2_would operate as follows: 1. On a monthly basis, a pre-qualified exporter would nominate the quantity it would like to export during the month. 2. A pre-qualified exporter would have to submit his nomination no later than 10 calendar days before the first day of the month.
