FR940721-1-00064 FR940721-1-00014 (iii) Advise whether there exists an ``implicit limitation'' on the fees that can be paid to CLO providers (such as a reasonable relationship to the market value of the services performed). Other pro-rule commenters joined commenters that had objections to the CLO services provision in supporting an explicit requirement that the CLO fee disclosure statement be given to the borrower before the fee is imposed, and that the fee be paid to the CLO operator before services are performed. ``By requiring upfront disclosure and payment,'' one commenter observed, ``the borrower will be aware that a separate fee is being imposed for services not required by the mortgage lender and will be able to determine whether the services provided by the CLO operator merit such a fee.'' On the subordinate issue of the number of lenders included on CLOs, commenters supporting the CLO provision generally differed with opponents, many of whom urged much closer regulation of this aspect. The pro-CLO services commenters generally advocated ``leaving to the marketplace'' the determination of how many lenders were appropriate for a CLO service. One commenter argued that dictating how many lenders must appear on the CLO system ``is another example of well-intentioned regulation which could ultimately hurt consumers.'' The commenter pointed out that individual lenders may want to develop competing CLO products, each marketing its own software products, with the CLO operator then having access to several single-lender CLOs. The commenter concluded, as did several other supporters of the final rule's CLO services provision, that a consumer provided with full disclosure can determine the services for which the consumer is willing to pay. A few commenters anticipated adverse comment on the CLO systems issue and urged the Department not to bend to those commenters who would impose limitations on fees for CLO services or would require that fees be collected up-front. One commenter whose overall position strongly supported the final rule took a position comparable to many anti-CLO commenters in several respects. To protect consumers this commenter supported the imposition of additional conditions relating to CLO systems, such as: (i) Up-front disclosure of the CLO fee, and payment in advance of the performance of services; and (ii) A regulatory requirement that real estate brokers be required to perform services ``beyond electronically providing a menu of lenders' interest rates and products.'' The same commenter, however, joined other CLO services proponents in urging that HUD should not attempt to regulate the number of lenders to be included in CLOs. One commenter, evidently the operator of a large, independent computer loan origination system, made several points from that perspective: (i) The commenter's independent CLO system avoided ``steering'' abuses because steering arises when lenders offer commissioned loan officers or mortgage brokers a larger commission on some products than on others, thus encouraging lenders to sell a particular type of loan. The commenter's system required uniform charges across loan products and lenders, which are established by contract among participants and monitored by the CLO service provider; (ii) The system encourages competitive loan pricing, by including a wide variety of information affecting the overall cost of a loan to a consumer and making it simple for a loan counselor to find the ``best deal''; (iii) The system increases competition in rural areas, by expanding the number of lenders offering loans; (iv) The system helps to avoid racial and other forms of discrimination against borrowers by making the loan-decision process ``demonstrably race-blind''; (v) The system avoids the criticism that CLO systems are mere ``kickback schemes,'' because the loan counselors working with the system perform full loan-origination functions. This commenter recommended that RESPA be revised to stipulate that real estate brokers may not charge for origination services (implicitly, CLO services) unless they actually register a loan commitment with the lender. ``This assures that the [broker] has at least qualified the borrower, and made a loan selection with the borrower's concurrence. These are non-trivial functions for which a payment is justified,'' the commenter said. The commenter favored this ``functional'' test, as opposed to a regulatory limitation on the number of CLO services provided or a ban on single-lender CLOs. Several comments from real estate brokers stated their support for the CLO services provision of the final rule. Among these, at least two real estate broker commenters assumed that CLO services would involve multiple lenders: [I assume that] all CLOs will offer the rates and costs of many lenders. When lenders realize that they are in competition with other lenders, they will be forced to deliver the best rates at the lowest cost *␣*␣*. I can assure you that if a home buyer walks into a lender's office to obtain a loan, there is little chance that lender would send the buyer to a competitor even though the rates and costs may be lower. A second real estate broker described his company's CLO service as having access to an affiliate and 20 competitors, indicating that this variety and choice afforded borrowers with distinct advantages over borrower-initiated loan shopping. (c) Description of the Legal Framework for Analysis of Payments for CLO Services. HUD has found that the use of the term ``CLO exemption'' in the preamble of the 1992 final rule may have created certain misperceptions. To ensure that there is no confusion about the scope of the regulatory exemption proposed below, the Department believes that it will be helpful to set out the legal framework for its analysis of payments for CLO services. In general, the provision of CLO services may be financed by the operator of a CLO system in several ways:
