FR941006-1-00066 FR941006-1-00013 (d) Contains no more than two convictions for any other moving traffic violations in a CMV; (You must submit an MVR from each State in which you were licensed during that cumulative three-year period); Note: The driving record must be furnished by an official State agency, on its letterhead, bear the State seal, or official stamp and be signed by an authorized State official. No other documentation will be accepted. If the MVR shows either convictions for moving violations or accident involvement but does not indicate the type of vehicle operated or the number of miles above the posted speed limit, additional official documentation must be provided by you (e.g., a copy of the citation or accident report, or copies of court records). Special Note: Any waiver applicant who is arrested or cited for, or convicted of, any disqualifying offense or other moving violation during the period of time the application is pending must immediately report such arrests, citations, or convictions to the Vision Waiver Program, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Failure to do so may result in a denial or rescission of the waiver. No waiver will be issued while any charge against an applicant, for what would be a disqualifying offense, is still pending. Convictions occurring during the processing of the application will be considered in the overall driving record. (4) That you have been examined by an ophthalmologist or an optometrist after the FHWA reaches its decision on the reopening of the vision waivers program, and a notice of final disposition announcing such decision has appeared in the Federal Register ; and that ophthalmologist or optometrist, in writing, has: (a) Identified and defined the visual deficiency; (b) Certified that the visual deficiency has not worsened since the last vision examination required by your State's driver licensing agency; (c) Certified that your visual acuity is at least 20/40 (Snellen), corrected or uncorrected, in the better eye; and (d) Certified that in his/her professional opinion, you are able to perform the driving tasks required to operate a commercial motor vehicle. Note: Do not submit other medical records, bills, etc. Conditions for Retaining A Vision Waiver Once Issued There would be special requirements attached to any waiver issued to a vision-impaired driver. These requirements would be imposed to ensure that the FHWA receives the data needed to complete the research effort. The reporting requirements, a six month verification of every waived driver's MVR, and the CDL standards applicable to waived drivers will ensure that unsafe, vision-impaired drivers are removed from operation in the same manner as other unsafe drivers. Waived drivers will not be afforded any additional privileges that would allow them to operate differently from other CMV drivers in interstate commerce. Each driver would be required to: (a) Report, in writing, any citation for a moving violation involving the operation of a CMV to the Vision Waiver Program within 15 days following issuance (a photostatic copy of the citation issued must accompany the written report); (b) Report, in writing, the judicial or administrative disposition of any citation for a moving violation involving the operation of a CMV to the Vision Waiver Program within 15 days following the notice of disposition; (c) Report, in writing, any accident involvement whatsoever while operating a CMV to the Vision Waiver Program within 15 days following the accident (include State, insurance company, and/or motor carrier accident reports); (d) Report, in writing, any change of residential address or telephone number to the Vision Waiver Program within 15 days after such a change; (e) Report, in writing, any change of employer, (include name, address, and telephone number of new employer), or type of vehicle operated to the Vision Waiver Program within 15 days after such a change. (f) Submit documentation of an annual examination by an ophthalmologist or an optometrist to the FHWA at least 15 days before each anniversary of the waiver issuance date, that you have been reexamined within the past 6 weeks. The documentation must contain the medical specialist's certification that the individual is still eligible under the waiver's vision criteria and the vision deficiency has not worsened since the last vision examination required by the waiver; and (g) Report to the Vision Waiver Program, by the 15th calendar day of each month (not including the month in which the waiver becomes effective), the following information: (1) The number of interstate/intrastate miles you drove a commercial motor vehicle (CMV) during the preceding month. For example, if you drove 3,000 miles for the preceding month (July), you must report that information by the 15th day of the next month (August); (2) The number of daylight hours and the number of nighttime hours you drove a CMV during the preceding month. For example, if you drove 170 daylight hours and 50 nighttime hours during the preceding month (July), you must report that information by the 15th day of the next month (August); and (3) The number of days you did not drive a CMV during the preceding month. For example, if you did not drive a CMV a total of 9 days during the preceding month (July), you must report that information by the 15th day of the next month (August). Note: The monthly report should be mailed within the first few days of each month in order to ensure that the report will be received at the office of the Vision Waiver Program by the 15th day of each month. If the answer to one or all of the above questions is 0, then state ``0'' or ``none'', do not leave any question unanswered or it will be considered ``Failure to report,'' and your waiver is in jeopardy. All documentation described in items (a) through (g) above, must be mailed to the Vision Waiver Program, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Failure to submit reports within the time periods described above may be cause for revocation of the waiver. (49 U.S.C. 31136 and 31502; 49 CFR 1.48). Issued on: September 30, 1994. Rodney E. Slater, Federal Highway Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24802 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;P
