FR940325-2-00132 FR940325-2-00057 Final Judgment Plaintiff, United States of America, having filed its Complaint on March 14, 1994, and plaintiff and defendants, by their respective attorneys, having consented to the entry of this Final Judgment without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and without this Final Judgment constituting any evidence against or an admission by defendants to any such issue; Now, therefore, before the taking of any testimony and without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and upon consent of the parties, it is hereby Ordered, adjudged and decreed, as follows: I Jurisdiction This Court has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this action and of each of the parties consenting to this Final Judgment. The Complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against the defendants under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 1. Jurisdiction is retained by this Court to enable any of the parties to this Final Judgment to apply to this Court at any time for such further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out or construe this Final Judgment, to modify or terminate any of its provisions, to enforce compliance, and to punish violations of its provisions. II Applicability This Final Judgment applies to each defendant and to each of its trustees, officers, directors, agents, employees, successors, and assigns, and to all other persons in active concert or participation with any of them who receive actual notice of this Final Judgment by personal service or otherwise except that: (A) The provisions of Section IV (A)(1)&hyph;(3) do not apply to the communications of a nurse employee of any hospital defendant that are exclusively for the purpose of, and are ancillary to, and reasonably necessary for, the seeking or holding of individual employment as a nurse, and (B) For HCA Health Services of Utah, Inc. d/b/a St. Mark's Hospital, the provisions of Sections V, VI, and VII apply only to defendant HCA Health Services of Utah, Inc. d/b/a St. Mark's Hospital and to any party who may succeed to the ownership of St. Mark's Hospital. III Definitions As used in this Final Judgment: (A) ``Actual pay rate'' means the actual pay rate for any employee or class of employees in a specific job being evaluated. (B) ``Average pay rate'' means the rate determined by calculating the average pay of all the employees in a specific job being evaluated. (C) ``Compensation'' means any component of payment for employee services, including, but not limited to, wages, salaries, benefits, shift differentials, hourly and per diem rates, hiring formulas, payroll budget information, and the frequency or timing of any of these components of payment. (D) ``Current compensation'' means compensation that is actually being utilized in paying any employee. (E) ``Defendants'' means St. Benedict's Hospital; IHC Hospitals, Inc., and IHC Hospitals, Inc. d/b/a LDS Hospital, Primary Children's Medical Center, Cottonwood Hospital Medical Center, Alta View Hospital, and Wasatch Canyons Hospital (``IHC''); Holy Cross Hospital of Salt Lake City; Pioneer Valley Hospital, Inc. d/b/a Pioneer Valley Hospital; Lakeview Hospital, Inc. d/b/a Lakeview Hospital; Mountain View Hospital, Inc. d/b/a Mountain View Hospital; Brigham City Community Hospital, Inc. d/b/a Brigham City Community Hospital; and HCA Health Services of Utah, Inc. d/b/a St. Marks Hospital. (F) ``Employee'' means any full-time, part-time, hourly or per diem employee. (G) ``Health care facility'' means any entity employing nurses to provide health care services, except that, for each defendant, the term does not include its own parent corporation and any entity owned or controlled, by means of corporate membership or otherwise, either directly or indirectly by the defendant or its parent. (H) ``Historic compensation'' means compensation that was at one time, but that is no longer, utilized in paying any employee.
