FR941116-0-00188 FR941116-0-00022 (9) Approved Federal Crop Insurance Corporation or multiperil crop insurance loss adjustment settlement; and (10) Scale tickets or weight slips for wheat and feed grains that are supported by other evidence showing disposition, such as sales documents. (e)(1) Documents showing the amount of production shall be reviewed to determine moisture content and dockage associated with the production. (2) If the document does not show that the production has been reduced to standard moisture levels and shows: (i) specific moisture that is greater than standard; (ii) dockage; or (iii) both excess moisture and dockage, the net amount will be adjusted on standard moisture levels and applicable dockage standards as determined by CCC. (3) If the evidence shows that the net amount has been adjusted to include a drying charge in pounds or bushels and there is no moisture or dockage factor, then the pounds or bushels deducted for the drying charge will be included in the net amount; and (4) If the evidence does not show a moisture or dockage factor, then the net amount, if the evidence provided is otherwise satisfactory, will be accepted. (f) Standard test weights shall be used to convert net weight to bushels, in accordance with part 1421 of this title. (g)(1) Farm-stored production will be measured at producer's request and expense. Scale tickets or weight slips may be accepted for production instead of the measured quantity, when the scale tickets or weight slips include all of the following: (i) Farm identification number; (ii) Commodity; (iii) Date weighed; and (iv) Weigher's signature or initials, and company name if available. (2) The county committee shall determine that the measurements indicating the weighed quantity in the bin is reasonable compared to the measured quantity. (h) Determined quantities may be changed for future years based on delivery amounts if a delivery amount indicates the quantity in the bin. (i) If delivered amounts are normally smaller than measured quantities, other evidence, such as sales receipts, may be required to adjust quantities. (j) Commingled production shall be apportioned between farms by measuring total harvested production and apportioning harvested production between farms based on the ratio of each farm's payment yield. (k) When a farm has multiple producers and the producers' share of the production and total bushels received are known, the farm yield may be computed from this data. (l) Production evidence for enrolled crops may be accepted no later than the 15 calendar days after the final signup date for VPLP. ยง1416.104 Commingling grain. (a) The producer will be allowed to store or commingle production for any and all crop years from acreage enrolled in the VPLP with any crop year production from acreage in compliance with the ARP. (b) However, VPLP production must be measured by a representative of the county ASCS office before it is commingled with any other production. ยง1416.105 Required production reports. (a) Producers enrolled in the VPLP must file reports for each enrolled crop which include: (1) The quantity of each enrolled crop on hand at the beginning of the current marketing year (June 1, for wheat, barley, and oats; September 1, for corn and grain sorghum); (2) The quantity of the enrolled crop harvested in the current year; and (3) The quantity of the enrolled crop's production on hand at the end of the current marketing year (May 31, for wheat, barley, and oats; August 31, for corn and grain sorghum).
