FR941216-1-00156 FR941216-1-00012 (k) Provide means for controlled dissipation of static electrical charges during igniter insertion. (l) Operations that involve electrical continuity checking/testing of ignition systems installed in rocket motors are to be conducted according to thoroughly reviewed and approved procedures. If review indicates that an unacceptable potential for ignition exists, these checks shall be conducted by remote control with the motor mounted in a test stand designed to withstand the thrust of the motor times a factor 2.5, minimum. ยง184.209 Disassembly. (a) Process equipment and tooling that requires disassembly as a process operation shall be designed as much as possible to avoid metal-to-metal movement and trapping of explosive material. (b) Sanitary, external clamp fittings should be used on pipe assemblies for propellant transfer. (c) Disassembly of equipment and tooling which is nonroutine, such as necessary for equipment repair or for securing the process, should not be started until evaluation of potential hazards from trapped material or process residuals. Appendix A to Subpart P of Part 184_ Remote Control and Personnel Protection Requirements for Certain Propellant Processing Operations 1Operation 1Remote controls 1Personnel protected1 Blending and screening of ammonium perchlorate Advisory Advisory. Blending screening of nitramines and perchlorates other than ammonium Mandatory2 Mandatory.2 Grinding, and mechanized drying of perchlorates and nitramines Mandatory Mandatory (adequate protective wall for perchlorate and intraline distance for nitramines). Grinding, blending, screening, and mechanized drying of ammonium nitrates Advisory Advisory. Rotating blade propellant mixing Mandatory Mandatory.4 Power-driven cutting, machining, sawing, planing, drilling, or other unconfined operations in which rocket motors or propellant of Q/D Hazard Division 1.1 and 1.3 are involved2 Mandatory3 Mandatory.3 Mandrel break away removal from cured propellant Mandatory3 Mandatory.3 Pressing, extruding, pelletizing or blending Mandatory Advisory at intraline distance mandatory at less than intraline distance. Casting propellants Mandatory3 Mandatory.3 1Operating personnel shall be at Q/D or in a control room that will limit overpressure to less than 2.3 psi. 2Attended screening of wet material may be permitted if shown acceptable by hazard analysis. 3Attended operation permitted if shown to be acceptable by hazard analysis. 4When the maximum credible event (MCE) is shown by hazard analysis to be fire hazard only, non-attended operation is permitted.
