FR940228-2-00144 FR940228-2-00083 Each project must: (a) Make use of research and the experience of projects that have achieved success in the area of the priority. (b) Collaborate in the planning and operation of the project with the State science teachers' association and/or the State mathematics teachers' association and with at least one other party such as a school, an educational institution, a local or state educational agency, a national education organization, a science-technology center, or a private sector party; with these other parties, develop plans for continuing project activities after Federal support has ended. (c) Evaluate lessons learned from the project and use them to improve activities on a continuing basis. (d) Disseminate lessons learned to interested parties. Dissemination must begin while the project is in progress and use electronic as well as other forms of communication. (e) In the case of projects serving elementary and middle schools, increase teachers' own mastery of mathematics and science in order to increase their confidence and skill in teaching these subjects (including skills in providing hands-on learning). (f) Involve parents and community members as role models and/or mentors for female and minority children. Proposed Priority 2_Science-Based Teacher Professional Development in Environmental Education The Secretary will support model science-based professional development projects designed to improve student achievement in environmental education. Each project must: (a) Make use of research and the experience of projects that have achieved success in the area of the priority. (b) Collaborate in the planning and operation of the project with at least two other parties such as schools, educational institutions, local or state educational agencies, national education organizations, science-technology centers, or private sector parties; with these other parties, develop plans for continuing project activities after Federal support has ended. (c) Evaluate lessons learned from the project and use them to improve activities on a continuing basis. (d) Disseminate lessons learned to interested parties. Dissemination must begin while the project is in progress and use electronic as well as other forms of communication. (e) Use environmental education as a means to enhance students' interest, literacy, and achievement in science. (f) Increase teachers' own mastery of environmental issues, including related scientific issues. (g) Train teachers to develop varied learning experiences for students in environmental education that include field components and the study of individual themes, such as ecosystems (e.g., wetlands), the water cycle, and global climate change; enable teachers to pilot-test these varied learning experiences with students. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed priorities. All comments submitted in response to this notice will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 500, 555 New Jersey Avenue NW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Applicable Program Regulations: 34 CFR part 755. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 2992. Dated: January 14, 1994. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.168, Dwight D. Eisenhower National Program for Mathematics and Science Education) Sharon P. Robinson, Assistant Secretary, Office of Educational Research and Improvement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4427 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
