FR941220-0-00023 FR941220-0-00005 Response: The manual section to which the commenter refers describes Medicare Part B coverage of durable medical equipment (DME) and related supplies. We do not believe that the suggested revision is necessary because paragraph (e) of this section specifically provides for Medicare coverage of DME under the home health benefit identical to its coverage under Part B. Therefore, all policy relating to Part B coverage of DME applies to home health DME coverage, not just the policy contained in section 3113.4 of the Intermediary Manual. We have chosen not to include the extensive manual provisions on Part B DME coverage in this rule, but we have cross-referenced paragraph (e) with 42 CFR 410.38, which contains the regulations describing the scope and conditions of payment for DME under Part B. We have not included the manual provisions in this rule because we believe that §410.38 (to which this section refers) provides an adequate description of Medicare DME coverage and because the extensive and detailed nature of the manual provisions on DME coverage make them best suited for inclusion in the appropriate manuals but inappropriate for inclusion in this rule. We also note that §220 of the Medicare HHA Manual describes this coverage in depth. Comment: One commenter stated that HCFA should issue a list of Medicare-covered medical supplies. Response: We do not issue a list of covered medical supplies because it is not feasible to compile and maintain such a list in a timely and comprehensive manner. Also, in some cases, Medicare coverage of a certain item may depend on the circumstances in which it is used (such as skin lotion or shampoo), and so a list would not adequately provide for all possible coverage. Therefore, we define (in both this rule and in the Medicare HHA Manual) the criteria for Medicare coverage of medical supplies and rely on the intermediary to apply those criteria on a case-by-case basis. Comment: One commenter informed us that the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association, to which we referred in §409.45(g), is now known as the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education. Response: We have made the appropriate revision to paragraph (g). Allowable Administrative Costs (§409.46) Comment: One commenter stated that §409.46(a) should be revised to allow for Medicare coverage of skilled nursing services furnished without a physician's orders during the initial evaluation visit. Response: In addition to establishing other requirements, section 1861(m) of the Act defines covered home health services as items and services furnished under a plan of care established and periodically reviewed by a physician. Therefore, there is no statutory authority for Medicare coverage of services that have not been ordered by a physician. If the nurse performing the evaluation visit finds the beneficiary to be in need of immediate care, he or she may obtain verbal orders for care from a physician at that time and then proceed to furnish the ordered care. In this circumstance, the initial evaluation visit would then become a Medicare-covered skilled nursing visit. Comment: One commenter stated that visits by registered nurses or other qualified professionals for the supervision of home health aides should be considered a home health aide cost rather than an allowable administrative cost. Response: Because the cost of the supervisory visit is associated with providing an administrative service (that is, compliance with the requirements of the Medicare HHA conditions of participation at 42 CFR 484.36) and not a home health aide service, the costs associated with the provision of the required supervisory visits is an allowable administrative cost. We have also added a new §413.125 in this final rule to refer to the rules on the allowability of certain costs in this section as well as §409.49(b).
