FR940916-1-00045 FR940916-1-00015 (4)(i) For procurement actions (both domestic and overseas) that do not exceed the simplified acquisition limitation, contracting officers need not consult the ``List of Parties Excluded from Procurement Programs'' prior to award. The list should be consulted whenever the contracting officer has reason to believe that a proposed contractor may appear on the list. (ii) Contracting officers at domestic contracting activities shall review the ``List of Parties Excluded from Procurement Programs'', either in hard copy or electronic form, prior to award. 54. Section 609.405&hyph;70 is amended by removing paragraph (c); by redesignating paragraphs (a) and (b) as (b) and (c), respectively; and by designating the introductory paragraph as paragraph (a) and revising it to read as follows: 609.405&hyph;70 Termination action decision. (a) Prior to making a decision to terminate, based on the considerations listed below, the contracting officer shall have the proposed action reviewed and approved by: (1) The Office of the Legal Adviser; (2) An individual one level above the contracting officer; and, (3) For overseas posts, A/OPE. * * * * * 55 and 56. Part 610 is added to subchapter B to read as follows: PART 610_SPECIFICATIONS, STANDARDS, AND OTHER PURCHASE DESCRIPTIONS Sec. 610.002␣Policy. 610.002&hyph;70␣Metric system implementation. Authority: 40 U.S.C. 486(c); 22 U.S.C. 2658. 610.002 Policy. 610.002&hyph;70 Metric system implementation. (a) Policy . The Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;418) requires Federal agencies to establish implementing guidelines pursuant to metric policy established under Sec. 5164 of the Act to adopt the metric system as the preferred system of weights and measurements for United States trade and commerce. This subsection establishes the Department of State metric conversion guidelines for transition from the traditional system to the metric system of weights and measurements. (b) Applicability . This subsection applies to all DOS procurements, except to the extent that such use is impractical or is likely to cause significant inefficiencies or loss of markets to United States firms. (c) Definitions . (1) Traditional system of weights and measurements means the predominant weight and measurement system currently used in the United States, also referred to as the ``inch-pound system''. The traditional system includes such commonly used units as inch, foot, yard, mile, pint, quart, gallon, bushel, ounce (fluid and avoirdupois), pound, degree Fahrenheit, ampere, candela, and second. (2) Metric system means the International System of Units (Le System International d'Unites (SI)) of the International Bureau of Weights and Measures. The units are listed in Federal Standard 376A, Preferred Metric Units for General Use by the Federal Government. (3) Metrication means any act that increases metric system use, including metric training and initiation or conversion of measurement-sensitive processes and systems to the metric system. (4) Measurement sensitive means any item whose application or meaning depends substantially on some measured quantity. For example, measurement sensitive items include product or performance criteria and standards binding on others, such as emission levels, size and weight limitations on items in commerce. (5) Hard metric means the use of only standard metric (SI) measurements in specifications, standards, supplies and services. (6) Soft metric means the result of mathematical conversion of inch-pound measurements to metric equivalents in specifications, standards, supplies and services. The physical dimensions, however, are not changed. (7) Dual systems means the use of both traditional and metric systems. For example, an item is designated, produced and described in inch-pound values with soft metric values also shown for information or comparison. (8) Hybrid systems means the use of both traditional and hard metric values in specifications, standards, supplies and services. For example, an engine with internal parts in metric dimensions and external fittings or attachments in inch-pound dimensions. (d) Procedures . (1) DOS contracting activities shall implement the metric system in a manner consistent with Pub. L. 100&hyph;418. (2) All DOS contracting activities shall use the metric system in procurement consistent with security, operations, economic, technical, logistical, training and safety requirements. (3) The Department shall encourage industry to adopt the metric system by acquiring commercially available metric products and services that meet the Department's needs whenever practical. Toward this end, solicitations for DOS acquisitions shall: (i) State all measurement sensitive requirements in metric terms whenever possible. Alternatives to hard metric are soft, dual and hybrid metric terms. The Metric Handbook for Federal Officials regarding the selection of proper metric units and symbols is available from the National Technical Information Service ( # PB89&hyph;226922); and (ii) Contracting officers shall return all statements of work/specifications that are not expressed in some form of metric terms to the requirements office that prepared the documents, if the contract is expected to exceed $500,000, unless the requirements office has forwarded to the contracting activity for approval, in a waiver format prescribed by the head of the contracting activity, a justification for the use of non-metric specifications/statements of work. Option year prices shall be considered when computing the $500,000 threshold.
