FR941216-1-00154 FR941216-1-00012 (2) The blender shall be electrically bonded throughout. (3) Blending equipment shall be constructed so oxidizer material is not subjected to pinching, friction, or impact between metal-to-metal surfaces. (4) When ammonium perchlorate is blended using powered mechanical equipment, operating personnel shall be protected. Remote control of mechanical blending is advisory. (5) When powered mechanical methods are used for blending mass-detonating materials (such as REDX or HMX), the operation shall be remotely controlled and personnel protected (See Note 1 to Appendix A to this subpart). (f) Grinding oxidizers. (1) When impact-type mills are used, there shall be sufficient clearance between stationary and moving parts to prevent metal-to-metal contact. Clearances shall be checked as often as needed to ensure they are adequate. Mill bearings should be wind swept (purged) to prevent contamination. Impact-type grinders shall not be used for mass-detoning materials. (2) Oxidizer feed materials shall be passed through a screen mesh with openings no greater than the clearance between hammer and plate. Screen mesh size for ammonium nitrate should be the smallest that allows free flow of the prills. Magnetic separations shall be used if screening is not possible. (3) Use only compatible lubricants in grinding equipment. (4) Heat sensitive devices should be installed on the bearing housing of grinding and conditioning equipment. (5) Determine the cleaning cycle and method used for grinding equipment and include in operating procedures. (6) Grinding operations should be provided with wet dust-collection systems, where appropriate. (7) Pneumatic grinding operations shall be thoroughly grounded and bonded to provide for electrostatic charge dissipation. (g) Preparation of fuel compositions. (1) Sensitivity characteristics of fuel compositions should be determined prior to production mixing operations. (2) Establish compatibility of materials. Develop procedures that preclude the formation of highly sensitive compositions or hazardous conditions during processing, such as, dry AP and powdered metal mixtures. (3) Equipment, piping, and vessels used in fuel preparation should be bonded to form a continuous electrical path with each other and to building ground. When metallic powder and flammable liquids are transferred (poured) from one container to another, the containers should be bonded together prior to transfer. (4) Minimize the formation and accumulation of dust in all preparation operations. (5) Fume hoods, dust socks, closed systems, and dust/fume vacuum exhaust hoses are to be used, as appropriate, to prevent vapors and dust getting into the operating areas. (h) Transfer operations. (1) Finely divided powdered ingredients should be transferred by methods that control flow rate and minimize electrostatic charge generation which would result from ``slug'' dumping. (2) Flammable solvents should be transferred only after the transfer and receiving vessels have been electrically bonded to eliminate electrostatic potential differences. ยง184.205 Mixing. (a) Secure hardware and associated equipment to prevent loose items falling into mixers. (b) Liquids and powders to be added to the mix vessels shall first pass through a screen or orifice with an opening(s) less than the smallest clearance in the mixer. Smaller amounts of material may be added directly, provided a positive means exists to ensure the material does not contain any foreign material. (c) Materials which cannot be screened and are opaque or not easily inspected should be examined by other means, such as X-ray. (d) When consistent with the process system and requirements, a cover shall be placed over the mixer bowl after changing or mixing operations are completed. This is to prevent the accidental introduction of foreign objects into the mixer and also to preclude sunlight impinging directly on the materials in the bowl. (e) Use only nonsparking devices to scrape down the sides and blades of mixtures by hand. Set up controls to prevent these and other devices from being accidentally introduced into the mixer. (f) Account for all loose tools and equipment before starting or continuing mixing operations. (g) Do not allow objects in the mixer operating area (such as jewelry, pens, and coins) that may accidentally be introduced into mixers. Suggest using pocketless coveralls. (h) Direct and unobstructed routes shall be provided for personnel egress from mixer buildings or bays. (i) Personnel shall not attempt to fight propellant fires. (j) Propellant mixers should be equipped, inside and outside of the mixing vessel, with a high-speed deluge system.
