FR940228-1-00144 FR940228-1-00010 (2) The institution must apply the allocation policy described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section consistently to all students who have received Title IV, HEA program assistance and must conform that policy to the following: (i) No amount of the refund or of the overpayment may be allocated to the FWS Program. (ii) No amount of overpayment may be allocated to the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, or Federal SLS Program. (iii) The amount of the Title IV, HEA program portion of the refund allocated to the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs must be returned to the appropriate borrower's lender by the institution in accordance with program regulations (34 CFR part 682). (iv) The amount of the Title IV, HEA program portion of the refund allocated to the Title IV, HEA programs other than the FWS, Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs must be returned to the appropriate program account or accounts by the institution within 30 days of the date that the student officially withdraws or is expelled or the institution determines that a student has unofficially withdrawn. (v) The amount of the Title IV, HEA program portion of the overpayment allocated to the Title IV, HEA programs other than the FWS, Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs must be returned to the appropriate program account or accounts within 30 days of the date that the student repays the overpayment. (h) Financial aid. For purposes of this section ``financial aid'' is assistance that a student has been or will be awarded (including Federal PLUS loans received on the student's behalf) from Federal; State; institutional; or other scholarship, grant, or loan programs. (i) Refund dates_ (1) Withdrawal date. (i) Except as provided in paragraphs (i)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section, a student's withdrawal date is the earlier of_ (A) The date that the student notifies an institution of the student's withdrawal, or the date of withdrawal specified by the student, whichever is later; or (B) If the student drops out of the institution without notifying the institution (does not withdraw officially), the last recorded date of class attendance by the student, as documented by the institution. (ii) If the student has not returned to the institution at the expiration of a leave of absence approved under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the student's withdrawal date is the last recorded date of class attendance by the student, as documented by the institution. If the student returns to the institution after the expiration of the leave of absence but during the award year or (for the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs) during the period of enrollment in which the student was granted the leave of absence, the student may not receive additional Title IV, HEA program assistance for coursework that he or she has not completed. (iii) If the student is enrolled in an educational program that consists predominantly of correspondence courses, the student's withdrawal date is normally the date of the last lesson submitted by the student, if the student failed to submit the subsequent lesson in accordance with the schedule for lessons established by the institution. However, if the student establishes in writing, within 60 days of the date of the last lesson that he or she submitted, a desire to continue in the program and an understanding that the required lessons must be submitted on time, the institution may restore that student to ``in school'' status for purposes of funds received under the Title IV, HEA programs. The institution may not grant the student more than one restoration to ``in school'' status on this basis. (2) Leaves of absence. A student who has been absent from an institution and has been granted a leave of absence by the institution, in accordance with this paragraph, is not considered to have withdrawn from the institution for purposes of this section. In any twelve-month period, an institution may grant a single leave of absence to a student provided that_ (i) The student has made a written request to be granted a leave of absence; (ii) The leave of absence involves no additional charges by the institution to the student; and (iii) The leave of absence does not exceed_ (A) Sixty days;
