FR941222-1-00034 FR941222-1-00008 Table II&hyph;1._Settlement Agreement Wastestreams 1Wastestreams identified in the settlement agreement 1Coverage in today's proposed rulemaking Product mother liquor lProcess waters lTreated wastewater effluent Addressed as a wastewater for each industry segment, including azo, anthraquinone, and triarylmethane dyes and pigments (K163, K165). Wastewater treatment sludge Addressed as wastewater treatment sludge for each industry segment, including azo, anthraquinone, and triarylmethane dyes and pigments (K162, K164). Recovery still bottoms Still bottoms from triarylmethane dyes and pigments (K166). Spent filter aids Addressed for the industries as a whole. Dust collector fines Addressed for the industries as a whole. Product standardization filter cake Not explicitly generated. Spent catalysts Not explicitly generated but included with spent filter aids. Vacuum system condensate lReactor Still Overhead lEquipment Cleaning Sludge Not generated by these industries. D. Description of Health and Risk Assessments In determining whether waste generated from the production of dyes and pigments meets the criteria for listing a waste as hazardous as set out at 40 CFR 261.11, the Agency evaluated the potential toxicity and intrinsic hazard of constituents present in the wastestreams, the fate and mobility of these chemicals, the likely exposure routes, the current waste management practices, and plausible management practices. A quantitative risk assessment was conducted for those constituents and wastestreams where the available information made such an assessment possible. 1. Human Health Criteria and Effects The Agency uses health-based levels, or HBLs, as a means for evaluating the level of concern of toxic constituents in various media. In the development of HBLs, EPA first must determine exposure levels that are protective of human health and then apply standard exposure assumptions to develop media-specific levels. EPA uses the following hierarchy for evaluating health effects data and health-based standards in establishing chemical-specific HBLS: a. Use the Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) or proposed MCL (PMCL) as the HBL for the ingestion of the constituent in water, when it exists. MCLs are promulgated under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SWDA) of 1974, as amended in 1986, and consider technology and economic feasibility as well as health effects. b. Use Agency-verified Reference Doses (RfDs) or Reference Concentrations (RfCs) in calculating HBLs for noncarcinogens and verified carcinogenic slope factors (CSFs) in calculating HBLs for carcinogens. Agency-verified RfDs, RfCs, and CSFs and the bases for these values are presented in the EPA's Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS).
