FR941202-1-00004 FR941202-1-00002 Subpart D_Miscellaneous Section 226.28_Effect on State Laws 28(b) Equivalent Disclosure Requirements Section 152(e) of the Equity Protection Act provides that the procedure for substituting substantially similar state law disclosures for federal TILA requirements does not apply to state disclosure requirements for high-rate, high-fee mortgages. The proposed amendments reflect this limitation. Subpart E_Certain Mortgage Transactions The amendments to the TILA (section 129 dealing with high-rate, high-fee mortgages and section 138 dealing with reverse mortgage transactions) layer disclosure and timing requirements onto the requirements already imposed for these consumer credit transactions. The Board proposes to implement these provisions by adding a new subpart E to the regulation: proposed §226.31 addresses general requirements such as timing and format rules; §226.32 contains rules relating to high-rate, high-fee mortgages; and §226.32 addresses reverse mortgages. Section 226.31_General Disclosure Requirements 31(a) Relation to Other Subparts The proposed regulation explicitly states that the requirements and limitations of Subpart E are in addition to_not in lieu of_those otherwise provided in other subparts of the regulation. For example, creditors offering closed-end, variable-rate loans that are secured by the consumer's principal dwelling and have a term greater that one year must generally provide disclosures at the time of application and prior to consummation, according to the requirements of Subpart C. If these transactions are also high-rate, high-fee mortgage loans, this subpart requires creditors to provide additional disclosures at least three business days prior to the loan's consummation. 31(c) Timing of Disclosures 31(c)(1) High-rate, High-fee Mortgage Disclosures Section 129 of the TILA and the proposed regulation require a three-day ``cooling off'' period between the time consumers are furnished with special disclosures about a high-rate, high-fee mortgage and the time the consumer becomes obligated under the loan. The law also authorizes the Board to identify in the regulation circumstances under which a homeowner may modify or waive the right to the three-day waiting period to meet bona fide personal financial emergencies. The legislative history states that the provision is intended to protect consumers from high-pressure sales tactics and to ensure that consumers understand the terms of loans with high interest rates or up-front fees. The Board is not proposing regulations regarding waivers of the cooling-off period at this time. Sections 226.15(e) and 226.23(e) of the regulation discuss waivers of the right to rescind, and the Board solicits comments on whether similar provisions should be incorporated for high-rate, high-fee mortgage loans. 31(c)(2) Reverse Mortgage Disclosures Besides the other disclosures required by the regulation, section 138 of the TILA requires creditors to furnish additional disclosures to consumers at least three business days prior to consummation of a reverse mortgage transaction. Timing requirements for closed-end credit are often tied to the consummation of the transaction, and the regulation parallels the statute for closed-end reverse mortgage loans. However, reverse mortgage loans may also be structured as open-end credit plans. In that case, the proposed regulation provides that the disclosures must be given at least three business days prior to the first transaction under the open-end credit plan. Conforming Paragraphs Proposed paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) mirror provisions in subparts B and C, and provide consistency among the subparts of the regulation. (See §226.5 and §226.17.) Section 226.32_High-Rate, High-Fee Mortgages 32(a) Coverage Section 152 of the Equity Protection Act provides that the high-rate, high-fee mortgage rules do not apply to a residential mortgage transaction, a reverse mortgage transaction, and an open-end credit plan. The proposed regulation tracks those exceptions, with two additions for clarification. The Board believes the Congress intended to exempt from coverage only those reverse mortgage transactions which are part of the new disclosure scheme in proposed §226.33, and the proposed amendment reflects that limitation. Also, the proposed amendment clarifies that the exception for open-end credit plans extends to all plans subject to subpart B of the regulation (Open-end Credit).
