FR940927-2-00048 FR940927-2-00034 National Park Service General Management Plan/Environmental Impact Statement for Mount Rainier National Park, WA agency: National Park Service, Interior. action: Notice of Intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for the General Management Plan for Mount Rainier National Park, Washington. summary: The National Park Service will prepare a General Management Plan/Environmental Impact Statement (GMP/EIS) for Mount Rainier National Park, Washington. The GMP/EIS will describe and analyze a proposal and alternatives for the future management of the park for approximately 15 years past approval of the plan. A Master Plan was completed for Mount Rainier National Park in 1974; however, this plan is outdated and does not address current issues. In recent years, visitor use in the park has increased substantially, resulting in traffic circulation and parking problems, as well as degradation of vegetation and erosion of soil from off-trail use. External encroachments and adverse impacts along the park boundaries are also increasing. Current projects and plans that are addressing some immediate needs of the park include a gateway community assistance initiative, a transportation study and a Natural Resource Management Plan. The results of these projects will provide vital information for the GMP. Issues to be addressed in the GMP/EIS include, but are not limited to: Traffic and circulation patterns, impacts of land uses outside the park, geological and hydrologic hazards and natural resources and visitor use management. Visitor density and distribution in the park and methods to mitigate impact on park resources while ensuring a quality visitor experience will also be considered. Alternatives to address these issues will be developed in cooperation with the public and will include a no-action alternative. Additionally, the EIS will provide a comprehensive analysis of impacts, taking into account cumulative effects. Representatives of federal, state and local agencies, private organizations and individuals from the general public who may be interested in or affected by the proposed GMP/EIS are invited to participate in the scoping process by responding to this Notice with written comments. The scoping process will help define issues, concerns, and potential impacts related to the plan. Public scoping meetings are expected to be held in November 1994. The time and location of these meetings will be announced prior to that time through the local media and the park's mailing list. The draft GMP/EIS is expected to be available for public review in 1997 and the final GMP/EIS and Record of Decision completed one year later. The responsible official is Charles H. Odegaard, Regional Director, Pacific Northwest Region, National Park Service. dates: Written comments about the scope of issues and impact topics to be analyzed in the GMP/EIS should be received no later than 60 days from the date of publication of this Notice. addresses: Written comments concerning the GMP/EIS should be sent to the Superintendent, Mount Rainier National Park, Ashford, Washington 98304&hyph;9751. for further information contact: Eric Walkinshaw, Chief of Planning and Professional Services, Mount Rainier National Park at the above address or at telephone number (206) 569&hyph;2211, extension 3362. Dated: September 15, 1994. William C. Walters, Deputy Regional Director, Pacific Northwest Region, National Park Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23787 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;M
