FR941110-0-00251 FR941110-0-00016 (c) Notice of certification of noncompliance and resulting action. The notice of certification of noncompliance is sent in accordance with the timeframes specified in ยง488.402(f), and resulting action is issued by HCFA, except when the State is taking the action for a non-State operated NF. (d) Content of notice of certification of noncompliance. The notice of certification of noncompliance is sent in accordance with the timeframes specified in ยง488.402(f) and includes information on all of the following: (1) Nature of noncompliance. (2) Any alternative remedies to be imposed under subpart F of this part. (3) Any termination or denial of participation action to be taken under this part. (4) The appeal rights available to the facility under this part. (5) Timeframes to be met by the provider and certifying agency with regard to each of the enforcement actions or appeal procedures addressed in the notice. (e) Appeals. (1) Notwithstanding any provision of State law, the State must impose remedies promptly on any provider of services participating in the Medicaid program_ (i) After promptly notifying the facility of the deficiencies and impending remedy or remedies; and (ii) Except for civil money penalties, during the pendency of any hearing that may be requested by the provider of services. (2) HCFA imposes remedies promptly on any provider of services participating in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any provider of services participating in both the Medicare and Medicaid programs_ (i) After promptly notifying the facility of the deficiencies and impending remedy or remedies; and (ii) Except for civil money penalties, during any pending hearing that may be requested by the provider of services. (3) The provisions of part 498 of this chapter apply when the following providers request a hearing on a denial of participation, or certification of noncompliance leading to an enforcement remedy (including termination of the provider agreement), except State monitoring: (i) All State-operated facilities; (ii) SNFs and dually participating SNF/NFs; and (iii) Any other facilities subject to a HCFA validation survey or HCFA review of the State's findings. (4) The provisions of part 431 of this chapter apply when a non-State operated Medicaid NF, which has not received a HCFA validation survey or HCFA review of the State's findings, requests a hearing on the State's denial of participation, termination of provider agreement, or certification of noncompliance leading to an alternative remedy, except State monitoring. (f) Provider agreements. HCFA or the Medicaid agency may execute a provider agreement when a prospective provider is in substantial compliance with all the requirements for participation for a SNF or NF, respectively. (g) Special rules for Federal validation surveys. (1) HCFA may make independent certifications of a NF's, SNF's, or dually participating facility's noncompliance based on a HCFA validation survey. (2) HCFA issues the notice of actions affecting facilities for which HCFA did validation surveys. (3) For non-State-operated NFs and non-State-operated dually participating facilities, any disagreement between HCFA and the State regarding the timing and choice of remedies is resolved in accordance with ยง488.452. (4) Either HCFA or the survey agency, at HCFA's option, may revisit the facility to ensure that corrections are made.
