FR940725-1-00079 FR940725-1-00010 31. Section 23.175 is revised to read as follows: §23.175 Demonstration of static longitudinal stability. Static longitudinal stability must be shown as follows: (a) Climb. The stick force curve must have a stable slope at speeds between 85 and 115 percent of the trim speed, with_ (1) Flaps retracted; (2) Landing gear retracted; (3) Maximum continuous power; and (4) The airplane trimmed at the speed used in determining the climb performance required by §23.69(a). (b) Cruise. With flaps and landing gear retracted and the airplane in trim with power for level flight at representative cruising speeds at high and low altitudes, including speeds up to V NO or V MO /M MO , as appropriate, except that the speed need not exceed V H _ (1) For normal, utility, and acrobatic category airplanes, the stick force curve must have a stable slope at all speeds within a range that is the greater of 15 percent of the trim speed plus the resulting free return speed range, or 40 knots plus the resulting free return speed range, above and below the trim speed, except that the slope need not be stable_ (i) At speeds less than 1.3 V S1 ; or (ii) For airplanes with V NE established under §23.1505(a), at speeds greater than V NE ; or (iii) For airplanes with V MO /M MO established under §23.1505(c), at speeds greater than V FC /M FC . (2) For commuter category airplanes, the stick force curve must have a stable slope at all speeds within a range of 50 knots plus the resulting free return speed range, above and below the trim speed, except that the slope need not be stable_ (i) At speeds less than 1.4 V S1 ; or (ii) At speeds greater than V FC /M FC ; or (iii) At speeds that require a stick force greater than 50 pounds. (c) Landing. The stick force curve must have a stable slope at speeds between 1.1 V S1 and 1.8 V S1 with_ (1) Flaps in the landing position; (2) Landing gear extended; and (3) The airplane trimmed at_ (i) V REF , or the minimum trim speed if higher, with power off; and (ii) V REF with enough power to maintain a 3 degree angle of descent. 32. Section 23.177 is revised to read as follows: §23.177 Static directional and lateral stability. (a) The static directional stability, as shown by the tendency to recover from a wings level sideslip with the rudder free, must be positive for any landing gear and flap position appropriate to the takeoff, climb, cruise, approach, and landing configurations. This must be shown with symmetrical power up to maximum continuous power, and at speeds from 1.2 V S1 up to the maximum allowable speed for the condition being investigated. The angle of sideslip for these tests must be appropriate to the type of airplane. At larger angles of sideslip, up to that at which full rudder is used or a control force limit in §23.143 is reached, whichever occurs first, and at speeds from 1.2 V S1 to V O , the rudder pedal force must not reverse. (b) The static lateral stability, as shown by the tendency to raise the low wing in a sideslip, must be positive for all landing gear and flap positions. This must be shown with symmetrical power up to 75 percent of maximum continuous power at speeds above 1.2 V S1 in the takeoff configuration(s) and at speeds above 1.3 V S1 in other configurations, up to the maximum allowable speed for the configuration being investigated, in the takeoff, climb, cruise, and approach configurations. For the landing configuration, the power must be up to that necessary to maintain 3 degree angle of descent in coordinated flight. The static lateral stability must not be negative at 1.2 V S1 in the takeoff configuration, or at 1.3 V S1 in other configurations. The angle of sideslip for these tests must be appropriate to the type of airplane, but in no case may the constant heading sideslip angle be less than that obtainable with a 10 degree bank, or if less, the maximum bank angle obtainable with full rudder deflection or 150 pound rudder force. (c) Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to acrobatic category airplanes certificated for inverted flight. (d) In straight, steady slips at 1.2 V S1 for any landing gear and flap positions, and for any symmetrical power conditions up to 50 percent of maximum continuous power, the aileron and rudder control movements and forces must increase steadily, but not necessarily in constant proportion, as the angle of sideslip is increased up to the maximum appropriate to the type of airplane. At larger slip angles, up to the angle at which full rudder or aileron control is used or a control force limit contained in §23.143 is reached, the aileron and rudder control movements and forces must not reverse as the angle of sideslip is increased. Rapid entry into, and recovery from, a maximum sideslip considered appropriate for the airplane must not result in uncontrollable flight characteristics. 33. Section 23.201 is revised to read as follows: §23.201 Wings level stall. (a) It must be possible to produce and to correct roll by unreversed use of the rolling control and to produce and to correct yaw by unreversed use of the directional control, up to the time the airplane stalls. (b) The wings level stall characteristics must be demonstrated in flight as follows. Starting from a speed at least 10 knots above the stall speed, the elevator control must be pulled back so that the rate of speed reduction will not exceed one knot per second until a stall is produced, as shown by either: (1) An uncontrollable downward pitching motion of the airplane; or
