FR940119-0-00057 FR940119-0-00014 (h) Replacement. Replacement permits, for otherwise valid permits, may be issued by the Regional Director when requested in writing by the applicant, stating the need for replacement and the Federal dealer permit number assigned. An application for a replacement permit will not be considered a new application. An appropriate fee may be charged. (i) Transfer. Permits issued under this part are not transferable or assignable. A permit is valid only for the person to whom, or other business entity to which, it is issued. (j) Change in application information. Within 15 days after a change in the information contained in an application submitted under this section, a written report of the change must be submitted to, and received by, the Regional Director. If written notice of the change in information is not received by the Regional Director within 15 days, the permit is void. (k) Alteration. Any permit that has been altered, erased, or mutilated is invalid. (l) Display. Any permit, or a valid duplicate thereof, issued under this part must be maintained in legible condition and displayed for inspection upon request by any authorized officer. (m) Federal versus state requirements. If a requirement of this part differs from a fisheries management measure required by state law, any dealer issued a Federal dealer permit must comply with the more restrictive requirement. (n) Sanctions. Procedures governing enforcement-related permit sanctions and denials are found at subpart D of 15 CFR part 904. ยง650.7 Recordkeeping and reporting. (a) Dealers_ (1) Weekly report. Dealers shall mail at least the following information to the Regional Director, or official designee, on a weekly basis on forms supplied by or approved by the Regional Director. Or, if authorized in writing by the Regional Director, dealers may submit reports electronically or through other media. The following information, and any other information required by the Regional Director, must be provided: Name and mailing address of dealer; dealer number; name and permit number of the vessels from which fish are landed or received; dates of purchases; pounds by species; price by species; and port landed. If no fish is purchased during the week, a report so stating must be submitted. (2) Annual report. All persons required to submit reports under paragraph (a)(1) of this section are required to complete the ``Employment Data'' section of the Annual Processed Products Reports; the other information on that form is voluntary. Required data are the number of employees handling fishery products by month. Reports for a given calendar year shall be submitted to: NMFS Statistics, 166 Water Street, Woods Hole, MA 02543, and must be postmarked by February 10 of the following year. (3) Inspection. The dealer shall make available copies of the required reports that have been submitted, or should have been submitted, and the records upon which the reports were based, immediately upon request for inspection by an authorized officer, or by an employee of NMFS designated by the Regional Director to make such inspections. (4) Record retention. Copies of reports, and records upon which the reports were based, must be retained and available for review for one year after the date of the last entry on the report. The dealer shall retain such reports and records at its principal place of business. (5) Submitting reports. Reports must be received or postmarked, if mailed, within 3 days after the end of each reporting week. Each dealer will be sent forms and instructions, including the address to which to submit reports, shortly after receipt of a dealer permit. If no product was purchased during a week, a report so stating must be submitted. (b) Vessel owners_ (1) Fishing log reports. The owner of any vessel holding a Federal scallop permit under ยง650.4 shall maintain, on board the vessel, and submit an accurate daily fishing log report for all fishing trips regardless of species fished for or taken, on forms supplied by or approved by the Regional Director. If authorized in writing by the Regional Director, vessel owners may submit reports electronically, using the VTS, or other media. At least the following information, and any other information required by the Regional Director, must be provided: Vessel name; U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) documentation number (or state registration number if undocumented); permit number; date/time sailed; date/time landed; trip type; number of crew; gear fished; quantity and size of gear; mesh/ring size; chart area fished; average depth; latitude/longitude (or loran station and bearings); total hauls per area fished; average tow time duration; pounds by species of all species landed and discarded; dealer permit number; dealer name; date sold; port and state landed; and vessel operator's name, signature, and operator permit number. (2) When to fill in the log. Such log reports must be filled in, except for information required but not yet ascertainable, before offloading has begun. At the end of a fishing trip all information in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be filled in for each fishing trip before starting the next fishing trip. (3) Inspection. Owners and operators shall make, immediately upon request, the fishing log reports currently in use or to be submitted available for inspection by an authorized officer, or an employee of the NMFS designated by the Regional Director to make such inspections, at any time during or after a trip. (4) Record retention. Copies of fishing log reports must be retained and available for review for one year after the date of the last entry on the report. (5) Submitting reports. Fishing log reports must be received or postmarked, if mailed, within 15 days after the end of each reporting month. Each owner will be sent forms and instructions, including the address to which to submit reports, shortly after receipt of a Federal Fisheries Permit. If no fishing trip is made during a month, a report so stating must be submitted. ยง650.8 Vessel identification. (a) Vessel name. Each fishing vessel subject to this part and that is over 25 feet (7.6 m) in length must display its name on the port and starboard sides of its bow and, if possible, on its stern. (b) Official number. Each fishing vessel subject to this part that is over 25 feet (7.6 m) in length must display its official number on the port and starboard sides of its deckhouse or hull, and on an appropriate weather deck, so as to be visible from above by enforcement vessels and aircraft. The official number is the U.S. Coast Guard documentation number or the vessel's state registration number for vessels not required to be documented under title 46 of U.S. Code. (c) Numerals. The official number must be permanently affixed in contrasting block Arabic numerals at least 18 inches (45.7 cm) in height for vessels over 65 feet (19.8 m), and at least 10 inches (25.4 cm) in height for all other vessels over 25 feet (7.6 m) in length. (d) Duties of owner and operator. The owner and operator of each vessel subject to this part shall: (1) Keep the vessel name and official number clearly legible and in good repair; and (2) Ensure that no part of the vessel, its rigging, its fishing gear, or any other object obstructs the view of the official number from an enforcement vessel or aircraft.
