FR940826-0-00133 FR940826-0-00020 83. Discussion. We deny the requests of TDS, SDN, 127 and NTCA that we modify the standard definition of rural telephone company to eliminate or relax the access line limit for rural telephone company consortia. In the Second Report and Order as a general matter, we declined to provide exceptions to our designated entity eligibility criteria for applicants that are consortia of various individual entities, which in combination fail to qualify as designated entities. 128 We found that such combinations, if they deviate from our standard definitions of designated entities, should not be eligible for provisions expressly designed for designated entities. This conclusion was based on our desire to provide economic opportunity to those entities designated in the statute and to ensure such entities the opportunity to provide spectrum-based services. We concluded that establishing exceptions to our definitions for consortia (even those wholly comprised of otherwise qualified designated entities) would undermine this objective by diluting the economic opportunity for individual qualified designated entities. We also found that allowing applicants to be formed from a combination of eligible and ineligible entities would invite attempts to abuse the designated entity provisions by those not entitled to them. 127 SDN argues that the Commission should allow rural telephone companies to form consortia among themselves, since combining telephone companies does not alter their rural nature. SDN also argues that consortia with investors should be permitted so long as the rural telephone company retains at least 50.1 percent equity and control. SDN Petition at ¶¶20&hyph;23. 128 See Second Report and Order at ¶286. 84. However, in the Second Report and Order we noted that we may determine on a service-specific basis to allow a designated entity consortium to receive other benefits based on equity and operational participation in the consortium by one or more designated entities. We retained the flexibility to enable designated entity consortia to qualify for special provisions particularly where the capital costs of a particular service are high and the formation of consortia is thus essential to foster investment in designated entity ventures and to enable such entities to compete in the provision of such service. In this regard, in the Fifth Report and Order we allowed consortia comprised of small businesses to qualify for all of the measures applicable to individual small businesses provided each member of the consortium individually satisfies the definition of a small business. We found that given the ``exceptionally large capital requirements'' associated with broadband PCS, allowing small businesses to pool their resources in this manner was necessary to help them overcome capital formation problems and thereby ensure their opportunity to participate in auctions and to become strong broadband PCS competitors. 85. As a general matter, we will continue to determine whether to permit designated entities to receive benefits based on their participation in consortia on a service-specific basis, depending on the capital requirements and other characteristics of the particular service. We modify the Second Report and Order, however, to provide that consortia may be permitted to qualify for any designated entity provisions (where each member individually meets the eligibility requirements) on a service-specific basis, where the capital requirements of the service are high. Where, as in broadband PCS, we will find that the capital requirements necessitate allowing designated entities to pool their resources to help them overcome capital formation problems and thereby ensure their opportunity to participate in auctions and in the provision of service, we may adopt rules allowing such consortia to qualify for designated entity provisions. D. Affiliation Rules 86. Petitions. Blooston and NTCA request that the Commission clarify the meaning of ``affiliate'' for purposes of access line aggregation. According to Blooston, passive investments by a rural telephone holding company in other telephone companies should not preclude eligibility for rural telephone company status, so long as there is no common control between the rural telephone company and the other carrier. Blooston reasons that the common control definition is used in the auction rules for small businesses' affiliates, has been used by the Commission when defining connecting carriers, and is generally used by the financial community and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Finally, Blooston requests that the Commission amend its designated entity provisions to allow rural telephone companies to combine into consortia and partner with investors without losing designated entity status so long as the majority equity control resides with members who are rural telephone companies. NTCA similarly requests that the term ``affiliates'' be clarified to indicate what organizational structures are permitted. 87. Discussion. In response to the requests of the NTCA and Blooston that we clarify the meaning of the term affiliate to indicate the types of organizational structures that will be included, we amend the Second Report and Order to establish as our standard affiliation rules the same affiliation rules adopted by the Commission in the Fifth Report and Order . 129 Blooston specifically requests that we clarify the meaning of ``affiliate'' so that passive investments by a rural telephone company in other rural telephone companies do not preclude designated entity status if there is no common control. As described more fully below, under our affiliation rules a passive interest in another telephone company, which does not constitute control of that company would not be considered an affiliation for purposes of access line aggregation. 129 See Fifth Report and Order at ¶¶201&hyph;217. 88. In the Second Report and Order, we referenced the SBA's affiliation rules for purposes of defining generally whether an entity qualifies as a small business and gave examples of how the affiliation rules would be applied. In the Fifth Report and Order we expanded on the SBA's affiliation rules in establishing detailed affiliation standards for broadband PCS to be used in the context of determining designated entity eligibility where our criteria are based on the size of the entity seeking special treatment and require applicants to include ``affiliates'' when calculating their eligibility. These affiliation requirements are intended to prevent entities that do not meet these size standards for receiving benefits targeted to smaller entities. 130 We believe that these rules are appropriate for determining affiliations generally, and therefore we will incorporate these standards into our generic auction rules for purposes of determining all size-based eligibility requirements. We summarize these standards below. 130 See, e.g., Second Report and Order at ¶272.
