FR940825-2-00074 FR940825-2-00049 Applications which are complete and responsive may be subjected to a preliminary evaluation by reviewers from the Injury Research Grants Review Committee (IRGRC) to determine if the application is of sufficient technical and scientific merit to warrant further review; the CDC will withdraw from further consideration applications judged to be noncompetitive and promptly notify the principal investigator/program director and the official signing for the applicant organization. Those applications judged to be competitive will be further evaluated by a dual review process. The primary review will be a peer evaluation (IRGRC) of the scientific and technical merit of the application. The final review will be conducted by the CDC Advisory Committee for Injury Prevention and Control (ACIPC), which will consider the results of the peer review together with program need and relevance. Funding decisions will be made by the Director, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC), based on merit and priority score ranking by the IRGRC, program review by the ACIPC, and the availability of funds. A. Review by the Injury Research Grants Review Committee (IRGRC) Peer review of ICRC grant applications will be conducted by the IRGRC, which may recommend the application for further consideration or not for further consideration. Site visits will be a part of this process for recompeting ICRC's. Reverse site visits may be a part of this process for new applicants. Factors to be considered by IRGRC include: 1. The specific aims of the application, e.g., the long-term objectives and intended accomplishments. 2. The scientific and technical merit of the overall application, including the significance and originality (e.g., new topic, new method, new approach in a new population, or advancing understanding of the problem) of the proposed research. 3. The extent to which the evaluation plan will allow for the measurement of progress toward the achievement of stated objectives. 4. Qualifications, adequacy, and appropriateness of personnel to accomplish the proposed activities. 5. The soundness of the proposed budget in terms of adequacy of resources and their allocation. 6. The appropriateness (e.g., responsiveness, quality, and quantity) of consultation, technical assistance, and training in identifying, implementing, and/or evaluating intervention/control measures that will be provided to public and private agencies and institutions, with emphasis on State and local health departments, as evidenced by letters detailing the nature and extent of this commitment and collaboration. Specific letters of support or understanding from appropriate governmental bodies must be provided. 7. Evidence of other public and private financial support. 8. Progress thus far made as detailed in the application if the applicant is submitting a competitive renewal application. Documented success examples include: development of pilot projects; completion of high quality research projects; publication of findings in peer reviewed scientific and technical journals; number of professionals trained; provision of consultation and technical assistance; integration of disciplines; translation of research into implementation; impact on injury control outcomes including legislation/regulation, treatment, and behavior modification interventions. B. Review by CDC Advisory Committee for Injury Prevention and Control (ACIPC) Factors to be considered by ACIPC include: 1. The results of the peer review. 2. The significance of the proposed activities as they relate to national program priorities and the achievement of national objectives. 3. National and programmatic needs and geographic balance. 4. Overall distribution of the thematic focus of competing applications; the nationally comprehensive balance of the program in addressing; the three phases of injury control (prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation); the control of injury among populations who are at increased risk, including minority groups, the elderly and children; the major causes of intentional and unintentional injury; and the major disciplines of injury control (such as biomechanics and epidemiology). 5. Within budgetary considerations the ACIPC will establish annual funding levels as detailed under the heading ``Availability of Funds.'' C. Applications for Supplemental Funding Supplemental grant awards may be made when funds are available to support research work or activities. Applications should be clearly labeled to denote their status as requesting supplemental funding support. These applications will be reviewed by the IRGRC and the ACIPC. D. Continued Funding Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of the availability of funds and the following criteria: 1. The accomplishments of the current budget period show that the applicant's objectives as prescribed in the yearly workplans are being met; 2. The objectives for the new budget period are realistic, specific, and measurable; 3. The methods described will clearly lead to achievement of these objectives; 4. The evaluation plan allows management to monitor whether the methods are effective by having clearly defined process, impact, and outcome objectives, and the applicant demonstrates progress in implementing the evaluation plan; 5. The budget request is clearly explained, adequately justified, reasonable, and consistent with the intended use of grant funds; and 6. Progress has been made in developing cooperative and collaborative relationships with injury surveillance and control programs implemented by State and local governments and private sector organizations. Award Priorities Special consideration will be given to re-competing Injury Control Research Centers. Executive Order 12372 Applications are not subject to the review requirements of Executive Order 12372, entitled Inter-Governmental Review of Federal Programs. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirement. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number is 93.136.
