FR941027-2-00123 FR941027-2-00075 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration [Docket No. EA92&hyph;041; Notice 1] General Motors Pickup Truck Defect Investigation; Public Proceeding Scheduled AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of initial decision and public meeting. SUMMARY: NHTSA will hold a public meeting beginning at 10:00 a.m. on December 6, 1994 regarding the initial decision by the Secretary of Transportation that certain pickup trucks and other vehicles manufactured by General Motors Corporation (GM) contain a defect that relates to motor vehicle safety. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ellen Berlin, Director, Office of Public and Consumer Affairs, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590; (202) 366&hyph;9550. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 30118(a) (formerly section 152(a) of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 1412(a)), Secretary of Transportation Federico Peña has made an initial decision that model year 1973&hyph;1991 full-sized GM pickup trucks and cab-chassis equipped with fuel tanks mounted outboard of the frame rails contain a defect that relates to motor vehicle safety. The rationale for this initial decision is set forth in the Engineering Analysis (EA) Report for EA92&hyph;041. The entire report, as well as the complete record on which the initial decision is based, are available for inspection during working hours (9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) in NHTSA's Technical Reference Library, Room 5108, 400 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590. That record consists of the public files for EA92&hyph;041 and Defect Petition (DP) 92&hyph;016. The Executive Summary of the EA Report is set out below. Engineering Analysis Report_Executive Summary This Engineering Analysis was opened on December 8, 1992, as a result of granting a petition from the Center for Auto Safety (CAS) and Public Citizen to ``initiate a defect investigation into and recall all Chevrolet/GMC full-sized pickups (C/K-series) with fuel tank(s) *␣*␣* mounted outboard of frame rails.'' The objective of the investigation was to determine whether certain model year 1970&hyph;1991 Chevrolet and GMC full-sized pickup trucks contain a defect that poses an unreasonable risk to safety, related to the danger of fires following crashes, with primary focus on side-impact crashes. In the investigation, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's (NHTSA) Office of Defects Investigation (ODI) conducted analyses of real-world accident data and performed laboratory crash tests of the subject and peer vehicles. ODI also addressed questions related to the compliance of these trucks with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) No. 301, ``Fuel System Integrity.'' Additionally, ODI examined whether the fuel tanks and related components on the trucks were unduly affected by corrosion that could make them more likely to be involved in a fire. On April 9, 1993, ODI sent a recall request letter to General Motors Corporation (GM), recommending that GM conduct a safety recall on GM trucks with fuel tanks mounted outside the frame rails (subject vehicles). That letter was based on two principal factors: 1. Real-world accident data in the Fatal Accident Reporting System (FARS) indicate that there is an increased risk of fatality caused by fire in side-impact crashes involving the subject vehicles compared to 1973&hyph;1987 Ford full-sized pickup trucks. That increased risk led to an estimate that, in 1993, an additional 5&hyph;6 fatalities would occur in side-impact crashes involving the subject vehicles compared to what would occur if those trucks had the same side-impact fire performance as full-sized Ford pickups. 2. Laboratory crash tests corroborated the findings from the real-world accident data analysis. That is, in certain comparable side-impact crash tests, GM fuel tanks leaked and Ford tanks did not. Further, these tests used instrumented test dummies. Dummy measurements indicate that humans could have survived the crash forces at the impact speeds at which the subject vehicles leaked. While these speeds are well in excess of the impact speed specified in FMVSS No. 301, the results indicate the increased fire risk in the GM trucks in crashes that are otherwise survivable. GM provided an extensive amount of data and arguments in response to the recall request letter. ODI has completed an exhaustive review and analysis of the GM submissions and has conducted a variety of additional analyses associated with issues involved in this investigation. These include: •An assessment of the effect of corrosion on fuel tank leakage and fire performance in the subject vehicles; •An analysis of non-fatal burn injuries in side-impact crashes involving the subject vehicles; •An in-depth review of all available police accident reports and other records of side-impact, fire-involved fatal crashes involving the subject vehicles to assess the crash conditions and severity of each; •An update of the FARS analysis that led to the April 9, 1993 recall request letter; •An analysis of the reasonableness of GM's decision to design the subject vehicle with side-mounted fuel-tanks, given what GM knew about the safety risks associated with that design and the availability of feasible alternative designs; and •An analysis of the information about the risk of post-crash fuel leaks that became available to GM during the time the subject vehicles were being manufactured.
