FR940627-0-00262 FR940627-0-00019 (ii) Strain specific positive controls shall be included in the assay. Examples of strain specific positive controls are as follows: (A) Strain TA1535, TA100: sodium azide; (B) TA98: 2-nitrofluorene (without activation), 2- anthramine (with activation); (C) TA1537: 9-aminoacridine; and (D) TA98/1,8&hyph;DNP 6 : benzo(a)pyrene (with activation). The papers by Claxton et al. , 1991 and 1992 in paragraph (g) in this section will provide helpful information for the selection of positive controls. (iii) Positive controls to ensure the efficacy of the activation system. The positive control reference substances for tests including a metabolic activation system shall be selected on the basis of the type of activation system used in the test. 2-Aminoanthracene is an example of a positive control compound in plate-incorporation tests using postmitochondrial fractions from the livers of rodents treated with enzyme-inducing agents such as Aroclor-1254. Congo red is an example of a positive control compound in the azo-reduction method. Other positive control reference substances may be used. (iv) Class-specific positive controls. The azo-reduction method shall include positive controls from the same class of compounds as the test agent wherever possible. (6) Sampling the test atmosphere. _(i) Extracts of test emissions are collected on Teflon ® -coated glass fiber filters using an exhaust dilution setup. The particulates are extracted with dichloromethane (DCM) using Soxhlet extraction techniques. Extracts in DCM can be stored at dry ice temperatures until use. (ii) Gaseous hydrocarbons passing through the filter are trapped by a porous, polymer resin, like XAD&hyph;2/styrene- divinylbenzene, or an equivalent product. Methylene chloride is used to extract the resin and the sample is evaporated to dryness before storage or use. (iii) Samples taken from this material are then used to expose the cells in this assay. Final concentration of extracts in solvent/vehicle, or after solvent exchange, shall not interfere with cell viability or growth rate. The paper by Stump (1982) in paragraph (g) of this section is useful for preparing extracts of particulate and semi-volatile organic compounds from diesel and gasoline exhaust stream. (iv) Exposure concentrations. (A) The test should initially be performed over a broad range of concentrations. Among the criteria to be taken into consideration for determining the upper limits of test substance concentration are cytotoxicity and solubility. Cytotoxicity of the test chemical may be altered in the presence of metabolic activation systems. Toxicity may be evidenced by a reduction in the number of spontaneous revertants, a clearing of the background lawn or by the degree of survival of treated cultures. Relatively insoluble samples shall be tested up to the limits of solubility. The upper test chemical concentration shall be determined on a case by case basis. (B) Generally, a maximum of 5 mg/plate for pure substances is considered acceptable. At least 5 different concentrations of test substance shall be used with adequate intervals between test points. (C) When appropriate, a single positive response shall be confirmed by testing over a narrow range of concentrations. (e) Test performance. All data developed within this study shall be in accordance with good laboratory practice provisions under §79.60. (1) Direct plate incorporation method. When testing with metabolic activation, test solution, bacteria, and 0.5 ml of activation mixture containing an adequate amount of postmitochondrial fraction shall be added to the liquid overlay agar and mixed. This mixture is poured over the surface of a selective agar plate. Overlay agar shall be allowed to solidify before incubation. At the end of the incubation period, revertant colonies per plate shall be counted. When testing without metabolic activation, the test sample and 0.1 ml of a fresh bacterial culture shall be added to 2.0 ml of overlay agar. (2) Azo-reduction method. When testing with metabolic activation, 0.5 ml of activation mixture containing 150 μl of postmitochondrial fraction and 0.1 ml of bacterial culture shall be added to a test tube kept on ice. 0.1 ml of test solution shall be added, and the tubes shall be incubated with shaking at 30 ○C for 30 minutes. At the end of the incubation period, 2.0 ml of agar shall be added to each tube, the contents mixed and poured over the surface of a selective agar plate. Overlay agar shall be allowed to solidify before incubation. At the end of the incubation period, revertant colonies per plate shall be counted. For tests without metabolic activation, 0.5 ml of buffer shall be used in place of the 0.5 ml of activation mixture. All other procedures shall be the same as those used for the test with metabolic activation. (3) Other methods/modifications may also be appropriate. (4) Media. An appropriate selective medium with an adequate overlay agar shall be used.
