FR940817-2-00224 FR940817-2-00113 Caution must be exercised in labeling a substance neurotoxic. The intended use and effect of the chemical, the dose, exposure scenario and whether or not the chemical acts directly or indirectly on the nervous system, must be taken into consideration. A substance that may be neurotoxic at a high concentration may be safe and beneficial at a lower concentration. For example, vitamin A, vitamin B6, are required in the diet in trace amounts, yet all result in neurotoxicity when consumed in large quantities. Pharmaceutical agents may also have adverse effects at high dose levels or where the beneficial effects outweigh the adverse side effects. For example, antipsychotic drugs have allowed many people suffering from schizophrenia to lead relatively normal lives; however, chronic prescribed use of some of these drugs may result in severe tardive dyskinesia characterized by involuntary movements of the face, tongue, and limbs. Other examples include toxic neuropathies induced by chemotherapeutic agents like cis-platinum, toxic anticholinergic effects of high doses of tricyclic antidepressants, disabling movement disorders in patients treated with anti-Parkinsonian agents and major tranquilizers, and hearing loss and balance disruption triggered by certain antibacterials (Sterman and Schaumburg, 1980). Drugs of abuse such as ethanol also have neurotoxic potential. Opiates such as heroin may lead to dependence, which is considered to be a long-term adverse alteration of nervous system functioning. Simultaneous exposure to drugs or toxic agents may produce toxic interactions either in the environment or occupational settings. For example, exposure to noise and certain antibiotics can exacerbate the loss of hearing function (Boettcher et al., 1987; Lim, 1986; Bhattacharyya and Dayal, 1984). The nervous system is a highly complex and integrated organ. It is possible that nonlinear dose-response relationships or a threshold effect could exist for some agents. It has been hypothesized that the nervous system has a reserve capacity that masks subtle damage and any exposure that does not overcome this reserve capacity may not reach the threshold and no observable impairment will be evident (Tilson and Mitchell, 1983). However, the functional reserve may be depleted over time and the manifestations of toxicity may be delayed in relationship to the exposure. The reserve may be depleted by a number of factors including aging, stress, or chronic exposure to an environmental insult, in which case functioning will eventually be impaired and toxicity will become apparent. If a number of events occur simultaneously, the response is progressive in nature, or there is a long latency between exposure and manifestation of toxicity, the identification of a single cause of the functional impairment may not be possible. 2.3. Basic Neurobiological Principles 2.3.1. Structure of the Nervous System The nervous system is composed of two parts: the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS) (Spencer and Schaumburg, 1980). Within the nervous system, there exist predominantly two general types of cells_nerve cells (neurons) and glial cells. Neurons have many of the same structures found in every cell of the body; they are unique, however, in that they have axons and dendrites, extensions of the neuron along which nerve impulses travel. The structure of the neuron consists of a cell body, 10 to 100 m m in diameter, containing a nucleus and organelles for the synthesis of various components necessary for the cell's functioning, e.g., proteins and lipids. There are numerous branch patterns of elongated processes, the dendrites, that emanate from the cell body and increase the neuronal surface area available to receive inputs from other sources. Neurons communicate with each other by releasing chemical signals onto specific surface regions, receptors, of the other neuron. The axon is a process specialized for the conduction of nerve impulses away from the cell toward the terminal synapses and eventually toward other cells (neurons, muscle cells, or gland cells). Neurons are responsible for the reception, integration, transmission, and storage of information (Raine, 1989). Certain nerve cells are specialized to respond to particular stimuli. For example, chemoreceptors in the mouth and nose send information about taste and smell to the brain. Cutaneous receptors in the skin are involved in the sensation of pressure, pain, heat, cold, and touch. In the retina, the rods and cones sense light. In general, the length of the axon is tens to thousands of times greater than the cell body diameter. For example, the cell body whose processes innervate the muscles in the human foot is found in the spinal cord at the level of the middle back. The axons of these cells are more than a meter in length. Many, but not all, axons are surrounded by the layers of membrane from the cytoplasmic process of glial cells. These layers are called myelin sheaths and are composed mostly of lipid. In the PNS, the myelin sheaths are formed by Schwann cells, while in the CNS the sheaths are formed by the oligodendroglia. The myelin sheath formed by one glial cell covers only a short length of the axon. The entire length of the axon is ensheathed in myelin by numerous glial cells. Between adjacent glial sheaths, a very short length of bare axon exists called the node of Ranvier. In unmyelinated axons, a nerve impulse must travel in a continuous fashion down the entire length of the nerve. The presence of myelin accelerates the nerve impulse by up to 100 times by allowing the impulse to jump from one node to the next in a process called ``saltatory conduction.'' The nerve cells of the PNS are generally found in aggregates called ganglia. The brain and spinal cord make up the CNS and the neurons are segregated into functionally related aggregates called nuclei. They synthesize and secrete neurotransmitters, which are specialized chemical messengers that interact with receptors of other neurons in the communication process. Various nuclei together with the interconnecting bundles of axonal fibers are functionally related to one another to form higher levels of organization called systems. For example, there is the motor system, the visual system, and the limbic system. At the base of the brain, several small nuclei in the hypothalamus form the neuroendocrine system, which plays a critical role in the control of the body's endocrine (hormone-secreting) glands. Nerve cells in the hypothalamus secrete chemical messengers into a short loop of blood vessels that carries the messengers to the pituitary gland which, in turn, releases chemical messengers into the general circulation. These pituitary messengers regulate other glands (e.g., the thymus and the gonads). The entire system maintains a state of optimal physiological function for all of the body's organ systems.
