FR940324-1-00025 FR940324-1-00007 10. External Communications Systems Some Government agencies use electronic communications systems external to the Government, such as the Internet or other commercial network services. These communications systems have established protocols that are not subject to agency modification. However, the use of external communications systems which are neither owned nor controlled by the agency does not alter in any way the agency's obligation under the Federal Records Act. Agencies must ensure that Federal records sent or received on these systems are preserved and that reasonable steps are taken to capture available transmission and receipt data needed by the agency. As is the case with any Federal record, those that are communicated to or received from persons outside the agency or Government should include the identity of the outside senders or addressees. 11. Maintenance of Federal Records Created by an E-Mail System Agencies must ensure that all E-mail records are maintained in appropriate recordkeeping systems. Such recordkeeping systems must meet the following requirements: (1) Permit easy and timely retrieval; (2) facilitate the distinction between record and nonrecord materials (if such distinctions were not made previously); (3) retain the records in a usable format until their authorized disposition date; and (4) permit transfer of permanent records to the National Archives and Records Administration (see 36 CFR 1228.188, 36 CFR 1234.28(a)). Agencies should consider the advantages of maintaining their records electronically. An electronic system may be more easily searched and manipulated than records in paper files. An electronic file may also be available for simultaneous use by multiple staff members and may provide a more efficient method to store records. In addition, future use of permanently valuable E-mail records for agencies and for historical research could be enhanced by storing them electronically. System backup tapes normally are not suitable for recordkeeping purposes because they are merely mirrors of storage disks with data and documents scattered throughout as they are on the disks themselves. They are meant to provide only a means of recreating a system and its data in case of emergency. Agencies should have a separate system that is appropriate for recordkeeping. In all cases when records are maintained electronically, agencies should provide for regular backups to guard against system failures or loss through inadvertent erasures (36 CFR 1234.30). A. Maintenance on the E-Mail System E-mail systems are generally designed for convenient and efficient agency communications and not as a system for storing agency records for their entire life cycle. To maintain instantaneous communications capability without increasing hardware capacity, these systems often limit the number of messages that can accumulate on the system and may automatically delete messages after a short period. If an E-mail system is not designed for or adaptable to use as a recordkeeping system, E-mail records must be copied or moved to an appropriate recordkeeping system for maintenance and disposition. B. Maintenance in an Electronic Recordkeeping System Other Than the E-Mail System Some agencies store their E-mail records on an electronic system separate from the E-mail system. Agencies that maintain their records in this way must move or copy all E-mail records to the electronic recordkeeping system. The recordkeeping system must allow segregation of permanent and temporary records and have sufficient capacity to store records for their authorized retention periods (36 CFR 1234.10). Agencies may retain records from E-mail systems in an off-line electronic storage format (such as optical disk or magnetic tape) that meets the requirements described above (36 CFR 1234.28(a)). Factors to be considered in selecting a storage medium or converting from one medium to another are identified in 36 CFR 1234.28(b)). Agencies may use optical disk systems for the storage and retrieval of permanent records while the records remain in the agency's legal custody, but NARA currently does not accession permanent records stored on optical disks. Permanent records stored on optical disk must be converted to a medium acceptable to NARA at the time of transfer to NARA's legal custody, as specified in 36 CFR 1228.188. C. Maintenance in Paper Recordkeeping Systems Agencies that do not have the technological capability to maintain E-mail records in an electronic recordkeeping system must print their E-mail records. In such instances, agencies must also print related transmission and receipt data and maintain it together with the printed communications according to the same procedures as other paper records. Other agencies may have the technological capability to maintain E-mail records electronically but, nevertheless, determine that current agency use is best served by also printing them on to paper. While it is the agency's responsibility to determine whether its current needs are best served by one or both formats, an electronic format may be in the best interest of future use. Accordingly, agencies must schedule and NARA must appraise both formats before E-mail records are deleted from the electronic recordkeeping system. This ensures the opportunity for NARA to determine the best format for the preservation of records of potential historical or other research value. (See the section below for instructions on the disposition of records.) Any agencies that maintain E-mail records only on paper even though they have the technology to maintain them electronically are strongly encouraged to consider the benefits of an electronic format. NARA will assist such agencies in evaluating the advantages of maintaining E-mail records electronically. Those agencies that have no plans for implementing an electronic recordkeeping system are also encouraged to consider this format when their current systems are redesigned or replaced.
