FR941007-1-00144 FR941007-1-00009 (iii) Low satisfactory. The FDIC shall rate a bank's investment performance ``low satisfactory'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) An adequate level of qualified investments, although rarely in a leadership position, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (B) Occasional use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Adequate responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (iv) Needs to improve. The FDIC shall rate a bank's investment performance ``needs to improve'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) A poor level of qualified investments, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (B) Rare use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (v) Substantial noncompliance. The FDIC shall rate a bank's investment performance as being in ``substantial noncompliance'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) Few, if any, qualified investments, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (B) No use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Very poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (3) Service performance rating. The FDIC shall assign each bank's service performance one of the five ratings described below. (i) Outstanding. The FDIC shall rate a bank's service performance ``outstanding'' if, in general, the bank demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are readily accessible to essentially all portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and RSFs has improved the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) are tailored to the convenience and needs of its service area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and (D) It is a leader in providing community development services. (ii) High satisfactory. The FDIC shall rate a bank's service performance ``high satisfactory'' if, in general, the bank demonstrates:
