FR941025-1-00005 FR941025-1-00001 The treatments described above have been determined to be effective against the specified insects. This determination is based on research evaluated and approved by the Department. A bibliography and additional information on this research may be obtained from the Hoboken Methods Development Center, PPQ, APHIS, USDA, 209 River Street, Hoboken, NJ, 07030. In accordance with ยง319.56&hyph;2x(b) of the regulations, the fruits and vegetables listed above and required to be treated for fruit flies would be restricted to ports of arrival at Wilmington, NC, and the North Atlantic if treatment has not been completed before the fruits and vegetables arrive in the United States. Climatic conditions at Wilmington, NC, and at North Atlantic ports are unsuitable for the fruit flies listed above. Therefore, in the unlikely event that any fruit flies escape before treatment, they will not become established pests in the United States. The designated North Atlantic ports are: Atlantic Ocean ports north of, and including, Baltimore; ports on the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Seaway; Canadian border ports on the North Dakota border and east of North Dakota; and, for air shipments, Washington, DC (including Baltimore-Washington International and Dulles International airports). Pest risk analyses conducted by APHIS have determined that any other injurious plant pests that might be carried by the fruits and vegetables listed above would be readily detectable by a USDA inspector. As noted, the fruits and vegetables would be subject to inspection, disinfection, or both, at the port of first arrival, in accordance with ยง319.56&hyph;6. Use of Methyl Bromide Methyl bromide is currently in widespread use as a fumigant. It is prescribed as a treatment for three of the commodities included in this proposal (blueberries from Argentina, garden beans from El Salvador, and lettuce from Israel). The environmental effects of using methyl bromide, however, are being scrutinized by international, Federal, and State agencies. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), based on its evaluation of data concerning the ozone depletion potential of methyl bromide, published a notice of final rulemaking in the Federal Register on December 10, 1993 (58 FR 65018&hyph;65082). This rulemaking freezes methyl bromide production at 1991 levels and requires the phasing out of domestic use of methyl bromide by the year 2001. APHIS is studying the effectiveness and environmental acceptability of alternative treatments to prepare for the eventual unavailability of methyl bromide fumigation. Our current proposal assumes the continued availability of methyl bromide for use as a fumigant for at least the next few years. Apples From Spain Section 319.56&hyph;2r contains administrative instructions governing the entry of apples and pears from certain countries in Europe. Currently, pears, but not apples, may be imported from Spain under the conditions prescribed in ยง319.56&hyph;2r, which include a preclearance program and cold treatment. Based on our review of the pest risk associated with the importation of apples and pears from Spain, it appears that apples may be imported under these conditions without presenting a significant pest risk. Therefore, we are proposing to amend ยง319.56&hyph;2r to allow the importation of apples from Spain under the same conditions that apply to pears from Spain. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 603, we have performed an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, which is set out below, regarding the impact of this proposed rule on small entities. However, we do not currently have all the data necessary for a comprehensive analysis of the effects of this rule on small entities. Therefore, we are inviting comments concerning potential effects. In particular, we are interested in determining the number and kind of small entities that may incur benefits or costs from implementation of this proposed rule. Under the Plant Quarantine Act and the Federal Plant Pest Act (7 U.S.C. 150dd, 150ee, 150ff, 151&hyph;167), the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to regulate the importation of fruits and vegetables to prevent the introduction of injurious plant pests. This proposed rule would amend the regulations governing the importation of fruits and vegetables by allowing a number of previously prohibited fruits and vegetables to be imported into the United States from certain foreign countries and localities under specified conditions. The importation of these fruits and vegetables has been prohibited because of the risk that they could introduce injurious plant pests into the United States. This proposed rule would revise the status of certain commodities from certain countries and localities, allowing their importation into the United States for the first time. Our proposed changes are based on biological risk analyses that were conducted by APHIS at the request of various importers and foreign ministries of agriculture. The risk analyses indicate that the fruits or vegetables listed in this proposed rule could, under certain conditions, be imported into the United States without significant pest risk. All of the fruits and vegetables, as a condition of entry, would be subject to inspection, disinfection, or both, at the port of first arrival as may be required by a USDA inspector. In addition, some of the fruits and vegetables in this proposal also would be required to undergo mandatory treatment for fruit flies or other injurious insects as a condition of entry, or to meet other special conditions. Our proposed action would provide the United States with additional kinds and sources of fruits and vegetables while continuing to provide protection against the introduction into the United States of injurious plant pests by imported fruits and vegetables. Apples
