FR940810-0-00297 FR940810-0-00021 (7) Labels. (i) Labels shall be affixed to all products containing asbestos and to all containers containing such products, including waste containers. Where feasible, installed asbestos products shall contain a visible label. (ii) Labels shall be printed in large, bold letters on a contrasting background. (iii) Labels shall be used in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200(f) of OSHA's Hazard Communication standard, and shall contain the following information: ␣ 1␣ DANGER CONTAINS ASBESTOS FIBERS AVOID CREATING DUST CANCER AND LUNG DISEASE HAZARD (iv) [Reserved] (v) Labels shall contain a warning statement against breathing asbestos fibers. (vi) The provisions for labels required by paragraphs (k)(2)(i) through (k)(2)(iii) do not apply where: (A) Asbestos fibers have been modified by a bonding agent, coating, binder, or other material, provided that the manufacturer can demonstrate that, during any reasonably foreseeable use, handling, storage, disposal, processing, or transportation, no airborne concentrations of asbestos fibers in excess of the permissible exposure limit and/or excursion limit will be released, or (B) Asbestos is present in a product in concentrations less than 1.0 percent by weight. (vii) When a building owner/or employer identifies previously installed PACM and/or ACM, labels or signs shall be affixed or posted so that employees will be notified of what materials contain PACM and/or ACM. The employer shall attach such labels in areas where they will clearly be noticed by employees who are likely to be exposed, such as at the entrance to mechanical room/areas. Signs required by paragraph (k)(5) of this section may be posted in lieu of labels so long as they contain information required for labelling. (8) Employee information and training. (i) The employer shall, at no cost to the employee, institute a training program for all employees who install asbestos containing products and for all employees who perform Class I through IV asbestos operations, and shall ensure their participation in the program. (ii) Training shall be provided prior to or at the time of initial assignment and at least annually thereafter. (iii) Training for Class I and II operations shall be the equivalent in curriculum, training method and length to the EPA Model Accreditation Plan (MAP) asbestos abatement worker training (40 CFR Part 763, Subpart E, Appendix C.). For employers whose Class II work with asbestos-containing material involves only the removal and/or disturbance of one generic category of building material, such as roofing materials, flooring materials, siding materials or transite panels, instead, such employer is required to train employees who perform such work by providing a training course which includes as a minimum all the elements included in paragraph (k)(8)(vi) of this section and in addition, the specific work practices and engineering controls set forth in paragraph (g) which specifically relate to that category. Such course shall include ``hands-on'' training and shall take at least 8 hours. (iv) Training for Class III employees shall be the equivalent in curriculum and training method to the 16-hour Operations and Maintenance course developed by EPA for maintenance and custodial workers who conduct activities that will result in the disturbance of ACM. [See 40 CFR 763.92(a)(2)]. Such course shall include ``hands-on'' training in the use of respiratory protection and work practices and shall take at least 16 hours. (v) Training for employees performing Class IV operations shall be the equivalent in curriculum and training method to the awareness training course developed by EPA for maintenance and custodial workers who work in buildings containing asbestos- containing material. [See 40 CFR 763.92 (a)(1)]. Such course shall include available information concerning the locations of PACM and ACM, and asbestos-containing flooring material, or flooring material where the absence of asbestos has not been certified; and instruction in recognition of damage, deterioration, and delamination of asbestos containing building materials. Such a course shall take at least 2 hours. (vi) The training program shall be conducted in a manner that the employee is able to understand. In addition to the content required by provisions in paragraph (k)(8)(iii) of this section, the employer shall ensure that each such employee is informed of the following: (A) Methods of recognizing asbestos, including the requirement in paragraph (k)(1) of this section to presume that certain building materials contain asbestos; (B) The health effects associated with asbestos exposure; (C) The relationship between smoking and asbestos in producing lung cancer; (D) The nature of operations that could result in exposure to asbestos, the importance of necessary protective controls to minimize exposure including, as applicable, engineering controls, work practices, respirators, housekeeping procedures, hygiene facilities, protective clothing, decontamination procedures, emergency procedures, and waste disposal procedures, and any necessary instruction in the use of these controls and procedures; including where Class III and IV work is performed, the contents of ``Managing Asbestos In Place (EPA 20T&hyph;2003, July 1990) or its equivalent in content. (E) The purpose, proper use, fitting instructions, and limitations of respirators as required by 29 CFR 1910.134; (F) The appropriate work practices for performing the asbestos job; (G) Medical surveillance program requirements; and
