FR940822-1-00045 FR940822-1-00006 §20.1405 Criteria for license termination under restricted conditions. A site will be considered acceptable for license termination under restricted conditions if: (a) The licensee can demonstrate that further reductions in residual radioactivity necessary to comply with the provisions of §20.1404 are not technically achievable, would be prohibitively expensive, or would result in net public or environmental harm; and (b) The licensee has made provisions for institutional controls that provide reasonable assurance that the TEDE from residual radioactivity distinguishable from background to the average member of the critical group will not exceed 15 mrem (0.15 mSv) TEDE per year. Institutional controls must be enforceable by a responsible government entity or in a court of law in response to suits by affected parties; and (c) The licensee has provided sufficient financial assurance to enable an independent third party to assume and carry out responsibilities for any necessary control and maintenance of the site. Acceptable financial assurance mechanisms are: (1) Funds placed into an account segregated from the licensee's assets and outside the licensee's administrative control as described in §30.35(f)(1) of this chapter; (2) Surety method, insurance, or other guarantee method as described in §30.35(f)(2) of this chapter; or (3) A statement of intent in the case of Federal, State, or local government licensees, as described in §30.35(f)(4) of this chapter. (d) Residual radioactivity at the site has been reduced so that if the institutional controls were no longer in effect, there is reasonable assurance that the TEDE from residual radioactivity distinguishable from background to the average member of the critical group would not exceed 100 mrem (1 mSv) per year, and is as low as reasonably achievable. Calculations used to show compliance with this provision may not assume any benefits from earthen cover or other earthen barriers unless specifically authorized by the Commission. §20.1406 Public notification and public participation. (a) Upon the receipt of a decommissioning plan from the licensee, or a proposal by the licensee for restricted release of a site pursuant to §20.1405, or whenever the Commission deems such notice to be in the public interest, the Commission shall: (1) Notify and solicit comments from local and State governments in the vicinity of the site and any Indian Nation or other indigenous people that have treaty or statutory rights that could be affected by the decommissioning; and (2) Publish a notice in the Federal Register and in a forum, such as local newspapers, which is readily accessible to individuals in the vicinity of the site and solicit comments from affected parties. (b) For decommissioning where the licensee does not propose to meet the conditions for unrestricted release pursuant to §20.1404 of this part, the licensee shall convene a Site Specific Advisory Board (SSAB) as described in §20.1407 for the purpose of obtaining advice from affected parties regarding the proposed decommissioning. §20.1407 Site Specific Advisory Board. (a) The SSAB should provide advice to the licensee, as appropriate, on: (1) Whether there are ways to reduce residual radioactivity to a level necessary to comply with the provisions of §20.1404 which are technically achievable, would not be prohibitively expensive and would not result in net public or environmental harm; (2) Whether provisions for institutional controls proposed by the licensee: (i) Will provide reasonable assurance that the TEDE from residual radioactivity distinguishable from background to the average member of the critical group will not exceed 15 mrem (0.15 mSv) TEDE per year; (ii) Will be enforceable; and (iii) Will impose undue burdens on the local community or other affected parties. (3) Whether the licensee has provided sufficient financial assurance to enable an independent third party to assume and carry out responsibilities for any necessary control and maintenance of the site. (b) Membership of the SSAB shall to the extent that representatives are willing to participate: (1) Reflect the full range of interests in the affected community and region, and be composed of individuals who could be directly affected by residual radioactivity at the decommissioned site; (2) Be selected from individuals nominated by organizations which represent these interests; and (3) Include representatives from the licensee; local and state governments; persons residing in the vicinity of the site; citizen, environmental, environmental justice, and other public interest groups; and Indian Nation or other indigenous people that have treaty or statutory rights that could be affected. (c) The SSAB shall consist of approximately 10 members plus an ex officio representative selected by the Commission. (d) The licensee shall be responsible for establishing the SSAB and the developing of appropriate SSAB operating procedures with the advice of the SSAB. (e) The licensee shall provide adequate administrative support for SSAB activities and shall provide the SSAB access to studies and analyses that are readily available to the licensee and are pertinent to the proposed decommissioning. (f) Meetings of the SSAB are open to the public. The licensee shall provide adequate public notice of the location, time, date, and agenda for the meetings at least 2 weeks in advance of each meeting. All records generated or reviewed by the SSAB become part of the docket, must be retained by the licensee until the license is terminated, and must be available for public inspection.
