FR940721-1-00068 FR940721-1-00014 The tone of these comments suggested that the standard set out in the final rule_i.e., no preemption, so long as a State law affords ``more protection to consumers and/or competition''_ was insufficient assurance against Federal preemption. Apparently the final rule was perceived by the commenters as being ``anti-consumer'' in the guise of a consumer protection regulation. The commenters believed it was clear that State laws forcing controlled businesses to draw business from nonaffiliates should never be preempted under RESPA authority. The commenters were not persuaded that the Department intended to apply §3500.13(b)(2) in a manner that would treat these State laws as ``pro-consumer''. Concerned commenters made diverse recommendations: several asked the Department to clarify in the rule that preemption would not be applied; other commenters, clearly equally averse to preemption of State laws, recommended case-by-case judgments regarding preemption, using the existing standard set out in §3500.13(b)(2). These latter commenters often combined their status quo recommendation with an urging that HUD modify or reverse positions taken on the employer-employee exception or CLO issues. Their thrust was that HUD's preemption policy would not be objectionable if the RESPA rule were modified to cure the specific problems being addressed by commenters in their accompanying remarks. The combined comment of the 16 State Attorneys General stated the belief that it would be too difficult to ``define criteria for preemption in the abstract.'' The comment recommended a case-by-case approach. (Again, this comment was made in the context of a strong statement of opposition to the final rule's employer-employee fee policy and CLO exemption.) The predominant position of institutional commenters addressing the preemption issue was that it is unnecessary for HUD to set out strict standards to evaluate whether State law provisions provide greater protection to the consumer. However, there was considerable sentiment in favor of regulatory ``clarifications'' to serve, in essence, as guarantees that the Department would not preempt State laws in any instance where its goal was to limit controlled business arrangements. Consumers Union believed that HUD's own rules should be changed to afford consumers stronger protections, but, if this was not to be, ``at the very least States should be free to protect their own consumers''. Accordingly, Consumers Union favored the enunciation of standards for determining whether State law provisions provide greater protection: *␣*␣* These standards are necessary since the final rule is anti-consumer, but was presented as if it were pro-consumer. To eliminate any resulting ambiguity, HUD should clarify that [State-originated] rules totally eliminating any incentive to steer business to an affiliate would be viewed as stronger consumer protection. A large number of comments received from individuals and small businesses (mainly lenders) favored the establishment of written standards for the evaluation of State laws. However, these comments offered no specific advice concerning the content of the favored written standards. Comments submitted by the American Land Title Association (ALTA) claimed that the November 1992 rule on preemption had ``frightened'' State legislators and regulators ``into believing that the RESPA disclosure provisions [would be read by HUD to] preempt more stringent state legislation or regulations.'' The ALTA expressed the belief that the new regulations were ``perverting'' congressional policy regarding the circumstances warranting preemption. The ALTA further claimed that the preemption provision suggests that ``only if the Secretary of HUD determines that a state controlled business provisions gives more protection to consumers and competition would the state provisions not be preempted.'' (Emphasis in original.) The ALTA also complained that the final rule was deterring State governments from considering more stringent regulation of controlled business, and suggested that the Department support legislative revisions to RESPA to replace ``ineffective'' consumer disclosure requirements with Federal ``public business'' requirements (i.e., requirements that controlled businesses derive a significant proportion of their business from nonaffiliates).
