FR941202-2-00021 FR941202-2-00008 7. Conduct product and packaging research and development exclusively for the export of the Products, such as meeting foreign regulatory requirements and foreign buyer specifications and identifying and designing for foreign buyer and consumer preferences; 8. Negotiate and enter into agreements with governments and other foreign persons regarding non-tariff trade barriers in the Export Markets, such as packaging requirements, establishing and operating fumigation facilities and providing specialized packing operations and other quality control procedures to be followed by its Members in the export of Products into the Export Markets; 9. Advise and cooperate with agencies of the U.S. Government in establishing procedures regulating the export of Members' Products, Services and/or Technology Rights into the Export Markets; 10. Negotiate and enter into purchase agreements with buyers in the Export Markets regarding the export prices, quantities, type and quality of Products, time periods, and the terms and conditions of sale; 11. Broker or take title to the Products; 12. Purchase Products from non-Member producers whenever necessary to fulfill specific sales obligations; 13. Solicit non-Member producers to become Members; 14. Communicate and process export orders; 15. Assist each Member in maintaining the quality standards necessary to be successful in the Export Markets; 16. Provide Export Trade Facilitation Services with respect to Products, Services and Technology Rights; 17. Provide, procure, negotiate, contract and administer transportation services for Products in the course of export, including overseas freight transportation, inland freight transportation from the packing house to the U.S. port of embarkment, leasing of transportation equipment and facilities, storage and warehousing, stevedoring, wharfage and handling, insurance, forwarder services, trade documentation and services, customs clearance, financial instruments and foreign exchange; 18. Negotiate freight rate contracts with individual carriers and carrier conferences either directly or indirectly through shippers associations and/or freight forwarders; 19. Arrange financing through bank holding companies, governmental financial assistance programs and other arrangements; 20. Bill and collect from foreign buyers and provide accounting, tax, legal and consulting assistance and services; 21. Enter into exclusive agreements with Non-Members to provide Export Trade Services and Trade Facilitation Services; 22. Design, implement and administer Foreign Sales Corporations in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code; 23. Open and operate overseas sales and distribution offices and companies to facilitate the sales and distribution of the Products in the Export Markets; 24. Apply for and utilize applicable export assistance and incentive programs which are available within the governmental and private sectors, such as the USDA Export Enhancement and Market Promotion programs; 25. Negotiate and enter into agreements with governments and foreign persons to develop countertrade arrangements; 26. Refuse to deal with or provide quotations to other Export Intermediaries for sales of the Members' Products into the Export Markets; 27. Require common marking and identification of its Members' Products sold in the Export Markets; 28. Exchange information with and among the Members as necessary to carry out the Export Trade Facilitation Services and Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation, including:
