FR941110-0-00312 FR941110-0-00019 In General: The Flexibility Issue The extent to which the regulation should allow flexibility for Housing Authorities (HAs) and residents in the design of their local homeownership plans was the subject of greatest concern to the commenters. While a number of comments addressed this issue in the context of specific provisions of the regulation, as discussed below, some urged that the regulation as a whole afford the maximum flexibility permitted by the statute, pointing out that the statutory authorities for this program_Sections 5(h) and 6(c)(4)(D) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (Act)_are clearly intended to authorize a high degree of local discretion. Some other commenters, however, argued for a more restrictive approach, suggesting that local discretion be curtailed and regulatory requirements be more rigidly detailed. The changes that are incorporated in the final rule move in the direction of more local flexibility, as explained in the section-by-section analysis below. The overall approach is deliberately brief and simple, limited to a basic regulatory framework of essential standards and procedures. No attempt is made to specify the details of everything that might possibly be required or permitted in all the variety of local situations. Anything not specifically prohibited is permissible, if consistent with the three fundamental criteria stated in §§905.1004/906.4. The Department intends to develop additional handbook materials to provide appropriate guidance and administrative instructions for HAs, residents, and HUD Field Offices concerning the development, processing and implementation of Section 5(h) homeownership plans. Comments on Specific Sections Sections 905.1002/906.2␣(Applicability) In paragraph (a) of §§905.1002/906.2 ( Applicability ), the final rule adds clarifying language to explain that, except where otherwise indicated by the context, the term ``resident'' includes Turnkey III homebuyers (and, in the IHA version, Mutual Help homebuyers as well), along with rental tenants of public or Indian housing and Section 8 residents. As suggested by one commenter, language has been added to make it clear that, unless otherwise indicated, references to sale, purchase, conveyance and ownership include the types of transactions and interests that are incident to cooperative ownership, such as cooperative shares, membership, and occupancy agreements. As another point of clarification, paragraph (b) of this section adds an express declaration of nonretroactivity. This responds to one commenter's question about whether a Section 5(h) homeownership plan approved under the statutory authority, prior to publication of the interim rule, would have to be modified to conform to the requirements of the interim rule. Neither the interim nor final rule imposes any additional requirements for homeownership plans approved before the respective effective dates of each rule. Sections 905.1003/906.3␣(General Authority for Sale) With regard to §§905.1003/906.3 ( General authority for sale ), one commenter observed that HUD Field Offices need instructions on how to release the declaration of trust upon sale of housing units under a HUD-approved Section 5(h) homeownership plan. The Department agrees that such instructions are needed, and intends to provide them in the forthcoming processing handbook. In the IHA version of this section, the language of the interim rule concerning housing developments that are subject to project debt under the ACC has been deleted, because, as a result of loan forgiveness legislation, there are now no Indian housing developments which are subject to such indebtedness. Sections 905.1004/906.4␣(Fundamental Criteria for HUD Approval) One commenter urged that resident consultation be added to §§905.1004/906.4 ( Fundamental criteria for HUD approval ) as a fourth criterion. The final rule does not adopt this recommendation. The three fundamental criteria that are established by this section merit special emphasis at the outset, because they go to the plan as a whole, serving as touchstones for weighing and linking the discrete requirements of all subsequent sections, including the specific requirements for resident consultation under §§905.1005/906.5. Sections 905.1005/906.5␣(Resident Consultation and Involvement) Sections 905.1005/906.5 ( Resident consultation and involvement ) have been revised to clarify the requirements for resident input at the initial planning stage, in connection with the HA's development of its proposed homeownership plan for submission to HUD. This language responds to the observations of several commenters who aptly pointed out that the interim rule failed to indicate who must be consulted when the development is vacant. The final rule addresses this question by specifying that, where the plan involves an entirely vacant development, the HA must consult with the HA-wide resident organization, if any.
