FR940228-1-00128 FR940228-1-00010 (21) It will not impose any penalty, including, but not limited to, the assessment of late fees, the denial of access to classes, libraries, or other institutional facilities, or the requirement that the student borrow additional funds for which interest or other charges are assessed, on any student because of the student's inability to meet his or her financial obligations to the institution as a result of the delayed disbursement of the proceeds of a Title IV, HEA program loan due to compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements of or applicable to the Title IV, HEA programs, or delays attributable to the institution; (22) It will not provide, nor contract with any entity that provides, any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any persons or entities engaged in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of student financial assistance, except that this requirement shall not apply to the recruitment of foreign students residing in foreign countries who are not eligible to receive Federal student assistance; (23) It will meet the requirements established pursuant to Part H of Title IV of the HEA by the Secretary, State postsecondary review entities designated under subpart 1 of Part H of Title IV of the HEA, and nationally recognized accrediting agencies; (24) It will comply with the institutional refund policy established in ยง668.22; and (25) It is liable for all_(i) Improperly spent or unspent funds received under the Title IV, HEA programs, including any funds administered by a third-party servicer; and (ii) Refunds that the institution or its servicer may be required to make. (c) In order to participate in any Title IV, HEA program (other than the SSIG and NEISP programs), the institution must certify that it_ (1) Has in operation a drug abuse prevention program that the institution has determined to be accessible to any officer, employee, or student at the institution; and (2)(i) Has established a campus security policy in accordance with section 485(f) of the HEA; and (ii) Has complied with the disclosure requirements of ยง668.48 as required by section 485(f) of the HEA. (d) In order to participate in any Title IV, HEA program (other than the SSIG and NEISP programs), an institution that offers athletically related student aid must_ (1) Cause an annual compilation, independently audited not less often than every 3 years, to be prepared within 6 months after the end of the institution's fiscal year, of_ (i) The revenues derived by the institution from the institution's intercollegiate athletics activities, according to the following categories: (A) Total revenues. (B) Revenues from football. (C) Revenues from men's basketball. (D) Revenues from women's basketball. (E) Revenues from all other men's sports combined. (F) Revenues from all other women's sports combined; (ii) Expenses made by the institution for the institution's intercollegiate athletics activities, according to the following categories: (A) Total expenses. (B) Expenses attributable to football. (C) Expenses attributable to men's basketball. (D) Expenses attributable to women's basketball. (E) Expenses attributable to all other men's sports combined. (F) Expenses attributable to all other women's sports combined; and (iii) The total revenues and operating expenses of the institution; and (2) Make the compilation and, where allowable by State law, the audits, required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section available for inspection by the Secretary and the public. (e) For the purposes of paragraph (d) of this section_ (1) Revenues from intercollegiate athletics activities allocable to a sport shall include without limitation gate receipts, broadcast revenues and other conference distributions, appearance guarantees and options, concessions, and advertising; (2) Revenues such as student activities fees, alumni contributions, and investment interest income that are not allocable to a sport shall be included in the calculation of total revenues only; (3) Expenses for intercollegiate athletics activities allocable to a sport shall include without limitation grants-in-aid, salaries, travel, equipment, and supplies; and (4) Expenses such as general and administrative overhead that are not allocable to a sport shall be included in the calculation of total expenses only. (f)(1) A program participation agreement becomes effective on the date that the Secretary signs the agreement. (2) A new program participation agreement supersedes any prior program participation agreement between the Secretary and the institution. (g)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, the Secretary terminates a program participation agreement through the proceedings in subpart G of this part. (2) An institution may terminate a program participation agreement.
