FR940705-2-00036 FR940705-2-00023 [Docket No. CP94&hyph;161&hyph;000] Avoca Natural Gas Storage; Facility Design Changes for the Proposed Avoca Gas Storage Field Project and Request for Comments on Environmental Issues June 27, 1994. On June 3 and 17, 1994, Avoca Natural Gas Storage (Avoca) filed an updated description of its proposed Avoca Gas Storage Field Project, in Docket No. CP94&hyph;161&hyph;000. Avoca's filing contained significant design changes in the proposed storage field project. This notice updates the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's (FERC or Commission) ``Notice of Intent To Prepare An Environmental Assessment for the Proposed Avoca Gas Storage Field Project and Request for Comments on Environmental Issues'' (NOI) issued February 1, 1994. Summary of the Proposed Changes in Facility Design Avoca proposes the following changes in the Avoca Gas Storage Field Project: •new locations for the brine disposal wells, brine disposal pipeline, water source pipeline, and the solution-mined cavern wells; •a change in the design of the cavern system_instead of developing 10 individual caverns, Avoca would solution-mine 5 caverns using 10 wells (2 wells per cavern); and •Avoca proposes to increase its solution-mining rate by withdrawing up to 3 million gallons of water per day (2,000 gallons per minute), rather than limiting its withdrawal to 2 million gallons of water per day. The total leaching period for all five caverns is approximately 3 years. Avoca has moved several of its proposed facilities. The new proposed location of these facilities is shown in appendix 1. 1 Avoca states that the proposed changes in facility locations are a result of negotiations with local landowners. 1 The appendices referenced in this notice are not being printed in the Federal Register . Copies are available from the Commission's Public Reference Branch, Room 3104, 941 North Capitol Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20426, or call (202) 208&hyph;1371. Copies of the appendices were sent to all those receiving this notice in the mail. Avoca proposes the change in cavern design and the increase in leaching rate to reduce the time required to solution-mine the proposed caverns. Avoca states that it has obligations to have certain facilities in service for the 1996 winter heating season. Avoca believes that reducing the time required to solution-mine its caverns will allow it to place some of the proposed facilities in service for the 1996 winter heating season. The EA Process The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires the Commission to take into account the environmental impacts that could result from an action whenever it considers the issuance of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. NEPA also requires us to discover and address concerns the public may have about proposals. We call this ``scoping.'' The main goal of the scoping process is to focus the analysis in the EA on the important environmental issues. By this Notice of Intent, the Commission requests public comments on the scope of the issues it will address in the EA. All comments received are taken into account during the preparation of the EA. The EA will discuss impacts that could occur as a result of the construction and operation of the proposed project under these general headings: •geology and soils •water resources, fisheries, and wetlands •vegetation and wildlife •endangered and threatened species •land use •cultural resources •air quality and noise •hazardous waste We will also evaluate possible alternatives to the proposed project or portions of the project, and make recommendations on how to lessen or avoid impacts on the various resource areas. Our independent analysis of the issues will be in the EA. Depending on the comments received during the scoping process, the EA may be published and mailed to Federal, state, and local agencies, public interest groups, interested individuals, affected landowners, newspapers, libraries, and the Commission's official service list for this proceeding. A comment period will be allotted for review if the EA is published. We will consider all comments on the EA before we recommend that the Commission approve or not approve the project. Additional Environmental Issues We have already identified several environmental issues that we think deserve attention based on a preliminary review of the proposed facilities and the information provided by Avoca. These were listed in the Commission's February 1, 1994 NOI. As a result of Avoca's modified proposal, the following additional environmental issues will be addressed: •Avoca proposes to use up to 3,000,000 gallons of water per day for the solution-mining process. This may have an impact on groundwater availability. Testing of wells in the local aquifers indicates that the water supply recharges up to 14,600,000 gallons of water per day. •Avoca's brine disposal pipelines would cross five wetlands. •Moving the facilities to the new locations may have an impact on cultural resources. Public Participation You can make a difference by sending a letter addressing your specific comments or concerns about the project. You should focus on the potential environmental effects of the proposal, alternatives to the proposal (including alternative routes), and measures to avoid or lessen environmental impact. The more specific your comments, the more useful they will be. Please follow the instructions below to ensure that your comments are received and properly recorded: •Address your letter to: Lois Cashell, Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol St., NE., Washington, DC 20426; •Reference Docket No. CP94&hyph;161&hyph;000;
