FR941013-2-00147 FR941013-2-00101 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Bureau's authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social, and cultural life. ``Diversity'' should be interpreted in the broadest sense and encompass differences including but not limited to race, gender, religion, geographic location, socio-economic status, and physical challenges. Applicants are strongly encouraged to adhere to the advancement of this principle. Overview The U.S. Information Agency (USIA) is soliciting proposals from U.S. professional, not-for-profit institutions/organizations to recruit, place and manage 30&hyph;40 English Teaching Fellows who will serve as full-time teachers of English as a Foreign Language, as materials or test developers or as teacher trainers in countries around the world. The English Teaching Program is designed to increase the American presence, enhance the American cultural component, and improve academic standards at universities, teacher-training colleges, binational centers, and other post-selected institutions with English teaching programs. The program enables recent recipients of M.A.'s in teaching English as a foreign/second language (TEFL/TESL) to acquire overseas teaching experience, while providing host institutions with up-to-date professional expertise in the methods and theory of English teaching. Programs must comply with J&hyph;1 visa regulations. Please refer to program specific guidelines in the Application Package for further details. Proposed Budget The proposal must contain a specific and detailed line-item budget. The budget should be constructed in such a way as to reflect the task of recruiting and placing 30&hyph;35&hyph;40 fellows, and carrying out follow-up activities. At this time the Agency has not determined the full funding level for FY'95. Grants awarded to eligible organizations with less than four years of experience in conducting international exchange programs will be limited to $60,000. Applicants must submit a comprehensive budget for the entire program. There must be a summary budget as well as a breakdown reflecting both the administrative budget and the program budget. Please refer to the Application Package for complete formatting instructions. For better understanding or further clarification, applicants may provide separate sub-budgets for each program component, phase, location, or activity in order to facilitate USIA decisions on funding.
