FR940413-2-00077 FR940413-2-00040 System manager and address: Chief, Office of Human Genome Communications, National Center for Human Genome Research, National Institutes of Health, Building 38A, room 617, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892. Notification procedures: To determine if a record exists, write to the System Manager listed above. The requester must also verify his or her identity by providing either a notarization of the request or a written certification that the requester is who he or she claims to be and understands that the knowing and willful request for acquisition of a record pertaining to an individual under false pretenses is a criminal offense under the Act, subject to a five thousand dollar fine. The request should include: (a) Full name, and (b) appropriate dates of participation. Record access procedures: Write to the System Manager specified above to attain access to records and provide the same information as is required under the Notification Procedures. Requesters should also reasonably specify the record contents being sought. Individuals may also request an accounting of disclosure of their records, if any. Individuals who request notification of or access to a medical record shall, at the time the request is made, designate in writing a responsible representative who will be willing to review the record and inform the subject individual of its contents at the representative's discretion. A parent or guardian who requests notification of, or access to, a child's/incompetent person's medical record shall designate a family physician or other health professional (other than a family member) to whom the record, if any, will be sent. The parent or guardian must verify their relationship to the child/incompetent person as well as his/her own identity. Contesting record procedures: Contact the System Manager specified above and reasonably identify the record, specify the information to be contested, the corrective action sought, and your reasons for requesting the correction, along with supporting information to show how the record is inaccurate, incomplete, untimely or irrelevant. The right to contest records is limited to information which is incomplete, irrelevant, incorrect, or untimely (obsolete). Record source categories: Subject individual, patient health and medical record data. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8777 Filed 4&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;M
