FR940722-0-00129 FR940722-0-00019 173. Many commenters, including the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the SBA, argue that the SBA net worth/net revenue definition is too restrictive and will exclude businesses of sufficient size to survive, much less succeed, in the competitive broadband PCS marketplace. The SBA's Chief Counsel for Advocacy and the Suite 12 Group advocate adoption of a gross revenue test, arguing that a net worth test could be misleading as some very large companies have low net worth. The SBA's Chief Counsel for Advocacy recommends that the revenue standard be raised to include firms that (together with affiliates) have less than $40 million in gross revenue. Similarly, Suite 12 suggests a $75 million in annual sales threshold. 147 As another option, the SBA's Chief Counsel for Advocacy suggests that the Commission consider a higher revenue ceiling or adopt different size standards for different telecommunications markets. 148 147 Many other commenters set forth their recommendations on the appropriate small business definition for broadband PCS preferences. See, e.g., comments of Tri-State ($5 million average annual operating cash flow), Luxcel (net worth not exceeding $20 million), and Iowa Network (less than $40 million in annual revenues). 148 Some parties recommend using the SBA's alternative 1500 employee standard. See, e.g., comments of SBA Associate Administrator for Procurement Assistance at 2, CFW Communications at 2, and Iowa Network at 17. A number of other commenters, including the SBA's Chief Counsel for Advocacy, argue, however, that adoption of this alternative SBA definition would open up a huge loophole in the designated entity eligibility criteria. Specifically, they contend that telecommunications is a capital, rather than labor, intensive industry, and that an entity with 1,500 employees is likely to be extremely well capitalized and have no need for the special treatment mandated by Congress in the Budget Act. See, e.g., comments of SBA Chief Counsel for Advocacy at 8, LuxCel Group, Inc. at 4, Suite 12 Group at 10&hyph;11. 174. We expect broadband PCS to be a highly capital intensive business requiring bidders to expend tens of millions of dollars to acquire a license and construct a system even in the smaller broadband PCS markets. Thus, we believe that our current small business definition is overly restrictive because it would exclude most businesses possessing the financial resources to compete successfully in the provision of broadband PCS services. Accordingly, we modify our small business definition for broadband PCS auctions to ensure the participation of small businesses with the financial resources to compete effectively in an auction and in the provision of broadband PCS services. 175. There is substantial support in the record for a $40 million gross revenue standard. For example, the SBA recommends that for broadband PCS, a small business be defined as one whose average annual gross revenues for its past three years do not exceed $40 million. 149 It states that this definition isolates those companies that have significantly greater difficulty in obtaining capital than large enterprises. At the same time, the SBA contends that a company with $40 million in revenue is sufficiently large that it could survive in a competitive wireless communications market. 150 Similarly, the SBA Chief Counsel for Advocacy asserts that a $40 million threshold will allow participation by firms ``of sufficient size to meet demands in almost all small markets and some medium-size markets without significant outside financial assistance.'' 151 For purposes of broadband PCS, we shall therefore define a small business as any firm, together with its attributable investors and affiliates, with average gross revenues for the three preceding years not in excess of $40 million. 152 In addition, an applicant will not qualify as a small business if any one attributable investor in, or affiliate of, the entity has $40 million or more in personal net worth. 153 149 Ex parte filing of U.S. Small Business Administration, June 24, 1994. 150 Id. 151 Comments of SBA Office of Advocacy at 10. Cf. comments of Iowa Network and Telephone Electronics Corporation (advocating a $40 million annual revenue criterion for telephone companies) and reply comments of North American Interactive Partners and Kingwood Associates (advocating $40 million gross-revenue criterion for applicants for the fifty most-populous BTAs, based on estimated average build-out cost). 152 The establishment of small business size standards is generally governed by Section 3 of the Small Business Act of 1953, as amended, 15 U.S.C. ยง642(a). Recent amendments to that statute provide that small business size standards developed by Federal agencies must be based on the average gross revenues of such business over a period of not less than three years. See Pub. L. No. 102&hyph;366, Title II, ยง222(a), 106 Stat. 999 (1992); 15 U.S.C. ยง632 (a)(2)(B)(ii). 153 Unlike our eligibility criteria to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks, we do not adopt a total assets standard here. We believe that the $40 million gross revenue cap for small businesses, together with the $500 million total asset threshold we set for entry into the entrepreneurs' blocks in the first instance, should be sufficient to ensure that only bona fide small businesses are able to take advantage of the measures intended for those designated entities. 176. For purposes of determining whether an entity qualifies as a small business, we will follow the control group and attribution rules set forth with regard to eligibility to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks. In particular, winning bidders are required to identify on their long-form applications a control group that holds at least 50.1 percent of the voting interests of the applicant (and otherwise has de facto control) and owns at least a 25 percent equity stake. The gross revenues of each member of the control group and each member's affiliates will be counted toward the $40 million gross revenue threshold, regardless of the size of the member's total interest in the applicant. The $40 million personal net worth limitation will also apply to each member of the control group. We will not consider the gross revenues or personal net worth of any other investor unless the investor holds 25 percent or more of the outstanding passive equity in the applicant, which, as defined above, includes as much as five percent of the voting stock in a corporate applicant.
