FR940203-2-00093 FR940203-2-00057 Use of Decommissioning Trust Funds Before Decommissioning Plan Approval; Draft Policy Statement AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Draft policy statement. SUMMARY: This draft policy statement presents the criteria the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) proposes to follow in addressing requests from power reactor licensees that have permanently shut down their power reactors to make withdrawals from external decommissioning sinking funds to pay for the removal of components and other decommissioning-related activities before the NRC approves these licensees' decommissioning plans submitted pursuant to 10 CFR 50.82. This draft policy statement also covers de minimis withdrawals from external decommissioning sinking funds to pay for developing the 10 CFR 50.82 decommissioning plan and for other post-shutdown administrative expenses. DATE: Comment period expires April 19, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to ensure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Mail written comments to: Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch. Deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm on Federal workdays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Wood, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone: (301) 504&hyph;1255. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The NRC decommissioning regulations in 10 CFR 50.75 and 50.82 are silent on whether approval of the decommissioning plan must precede withdrawals from the decommissioning trust fund. Appendix B.3.1, p. B&hyph;12 of Regulatory Guide 1.159, ``Assuring the Availability of Funds for Decommissioning Nuclear Reactors,'' contains sample trust language that indicates that the fund trustee should only release funds upon certification ``that decommissioning is proceeding pursuant to an NRC-approved plan.'' However, not all licensees have used this sample language. When the NRC evaluated trust funds as part of the initial certification required by 10 CFR 50.75(b) and submitted in July 1990, it found trusts acceptable if, along with other provisions, they contained language limiting trust fund withdrawals to legitimate decommissioning purposes. Thus, many licensees have acceptable trusts that nevertheless do not expressly limit the withdrawal of trust funds before NRC approves a decommissioning plan. Because of a request by Yankee Atomic Electric Company (YAEC) 1 and in anticipation of future requests by other power reactor licensees of permanently shutdown facilities, the Commission directed the NRC staff to provide an analysis and recommendation to the Commission on permitting licensees to use their decommissioning funds for decommissioning activities prior to approval of the decommissioning plans. The Commission approved the criteria developed by the staff to evaluate early withdrawals from external decommissioning sinking funds and directed the staff to publish the details of this policy in the Federal Register for information and public comment. 2 This proposed policy and implementing criteria are provided below: 1 In a letter to the Commission dated November 25, 1992, YAEC stated its intention to use its decommissioning trust funds to remove reactor core internals, steam generators and the pressurizer from Yankee-Rowe before the NRC approves YAEC's decommissioning plan. (YAEC plans to submit its decommissioning plan for NRC review in late 1993.) By letter dated April 16, 1993, the NRC did not object to YAEC's proposed use of decommissioning trust funds before NRC approval of the Yankee-Rowe decommissioning plan, using criteria consistent with those discussed in this policy statement. 2 This policy statement does not apply to licensees with operating nuclear reactors. The staff is separately evaluating the issue of whether and under what circumstances the NRC should allow licensees of operating plants to withdraw decommissioning trust funds.
