FR940110-2-00083 FR940110-2-00068 Notice of Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and Foreign Air Carrier Permits Filed Under Subpart Q During the Week Ended December 30, 1993 The following Applications for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and Foreign Air Carrier Permits were filed under subpart Q of the Department of Transportation's Procedural Regulations (See 14 CFR 302.1701 et. seq.). The due date for Answers, Conforming Applications, or Motions to Modify Scope are set forth below for each application. Following the Answer period DOT may process the application by expedited procedures. Such procedures may consist of the adoption of a show-cause order, a tentative order, or in appropriate cases a final order without further proceedings. Docket Number: 49339 Date Filed: December 30, 1993 Due Date for Answers, Conforming Applications, or Motion to Modify Scope: January 27, 1994 Description: Application of Czechoslovak Airlines, pursuant to Section 402 of the Act and Subpart Q of the Regulations, requests renewal of its permit authority so as to permit CSA to continue to conduct its operations to and from the United States fully in accordance with the terms of the Bilateral Aviation Agreement in effect between the United States and the Czech Republic (formerly Czechoslovakia). Docket Number: 49341 Date Filed: December 30, 1993 Due Date for Answers, Conforming Applications, or Motion to Modify Scope: January 27, 1994 Description: Application of Aries Del Sur Sociedad Anonima Transportes Aereos De Carga, pursuant to section 402 of the Act and subpart Q of the Regulations, requests the issuance of a Foreign Air Carrier Permit authorizing it to engage in nonscheduled foreign air transportation of property and mail between a point or points in Argentina, via the intermediate points Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, to the coterminal points Miami and New York and beyond to Montreal, Canada; between a point or points in Argentina, via the intermediate points Santiago, Chile; La Paz, Bolivia; Lima, Peru; Guayaquil or Quito, Ecuador; and Bogota, Colombia; to the coterminal points Miami and New York; between a point or points in Argentina, via the intermediate points La Paz, Bolivia; Lima, Peru; Guayaquil or Quito, Ecuador; Bogota, Colombia; and Mexico City, Mexico; to the terminal point Los Angeles; and between a point or points in Argentina, via the intermediate point Caracas, Venezuela, to the coterminal points Miami and New York; and to engage in charter foreign air transportation of property and mail between a point or points in Argentina and a point or points in the United States, its territories and possessions, and between a point or points in third countries and a point or points in the United States, its territories, and possessions. Phyllis T. Kaylor, Chief, Documentary Services Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;484 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;62&hyph;P
