FR940622-0-00036 FR940622-0-00011 Comment: Eight commenters believed that this requirement would be a burden on the beneficiary and his or her family as there are already too many forms to complete at admission; one commenter felt that securing a signed acknowledgement would do little to improve beneficiary attention to the ``Message'' because it is the presence of a problem, rather than the presence of the notice, that generates beneficiary attention to discharge rights issues. Response: We realize that being admitted to a hospital is a stressful event for patients and their families. As noted above, we have removed the requirement for a signed and dated acknowledgement, in part because of its impact on beneficiaries. We expect in the future to look more carefully at innovative ways to ensure that patients get the information they need when they need it. Comment: In addition to the concerns discussed above, commenters also addressed specific aspects of the requirement that hospitals obtain and retain signed acknowledgement statements. For example, one commenter suggested that we require that the date and time of the patient's signature on the acknowledgement statement be recorded; another recommended that the acknowledgement statement be accompanied by an additional statement that signing the acknowledgement in no way compromises a patient's discharge rights; another suggested that the acknowledgement specify that the beneficiary has been given the name of an individual at the hospital who is available to explain the ``Message.'' Similarly, commenters asked that we specify where, in what form, and for how long acknowledgements be retained. Finally, several commenters recommended that we allow hospitals as much flexibility as possible in implementing the acknowledgement and retention requirements. Response: Given that we have decided to eliminate the requirement for a signed acknowledgement and its retention, most of these comments are now moot. Thus, we agree with the commenters who believe that hospitals should be given maximum flexibility in determining how they can best comply with the requirement that all beneficiaries be furnished with a notice of discharge rights. We do not intend to specify the actual mechanics of having this notice presented to patients. Instead, we expect individual hospitals to exercise their own discretion in dealing with the associated administrative issues. We emphasize that, for survey purposes, hospitals that do not choose to obtain and retain signed acknowledgement statements must be able to document compliance by some other means with the requirement for timely distribution of the discharge rights notice. Comment: One commenter contended that we should have done more consulting with organizations knowledgeable about hospital management practices before developing a proposal that related to the creation and retention of a record. Response: We believe that the publication of the proposed rule represents a valuable form of consultation. The issue we dealt with in the proposed rule was primarily an issue relating to beneficiary awareness and the creation of a record that it has been successfully accomplished. As discussed above, we received comments on the recordkeeping and management aspects of the issue, and we have fully considered them in developing the final regulation. Comment: Some commenters believed that the regulations should address those situations in which the patient is physically and/or mentally unable to understand the message or to sign the acknowledgement and has no one to perform these functions. Response: We do not agree that the regulations themselves should address these situation. Such situations will be relatively rare. Hospitals will need to be in compliance with applicable State statutes in dealing with informing patients who cannot receive information on their own behalf. Program instructions are a more appropriate vehicle for discussing specific difficulties if they occur and additional guidance is needed. Comment: One commenter recommended that we specify whether we are requiring hospitals to educate Medicare beneficiaries about the patient's rights listed in the ``Message'' and to assure that the patient fully understands his or her rights. Response: We are not requiring the hospital to educate beneficiaries as to their rights, beyond having beneficiaries read the ``Message'' and signing an acknowledgement that they have read it, nor are we requiring the hospitals to assure that the beneficiaries understand their rights. Beneficiaries are instructed in the ``Message'' to consult the PRO, their physician or the hospital's patient representative if they do have questions. Comment: Four commenters believe HCFA, rather than the hospitals, should educate beneficiaries about their rights. One commenter noted that PROs, as part of their Federal contracts, are responsible for community education programs. Response: HCFA carries out a variety of activities to educate beneficiaries and will continue to do so. However, section 1866(a)(1)(M) of the Act requires that this explanation of patient rights be provided by the hospital. This is an appropriate hospital responsibility since inpatient hospital care is under the control of the hospital and the patient looks to the hospital for information about rights and options concerning care. Also, these rights are related to discharge planning, which is most appropriately a hospital function. Comment: One commenter wanted us to specify what, if any, changes a hospital can make to the ``Message.'' The commenter also requested that some monitoring requisites from the new PRO scope of work requirements be included in the regulation. Response: We believe these items are better addressed in program operating instructions. Medicare Hospital Manual Transmittal No. 545, dated July 1988, and subsequent transmittals, inform hospitals that they may use their own letterhead but may not alter or change the language of the ``Message.'' Peer Review Organization Manual Transmittals instructions will be updated, as needed, to reflect this final regulation. Comment: Three commenters believed that termination for failure to comply with provisions of this regulation is too extreme a penalty. Response: Although a hospital may be terminated for failing to meet our requirements we will not institute termination before providing an opportunity for correction. As stated in the preamble to the proposed rule, the speed with which we move to termination would depend on HCFA's judgment as to the scope of the failure and the hospital's correction or plan for correction of the failure. This approach will be reflected in implementing program instructions. Comment: One commenter thought that the acknowledgement requirement should not be subject to the 2-day termination procedure. Response: The 2-day termination procedure was not proposed to apply to the discharge rights provision, but only to the ``anti-dumping'' provision.
