FR940222-1-00056 FR940222-1-00009 The change would also simplify the process of our paying the intermediary or carrier actually performing the function. Under a subcontracting arrangement, we pay the contractor that subcontracts out the function and that entity, in turn, pays the subcontractor which is actually doing the work. Under the proposed change, we would make direct payment to the intermediary or carrier performing the function. Our conclusion is that the existing regulations, which state that intermediary agreements and carrier contracts must include all of the functions cited, are not only inconsistent with applicable statutory authority, but also are too restrictive. They deny us the flexibility to improve the administration of the Medicare program by removing some of the functions from an intermediary's agreement or a carrier's contract and transferring them to another intermediary or carrier where either we or the contractors themselves determine that such action would be more efficient than having every intermediary and carrier perform all functions specified in the regulations. We are proposing to redesignate §421.100, Intermediary functions, as §421.101, Optional intermediary functions. In a new §421.100, Required intermediary functions, we would specify that all agreements must include the functions of coverage (current content of §421.100(a)) and fiscal management (current §421.100(b)). We believe these functions are required to be included in all agreements by section 1816(a) of the Act. In the redesignated §421.101, Optional intermediary functions, we would indicate that the intermediary agreement may include the functions currently contained in §421.100(c) through 421.100(i). That is, the cumulative effect of the change would be to separate the two required functions that must be in all intermediary agreements from the remaining functions that may or may not be included. In §421.200, Carrier functions, we would change the word ``must'' to ``may'' in the first sentence, making all the functions listed for inclusion in carrier contracts optional. This change would reflect section 1842(a) of the Act, which does not list specific functions that must be included. Our use of the term ``optional'' does not mean that some functions might not be performed in some jurisdictions. All functions will continue to be performed in all intermediary and carrier jurisdictions. ``Optional'' in this case means only that HCFA will have the option of determining whether a given function should be performed in a specific jurisdiction by the intermediary or carrier which normally serves that jurisdiction and therefore included in that intermediary's agreement or carrier's contract, or should be performed by some other intermediary or carrier. In §421.200, we propose to add payment on a fee schedule basis as a new function which may be performed by carriers. While the original carrier functions included payment on a cost basis and on a charge basis, recent statutory changes and corresponding changes in the regulations have shifted some classes of physician and Medicare suppliers to payment according to fee schedules. However, §421.200 has never been updated to recognize these changes. Accordingly, the addition of payment on a fee schedule basis as a function which may be included in carrier contracts will bring this section of the regulations into conformity with current statutory provisions for Medicare part B payment. In addition, 42 CFR 421.5(d) states that, notwithstanding any of the provisions of part 421, HCFA has the authority not to renew an agreement or contract when its term expires. Section 421.126(b) allows the Secretary to terminate intermediary agreements under certain circumstances, while §421.205 gives the Secretary the authority to terminate carrier contracts at any time for cause. The distinction between the termination and nonrenewal of an agreement or contract is important because the right of an intermediary or carrier to a hearing applicable to terminations does not apply to nonrenewals. Consequently, we are proposing to revise §§421.5, 421.126, and 421.205 to make certain that the distinction between nonrenewals and terminations is clear. The proposed changes are not substantive. They are meant to reflect existing statutory and regulatory requirements, as well as HCFA's longstanding policy and practice, as expressed in the standard intermediary agreements and carrier contracts.
