FR940617-0-00148 FR940617-0-00026 EPA maintains that the impact of this rule on equipment in which regulated engines are installed will be minimal. EPA has accounted for the cost of applying the range of engine technologies required to maintain engine efficiency so that equipment modifications will not be required. Furthermore, the added program flexibilities, such as the later implementation date for lower power engines and the implementation of the ABT program, provide means for manufacturers to minimize any negative impacts. Based on EPA's analysis in the RSD and further discussed in the Response to Comments document in the docket, EPA believes that the adopted rules provide the means to avoid equipment modifications in all but the most severe cases. These cases will not affect the aggregate cost analysis presented in this rule. Comments received with respect to equipment impacts centered around the need to redesign the engine cooling system and increase maintenance to offset an expected loss in engine efficiency. A number of commenters disagreed with EPA's assessment of no impact on equipment. EPA provided analysis in the draft RSD supporting minimal loss in engine efficiency. Manufacturers did not provide data demonstrating efficiency losses and did not refute the data provided by EPA. Four equipment manufacturers and their association did provide average cost figures. These cost figures were based on anticipated equipment modifications and increased maintenance due to engine efficiency loss estimates that were not supported with data. Furthermore, projections and costs for equipment modification and maintenance were highly aggregated and thus provided insufficient resolution to establish the need for the projected equipment changes. Requests from EPA for additional data from specific manufacturers were not responded to with sufficient detail. Based on the information available to EPA (and discussed further in the Response to Comments in the docket), the Agency concludes that equipment modifications will rarely be needed to accommodate certified engines. VIII. Environmental Benefits National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) have been set for criteria pollutants which adversely affect human health, vegetation, materials, and visibility. Three criteria pollutants (nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ), ozone (O 3 ), and particles smaller than 10 microns (PM 10 )), are impacted by NO X emissions. EPA has determined the standards set in this rule will reduce NO X emissions and help nonattainment areas come into compliance with the NAAQS for ozone. The following provides a summary of the reduction expected of NO X emissions. The underlying analysis is described in greater detail in the Regulatory Support Document. The Agency believes the adopted standards should reduce average per-unit NO X emission from large nonroad CI engines by 27 percent before the year 2010, with a fleet-wide 37 percent reduction once a complete fleet turnover occurs or by the year 2025. This will result in annual nationwide reductions of roughly 800,000 tons of NO X by the year 2010 and over 1,200,000 tons of NO X by the year 2025. Based on EPA projections of future emission levels, these reductions represent four percent of total nationwide annual NO X emissions expected in 2010. 37 37 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Air Pollutant Emission Estimates: 1940&hyph;1990 , EPA&hyph;450/4&hyph;91&hyph;026, November, 1991, p. 46. IX. Cost Effectiveness In evaluating various pollution control options, EPA considers the cost effectiveness of the control. The cost effectiveness of a pollution control measure is typically expressed as the cost per ton of pollutant emissions reduced. Other things being equal, Agency guidance directs that the regulatory option selected should, for a given level of effectiveness, cost less per ton of emissions reduced. A. Cost Per Ton of NO X Reduction EPA has revised its cost effectiveness estimate of the NO X standard upward to $188 per ton of NO X removed from the exhaust of the affected engines. This figure is based on the ratio of the present value of the stream of projected costs to the present value of the stream of projected emission reduction benefits, and it reflects the revised cost estimates presented in section VII. B. Comparison to Cost Effectiveness of Other Emission Control Strategies The cost-effectiveness of the nonroad NO X standards may be compared to other CAA measures that reduce NO X emissions. title I of the 1990 CAAA requires certain areas to provide for reductions in VOC and NO X emissions as necessary to attain the NAAQS for ozone. Title I specifically outlines provisions for the application of reasonably available control technology (RACT) and new source review (NSR) for major NO X emitters. In addition, EPA anticipates that more stringent reductions in NO X emissions will be necessary in certain areas. Such reductions will be identified through dispersion modeling analyses required under title I. The cost-effectiveness of these measures is generally estimated to be in the range of $100 to $5,000 per ton of NO X reduced. 38 38 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, The Clean Air Act Section 183(d) Guidance on Cost-Effectiveness, EPA&hyph;450/2&hyph;91&hyph;008, November 1991. In addition to applying NO X control technologies to meet requirements under CAA title I, many point sources will also be required to meet NO X emission rate limits set forth in other programs, including those established under CAA title IV, which addresses acid deposition (that is, acid rain). EPA anticipates that the cost of complying with regulations required under section 407 of the CAA (Nitrogen Oxides Emission Reduction Program), which proposes nationwide limits applicable to NO X emission from coal-fired power plants, will be between $200 and $250 per ton.
