FR941003-0-00024 FR941003-0-00005 (ii) Exceptions _(A) De minimis amount . If the amount remaining unallocated at the close of a calendar year is only a de minimis amount of credit, the State is a qualified State eligible to participate in the National Pool. For that purpose, a credit amount is de minimis if it does not exceed 1 percent of the aggregate State housing credit ceiling of the State for the calendar year. (B) Other circumstances . Pursuant to the authority under section 42(n), the Internal Revenue Service may determine that a State is a qualified State eligible to participate in the National Pool even though the State's unallocated credit is in excess of the 1 percent safe harbor set forth in paragraph (A) of this section. The Internal Revenue Service will make this determination based on all the facts and circumstances, weighing heavily the interests of the States who would otherwise qualify for the National Pool. The Internal Revenue Service will generally grant relief under this paragraph only where a State's unallocated credit is not substantial. (iii) Time and manner for making request . For further guidance as to the time and manner for making a request of housing credit dollar amounts from the National Pool by a qualified State, see Rev. Proc. 92&hyph;31, 1992&hyph;1 C.B. 775. (See 601.601(d)(2)(ii)( b )). (4) Formula for determining the National Pool. The amount allocated to a qualified State in any calendar year is an amount that bears the same ratio to the aggregate unused housing credit carryovers of all States for the preceding calendar year as that State's population for the calendar year bears to the population of all qualified States for the calendar year. (j) Coordination between Agencies. The Agency responsible for filing Form 8610 on behalf of all Agencies within a State and making any request on behalf of the State for credit from the National Pool (the Filing Agency) must coordinate with each Agency within the State to ensure that the various requirements of this section are complied with. For example, the Filing Agency of a State must ensure that all Agencies within the State that were apportioned a credit amount for the calendar year have allocated all of their respective credit amounts for the calendar year before the Filing Agency can make a request on behalf of the State for a distribution of credit from the National Pool. (k) Examples. (1) The operation of the rules of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. Unless otherwise stated in an example, Agency A is the sole Agency authorized to make allocations of housing credit dollar amounts in State M, all of Agency A's allocations are valid, and for calendar year 1994 Agency A has available for allocation a State housing credit ceiling consisting of the following housing credit dollar amounts: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ A. Population component $100 B. Unused carryforward component 50 C. Returned credit component 10 D. National pool component 0 n,s Total 160
