FR940916-2-00068 FR940916-2-00060 Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of a Technical/Agency Draft Recovery Plan for Callicarpa ampla, Ilex sintenisii, Styrax portoricensis, Ternstroemia luquillensis and Ternstroemia subsessilis for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announces availability for public review of a technical/agency draft recovery plan for Callicarpa ampla, Ilex sintenisii, Styrax portoricensis, Ternstroemia luquillensis and Ternstroemia subsessilis. These species are restricted to the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico. Deforestation and fragmentation of habitat may have restricted these species to their present locations. The Service solicits review and comments from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before November 15, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting Ms. Marelisa Rivera, Caribbean Field Office, P.O. Box 491, Boquerón, Puerto Rico 00622. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Marelisa Rivera, Caribbean Field Office, P.O. Box 491, Boquerón, P.R. 00622, Tel. 809&hyph;851&hyph;7297. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened animal or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. This Technical/Agency Draft is for five Puerto Rican endangered trees, Callicarpa ampla, Ilex sintenisii, Styrax portoricensis, Ternstroemia luquillensis and Ternstroemia subsessilis, all endemic to the island of Puerto Rico. These trees are currently restricted to the Luquillo Mountains. These endangered trees face extinction due to deforestation for construction of communication facilities, roads, as well as overcollection, periodic impact of hurricanes, and forest management practices of Caribbean National Forest. Callicarpa ampla is an evergreen tree up to 50 feet tall with small white flowers and purplish ripe fruits. Today, approximately fourteen individuals are known to exist. Ilex sintenisii is a shrub or small tree 15&hyph;20 feet in height. It grows in the highest peaks of the Caribbean National Forest, within the dwarf forest vegetation type. Styrax portoricensis is a tree, 30&hyph;40 feet tall, known from a single individual. Ternstroemia luquillensis is a 60 foot tree endemic to the Luquillo Mountains, where it is known from less than 40 individuals. Ternstroemia subsessilis is a shrub or small tree 15&hyph;20 feet tall. It is known from less than 40 individuals. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Susan Silander, Acting Field Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22899 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
