FR941011-0-00035 FR941011-0-00011 Election. Some commentators noted that the proposed regulations do not address whether the election is made by the common parent corporation or each member of an affiliated group, by a partnership or its partners, or by an S corporation or the S corporation shareholders. The final regulations clarify that the election is made by each member of an affiliated group, by the partnership, or by the S corporation, respectively. The proposed regulations provide that the election to apply the regulations generally is binding on the taxpayer for computing taxable income as well as computing alternative minimum taxable income. A commentator suggested that the final regulations should allow taxpayers the option to make the election for either the regular income tax, the alternative minimum tax, or both. This rule was not adopted because of the separate and parallel nature of the regular tax and alternative minimum tax systems. Except as otherwise provided by statute or regulations, all Code provisions that apply in determining the regular taxable income of a taxpayer also apply in determining the alternative minimum taxable income of the taxpayer. The final regulations have not been expanded to include any exceptions. Consequently, an election to apply section 168(i)(4) for determining regular taxable income also applies for determining alternative minimum taxable income. Therefore, the language ``as well as alternative minimum taxable income'' in the proposed rule is redundant and has been deleted from the final regulations. Effective Date. For assets placed in service after December 31, 1986, in taxable years ending before the effective date of the final regulations, one commentator recommended that the final regulations should provide a retroactive election or, alternatively, a prospective election. Another commentator also requested a provision allowing a prospective election. The final regulations retain the rule of the proposed regulations that, for prior periods, a taxpayer may use any reasonable method that is consistently applied to the taxpayer's general asset accounts. Dates The final regulations are effective for property placed in service in taxable years ending on or after October 11, 1994. For property placed in service after December 31, 1986, in taxable years ending before October 11, 1994, the IRS will allow any reasonable method that is consistently applied to the taxpayer's general asset accounts. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, the notice of proposed rulemaking preceding these regulations was submitted to the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Kathleen Reed, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Passthroughs and Special Industries), IRS. However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 26 CFR Part 602 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR parts 1 and 602 are amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 is amended by adding an entry in numerical order to read as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 * * * Section 1.168(i)&hyph;1 also issued under 26 U.S.C. 168(i)(4). * * * Par. 2. Section 1.56(g)&hyph;1 is amended by adding a sentence at the end of paragraph (b), introductory text, to read as follows: ยง1.56(g)&hyph;1 Adjusted current earnings.
