FR940810-0-00232 FR940810-0-00021 (ii) During all Class II work where the ACM is not removed in a substantially intact state. (iii) During all Class II and III work which is not performed using wet methods. (iv) During all Class II and III asbestos jobs where the employer does not produce a ``negative exposure assessment''. (v) During all Class III jobs where TSI or surfacing ACM or PACM is being disturbed. (vi) During all Class IV work performed within regulated areas where employees performing other work are required to wear respirators. (vii) During all work covered by this section where employees are exposed above the TWA or excursion limit. (viii) In emergencies. (2) Respirator selection. (i) Where respirators are used, the employer shall select and provide, at no cost to the employee, the appropriate respirator as specified in Table 1, and shall ensure that the employee uses the respirator provided. (ii) The employer shall select respirators from among those jointly approved as being acceptable for protection by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) under the provisions of 30 CFR Part 11. (iii) The employer shall provide a tight fitting powered, air-purifying respirator in lieu of any negative-pressure respirator specified in Table 1 whenever: (A) An employee performing Class I, II or III work chooses to use this type of respirator; and (B) This respirator will provide adequate protection to the employee. Table 1._ Respiratory Protection for Asbestos Fibers 1Airborne concentration of asbestos or conditions of use 1Required respirator Not in excess of 1 f/cc (10) X PEL), or otherwise as required independent of exposure pursuant to (h)(2)(iv) Half-mask air purifying respirator other than a disposable respirator, equipped with high efficiency filters. Not in excess of 5 f/cc (50 X PEL) Full facepiece air-purifying respirator equipped with high efficiency filters. Not in excess of 10 f/cc (100 X PEL) Any powered air-purifying respirator equipped with high efficiency filters or any supplied air respirator operated in continuous flow mode. Not in excess of 100 f/cc (1,000 X PEL) Full facepiece supplied air respirator operated in pressure demand mode. Greater than 100 f/cc (1,000 X PEL) or unknown concentration Full facepiece supplied air respirator operated in pressure demand mode, equipped with an auxiliary positive pressure self-contained breathing apparatus. Note: a. Respirators assigned for high environmental concentrations may be used at lower concentrations, or when required respirator use is independent of concentration. b. A high efficiency filter means a filter that is at least 99.97 percent efficient against mono-dispersed particles of 0.3 micrometers in diameter or larger.
