FR940525-0-00056 FR940525-0-00025 Because of the imprecise nature of the impacts of the blocks of time, and upon receipt of the NMFS Northeast Fisheries Science Center's (NEFSC) comprehensive spatial and temporal analysis of the bycatch in the fall of 1993, the Council voted to support the development of a time and area closure management system. The intent was to replace the existing gillnet alternative (nets removed from the water for specified blocks of time) as the harbor porpoise bycatch mitigation measure. The Council decided, and NMFS agreed, that the gillnet fleet would not be subject to groundfish effort reductions until the effect of the harbor porpoise bycatch reduction measures could be evaluated for their impacts on groundfish fishing effort (approximately 1 year after implementation of Amendment 5). NMFS is amending the regulations under the framework abbreviated rulemaking procedure established by Amendment 5 and codified at 50 CFR part 651, subpart C. This procedure requires the Council, when making specifically allowed adjustments to the FMP, to develop and analyze the actions over the span of at least two Council meetings. The Council must provide the public with advance notice of both the proposals and the analysis, and opportunity to comment on them prior to and at the second Council meeting. Upon review of the analysis and public comment, the Council may recommend to the Regional Director of NMFS that the measures be published as a final rule if certain conditions are met. The Director, Northeast Region, NMFS, (Regional Director) may publish the measures as a final rule or as a proposed rule if additional public comment is needed. The Council complied with the procedural requirements and submitted the rule to NMFS, and NMFS concurs with the provisions of the Council's submission. This final rule implements time and area closures based on an analysis by the NEFSC of harbor porpoise bycatch using NMFS weighout and observer program data on the distribution of sink gillnet activity and the seasonal and spatial distribution of harbor porpoise in the Gulf of Maine. Extensive discussions among the Council, the fishing industry and scientists led to the measures outlined below. For purposes of the management measures contained in this final rule for Framework Adjustment # 4, the Gulf of Maine is divided into three areas: The Northeast (from Penobscot Bay to Eastport, ME); Mid-coast (from Cape Ann to Penobscot Bay); and Massachusetts Bay (from Cape Cod to Cape Ann). The Council recommended 30-day closures for each of these areas. The timing of the closures corresponds to periods when harbor porpoise bycatch is most likely to occur. The duration accounts for the variability of harbor porpoise movements. The Council recognizes that the Mid-coast and Northeast areas account for more of the bycatch than Massachusetts Bay. At this time, however, harbor porpoise bycatch mitigation measures are being applied uniformly across all regions in the Gulf of Maine. The NEFSC estimated that reductions of 20 to 40 percent might be realized in the first year of implementation of Framework Adjustment # 4 if boundaries discussed in its initial analysis of a time and area management system for the Gulf of Maine were used in conjunction with the proposed 30-day closures. The Council's boundary modifications could alter that estimate to some unknown degree because of the potential displacement of gillnet fishing effort to areas where harbor porpoise are still subject to some level of bycatch. It is reasonable, however, to anticipate the minimum estimate of approximately 20 percent, given that the timing of the closures occurs in seasons of highest bycatch of harbor porpoise in their respective areas. It is also reasonable to conclude that the continued annual target reductions may be accomplished by modifications to the same measures. The Council adopted the approach of integrating effort reductions for key species of groundfish stocks with harbor porpoise bycatch mitigation measures after the first year of program implementation. If the measures, or any future approach that is adopted, accomplish the harbor porpoise objective without reducing gillnet fishing effort sufficiently to reach the 50 percent effort reduction target, the Council will impose additional fishing restrictions. A. Northeast Closure Area This area will be closed to fishing with sink gillnets from August 15 through September 13 of each fishing year.
