FR940722-0-00105 FR940722-0-00019 61. We will be guided by the following procedures in conducting broadband PCS auctions. The Commission will release an initial Public Notice announcing that it will accept applications for specific broadband PCS licenses. This initial Public Notice will specify the licenses and identify the time and place of an auction in the event that mutually exclusive applications are filed. The Public Notice also will specify the method of competitive bidding to be used, including applicable bid submission procedures, stopping rules and activity rules, as well as the deadline by which short-form applications must be filed, and the amounts and deadlines for submitting the upfront payment. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 164. We will not accept applications filed before or after the dates specified in Public Notices. Applications submitted before release of a Public Notice announcing the availability of particular license(s), or before the opening date of the filing window specified therein, will be returned as premature. Applications submitted after the deadline specified by Public Notice will be dismissed, with prejudice, as untimely. Soon after release of the initial Public Notice, an auction information package will be made available to prospective bidders. 62. Bidders will be required to submit short-form applications on FCC Form 175 (and FCC Form 175&hyph;S, if applicable), together with any applicable filing fee 38 by the date specified in the initial Public Notice. 39 The short-form applications will require applicants to provide the information required by Section 1.2105(a)(2) of the Commission's Rules, 47 CFR §1.2105(a)(2). Specifically, each applicant will be required to specify on its Form 175 applications certain identifying information, including its status as a designated entity (if applicable), its classification ( i.e., individual, corporation, partnership, trust or other), the markets and frequently blocks for which it is applying, and assuming that the licenses will be auctioned, the names of persons authorized to place or withdraw a bid on its behalf. In addition, applicants will be required to provide detailed ownership information ( see Section 24.813(a) of the Commission's Rules) and identify all parties with whom they have entered into any consortium arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships or other agreements or understandings which relate to the competitive bidding process. Applicants will also be required to certify that they have not entered and will not enter into any explicit or implicit agreements, arrangements or understandings with any parties, other than those identified, regarding the amount of their bid, bidding strategies or the particular properties on which they will or will not bid. In addition, applicants for licenses in the entrepreneurs' blocks will be required, as part of their short-form applications, to certify that they are eligible to bid on and win licenses in those blocks. Among other things, this means that they are in compliance with our PCS-cellular and PCS&hyph;PCS cross-ownership limitations. As we indicated in the Second Report and Order , if the Commission receives only one application that is acceptable for filing for a particular license, and thus there is no mutual exclusivity, the Commission by Public Notice will cancel the auction for this license and establish a date for the filing of a long-form application, the acceptance of which will trigger the procedures permitting petitions to deny. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 165. 38 Because Section 8 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. §158, does not currently afford the Commission authority to charge an application fee in connection with PCS applications, broadband PCS applicants will not be required to submit a fee with their short-form application. However, the Commission has requested that Congress amend Section 8 of the Communications Act to provide a specific application fee for PCS services. If the Commission receives application fee authority, the general rules governing submission of fees will apply. See 47 CFR §1.1101 et seq . These rules currently provide for dismissal of an application if the application fee is not paid, is insufficient, is in improper form, is returned for insufficient funds or is otherwise not in compliance with our fee rules. Whenever funds are remitted to the Commission, applicants also must file FCC Form 159. 39 Applicants should submit one paper original and one microfiche original of their application, as well as two microfiche copies. 63. A number of commenters in this proceeding objected to our original tentative conclusion that short-form applications should be judged by a letter-perfect standard. See NPRM at ¶ 100. Parties proposed that the Commission allow a brief period for correcting errors in short-form applications. See, e.g., comments of AT&T at 30&hyph;31, BellSouth at 36&hyph;37. As we stated in the Second Report and Order, we believe that the public interest would be better served by encouraging maximum bidder participation in auctions. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 167. Therefore, we will provide applicants with an opportunity to correct minor defects in their short-form applications ( e.g., typographical errors, incorrect license designations, etc.) prior to the auction. Applicants will not be permitted until after the auction, however, to make any major modifications to their applications, including cognizable ownership changes or changes in the identification of parties to bidding consortia. In addition, applications that are not signed will be dismissed as unacceptable. 64. After reviewing the short-form applications, the Commission will issue a second Public Notice listing all defective applications, and applicants whose applications contain minor defects will be given an opportunity to cure defective applications and resubmit a correction version. 40 After reviewing the corrected applications, the Commission will release a third Public Notice announcing the names of all applicants whose applications have been accepted for filing. These applicants will be required to submit an upfront payment to the Commission, as discussed below. 40 On the date set for submission of corrected applications that on their won discover minor errors in their applications also will be permitted to file corrected applications. B. Upfront Payment 65. The comments in this proceeding generally supported the Commission's proposal to require prospective bidders to make substantial upfront payments prior to auction. See, e.g., comments of Comcast at 18, PacBell at 28, Nextel at 16, and AWCC at 31&hyph;32. Consistent with the weight of the comments, we concluded in the Second Report and Order that a substantial upfront payment prior to the beginning of an auction is necessary to ensure that only serious and qualified bidders participate. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 171. By requiring such a payment we also help to ensure that any bid withdrawal or default penalties are paid. These considerations apply to broadband PCS auctions. We will therefore require all broadband PCS auction participants to tender in advance to the Commission a substantial upfront payment as a condition of bidding.
