FR940920-1-00070 FR940920-1-00008 C. Overview of This Preamble This preamble will: (1) Summarize the proposed guidelines by discussing the conclusions reached with respect to each of the elements in the decision summary; (2) describe the environmental, energy, and economic impacts of these proposed guidelines; (3) present a rationale for each of the decisions associated with this proposal; (4) present a regulatory flexibility analysis; and (5) discuss administrative requirements relevant to this action. II. Summary of the Proposed Subpart Cb MWC Emission Guidelines This section presents a summary of the proposed emission guidelines, including identification of the source category and pollutants that would be regulated under the proposal, discussion of the format of the proposed guidelines, and presentation of the proposed guidelines and their associated performance testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements. This section also provides a comparison of the emission guidelines in this proposed subpart Cb versus the 1991 emission guidelines (subpart Ca). A. Source Category To Be Regulated Today's proposed emission guidelines would require States to develop emission regulations limiting air emissions from each existing MWC unit located at an MWC facility that has an aggregate existing plant capacity to combust over 35 Mg/day of MSW, for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced on or before September 20, 1994. The proposed guidelines would apply to more than 99 percent of all existing MWC capacity. Additionally, plants with an aggregate capacity to combust between 25 and 35 Mg/day would be required to submit an initial report of their location and facility capacities, but would not be subject to any provisions of the guidelines. The aggregate design capacity of all existing MWC's at an MWC plant would be considered in determining: (1) Whether a plant is subject to the guidelines; and (2) what control levels are applicable. The capacity of new MWC's (i.e., those that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 20, 1994) that are located at the MWC plant would not be considered in determining applicability of the emission guidelines to existing MWC's, but would be considered in determining the applicability of the subpart Eb NSPS. Only MWC units constructed, modified, or reconstructed on or before September 20, 1994 would be used for determining the applicability of subpart Cb guidelines. Modification of an existing MWC to comply with the emission guidelines would not bring an existing MWC under the NSPS for new MWC's.
