FR941206-0-00207 FR941206-0-00019 (A) A foam- or liquid-filled seal mounted in contact with the waste (liquid-mounted seal). A liquid-mounted seal means a foam- or liquid-filled seal mounted in contact with the waste between the wall of the tank and the floating roof continuously around the circumference of the tank. (B) Two seals mounted one above the other so that each forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the wall of the tank and the edge of the internal floating roof. The lower seal may be vapor-mounted, but both shall be continuous. (C) A mechanical shoe seal. A mechanical shoe seal is a metal sheet held vertically against the wall of the tank by springs or weighted levers and is connected by braces to the floating roof. A flexible coated fabric (envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof. (iii) Each opening in a noncontact internal floating roof except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and the rim space vents is to provide a projection below the waste surface. (iv) Each opening in the internal floating roof except for leg sleeves, automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, column wells, ladder wells, sample wells, and stub drains is to be equipped with a cover or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use. The cover or lid shall be equipped with a gasket. Covers on each access hatch and automatic gauge float well shall be bolted except when they are in use. (v) Automatic bleeder vents shall be equipped with a gasket and are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports. (vi) Rim space vents shall be equipped with a gasket and are to be set to open only when the internal floating roof is not floating or at the manufacturer's recommended setting. (vii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof for the purpose of sampling shall be a sample well. The sample well shall have a slit fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the opening. (viii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a column supporting the fixed roof shall have a flexible fabric sleeve seal or a gasketed sliding cover. (ix) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a ladder shall have a gasketed sliding cover. (2) The owner or operator electing to comply with ยง265.1085(b)(3) of this subpart shall design, install, operate, and maintain an external floating roof that meets the following requirements: (i) Each external floating roof shall be equipped with a closure device between the wall of the tank and the roof edge. The closure device is to consist of two seals, one above the other. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal, and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal. (A) The primary seal shall be either a mechanical shoe seal or a liquid-mounted seal. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section, the seal shall completely cover the annular space between the edge of the floating roof and tank wall. (B) The secondary seal shall completely cover the annular space between the external floating roof and the wall of the tank in a continuous fashion except as allowed in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section. (ii) Except for automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents, each opening in a noncontact external floating roof shall provide a projection below the waste surface. Except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, roof drains, and leg sleeves, each opening in the roof is to be equipped with a gasketed cover, seal, or lid that is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use. Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports. Rim vents are to be set to open when the roof is being floated off the roof leg supports or at the manufacturer's recommended setting. Automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents are to be gasketed. Each emergency roof drain is to be provided with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening. (iii) The roof shall be floating on the waste at all times (i.e., off the roof leg supports) except during initial fill until the roof is lifted off leg supports and when the tank is completely emptied and subsequently refilled. The process of filling, emptying, or refilling when the roof is resting on the leg supports shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible. (3) The owner or operator may elect to comply with ยง265.1085(b)(2) or (b)(3) of this subpart using an alternative means of emission limitation for which a Federal Register notice has been published in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 60.114b permitting its use as an alternative means for the purpose of compliance with 40 CFR 60.112b. (b) Monitoring and inspection of the control equipment described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be conducted as follows: (1) After installation, owners and operators of internal floating roofs shall: (i) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, and the secondary seal (if one is in service), prior to filling the tank with waste. If there are holes, tears, or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric, or defects in the internal floating roof, or both, the owner or operator shall repair the items before filling the tank. (ii) For tanks equipped with a liquid-mounted or mechanical shoe primary seal, visually inspect the internal floating roof and the primary seal or the secondary seal (if one is in service) through manholes and roof hatches on the fixed roof at least once every 12 months after initial fill. If the internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the waste inside the tank, or there is liquid accumulated on the roof, or the seal is detached, or there are holes or tears in the seal fabric, the owner or operator shall repair the items or empty and remove the tank from service within 45 days. If a failure that is detected during inspections required in this paragraph cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the tank cannot be emptied within 45 days, a 30-day extension may be requested from the Regional Administrator. Such a request for an extension shall document that alternate capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of actions the owner or operator will take that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the tank will be emptied as soon as possible. (iii) For tanks equipped with a double-seal system as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section:
