FR940705-2-00100 FR940705-2-00070 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 50&hyph;213] Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company; Haddam Neck Plant Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. DPR&hyph;61, issued to Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company (CYAPCO, the licensee), for operation of the Haddam Neck Plant, located in Middlesex County, Connecticut. Environmental Assessment Identification of the Proposed Action The proposed amendment will revise Technical Specification (TS) Section 3/4.5.1, ``ECCS Subsystems_Tavg Greater Than or Equal to 350 ○F,'' by adding a new ACTION Statement ``a'' which increases the allowed outage time for the centrifugal charging pumps from 72 hours to 7 days. The Technical Specification changes will reduce the risk of an unnecessary shutdown to perform charging pump repairs. The proposed action is in accordance with the licensee's amendment request dated November 2, 1993, as supplemented February 28, 1994, and May 31, 1994. The Need for the Proposed Action The current TS allows a charging pump to be inoperable for a period of up to 72 hours. Experience at the plant has shown that 72 hours may not be sufficient to accomplish certain repairs such as rebuilding the rotating assembly or complete pump replacement. Increasing the allowed outage time to 7 days provides sufficient time to perform such repairs without having to shut the plant down. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The Commission has completed its evaluation of the proposed revision to the TS. The increase in the core damage frequency due to internal events as result of the increased allowed outage time is 3.0E&hyph;7 per year or less than 1 percent of the current core damage frequency of 1.8E&hyph;4 per year for internal events. The increase in the core damage frequency due to external events as result of the increased outage time has been determined to be insignificant for external events. The unavailability of the charging pumps has limited effects on the risk because the charging pumps are not credited for during the injection phase of a design basis accident and are the backup to the high-pressure safety injection pumps during the recirculation phase if power is available. The only use of the charging pumps credited in the safety analysis is for two path sump recirculation, which is later in the accident and is manually initiated. The TS change will not increase the probability or consequences of accidents, no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with this proposed TS amendment. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed amendment involves features located entirely within the restricted area as defined in 10 CFR Part 20. It does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed amendment, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impact need not be evaluated. The principal alternative to the amendment would be to deny the amendment request. Such action would not enhance the protection of the environment and would result in unjustified cost to the licensee. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not considered previously in the Final Environmental Statement for the Haddam Neck Plant. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the Connecticut State official regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State official had no comments. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed amendment. For further details with respect to this proposed action, see the licensee's letters dated November 2, 1993, as supplemented February 28, and May 31, 1994. These letters are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document room located at the Russell Library, 123 Broad Street, Middletown Connecticut 06547. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 27th day of June 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John F. Stolz, Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;4, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16196 Filed 7&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
