FR940527-0-00077 FR940527-0-00024 19. We conclude that the must-purchase requirement applies to the total demand to and from Alaska under the JSA for interstate transport and switching MTS minutes for the last 12 months that the JSA was in effect rather than just AT&T's demand under the JSA. The Alaska Joint Board recommended a continuing obligation for AT&T to purchase some services from Alascom during the second phase of the transition to avoid precipitous shifts of Alascom's costs to the intrastate jurisdiction after termination of the JSA that could result from a sudden decrease in the use of Alascom facilities by AT&T for the provision of interstate MTS. 20. We conclude, however, that we should modify the Board's recommendation in this area in two respects in order to achieve the Board's objectives. We modify the method of calculating the fixed dollar amount of services that AT&T must purchase in order to address factors that the Board did not consider when it selected its recommended methodology. Without the modification we now make, the fixed dollar amount that AT&T must purchase could give Alascom windfall payments over and above what is necessary to address the Board's concern about possible intrastate cost shifts. As noted supra, the State Joint Board members have participated in reaching this conclusion. Thus, we require two adjustments to the fixed dollar amount that AT&T must purchase that is calculated using the Board's recommended methodology. 21. First, intrastate cost shifts are not likely to occur if Alascom separately provides significant interstate traffic after the JSA is terminated. Indeed, in these circumstances, AT&T may not be able to purchase the required fixed dollar amount of services from Alascom to fulfill the recommended post-JSA traffic loading requirement. Since in this case Alascom's use of its own facilities will help address the Board's concern about intrastate shifts, the fixed dollar amount that AT&T must purchase for each six month period should be adjusted to reflect Alascom and AT&T's relative interstate use of those facilities. Thus, the fixed dollar amount for each six month period during which AT&T must purchase services from Alascom, as calculated using the Board's recommended methodology, must be adjusted to reflect the proportion of minutes of interstate use by Alascom and AT&T. 22 22 The required adjustment is to be computed by applying the proportion (percentage) of MTS minutes to and from Alaska, provided by AT&T, in that six month period, relative to all the interstate MTS minutes to and from Alaska provided in that six month period, by AT&T and Alascom, to the unadjusted calculated fixed dollar amount for each six month period. For example, for each six month period, if AT&T carries 60% of the total interstate MTS minutes to and from Alaska carried by AT&T and by Alascom, then AT&T would pay 60% of the unadjusted fixed dollar must purchase amount for that six month period. 22. Second, after the JSA terminates, Alascom likely will be obtaining revenues under tariff or through leases from carriers for use of its facilities to provide interstate MTS. The revenues associated with new services purchased by other interexchange carriers must be deducted from AT&T's obligation to purchase Alascom services. 23 This deduction recognizes that new uses of Alascom's facilities by other interexchange carries (for the provision of MTS services) achieves the same policy goals as similar purchases made by AT&T. Thus, the total of all MTS-related purchases by AT&T and new services purchased by other carriers when added together must meet the fixed obligation identified in the ``must purchase requirement. 24 Again, actual interstate use of Alascom's facilities addresses the Board's concerns about intrastate cost shifts. Additional payments would unnecessarily burden AT&T and provide Alascom with revenues over and above that needed to address these concerns. Thus, the AT&T purchase level as calculated using the Board's recommended methodology, and as adjusted for the proportion of MTS minutes provided by AT&T and Alascom, must be adjusted also for any revenues received by Alascom for new services purchased by other interexchange carriers for use of its interstate MTS facilities to provide interstate MTS. 25 23 For purpose of this order, the term ``new services'' refers to purchases of Alascom interstate services used for the purpose of providing MTS, under lease or contract, by IXCs, other than AT&T, that exceeds the level of services purchased over the last twelve months ending January 1, 1996. Examples of new services would be new leases and tariff services not otherwise offered under lease prior to January 1, 1996. Other examples would be increases in contracts above the levels purchased as of the last 12 months ending on January 1, 1996. If contracts existing as of January 1, 1996 are replaced by tariffs, only the increase above levels purchased as of the last twelve months ending January 1, 1996 would be considered new services. When calculating AT&T's must purchase requirement for any 6 month period, new services would be determined based on purchases by other IXCs in that 6 month period that exceed one-half the level of purchases over the last twelve months ending January 1, 1996. 24 All interstate services purchased under lease or contract by AT&T from Alascom may be used to meet AT&T's fixed dollar obligation, so long as those services are employed to provide interstate MTS service. 25 If requested by the Commission, AT&T and Alascom must provide all relevant information to include, at a minimum, the interstate MTS minutes and the tariff and lease revenues used to calculate the fixed dollar amount AT&T must purchase, including the adjustments we require herein. Both parties also must retain supporting documentation on interstate minutes and contract and tariff revenues for potential audit by the Commission.
