FR941031-2-00015 FR941031-2-00012 International Trade Administration A&hyph;588&hyph;602 Certain Carbon Steel Butt-Weld Pipe Fittings From Japan; Initiation of Anti-Circumvention Inquiry on Antidumping Duty Order AGENCY: International Trade Administration/Import Administration, Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice of initiation of anti-circumvention inquiry. SUMMARY: On the basis of a petition filed with the Department of Commerce, we are initiating an anti-circumvention inquiry to determine whether producers of carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings from Japan are circumventing the antidumping duty order on carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings. Effective Date: October 31, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Donald Little or Maureen Flannery, Office of Antidumping Compliance, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230; telephone: (202) 482&hyph;4733. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On March 22, 1994, the Department of Commerce (the Department) received a petition filed by the U.S. Fittings Group (the petitioner) requesting that the Department conduct an anti-circumvention inquiry on the antidumping duty order on Certain Carbon Steel Butt-Weld Pipe Fittings from Japan (52 FR 4167 (February 10, 1987)). The U.S. Fittings Group is an ad hoc trade association of domestic producers of carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings (pipe fittings) whose members currently consist of Hackney, Inc., Ladish Co., Mill Iron Works, Inc., and Tube Forgings of America, Inc. Petitioner alleges that unfinished pipe fittings from Japan are being finished in Thailand by Awaji Sangyo (Thailand) Co. (AST), and thereafter imported into the United States free of any antidumping duties. Petitioner asserts that all the elements necessary for an affirmative determination under Section 781(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, (the Tariff Act) are present. The Department received a letter from AST on March 31, 1994, stating that petitioner's request should be denied because unfinished pipe fittings from Japan, as imported by AST, are not included in the scope of the Japanese order. Initiation of Anti-Circumvention Proceeding Section 781(b) of the Tariff Act allows the Department to include merchandise within the scope of an existing order if the following conditions are met: (1) The merchandise entering the United States must be of the same class or kind as the merchandise subject to the antidumping duty order; (2) prior to importation into the United States, the merchandise must be completed or assembled in a third country from subject merchandise or merchandise produced in the country subject to the order; and (3) the difference in value of the imported merchandise and the value of such merchandise completed or assembled in a third country must be ``small.'' Our analysis of petitioner's submission according to the above criteria leads us to conclude that: (1) there is evidence that the merchandise entered into the United States is of the same class or kind as that covered by the Japanese order; (2) there is public evidence that AST imported unfinished pipe fittings from Japan, performed finishing operations, and then exported these finished pipe fittings to the United States; and (3) the difference in value between the imported finished pipe fittings and the unfinished Japanese pipe fittings finished by AST is most likely ``small.'' In addition to the criteria discussed above, the statute also lists other factors to consider in determining whether to include such merchandise in the antidumping duty order. These are: (1) The pattern of trade; (2) whether a relationship exists between the manufacturer or exporter and the third-country assembler of the product; and (3) whether imports into the foreign country of the product have increased after the issuance of the order. Our analysis of the information in the petitioner's submission leads us to conclude that: (1) U.S. import statistics evidence a shift in the pattern of trade subsequent to the Japanese order; (2) there is no relationship between the manufacturer or exporter and the third-country assembler; and (3) the data with respect to any increase of imports into the foreign country are inconclusive. For further analysis, see Memorandum from Joseph A. Spetrini to Susan G. Esserman, dated October 21, 1994. Based on this information, we are initiating an anti-circumvention inquiry on carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings from Japan, case number A&hyph;588&hyph;602. The Department will not suspend liquidation at this time. However, the Department will instruct the U.S. Customs Service to suspend liquidation in the event of an affirmative preliminary determination of circumvention. This notice is published in accordance with section 781(b) of the Tariff Act (19 U.S.C. 1677j(b)) and 19 CFR 353.29. Dated: October 21, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26887 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
