FR940711-0-00004 FR940711-0-00001 §179.305 Agency review. (a) A debtor may dispute the existence of the debt, the amount of the debt, or the terms of repayment. The request to review a disputed debt must be received by the OPM official identified in the notification within 30 calendar days of the debtor's receipt of the written notice described in §179.304. (b) If the debtor requests an opportunity to inspect or copy OPM's records concerning the disputed claim, 10 business days will be granted for the review. The time period will be measured from the time the request for inspection is granted or from the time the copy of the records is received by the debtor. (c) Pending the resolution of a dispute initiated by the debtor, transactions in any of the debtor's account(s) maintained in OPM may be temporarily suspended to the extent of the debt that is owed. Depending on the type of transaction, the suspension could preclude payment, removal, or transfer, as well as prevent the payment of interest or discount due thereon. Should the dispute be resolved in the debtor's favor, the suspension will be lifted immediately. (d) During the review period, interest, penalties, and administrative costs authorized under the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended, will continue to accrue. §179.306 Written agreement for repayment. A debtor who admits liability but elects not to have the debt collected by administrative offset will be afforded an opportunity to negotiate a written agreement for the repayment of the debt. If the financial condition of the debtor does not support the ability to pay in one lump-sum, reasonable installments may be considered. No installment arrangement will be considered unless the debtor submits a financial statement, executed under penalty of perjury, reflecting the debtor's assets, liabilities, income, and expenses. The financial statement must be submitted within 10 business days of OPM's request for the statement. At OPM's option, a confess-judgment note or bond of indemnity with surety may be required for the installment agreement. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any reduction or compromise of a claim will be governed by 4 CFR part 103 and 31 U.S.C. 3711. §179.307 Administrative offset. (a) If the debtor does not exercise the right to request a review within the time specified in §179.305 or, if as a result of the review, it is determined that the debt is due and no written agreement is executed, then administrative offset shall be ordered in accordance with these regulations without further notice. (b) Request for offset to a Federal agency: The Director or his or her designee may request that funds due and payable to a debtor by a Federal agency be administratively offset in order to collect a debt owned to OPM by that debtor. In requesting administrative offset OPM, as creditor, will certify in writing to the Federal agency holding funds of the debtor: (1) That the debtor owes the debt; (2) The amount and basis of the debt; and (3) That OPM has complied with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716, its own administrative offset regulations, and the applicable provisions of 4 CFR part 102 with respect to providing the debtor with due process. (c) Request for offset from a Federal agency: When administrative offset is authorized, any Federal creditor agency may request OPM to make an administrative offset from any OPM funds that are due and payable to a creditor agency's debtor. OPM shall initiate the requested administrative offset only upon: (1) Receipt of written certification from the creditor agency: (i) That the debtor owes the debt; (ii) The amount and basis of the debt; (iii) That the agency has prescribed regulations for the exercise of administrative offset; and (iv) That the agency has complied with its own administrative offset regulations and with the applicable provisions of 4 CFR part 102, including providing any required hearing or review. (2) A determination by OPM that collection by offset against funds payable by OPM would not otherwise be contrary to law. §179.308 Accelerated procedures. OPM may make an administrative offset against a payment to be made to the debtor prior to the completion of the procedures required by §179.304 and §179.305 if failure to take the offset would substantially jeopardize OPM's ability to collect the debt, and the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of those procedures. Such prior offset shall be promptly followed by the completion of those procedures. Amounts recovered by offset but later found not to be owed to OPM shall be promptly refunded. §179.309 Additional administrative procedures. Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to preclude the use of any other administrative remedy which may be available. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16632 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M
