FR940124-1-00088 FR940124-1-00009 The Secretary anticipates making referrals at least annually. Section 494C(a) as amended by the Higher Education Technical Amendments of 1993 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;208) further provides that the Secretary may determine not to refer to a SPRE for review an institution that meets only criterion (10) described above, if the SPRE previously reviewed that institution under this part and found no violations of the State's review standards. This provision is repeated in §667.5(d). Under a literal reading of review criteria (6) and (9), the Secretary would have to refer an institution to a SPRE in perpetuity for an event that happened once. However, the Secretary believes that it is wasteful to require a SPRE to continually review an institution for the same reason if the SPRE had previously reviewed that institution and found no violations of its standards. Therefore, in §667.5(c), the Secretary proposes to reserve whether to refer an institution to a SPRE for review under these two criteria if on the basis of an earlier referral, the SPRE conducted a review of the institution and found no significant violations of its standards as a result of that review. Section 494C(c) of the HEA provides that an institution may request confirmation of the data used by the Secretary to determine that the institution met one or more of the statutory review criteria. In §667.5(e), the Secretary proposes to rescind a referral if the Secretary confirms that the data used to make the referral were inaccurate and that a referral would not be made under accurate data. When confirming the accuracy of data, the Secretary will presume that records maintained in the ordinary course of business by the U.S. Department of Education, a guaranty agency under the FFEL programs, the SPRE, the State licensing agency, or another State agency are accurate unless the institution proves to the Secretary's satisfaction that the records are not properly maintained or are inaccurate. Section 667.6␣SPRE Selection of Institutions for Review In addition to those institutions referred to a State by the Secretary for review as a result of meeting one or more of the criteria set forth in section 494C(b), section 494C(a) of the HEA provides that a State may, subject to approval by the Secretary, review additional institutions that_ (1) Meet one or more of the statutory review criteria based on more recent data available to the State; or (2) The State has reason to believe are engaged in fraudulent practices. The statute further provides that if the Secretary fails to approve or disapprove a State's request to review additional institutions within 21 days, the State may proceed to review those additional institutions as if approved by the Secretary. These statutory provisions are repeated in §667.6. Section 667.7␣Notice to SPRE of Federal Actions Section 494C(h)(2) of the HEA requires the Secretary to prescribe in regulations a time period within which the Secretary notifies a SPRE of any actions taken by the Secretary or another Federal agency against an institution located in the SPRE's State. Accordingly, in §667.7, the Secretary proposes to notify a SPRE within 10 days of taking or learning of an action against an institution. Section 667.8␣Institutions With Locations in More Than One State Section 667.8 deals with the situation when a referred institution has locations in more than one State. In proposing procedures for dealing with that situation, the Secretary had to decide which State standards would apply, which State would conduct the review, and, if more than one State had to conduct a review, how those reviews should be coordinated. In §667.8, the Secretary proposes the following. If an institution is referred for review, the Secretary will refer the institution to the SPRE in each State in which the institution is located. With the referral, the Secretary informs each SPRE of the other States in which the institution is located. The main campus of the institution or any branch campus or additional location of that institution is subject to the review standards of the State in which it is located. The proposed procedures place the principal responsibility for reviewing the institution on the SPRE of the State in which the main campus of the institution is located. The SPRE of a State in which a branch campus or additional location of the institution is located may choose among three options to determine when to review that branch campus or additional location or to determine if review of that branch or additional location is warranted. Under the first option, the SPRE may review that branch campus or additional location before a review is conducted of the main campus of that institution. The second option provides that the SPRE may delay its review of that branch campus or additional location until a review is conducted of the main campus of that institution. Under the last option, if the State's allotment will not allow the SPRE to review all referred institutions, the SPRE may choose not to review that branch campus or additional location if the SPRE of the State in which the main campus of that institution is located reviews that institution and makes no significant findings. Finally, the Secretary proposes that SPREs may agree among themselves to alter these review requirements. Thus, if the institution was located in a metropolitan area such as Washington, DC and had its main campus in Washington, DC and branch campuses in Virginia and Maryland, the Washington, DC, Virginia, and Maryland SPREs could agree among themselves that the Virginia SPRE would review all the institution's locations. However, the applicable review standards would not change. Therefore, to the extent that the three jurisdictions had different standards, the Washington, DC locations would be subject to the Washington, DC standards, the Maryland locations would be subject to the Maryland standards and the Virginia locations would be subject to the Virginia standards.
