FR940602-1-00053 FR940602-1-00013 (c) Overloaded containers. No container or containers shall be hoisted if its actual gross weight exceeds the weight marked as required in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or if it exceeds the capacity of the crane or other lifting appliance intended to be used. (d) Container inspection. (1) Containers shall be inspected for any visible defects in structural members and fittings which would make the handling of such container unsafe. (2) Any container found to have such a defect shall either be handled by a special means to assure safe handling; or shall be emptied before handling. (e) Suspended containers. The employer shall direct employees to stay clear of the area beneath a suspended container. (f) Lifting fittings. Containers shall be handled using lifting fittings or other arrangements suitable and intended for the purpose as set forth in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section, except when damage to an intermodal container makes special means of handling necessary. (1) Loaded intermodal containers of 20 feet (6.1 m) or more shall be hoisted as follows: (i) When hoisted by the top fittings, the lifting forces shall be applied vertically from at least four such fittings. (ii) When hoisted from bottom fittings, the hoisting connections shall bear on the fittings only, making no other contact with the container. The angles of the four bridle legs shall not be less than 30 ○ to the horizontal in the case of 40 foot (12.2 m) containers; 37 ○ in the case of 30 foot (9.1 m) containers; and 45 ○ in the case of 20 foot (6.1 m) containers. (iii) Lifting containers by fork lift trucks or grappling arms from above or from one side may be done only if the container is designed for this type of handling. (iv) Other means of hoisting may be used only if the containers and hoisting means are designed for such use. (2)(i) When using intermodal container spreaders that employ lanyards for activation and load disengagement, all possible precautions shall be taken to prevent accidental release of the load. (ii) Intermodal container spreader twistlock systems shall be designed and used so that a suspended load cannot accidentally be released. (g) Safe container top access. A safe means of access and egress shall be provided for each employee required to work atop an intermodal container. Unless ladders are used for access, such means shall comply with the requirements of §1917.45(j) of this chapter. (h) Employee hoisting prohibition. Employees shall not be hoisted on intermodal container spreaders while a load is engaged. (i) Portable ladder access. When other safer means are available, portable ladders shall not be used in gaining access to container stacks more than two containers high. (j) Container top safety. (1) Employees shall be protected from fall hazards 3 in the following manner: 3 A fall hazard shall exist whenever employees are working within 3 feet (.9 m) of the unprotected edge of a work surface that is 10 or more feet (3 m) above the adjoining surface and twelve (12) inches (.3 m) or more, horizontally, from the adjacent surface; or weather conditions may impair vision or sound footing of workers on top of containers. (i) After June 2, 1997, employees shall not go on top of containers to perform work, notably coning and deconing, which can be eliminated through the proper use of positive container securing devices; (ii) Work which requires employees to go on top of container tops shall be eliminated, to the extent feasible, through the proper use of positive container securing devices, which includes, but is not limited to, semi-automatic twist locks and cell guides; (iii) A fall protection system meeting the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section shall be implemented to protect the following employees: (A) Employees engaged in work on containers that is not described in paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section 4 that presents exposure to fall hazards; or 4 Examples of work that may not be eliminated by positive container securing devices, where employees may be required to work on top of containers include, but are not limited to: installing or removing bridge clamps; hooking up or detaching overheight containers; or freeing a jammed semi-automatic twist lock.
