FR940610-1-00067 FR940610-1-00008 To indicate its concern in this area, the Department is proposing, in §210.10(i), to recommend that school food authorities make every effort to provide adequate meal service times and periods to ensure that students can effectively participate in the school lunch program. Changes to the School Breakfast Program Nutritional Requirements In order to facilitate uniform implementation, the Department is also proposing to amend the nutritional requirements of the SBP to parallel the changes made to the nutritional requirements of the NSLP. The current §220.8 would be redesignated as §220.8a to retain the requirements that would be in effect until implementation of the updated nutrition standards on July 1, 1998, while §220.8 would contain provisions on nutrition standards, NSMP and ANSMP for the SBP. The major differences for the SBP are that fewer calories are required and one-fourth of the RDA are to be met. A new guide would be incorporated into §220.8 to indicate the nutrition standards required for the SBP. In addition, separate analyses for SBP and NSLP would be required to meet the different nutrition standards for each program. As previously discussed, a reimbursable meal under the SBP will not be required to contain an entree. Effective Dates As discussed earlier, this proposal requires school food authorities to serve meals through the use of NSMP or ANSMP and be in compliance with updated nutrition standards by School Year 1998&hyph;1999 which begins on July 1, 1998. The Department believes this schedule provides sufficient time to enable States to develop appropriate technical assistance and guidance materials, to allow local food service staff to become familiar with the updated requirements and to make appropriate changes in meals. There would be no mandate for school food authorities to implement the required changes prior to July 1, 1998. In the interest of promoting children's long-term health through diet, the Department encourages State agencies to work with school food authorities to implement as soon as possible and, in fact, as discussed earlier, expects State agencies to approve plans for early implementation. The Department considers that early implementation will also provide both State agencies and school food authorities with valuable experience before mandatory implementation. To encourage early implementation, compliance activities described above will not take effect before School Year 1998&hyph;1999. In the interim period, reviews and oversight activities that focus on the food service portion of program operations will provide excellent opportunities for technical assistance and for State agencies to assess preparation for full implementation. All other changes in this rule, including the paperwork reductions and streamlined administration methods, could be implemented 30 days after final publication of the final rule. List of Subjects 7 CFR Part 210 Children, Commodity School Program, Food assistance programs, Grants programs_social programs, National School Lunch Program, Nutrition, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surplus agricultural commodities. 7 CFR Part 220 Children, Food assistance programs, Grant programs_social programs, Nutrition, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, School Breakfast Program. Accordingly, 7 CFR parts 210 and 220 are proposed to be amended as follows: PART 210_NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 210 is revised to read as follows:
