FR941206-2-00118 FR941206-2-00079 [Release No. 34&hyph;35021; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;50] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc.; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change Relating to Examination Specifications for the General Securities Registered Representative (Series 7) Examination, and the Corresponding Content Outline November 29, 1994. I. Introduction On October 3, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;50) to revise the General Securities Registered Representative (Series 7) Examination Specifications and the corresponding Content Outline. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR ยง240.19b&hyph;4 (1994). The proposed rule change was published for comment in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34843 (October 14, 1994), 59 FR 53001 (October 20, 1994). No comments were received on the proposal. This order approves the proposed rule change contingent upon the filing of the revised Examination Specifications and Content Outline by other appropriate self-regulatory organizations (``SROs''), and approval of those filings by the Commission. II. Description of the Proposal The Phlx proposes to use the Series 7 as amended, as the appropriate qualification examination for persons seeking registration as general securities representatives. The Series 7 Examination was created in 1974 as an industry-wide qualification examination for persons seeking registration as general securities representatives. The Series 7 Examination is generally required under SRO rules for persons who are engaged in the solicitation, purchase, or sale of securities for the accounts of customers. The purpose of the Series 7 Examination is to ensure that registered representatives have the basic knowledge necessary to perform their functions and responsibilities. The Series 7 Specifications detail the areas covered by the examination and break down the number of examination questions culled from each area, while the Content Outline details the subject coverage and question allocation of the examination. Revision of the Series 7 Examination, Specifications and Content Outline was initiated in April 1993 by an industry committee of SROs and representatives from broker-dealers in order to update the examination in view of changes in the securities industry, including changes in relevant rules and regulations, the development of new securities products, and changes in the job of registered representatives as firms offer an increasingly wide range of financial services. 3 The Examination Specifications and Content Outline for the Series 7 have not been revised since 1986. 3 SROs on the committee include the New York, American and Philadelphia Stock Exchanges, Chicago Board Options Exchange, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and the National Association of Securities Dealers. Broker-dealer representatives include branch office managers, compliance officers, training personnel and registered representatives. The industry committee updated the existing statements of the critical functions of registered representatives to ensure current relevance and appropriateness and drafted statements of tasks expected to be performed by entry-level registered representatives and conformed the existing Content Outline to the task statements. The Content Outline reflects the revised content of the examination. Under the proposed rule change, the total number of questions in the Series 7 Examination will remain at 250, and the revised examination will cover all financial product areas covered on the present Series 7 Examination as well as several new products, including collateralized mortgage obligations (``CMOs''), long term equity anticipation securities (``LEAPS'') and CAPS, 4 with reduced emphasis on direct participation programs. 4 OEX CAPS and SPX CAPS are new securities based on the S&P 100 (OEX) and the S&P 500 (SPX) that give investors the right to participate to a predetermined level in upward or downward movements in either index. The Commission anticipates that the other appropriate SRO participants also will file the revised specifications for approval by the Commission. The Phlx, and these other SROs, may use the revised Examination, Specifications and Content Outline after the Commission has approved the proposed rule changes of the other appropriate SRO participants.
