FR940930-0-00219 FR940930-0-00029 FRA will retain a specific and clearly understood speed limit for these situations. FRA has reconsidered its proposal and is revising this subsection to provide a 15 miles per hour speed limit. We repeat that the requirements of these sections are only minimum requirements. Under certain conditions, such as severe weather, sharp curves, or high speed vehicular traffic, a railroad may wish to impose a slower speed during times of activation failure. Final Rule This section requires that upon receiving a credible report of an activation failure, a railroad having maintenance responsibility for the warning system shall immediately initiate efforts to warn highway users and railroad employees at the subject crossing by taking certain actions. Paragraph (a) provides that, prior to any train's arrival at the crossing, the railroad must notify the train crew of the report of activation failure and notify any other railroads operating over the crossing. Paragraph (b) requires that the railroad notify the law enforcement authority having jurisdiction over the crossing, and paragraph (c) requires the railroad to provide or arrange for alternative means of actively warning highway users of approaching trains. Paragraph (c)(1)(i) provides that, if an appropriately equipped flagger provides warning for each direction of highway traffic, trains may proceed through the crossing at normal speed. Paragraph (c)(1)(ii) provides that, if at least one law enforcement officer (including a railroad police officer) provides warning to highway traffic at the crossing, trains may proceed through the crossing at normal speed. Paragraph (c)(2) provides that, if an appropriately equipped flagger provides warning for highway traffic, but there is not at least one flagger providing warning for each direction of highway traffic, trains may proceed with caution through the crossing at a speed not exceeding 15 miles per hour. Normal speed may be resumed after the locomotive has passed through the crossing. Paragraph (c)(3) provides that, until an appropriately equipped flagger or law enforcement officer is stationed at the crossing to warn highway traffic of approaching trains, each train must stop before entering the crossing to permit a crewmember to dismount to flag highway traffic to a stop. The locomotive may then proceed through the crossing and the flagging crewmember may reboard the locomotive before the remainder of the train proceeds through the crossing. Normal speed may be resumed after the crewmember reboards the train. Paragraph (c)(4) has been redesignated §234.105(d). The body of this paragraph remains unchanged. This paragraph requires that a locomotive's audible warning device be activated in accordance with railroad rules. This provision addresses those instances in which a ``whistle ban'' may be in effect in a local jurisdiction. While there may be disagreement as to the effect on safety of whistle bans, there can be little doubt that a ban on sounding a train whistle or horn should be lifted when a grade crossing warning system is malfunctioning. In addressing whistle bans in this limited situation, FRA does not wish to give the impression it approves of or encourages whistle bans in other situations. FRA is opposed to local restrictions on the use of train whistles. See FRA Emergency Order No. 15, 56 FR 36190, July 31, 1991. Section 234.107␣False Activation Inasmuch as the proposed requirements of this section were in many ways similar to the requirements of §234.105, comments, our responses and reasons for them, are consistent with that section.
