FR940627-0-00263 FR940627-0-00019 (5) Incubation conditions. All plates within a given experiment shall be incubated for the same time period. This incubation period shall be for 48&hyph;72 hours at 37 ○C. (6) Number of cultures. All plating shall be done at least in triplicate. (f) Data and report _(1) Treatment of results . Data shall be presented as number of revertant colonies per plate, revertants per kilogram (or liter) of fuel, and as revertants per kilometer (or mile) for each replicate and dose. These same measures shall be recorded on both the negative and positive control plates. The mean number of revertant colonies per plate, revertants per kilogram (or liter) of fuel, and revertants per kilometer (or mile), as well as individual plate counts and standard deviations shall be presented for the test substance, positive control, and negative control plates. (2) Statistical evaluation. Data shall be evaluated by appropriate statistical methods. Those methods shall include, at a minimum, means and standard deviations of the reversion data. (3) Interpretation of results. (i) There are several criteria for determining a positive result, one of which is a statistically significant dose-related increase in the number of revertants. Another criterion may be based upon detection of a reproducible and statistically significant positive response for at least one of the test substance concentrations. (ii) A test substance which does not produce either a statistically significant dose-related increase in the number of revertants or a statistically significant and reproducible positive response at any one of the test points is considered nonmutagenic in this system. (iii) Both biological and statistical significance shall be considered together in the evaluation. (4) Test evaluation. (i) Positive results from the Salmonella typhimurium reverse mutation assay indicate that, under the test conditions, the test substance induces point mutations by base changes or frameshifts in the genome of this organism. (ii) Negative results indicate that under the test conditions the test substance is not mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium. (5) Test report. In addition to the reporting recommendations as specified under 40 CFR 79.60, the following specific information shall be reported:
