FR940504-1-00049 FR940504-1-00018 Wednesday May 4, 1994 Part II Department of the Interior Office of the Secretary 43 CFR Part 11 Natural Resources Damage Assessments; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 85␣/␣Wednesday, May 4, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of the Secretary 43 CFR Part 11 RIN: 1090&hyph;AA43 Natural Resource Damage Assessments AGENCY: Department of the Interior. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice solicits comment on proposed revisions of the regulations for assessing natural resource damages resulting from a discharge of oil into navigable waters under the Clean Water Act or a release of a hazardous substance under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. The Department of the Interior has previously developed two types of natural resource damage assessment regulations: Standard procedures for simplified assessments requiring minimal field observation (the type A rule); and site-specific procedures for detailed assessments in individual cases (the type B rule). The Department is proposing, as part of its compliance with a court remand, to revise the type B rule to address the use of the economic methodology known as contingent valuation to assess lost values of injured natural resources. In general, the Department is considering and soliciting comment on a proposed natural resource damage assessment rule regarding contingent valuation recently published by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. This notice constitutes the Department's proposed rulemaking document and solicits comment on rule language under consideration for a final rule. Upon consideration of the comments received in response to this notice, the Department intends to issue a final rule. The Department recently published a final rule to revise the type B rule to comply with all other aspects of the court order. DATES: Comments must be received by July 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent in triplicate to the Office of Environmental Policy and Compliance, ATTN: NRDA Rule, Mail Stop 2340, Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary C. Morton or David Rosenberger at (202) 208&hyph;3301. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice is organized as follows: I. Background A. Statutory Provisions B. Regulatory History C. Judicial Review D. Implementation of the Court Order E. Other Rulemakings II. Calculation of Damages Under the Type B Rule
