FR940616-0-00086 FR940616-0-00011 Revised Definition of ``Alteration'' The part 9 final rule replaces the definition of alteration set forth in the May 30, 1991 proposed rule with that definition provided in the ADAAG. This definition is more detailed and therefore provides more guidance on what constitutes, and what does not constitute, an alteration. Revised Definition of ``Facility'' The part 9 final rule also replaces the definition of facility in the May 30, 1991 proposed rule with that definition provided in the ADAAG. As with the definition of alteration, the ADAAG definition of facility is more detailed and therefore more helpful than the definition provided in the part 9 proposed rule. Revised Definition of ``Individual With Disabilities'' The definition of individual with disabilities (formerly, ``individual with handicaps'') is also revised by this rule. Paragraph (a), which defines the term ``physical and mental impairment'' is revised to include the human immunodeficiency virus disease. A new paragraph (b) is added to this definition to incorporate the provisions of former §9.131 in the proposed rule, which addressed applicability of section 504 to current and former illegal use of drugs. The DOJ and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) which reviewed the part 9 rule in accordance with Executive Order 12067 (see Section IV of this preamble) suggested that the exclusion of individuals currently engaged in the illegal use of drugs from the protection provided by section 504, and the inclusion of individuals undergoing, or having successfully completed, drug rehabilitation, are more appropriately addressed in the definition of `` individual with disabilities.'' Section 9.131 of the proposed rule has been removed as a result of incorporation of its provisions in the definition of individual with disabilities. Former paragraph (b) (paragraph (b) in the part 9 proposed rule), which addressed impairments that are not included in the definition of ``physical or mental impairment'' is redesignated as paragraph (c) in this final rule, and is revised to address what is excluded from the definition of individual with disabilities for purposes of employment. In the part 9 proposed rule, paragraph (b) provided that the term ``physical or mental impairment'' did not include (1) an individual who has a currently contagious disease or infection and who, by reasons of such disease or infection, would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals, and (2) an individual who is an alcoholic and whose current use of alcohol prevents the individual from performing the duties of the job in question. Although these exclusions are appropriate for inclusion under the definition of individual with disabilities, they are not appropriate for inclusion in the definition of ``physical or mental impairment.'' Accordingly, new paragraph (c) of the definition of individual with disabilities clarifies that the contagious disease and alcohol abuse exclusions are part of the definition of ``individual of disabilities'' and also clarifies that these exclusions are limited to the employment context, in accordance with section 504 which imposes this limitation. New Definition for ``Property Disposition Program'' As noted above, the final rule provides a definition for this term. Property Disposition Program is defined to mean the HUD program under which HUD administers the group of housing facilities that are either owned by the Secretary or where, even though the Secretary has not obtained title, the Secretary is mortgagee-in-possession. Such properties are deemed to be in the possession or control of the agency. Direct Threat Standard_New §9.131 The part 9 final rule adds a new §9.131 to implement section 302(b)(3) of the ADA, which addresses the issue of ``direct threat to the health or safety of others.'' Section §9.131 provides that the agency (HUD) is not required to permit an individual to participate in or benefit from the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages and accommodations of the agency where the individual poses a direct threat to the health or safety of others. Section 9.131 is similar to §36.208 of the final rule implementing title III of the ADA, published on July 26, 1991 (56 FR 35544) and codified at 28 CFR part 36. New §9.131 is not intended to imply that individuals with disabilities pose risks to others. It is intended to address concerns that may arise in this area, and to establish a strict standard that must be met before denying service to an individual with disabilities or excluding that individual from participation in the programs or activities conducted by the agency. Paragraph (b) of this section defines ``direct threat'' to mean a significant risk to the health or safety of others that cannot be eliminated by a modification of policies, practices, or procedures, or by the provision of auxiliary aids and services. This paragraph codifies the standard first applied by the Supreme Court in School Board of Nassau County v. Arline, 480 U.S. 273 (1987), in which the Court held that an individual with a contagious disease may be an individual with disabilities under section 504. In Arline, the Supreme Court recognized that there is a need to balance the interests of people with disabilities against legitimate concerns for public safety. Although individuals with disabilities are generally entitled to the protection of part 9, a person who poses a significant risk to others may be excluded if reasonable modifications to the agency's policies, practices, or procedures will not eliminate or reduce that risk (i.e., reduce it so that it is below the level of direct threat). The determination that a person poses a direct threat to the health or safety of others may not be based on generalizations or stereotypes about the effects of a particular disability. This determination must be based on an assessment of that individual that conforms to the requirements of paragraph (c) of §9.131.
