FR940805-1-00025 FR940805-1-00004 III. Conclusions From the NOI The oil pipeline industry commenters 7 and the United States Department of Justice (Justice) maintain that the Commission should continue to allow market-based rates for oil pipelines without any constraints on prices or duration. Several shippers or shipper groups 8 and the Alberta Petroleum Marketing Commission (Alberta) support or do not oppose the continuation of market-based rates for oil pipelines, but with qualifications, such as price constraints or limits on duration. 9 Other shippers or shipper groups oppose the continuation of market-based rates for oil pipelines as inappropriate under the cost-based, just and reasonable standard or as unnecessary in light of Order No. 561's methodologies. 10 7 The Association of Oil Pipe Lines, Williams Pipe Line Company, Marathon Pipe Line Company, ARCO Pipe Line Company, Four Corners Pipeline Company, and Buckeye Pipe Line Company, L.P. 8 Total Petroleum, Inc. (Total), the Petrochemical Energy Group (PetroChemical), and The City of Long Beach (Long Beach). 9 Total, Long Beach, Petrochemical, and Alberta would subject the market based rates to price constraints and Petrochemical and Total would require that market-based rates exist for a limited duration. The Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers support market-based rates, but only if the ratepayer requests them or the pipeline requires the flexibility to lower the price of its services to meet competition. 10 Sinclair Oil Corporation, Chevron U.S.A. Products Company, and the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives. Upon consideration of the comments to the NOI, the Commission concludes that oil pipelines may continue to seek market-based rates on a showing that they do not have significant market power in the relevant markets. The Commission believes that this approach comports with the spirit of the Act of 1992 by retaining a light-handed regulatory method as a complement to the Commission's generally applicable indexing approach. In addition, as the Commission stated in Order No. 561, a market-based approach ``is clearly within the Commission's authority under the ICA, as the Commission held in Buckeye .'' 11 Further, market-based pricing has been found by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to comport with the just and reasonable standard of the Natural Gas Act, 12 which is the standard under the ICA. 13 The Commission will consider the need for any constraints in individual cases. 11 Order No. 561, III FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶30,985 at p. 30,958, citing Buckeye Pipe Line Co., 44 FERC ¶61,068 (1988) (Order Granting Interluctory Appeals); 53 FERC ¶61,473 (1990) (opinion and Order on Initial Decision). 12 Elizabethtown Gas Co. v. FERC, 10 F.3d 866 (D.C. Cir. 1993). (``[W]hen there is a competitive market the FERC may rely upon market-based prices in lieu of cost-of-service regulation to assure a `just and reasonable' result.'' Id. at 870). 13 49 U.S.C. 1(5) (``All charges ... shall be just and reasonable''); Farmers Union Central Exchange v. FERC, 734 F.2d 1486, 1500 (D.C. Cir. 1984). However, there is no consensus now on the substantive standards to be used in determining whether an oil pipeline lacks significant market power in the relevant markets. This lack of consensus is shown by the divergent views expressed by the commenters on key issues such as the appropriate geographic market and the use of screens and rebuttable presumptions. For example, the oil pipeline industry supports the use of BEAs (see infra ) as the appropriate geographic markets, while some shippers 14 oppose the use of BEAs, and Justice states that it can no longer recommend the use of BEAs. In addition, while there is a consensus in support of the use of the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) (see infra ) as an appropriate market concentration measure, there is no consensus with respect to details about the HHI 15 or about the threshold for creating a rebuttable presumption. 16 This lack of consensus about those and other issues has convinced the Commission that the appropriate course of action is to develop oil pipeline precedents on a case-by-case basis. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that it should not go forward with a rulemaking to establish substantive standards determining whether a pipeline lacks significant market power. 14 E.g., Alberta, Petrochemical, and Total. 15 For example, whether the HHI should be based on capacity (the pipeline industry except for Marathon) or delivery shares of the market (Marathon, Total, and Sinclair). 16 That is, the level at which the concentration screen for a rebuttable presumption should be set.
