FR940428-1-00040 FR940428-1-00008 §222.5 Term grazing permits; types and duration. (a) Types of term permits. The following types of grazing permits may be issued to applicants that meet the relevant requirements of §222.7 for a term of up to 10 years with priority for renewal, as described in §222.9. (1) A term grazing permit may be issued to qualified applicants, including grazing associations and districts, to graze livestock on National Forest System lands or other lands under Forest Service control. On all National Forest System lands in the Eastern States, except the National Grasslands in Texas and Oklahoma, permits for new allotments or permits that are vacated or terminated are issued under the competitive provision of §222.54. (2) A term private land grazing permit may be issued to a qualified applicant who owns or controls land in an allotment under Forest Service control. To receive this permit, the applicant must waive exclusive grazing use of the private land involved to the United States for the full period the permit is to be issued. In return, the applicant is authorized to graze livestock within the allotment associated with the waived private land. (3) A term grazing permit with provisions for grazing on and off National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control may be issued to a qualified applicant when a logical grazing area contains both lands under Forest Service administration and lands controlled by the applicant. (4) A grazing agreement may be issued to eligible grazing associations or districts, to graze livestock on National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control. Under such grazing agreements, grazing associations or districts may be authorized to issue and administer grazing permits subject to rules, policies, and procedures agreed to by the authorized officer. (b) Duration of term grazing permits. The maximum length of a term grazing permit is 10 years. (1) On National Forest lands in the 16 contiguous Western States, the authorized officer shall issue permits for the full 10-year period, unless one of the following situations exist: (i) The land is pending disposal; (ii) The land will be devoted to non-grazing uses prior to the end of 10 years; or (iii) It will be in the best interest of sound land management to specify a shorter term. (2) On all other National Forest System lands or other lands under Forest Service control, the authorized officer may issue permits for up to a ten year period, as determined to be in the best interest of sound land management. §222.6 Authorization of temporary grazing. Provided that the necessary forage is available, applicants meeting the relevant requirements of §222.7 may receive authorization to graze livestock for a term of up to three years, with no priority for renewal. Grazing fees for authorized temporary livestock grazing shall be assessed in accordance with §222.11 and Subpart C_Grazing Fees of this part, unless free permits as expressly provided for in this section. (a) Paid temporary permits. Temporary permits for a fee are appropriate in the following circumstances: (1) Where a new permittee assumes previously authorized grazing use which has been suspended or cancelled. (2) Where there has been unusually favorable climatic conditions. (3) Where a permittee has exercised the nonuse provision of a term permit. (4) Where the base property has been sold; the term permit waived; a new term permit issued; the new permittee does not want to graze livestock that season; and the most recent former permittee desires to graze livestock for the remainder of the permitted grazing season. (5) Where fire, drought, pestilence or other natural phenomenon has reduced livestock grazing capacity on other National Forest System lands or other lands under Forest Service control. (6) Where transportation livestock are engaged in commercial packing, dude ranching, or other commercial enterprises, such as mining, ranching, and logging activities. (7) Where animals are being used to breed permitted livestock. (8) Where livestock are trailing across National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control. (b) Free or paid temporary permits: The authorized officer has discretion to issue temporary permits for a fee or free of charge where the primary objective for grazing use is managing vegetation, rather than utilizing forage.
