FR941026-1-00005 FR941026-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;ASO&hyph;22] Proposed Establishment of Class E Airspace; Mobile, AL; Fort Myers, FL; Tallahassee, FL; Columbus, GA; Savannah, GA and Greer, SC AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice proposes to establish Class E airspace areas at Mobile, AL; Fort Myers, FL; Tallahassee, FL; Columbus, GA; Savannah, GA and Greer, SC. Presently, these areas are designated as Class C airspace when the associated control tower is in operation. However, controlled airspace to the surface is needed when the control towers at these locations are closed. The intended effect of the action is to be provided adequate Class E Airspace for instrument flight rule (IFR) operations when these control towers are closed. DATES: Comments must be received on or before: November 8, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Docket No. 94&hyph;ASO&hyph;22, Manager, System Management Branch, ASO&hyph;530, P.O. Box 20636, Atlanta, Georgia 30320. The official docket may be examined in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel for Southern Region, Room 530, 1701 Columbia Avenue, College Park, Georgia 30337, telephone (404) 305&hyph;5200. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ralph C. Bixby, Airspace Section, System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Federal Aviation Administration, P.O. Box 20636, Atlanta, Georgia 30320; telephone (404) 305&hyph;5589. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed above. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;ASO&hyph;22.'' The postcard will be date/time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in the light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel for Southern Region, Room 530, 1701 Columbia Avenue, College Park, Georgia 30337, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Manager, System Management Branch (ASO&hyph;530), Air Traffic Division, P.O. Box 20636, Atlanta, Georgia 30320. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A which describes the application procedure. The Proposal The FAA is considering an amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) to establish Class E airspace at Mobile, AL; Fort Myers, FL; Tallahassee, FL; Columbus, GA; Savannah, GA and Greer, SC. Currently, this airspace is designated Class C when the associated control tower is in operation at these locations. Controlled airspace to the surface is needed when the control towers are closed at Mobile, AL; Fort Myers, FL; Tallahassee, FL; Columbus, GA; Savannah, GA and Greer, SC. The intended effect of this proposal is to provide adequate Class E airspace for IFR operations at these airports when these control towers are closed. The coordinates for this airspace docket are based on North American Datum 83. Designations for Class E airspace extending upward from above the surface are published in Paragraph 6002 of FAA Order 7400.9B dated July 18, 1994 and effective September 16, 1994 which is incorporated by reference in CFR 71.1 effective September 16, 1994. The Class E airspace designation listed in this document would be published subsequently in the Order. The FAA has determined that this proposed regulation only involves an established body of technical regulations for which frequent and routine amendments are necessary to keep them operationally current. It, therefore, (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979); and (3) does not warrant preparation of a regulatory evaluation as the anticipated impact is so minimal. Since this is a routine matter that will only affect air traffic procedures and air navigation, it is certified that this rule, when promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
