FR940111-0-00037 FR940111-0-00010 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;230&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8791; AD 94&hyph;01&hyph;09] Airworthiness Directives; Canadair Model CL&hyph;600&hyph;2B19 ``Regional Jet'' Series 100 Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to Canadair Model CL&hyph;600&hyph;2B19 ``Regional Jet'' Series 100 airplanes. This action requires a revision to the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to limit altitude and airspeed operations of the airplane under certain conditions of hydraulic system failure. This amendment is prompted by a report of sheared-off shear pins found on one airplane's elevator dampers. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent undampened vibration of the elevators in normal cruise conditions when combined with hydraulic system failures, a condition which could result in reduced controllability of the airplane. DATES: Effective January 26, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before March 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;230&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Franco Pieri, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ANE&hyph;172, New York Aircraft Certification Office, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, 181 South Franklin Avenue, room 202, Valley Stream, New York 11581; telephone (516) 791&hyph;6221; fax (516) 791&hyph;9024. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Transport Canada Aviation, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Canadair Model CL&hyph;600&hyph;2B19 ``Regional Jet'' Series 100 airplanes. Transport Canada Aviation advises that one operator of these airplanes found that the shear pins on the airplane elevator dampers had sheared off. This finding was made during a routine check of the airplane. The cause of the pin failure has not been determined. Failure of the shear pins on the elevator damper, if not detected and corrected, may lead to undampened vibration of the elevators during normal cruise conditions when combined with hydraulic system failures. This situation could result in reduced controllability of the airplane. This airplane model is manufactured in Canada and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of ยง21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, Transport Canada Aviation has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. In order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Canada, Transport Canada Aviation issued a Canadian airworthiness directive on December 17, 1993, that restricts operation of these airplanes to certain altitude and airspeed limits under various conditions of hydraulic system failure. The FAA has examined the findings of Transport Canada Aviation, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, this AD is being issued to prevent undampened vibration of the elevators during normal cruise conditions in the event of hydraulic system failures, which could result in reduced controllability of the airplane. This AD requires a revision to the Limitations Section of the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to restrict altitude and airspeed operations under conditions of single or double hydraulic failure. This is considered interim action until final action is identified, at which time the FAA may consider additional rulemaking. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket.
