FR941206-1-00072 FR941206-1-00007 Several Committee members believed that in certain instances the use of conventional air guns should be allowed. For example, if a source is using low-VOC coatings (less than 1.0 lb VOC/lb solids) or a control device, transfer efficiency is not as critical. Also, some Committee members pointed out that limited use of air guns for specialty operations would have minimal environmental impact as long as more efficient application methods were used for the majority of finishing. The Committee believed that these were valid claims and therefore proposes that conventional air spray guns only be used to apply finishing materials under the following circumstances: 1. To apply finishing materials that have a VOC content no greater than 1.0 kg VOC/kg solids (1.0 lb VOC/lb solids), as applied; 2. For touchup and repair under the following conditions; (a) The touchup and repair occurs after completion of the finishing operation; or (b) The touchup and repair occurs after the application of stain and before the application of any other type of finishing material, and the materials used for touchup and repair are applied from a container that has a volume of no more than 2.0 gallons. 3. If spray is automated, that is, the spray gun is aimed and triggered automatically, not manually; 4. If emissions from the finishing application station are directed to a control device; 5. The conventional air gun is used to apply finishing materials and the cumulative total of that finishing material is less than 5 percent of the total gallons of finishing material applied during that semiannual period; or 6. The conventional air gun is used to apply stain on a part for which it is technically or economically infeasible to use any other spray application technology. The proposed rule provides guidance on factors to be considered in making the determination of technical or economic infeasibility required for (6). These factors include: (1) The production speed is too high or the part shape is too complex for one operator to coat the part and the application station is not large enough to accommodate an additional operator; or (2) the excessively large vertical spray area of the part makes it difficult to avoid sagging or runs in the stain. To demonstrate technical or economic infeasibility, the facility must submit a videotape, technical report, or other documentation supporting the claim of economic or technical infeasibility. The Agency specifically solicits comments on this approach including: (1) Does the proposed rule provide sufficient guidance for the permitting agency to make a determination of economic or technical infeasibility; and (2) are the options for documenting the claim of economic or technical infeasibility reasonable and sufficient? iv. Selection of finishing materials. As previously stated, several Committee members were concerned that the emission limits proposed for the finishing operations did not prohibit the use of those VHAP of potential concern. These are VHAP that have been classified as high concern, unrankable, and nonthreshold under the proposed rulemaking pursuant to section 112(g). The emission limit for finishing materials allows sources to continue using these materials as long as the overall HAP limit does not exceed 1.0 kg VHAP/kg solids (1.0 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied (existing sources) or 0.8 kg VHAP/kg solids (0.8 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied (new sources). The Committee discussed prohibiting the use of certain HAP, but ultimately they agreed that to determine which HAP were necessary for which finishing materials would be difficult because it would depend on the specific application and/or product. The Committee also discussed capping the emissions of certain HAP. Industry argued that a cap could limit their production by limiting their use of some finishing materials.
