FR941220-2-00046 FR941220-2-00031 Paragraph (1) of Rule 414 requires that, where 25 percent or more of the value of an underlying index stock group is represented by securities of United States issuers, the calculation of a stock index warrant's settlement value must use the opening prices of those securities on the U.S. markets. Supplementary Material .30 to Rule 405 is amended to cross-reference Rule 414 and to delete (a) the statement that the suitability requirements of Rule 723 apply to stock index warrants and (b) the recommendation that the account approval requirements of Rule 721 be applied to stock index warrants. Paragraphs (f) and (h) of Rule 414 supersede those notions. The Exchange proposes to amend those portions of the Rule 431 margin requirements that apply to margin on foreign currency options and options on broad index stock groups so as to apply the same margin requirements to currency warrants and stock index warrants, respectively, and to establish currency index warrant margin requirements. For example, stock index warrants will follow broad index options in requiring margin of (A) 100 percent of the current market value of all ``long'' stock index warrants and (B) in the case of ``short'' positions in stock index warrants, (1) 100 percent of the current value of the option plus (2) 15 percent of the current value of the underlying index stock group multiplied by the applicable index multiplier. The Exchange proposes that its margin requirements be permitted offset treatment for spread, straddle and covered positions. 2 2 The Staff of the Commission has indicated to the Exchange that it must request and obtain appropriate interpretive or no-action relief from the Commission in order to permit its index and currency warrant margin requirements to allow offset treatment for spread, straddle and covered positions. The Exchange proposes to amend Para. 703.15 of the Listed Company Manual, which currently provides listing standards for foreign currency warrants, to cause it to apply to currency index warrants. The Exchange also proposes to amend Para 703.15 and Para. 703.17 of the Listed Company Manual (A) to change the issuer ``substantiality'' requirement for $100 million in assets to $150 million in tangible net worth, (B) to specify that the issuer is expected to refrain from issuing warrants where its aggregate currency and index warrant offerings exceed 25 percent of its net worth and (C) to require in-the-money currency and index warrants to be automatically exercised at expiration if not otherwise exercised. In listing new stock index warrant or currency index warrant issues for trading on the Exchange, the Exchange would submit a proposed rule change only where a warrant issue overlies an index on which warrants or options are not already listed, whether on the Exchange or on another self-regulatory organization. Thus, an Exchange would list for trading index warrants on indexes that already underlie listed options or warrants without further Commission review and approval pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act. Both initial and maintenance listing standards for stock index warrants will require that no more than 20% of the securities in the underlying index, by weight, may be comprised of foreign securities that are not subject to comprehensive surveillance sharing agreements between the NYSE and the primary exchange on which the foreign security (including a foreign security underlying an ADR) is traded. 3 Finally, prior to trading index or currency warrants, the Exchange will distribute a circular to its membership providing guidance regarding member firm compliance responsibilities (including suitability recommendations) when handling transactions in index or currency warrants. 3 Telephone conversation between Vincent Patten, NYSE, and Stephen M. Youhn, SEC, on December 8, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). The Exchange proposes that the ``20% test'' be applied in the same manner as that contained in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34157 (June 3, 1994), 59 FR 30062 (June 10, 1994) (Commission approval order allowing the expedited trading approval of certain narrow-based index options.) The basis under the Act for the proposed rule change is the requirement under Section 6(b)(5) that an exchange have rules that are designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NYSE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the 1934 Act. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has not solicited, and does not intend to solicit, comments on the proposed rule change. The Exchange has not received any unsolicited written comments from members or other interested parties. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by January 10, 1995. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31205 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
