FR940224-2-00028 FR940224-2-00014 Department of the Navy Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for Disposal of Decommissioned, Defueled Cruiser, Ohio, and Los Angeles Class Naval Reactor Plants AGENCIES: Department of the Navy and Department of Energy. SUMMARY: The Department of Navy, with the Department of Energy as a cooperating agency, announces its intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), in accordance with the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508), and to conduct a series of public scoping meetings. This Environmental Impact Statement will address final disposal of decommissioned, defueled reactor plants from cruisers and OHIO (Trident) and LOS ANGELES (SSN 688) Class submarines and will analyze the associated reasonably foreseeable environmental impacts. The disposal of future reactor compartments from vessels that have not yet been commissioned (e.g., SEAWOLF Class of submarines) will be addressed, as appropriate, in future National Environmental Policy Act documents. By participating as a cooperating agency in this Environmental Impact Statement, the Department of Energy expects to be able to adopt this Environmental Impact Statement, if appropriate, to fulfill its environmental review obligations under the National Environmental Policy Act. In accordance with the Council on Environmental Quality National Environmental Policy Act regulations, the Department of the Navy is preparing this Environmental Impact Statement to focus on the potential for significant environmental impacts and to consider reasonable alternatives. Because of the common design characteristics of the reactor plants and their reactor compartments, the method currently being used by Puget Sound Naval Shipyard in Bremerton, Washington to dispose of submarine reactor compartments is the preferred alternative for disposal of the defueled reactor plants from cruisers and OHIO and LOS ANGELES Class submarines. Briefly, this alternative would involve draining the piping systems, tanks, vessels, and other components to the maximum extent practical, sealing the radioactive systems, removing the reactor compartment and sealing it to provide a high integrity welded steel package. The reactor compartment package would be transported by barge out of Puget Sound through the Straits of Juan de Fuca, down the Washington coast, and up the Columbia River to the Port of Benton where it would be loaded onto an overland transporter for the short movement to the Department of Energy's low level radioactive waste burial grounds at Hanford, Washington. The reactor plants contain radioactivity due to neutron irradiation of structural alloys forming the reactor plant components. The reactor compartment packages would comply with the shipping container requirements of the Department of Transportation, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the Department of Energy. Disposal of the reactor compartments would be in accordance with Department of Energy requirements for low level radioactive waste disposal. Disposal of the reactor compartments would be regulated by the State of Washington due to the lead shielding contained within the reactor compartments and by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency due to the small quantity of polychlorinated biphenyls in materials within the reactor compartment such as insulation, electrical cables, and rubber parts. The Navy also will evaluate in detail a ``no action'' alternative. In this alternative, the defueled ships would be maintained in waterborne protective storage for an indefinite period of time at the inactive ships facilities at Puget Sound Naval Shipyard and Norfolk Naval Shipyard. Several other alternatives will be examined. These alternatives include sea disposal, land disposal at other sites, land disposal or reuse of subdivided portions of the reactor plant, and above ground storage or disposal.
