FR941216-1-00131 FR941216-1-00012 (b) Procedures . Small amounts of phosphorus are best removed by first scraping with a putty knife or other such implement, then removing what remains with a blowtorch or similar appliance. This method of removing phosphorus shall not be attempted until all loaded munitions have been removed. (c) Surveillance . The magazine should be kept under surveillance for at least 2 weeks, as fire may recur. Any deep cracks or crevices in the floor should be filled up with cement mortar before munitions are returned in the magazine. §184.151 Incendiary and smoke munitions. Munitions in this group include incendiaries and signaling smokes. §184.152 Special protective equipment for incendiary and smoke munitions. Boxed and unboxed incendiary and smoke munitions may be handled without special protective equipment. Respiratory protection should be available, however. Personnel exposed to burning munitions or bulk chemicals should wear protective masks. §184.153 First aid for incendiary and smoke munitions injuries. No unusual first aid treatment is required for personal injuries incurred handling incendiary-to-incendiary or smoke-to-smoke munitions. Burns should be treated in the same manner as those caused by flame. Persons exposed to high concentrations of smoke should be hospitalized. §184.154 Leaking incendiary and smoke munitions. Personnel handling leaking items need not generally wear protective equipment, but masks should be worn during exposure to burning munitions. Leaking munitions containing incendiary and smoke agents shall be segregated. §184.155 Fire in incendiary and smoke munitions magazines. In magazines containing incendiary or smoke munitions, primary firefighting efforts shall be confined to preventing fire from spreading. Water is not used to fight fires of thermite or mixtures containing fine metallic powders such as magnesium or aluminum. Incipient fires may be smothered by spraying with dry chemical fire extinguishers or covering with sand. Fire in magazines containing incendiary-to-incendiary or smoke-to-smoke munitions shall be fought with water only when large quantities of water can completely douse relatively small quantities of munitions. Subpart L_Safety Requirements for Explosives Facilities §184.157 General. This subpart contains minimum safety requirements for existing, new, or modified explosives facilities and equipment. For facilities primarily used for general industrial operations, the requirements of this subpart shall apply in areas performing explosives work. §184.158 Requirements. Special properties of materials and operational hazards may require that national, Federal, and local requirements be exceeded. In such cases, requirements in this subpart shall apply. §184.159 Requirements for buildings. (a) Building exteriors . Exterior wall and roof coverings of operating buildings should be noncombustible and, whenever possible, frangible, of ``breakaway'' construction. The buildings should have no basements and should not exceed one story, except to meet process requirements. (b) Interior walls, roofs, and ceilings . Interior wall surfaces and ceilings of operating buildings which might house loose, finely divided explosives materials shall be smooth, free from cracks and crevices, fire resistive and, if painted, be covered with high-gloss paint, to minimize dust accumulation and facilitate cleaning. As further protection against dust, ledges should be avoided; any that exist shall be beveled or kept clean. Wall joints and openings for wiring and plumbing shall be sealed against dust. Roofs and walls should be as light as practicable, constructed and supported to vent an internal explosion with the formation of few large fragments. Firewalls and dividing walls constitute exceptions. When class II hazard locations exist as defined by the National Electric Code ® (NEC), (National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard No. 70, 15 suspended ceilings and hollow walls are prohibited in explosives facilities. Recommended practice is to install insulation and covering directly on the underside of the roof deck. 15 Copies may be obtained from the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Attn: National Fire Codes Subscription_Service Department, Quincy, MA 02269. (c) Floors and work surfaces . Floors and work surfaces shall be constructed to facilitate cleaning, with no cracks or crevices in which explosives could lodge. Nonsparking floors and work surfaces are required in all locations where exposed explosives or hazardous concentrations of flammable vapor or gas are present. When grounding is necessary, conductive floors (mats or similar static-dissipating floor surfaces), tabletops, and other work surfaces shall be provided. Cove bases at the junctions of walls and floors are preferred. No exposed nails, screws, or bolts in work surfaces shall be permitted. (d) Substantial dividing wall . (1) Substantial dividing walls, constructed in accordance with the requirements of TM 5&hyph;1300, 16 Structures to Resist the Effects of Accidental Explosions , separate independent concentrations of high explosives so they do not need to be added when determining Q/D requirements. 16 Copies may be obtained from Naval Publications and Forms Center, 5801 Tabor Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19120. (2) Openings in dividing walls for conveyors, pass-through boxes, or other uses, should be avoided. However, in locations where operationally necessary, the following apply: (i) The opening(s) shall not be larger than the minimum needed for the material's safe passage. (ii) Closures shall have equivalent wall-strength characteristics and fusible links. (e) Exits and doors . No explosives hazard shall occupy space between an operator and an exit. Exit doors in buildings containing explosives, except storage magazines, should be casement-type and glazed with non-shatterable plastic material. All interior doors should open in the direction of the flow of material through the building and should open onto unobstructed passageways. (f) Emergency egress . When standard exits and fire escapes do not provide for rapid enough egress from work levels above the ground floor, other means of emergency egress (that is, safety chutes) shall be provided. (g) Passageways . Weather-protected passageways between buildings or magazines should be of noncombustible construction and equipped with fire stops to interrupt a fire's progress.
