FR940602-2-00063 FR940602-2-00038 File No. 922 3001. In the matter of Quick Weight Loss Centers, Inc., a Texas corporation, Don K. Gearheart, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and Joyce A. Schuman, individually and as an officer of said corporation. Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Quick Weight Loss Centers, Inc., a Texas corporation (``QWLC-Tex.''), Don K. Gearheart, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and Joyce A. Schuman, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and it now appearing that QWLC-Tex., a corporation, Don K. Gearheart, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and Joyce A. Schuman, individually and as an officer of said corporation (hereinafter, collectively, ``proposed respondents'' or ``respondents''), are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between QWLC-Tex., by its duly authorized officers, Don K. Gearheart, Joyce A. Schuman, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission, that: 1. Proposed respondent QWLC-Tex. is a corporation organized, existing and formerly doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Texas, with its offices and principal place of business located at 2900 Gateway, suite 605, Irving, Texas 75063. 2. Proposed respondent Don Gearheart is an individual with his principal residence located at 9520 East Pinnacle Pear Road, Scottsdale, Arizona 85255. 3. Proposed respondent Joyce A. Schuman is an individual with her principal residence located at 2730 Sea Island Drive, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301. 4. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the attached draft complaint. 5. Proposed respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the Order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504. 6. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the attached draft complaint, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 7. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondents of facts, other than jurisdictional facts, or of violations of law as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached. 8. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondents: (1) Issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the attached draft complaint and its decision containing the following Order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding; and (b) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the Order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The Order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to Order to proposed respondents' addresses as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the Order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the Order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the Order. 9. Proposed respondents have read the attached draft complaint and the following Order. Proposed respondents understand that once the Order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that they have fully complied with the Order. Proposed respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the Order after it becomes final.
