FR941013-2-00076 FR941013-2-00057 •Reviews and approves or denies contracting HMO/CMP requests for flexible benefits. •Serves as Federally Qualified HMOs' primary contact for information on activities related to compliance. •Implements new legislation, regulations or policy regarding Medicare contracting with managed care organizations or Federal Qualification. Proposes changes in law, regulations, instructions, and procedures related to Medicare HMO/CMP and Federally Qualified HMO contracts to OMC's Program Policy and Improvement component. •Reviews and approves HMO/CMP mergers, acquisitions, changes of ownership, and novation agreements. •Directs Federal Qualification compliance activities inclusive of investigation of complaints, conduct of for cause activities, findings of non-compliance and revocation of Federal Qualification. •Monitors loans made under the HMO Loan Program (Section 1310 of the PHS Act). •Reviews and approves initial ACR proposals from HMO/CMPs applying for a Medicare contract. (3) Operations C Team (FAD63) •Investigates, evaluates, approves or denies approval of applications for new Medicare contracts, Federal Qualification of HMOs, and service area expansions of contracts and Federal qualification under Section 1301 of the PHS Act, Section 1833 and Section 1876 of the Social Security Act, and related regulations. Integrates RO review of elements of applicant operations into approval or denial decision on Medicare contract applications. •Reviews and assures HMO and CMP fiscal soundness and solvency during the application process. Monitors financial, fiscal solvency provisions, and legal aspects of federally qualified HMO and CMP operations. •Coordinates with and provides technical assistance to the ROs, state regulators, and professional organizations on review of health services delivery, legal, and financial sections of Medicare contract and Title XIII applications, as well as other managed care requirements. •Provides oversight of RO performance of monitoring and other assigned regional functions. Provides training for RO staff about procedures, program requirements and HMO operational issues. •In consultation with the ROs, establishes HMO/CMP contractor performance measures and monitoring and evaluation protocols. •Coordinates with and provides technical assistance to ROs and ORD on the monitoring of Medicare contracting HMOs and CMPs including substantive review of demonstration projects. •Enforces employer compliance with Section 1310 of the PHS Act (the mandatory offering of an HMO alternative to indemnity health insurance plans). •Participates in Medicare contract post-approval activities and coordinates all contract renewal/non-renewal, and terminations. •Evaluates RO recommendations regarding compliance or enforcement actions. Implements intermediate sanctions and other enforcement authorities and refers cases of Civil Money Penalties to the Office of the Inspector General. •Analyzes Medicare contracting HMO/CMP physician incentives and other economic arrangements to enforce appropriate compliance. •Reviews and approves or denies contracting HMO/CMP requests for flexible benefits. •Serves as Federally Qualified HMOs' primary contact for information on activities related to compliance. •Implements new legislation, regulations or policy regarding Medicare contracting with managed care organizations or Federal Qualification. Proposes changes in law, regulations, instructions, and procedures related to Medicare HMO/CMP and Federally Qualified HMO contracts to OMC's Program Policy and Improvement component. •Reviews and approves HMO/CMP mergers, acquisitions, changes of ownership, and novation agreements. •Directs Federal Qualification compliance activities inclusive of investigation of complaints, conduct of for cause activities, findings of non-compliance and revocation of Federal Qualification. •Monitors loans made under the HMO Loan Program (Section 1310 of the PHS Act). •Reviews and approves initial ACR proposals from HMO/CMPs applying for a Medicare contract. Dated: September 30, 1994. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25372 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
