FR940317-0-00058 FR940317-0-00022 Accordingly, the offering statement should state whether the financial statements it contains were audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards (``GAAS''), as established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. c. Other Financial and Operating Information. Financial information beyond that contained in the financial statements_provided in tabular and narrative format, footnotes, supplemental tables, schedules and discussions of operations and financial position_is essential to the fair presentation of an issuer's financial performance and position. As reflected in industry guidelines, 55 the type of information needed ( e.g., tax revenue base, budget, demographics, project revenues and operations) varies depending on the type of issuer, the type of security sold, and the sources for repayment of the bond obligations. 55 See generally, GFOA Guidelines; NFMA Handbook. See also infra n. 84. There are a number of areas in which greater care needs to be taken to provide investors with adequate information. In a pooled financing structure, such as that used by bond banks, in addition to providing financial information concerning the issuing authority or program in the aggregate, it may be necessary to provide information on participating obligors. This will depend on diversification and risk concentration factors, such as the significance of any single obligor to the overall financing. Conduit bond issuers need to provide operational information concerning the activities of the private enterprise that will provide the cash flows to service the debt_for example, financial reporting, legal proceedings, changes in indebtedness, defaults and other significant developments relating to the underlying corporate obligor. Where the issuing authority in a conduit financing has no remaining obligation for the repayment of the indebtedness, in providing financial information about the issuing entity (as compared to the obligor on the bonds), care must be taken to avoid misleading investors regarding the sources of repayment. 56 56 See Letter of John Murphy, Executive Director of Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies to Chairman Levitt (Dec. 20, 1993). Municipal issuers also must consider disclosure issues arising from their activities as end users of derivative products. For example, the use of non-exchange traded derivatives to alter interest rate risk exposes the issuer to counterparty credit risk. Disclosure documents need to discuss the market risks to which issuers are exposed, the strategies used to alter such risks and the exposure to both market risk and credit risk resulting from risk alteration strategies. The NFMA has published sector specific secondary market disclosure guidelines calling for a discussion of the issuer's use of derivative products, especially interest rate swaps. 57 57 NFMA Handbook. Moreover, in addition to financial and operating data, the official statement may need to include a narrative explanation to avoid misunderstanding and assist the reader in understanding the financial presentation. A numerical presentation alone may not be sufficient to permit an investor to judge financial and operating condition of the issuer or obligor. 58 For example, it may be necessary to explain the presentation of budget information and the relationship of the budget figures to the financial statements. 58 See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Certain Investment Company Disclosures, Securities Act Release No. 6835 (May 24, 1989), 54 FR 22427; Securities Act Release No. 6711 (April 24, 1987), 52 FR 13715. In addition, issuers must assess whether the future impact of currently known facts mandate disclosure. The GFOA Guidelines call for a description of known facts that would significantly affect the financial information presented or future financial operation of the issuer, as well as a discussion of its projected operations. 59 For example, in a hospital financing, a steadily declining population in the surrounding community that, in the future, would not support the size of facility to be built would be important to investors. Disclosure of such currently known conditions and their future impact is critical to informed decisionmaking. 59 GFOA Guidelines at 55. d. Timeliness of Financial Statements. The timeliness of financial information is a major factor in its usefulness. To avoid providing investors with a stale, and therefore potentially misleading, picture of financial condition and results of operations, issuers and obligors need to release their annual financial statements as soon as practical. After extensive discussion with market participants, it appears that, for the most part, audited financial statements of municipal issuers for the most recently completed fiscal year are available within six months after fiscal year end. The six month time period is consistent with the recommendations of NASACT's Blue Ribbon Committee Report. 60 Unaudited financial statements should be provided when available prior to the completion of the audit. 60 See NASACT Blue Ribbon Committee Report at 17. While due dates for audited financial statements of government units differ, a significant majority of states currently require audited financial statements for government units to be filed within six months after the fiscal year end. NASACT 1990 Task Force Report at 12&hyph;22. 4. Availability of Continuing Information An investor's ability to monitor future developments affecting the issuer, as well as the likely liquidity of a security, are important to an investor's evaluation of an offering. The official statement should state clearly whether ongoing disclosure concerning the issuer or obligor will be provided, including the type, timing, and method of providing such information. 61 In deciding whether to purchase the securities or to continue to hold them, investors need to know whether the issuer has committed to provide information on an ongoing basis. 62 The absence of such a commitment can adversely affect the secondary market for the securities and increases the risks of the investment. 61 See Fall 1992 NFMA Survey. See also American Bankers Association, Corporate Trust Committee, Four Point Public 1991 Disclosure Guidelines for Corporate Trustees (``ABA 1991 Guidelines'') at 2; Stamas, ``Issuers' Intentions on Secondary Disclosure are Starting to Appear in Official Statements,'' The Bond Buyer (Dec. 14, 1992) at 1. 62 See MSRB, Report of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board on Regulation of the Municipal Securities Market (Sept. 1993) at 6&hyph;7 (Board announced plan that would include requiring underwriters to recommend to issuers that they provide continuing disclosure to the market and requiring municipal securities dealers to disclose to their customers the negative impact that the lack of secondary market information may have on the value and liquidity of the securities and whether the issuer has agreed to voluntarily provide such disclosures).
