FR940216-0-00073 FR940216-0-00010 6. Test Procedures For the reformulated gasoline program to achieve actual in-use reductions in fuel-related VOC and toxics emissions, certification test results must correlate with reductions in in-use emissions. No test procedure, however, is completely representative of all in-use conditions. The range of vehicle uses and operating conditions and the range of geographical and climatic conditions throughout the country prevent a single test procedure from being entirely representative. However, EPA has developed or is in the process of developing test procedures which attempt to reflect a broad spectrum of in-use vehicle operating conditions. These test procedures were used in part to develop the emission factors in EPA's MOBILE4.1, MOBILE5, and MOBILE5A emission models, which in turn have been used to develop the modeling option for fuel certification. To maintain consistency between the certification methods, these test procedures also are to be used for vehicle testing to augment the model. a. Exhaust emission testing. Exhaust emissions must be measured through the use of the Federal Test Procedure (FTP) for new vehicle certification (Subpart B of Part 86 of the Code of Federal Regulations) with modifications to allow vehicle preconditioning between tests on different fuels and to provide for benzene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and 1,3-butadiene sampling and analysis. Since POM (the fifth regulated toxic air pollutant) cannot currently be measured accurately and since no single measurement procedure is generally accepted, its measurement is not required. A detailed description of the toxics measurement procedures can be found in section 80.55 and section 80.56 of the regulations for this rulemaking. b. Fuel parameter measurement precision. One source of error in testing programs as described in this section is uncertainty in the composition and properties of the fuels being tested. Since fuel testing is far less expensive than vehicle emission testing, EPA believes it is highly cost effective to measure the properties of the fuels multiple times to reduce the uncertainty in projected emissions due to uncertainty in fuel composition. As a result, at minimum, the properties defined in Table V.5 must be measured a sufficient number of times to reduce the 95 percent confidence interval, as calculated using a standard t-test, to the tolerances defined in Table V.5. Table V. 5._ Fuel Parameter Measurement tolerances for Fuel Certification by Vehicle Testing 1Parameter 1Measurement tolerance (95 percent confidence interval) API Gravity # 0.2 ○API. Sulfur content # 5 ppm. Benzene content # 0.05 vol %. RVP # 0.08 psi. Octane # 0.1 (R+M/2). E200 level # 2 %. E300 level # 2 %. Oxygenate content # 0.2 vol %. Aromatics content # 0.5 vol %. Olefins content # 0.3 vol %. Saturates content # 1.0 vol %. Octane # 0.2. Candidate parameter To be determined as part of the augmentation process. EPA recognizes that fuels used in vehicle testing may differ significantly in composition in terms of specific chemical species while appearing to be identically composed in terms of broad chemical families. The Agency further recognizes that such compositional differences may result in emission effects, and that such differences may confound or be used to ``game'' testing programs. Therefore, the fuels used in vehicle testing must be blended from representative refinery streams, and their composition must be fully characterized by gas chromatography or equivalent analysis methods (following the methodology used in the Auto/Oil study 3 ) and the results submitted to EPA. Petitioners would have the option of either submitting these results for approval prior to beginning vehicle testing or including these results in their completed petition. However, in either case, EPA would retain the authority to require modifications to the test fuels to ensure that their compositions are appropriate. Hence petitioners electing not to obtain prior approval of their fuel compositions would assume the risk that EPA may require modifications to the petitioner's test fuels upon receipt of the completed petition, thereby invalidating any testing the petitioner may have completed. 3 Auto/Oil Air Quality Improvement Research Program, Technical Bulletin # 1, December 1990. EPA received a number of comments on its fuel specification and measurement precision proposals. Many of these comments have been incorporated in today's testing regulations, notably removal of the end point specification and inclusion of detergents and octane specifications. A detailed discussion of comments can be found in Section VI.G of the RIA. c. Other test fuel provisions. To maximize the accuracy and confidence in the results from a test program of the magnitude specified in this section, it is good practice to ensure that systematic changes in the emission characteristics of the test vehicles do not occur during testing. Such effects can overwhelm the fuel effects being measured. Therefore, the first fuel tested in any given vehicle must be retested in that vehicle at the end of the test program. In addition, the order in which fuels are tested on each vehicle must be randomized to prevent carryover effects from biasing test results. In response to comments, EPA has decided to remove the requirement for repeat measurements of VOC and NO X emissions from each fuel. EPA considers the measures described above to provide adequate quality assurance without repeat measurements and recognizes that removal of the repeat testing requirements will make vehicle testing significantly less onerous and time-consuming.
