FR940513-2-00096 FR940513-2-00040 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Announcement Number 432] RIN 0905&hyph;ZA57 Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research Centers Cooperative Agreements; Availability of Funds for Fiscal Year 1994 Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of funds in fiscal year (FY) 1994 for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research Centers cooperative agreements. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to all the health priority areas in Health Promotion, Health Protection, and Preventive Services. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the Section WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .) Authority This program is authorized under Sections 1706 (42 U.S.C. 300u&hyph;5) and 317(k)(3) (42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(3)), of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants are academic health centers; defined as schools of public health, medicine, or osteopathy; that have: A. Multidisciplinary faculty with expertise in public health and which have working relationships with relevant groups in such fields as public health, medicine, psychology, nursing, social work, education, and business. B. Graduate training programs relevant to disease prevention. C. Core faculty in epidemiology, biostatistics, social sciences, behavioral and environmental health sciences, and health administration. D. Demonstrated curriculum in disease prevention. E. Capability for graduate training in public health or residency training in preventive medicine. Eligible applicants may enter into contracts, including consortia agreements (as described in the PHS Grants Policy Statement), as necessary to meet the essential requirements of this program and to strengthen the overall application. Availability of Funds Approximately $500,000 (direct and indirect costs) is available in FY 1994 to fund one new prevention center program. It is expected that the award will begin on or about September 30, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to four years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. At the request of the applicant, Federal personnel may be assigned to a project in lieu of a portion of the financial assistance. The amount of this award may not be adequate for the support of all Prevention Center activities and other sources of funds may be necessary. Purpose The purpose of this program is to support health promotion and disease prevention research focusing on the prevention of the major causes of death and disability and promote health practices that lead to more effective State and local programs. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient shall be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities), and CDC shall be responsible for conducting activities under B. (CDC Activities). A. Recipient Activities 1. Conduct and evaluate one or more demonstration projects in health promotion and disease prevention or preventive health services, or both, in defined communities or target populations. 2. Conduct a demonstration project in health promotion and disease prevention with a State or local health or education department. 3. Establish collaborative activities with appropriate organizations, individuals, and State health or education agencies. 4. Establish an advisory committee to provide input on major program activities. The committee should include scientists, health care providers, health officials, voluntary health organizations, and consumers.
