FR940207-1-00017 FR940207-1-00002 Section 230.1_Authority, Purpose, Coverage, and Effect on State Laws (c) Coverage 1. Foreign applicability. Regulation DD applies to all depository institutions, except credit unions, that offer deposit accounts to residents (including resident aliens) of any state as defined in §230.2(r). 2. Persons who advertise accounts. Persons who advertise accounts are subject to the advertising rules. For example, if a deposit broker places an advertisement that offers consumers an interest in an account at a depository institution, the advertising rules apply to the advertisement, whether the account is held by the broker or directly by the consumer. Section 230.2_Definitions (a) Account 1. Covered accounts. Examples of accounts subject to the regulation are: •Interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing accounts •Accounts opened as a condition of obtaining a credit card Examples of accounts not subject to the regulation are: •Mortgage escrow accounts for collecting taxes and property insurance premiums •Accounts established to make periodic disbursements on construction loans •Trust accounts other than individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and simplified employee pension (SEP) accounts •Accounts opened by an executor in the name of a decedent's estate •Accounts of individuals operating businesses as sole proprietors 2. Other investments. The term ``account'' does not apply to all products of a depository institution. Examples of products not covered are: •Government securities •Mutual funds •Annuities •Securities or obligations of a depository institution •Contractual arrangements such as repurchase agreements, interest rate swaps, and bankers acceptances (b) Advertisement 1. Coverage. Advertisements include commercial messages in visual, oral, or print media that invite, offer, or otherwise announce generally to prospective customers the availability of consumer accounts such as: •Telephone solicitations •Messages on automated teller machine (ATM) screens •Messages on a computer screen in an institution's lobby (including any printout) •Messages in a newspaper, magazine, or promotional flyer or on radio •Messages promoting an account that are provided along with information about the consumer's existing account at an institution Examples of messages that are not advertisements are: •Rate sheets published in newspapers, periodicals, or trade journals provided the depository institution (or deposit broker that offers accounts at the institution) does not pay a fee to have the information included •An in-person discussion with a consumer about the terms for a specific account •Information provided to consumers about their existing accounts, such as on IRA disbursements or notices for automatically renewable time accounts sent before renewal (f) Bonus 1. Examples. Bonuses include items of value, other than interest, offered as incentives to consumers, such as an offer to pay the final installment deposit for a holiday club account. The following is an example of an item that is not a bonus: •Discount coupons distributed by institutions for use at restaurants or stores 2. De minimis rule. Items with a de minimis value of $10 or less are not bonuses. Institutions may rely on the valuation standard used by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to determine if the value of the item is de minimus . (See 26 CFR §1.6049&hyph;5(a)(2), which discusses the fair market value of property received.) Items required to be reported by the institution under IRS rules are bonuses under this regulation. Examples of items that are not bonuses are: •Disability insurance premiums paid by the institution in an amount less than $10 per year •Coffee mugs, T-shirts or other merchandise with a market value of less than $10 per year Institutions must aggregate per account per calendar year any items given to a consumer that are individually valued at less than $10 and must consider them to be a bonus if their aggregate value exceeds $10. 3. Waiver or reduction of a fee or absorption of expenses. Bonuses do not include value received by consumers through the waiver or reduction of fees for banking-related services (even if the fees waived exceed $10), such as the following: •Waiving a safe deposit box rental fee for one year for consumers who open a new account •Waiving fees for travelers checks for account holders •Discounts on interest rates charged for loans at the institution (h) Consumer 1. Professional capacity. Examples of accounts held by a natural person in a professional capacity for another are: •Attorney-client trust accounts •Landlord-tenant security accounts 2. Nonprofessional capacity. Examples of accounts not held in a professional capacity are:
