FR940511-1-00017 FR940511-1-00002 The NRC Regulatory Agenda is a compilation of all rules on which the NRC has recently completed action, has proposed action, or is considering action, and all petitions for rulemaking that have been received by the Commission and are pending disposition. The NRC Regulatory Agenda provides the public with basic information regarding currently active NRC rulemaking activities and petitions for rulemaking. Since 1982, the NRC Regulatory Agenda has been updated and issued each quarter as NUREG&hyph;0936. The NRC also prepares and submits an agenda of its rulemaking activity for inclusion in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations, which is updated semiannually and published in the Federal Register . The Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 602) requires that agencies publish semiannual regulatory agendas describing the regulatory actions they are developing that could have an impact on small entities. Executive Order 12866 establishes minimum standards for an agency's agenda, including specific types of information for each entry and publication in a uniform format. The NRC meets these public information requirements through its participation in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations contains the same information concerning the NRC rulemaking activity that is published in the NRC Regulatory Agenda. Proposed Action The Commission believes that the continued publication of the NRC Regulatory Agenda on a quarterly basis is unnecessary. The content and the status of the rulemaking actions and petitions for rulemaking do not change frequently enough to justify a quarterly publication. The NRC believes that a semiannual publication schedule is sufficient to inform the public of the NRC's rulemaking activity and of the current status of NRC's active rulemakings and petitions for rulemaking. The NRC Regulatory Agenda would continue to be published in January and July of each year. Section 2.802(g), which concerns the frequency of the status of petitions for rulemaking, would be revised to reflect this change. The NRC would continue to publish an updated agenda of its rulemaking actions in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations each April and October. To better inform the public of the status of NRC rulemakings, the NRC is exploring alternatives to make the information in the Regulatory Agenda available through electronic communications, such as via an electronic bulletin board. The NRC will make its next issuance of the Regulatory Agenda available in an electronic format on an electronic board that is accessible to the public. Also the NRC has established a computer bulletin board whereby the public can obtain a copy of the proposed rule entitled, ``Radiological Criteria for Decommissioning of Nuclear Facilities,'' and submit comments on this proposed rule via electronic communication. The NRC is exploring mechanisms to make this type of public access to rulemakings available for additional rulemakings in the future. In addition, the NRC routinely invites the public to submit comments on proposed rules in an electronic format. Environmental Impact: Categorical Exclusion The NRC has determined that this proposed regulation is the type of action described in categorical exclusion 10 CFR 51.22(c)(1). Therefore, neither an environmental impact statement nor an environmental assessment has been prepared for this proposed regulation. Paperwork Reduction Act Statement This proposed rule contains no information collection requirements and therefore is not subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). Regulatory Analysis The NRC has not prepared a regulatory impact analysis for this proposed rule because it is an administrative action that would reduce the frequency of the summary report on the status of petitions for rulemaking, as included in the NRC Regulatory Agenda, from quarterly to semiannually.
