FR940930-2-00155 FR940930-2-00051 September 23, 1994 BY FACSIMILE AND U.S. MAIL Steven John Fellman, Esquire Galland, Kharasch, Morse & Garfinkle, P.C. Canal Square 1054 31st Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20007&hyph;4492 Re: Public Comment on Proposed Consent Decree in United States and State of Florida v. Morton Plant Health Systems, Inc., et al., No. 94&hyph;748&hyph;CIV&hyph;T&hyph;23E (M.D. Fla., filed May 5, 1994) Dear Mr. Fellman: This letter responds to your recent letter, submitted on behalf of the Textile Rental Service Association, commenting on the possible tax ramifications of the joint venture that Morton Plant Health System, Inc. and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc. are permitted to establish under the terms of the proposed consent decree in this case. In your letter, your correctly point out that the proposed decree authorizes Morton Plant and Mease to form a ``nonprofit, tax-exempt organization'' that ``may own and operate [and provide to Morton Plant and Mease] any *␣*␣* Eligible Partnership Administrative Service,'' and that such services may include inter alia, ``housekeeping and laundry'' services and ``all miscellaneous services not related to patient care and not exceeding an expenditure of $250,000 annually.'' Final Consent Judgment ¶¶II (G) and V(B). This language could be read to imply that the partnership organized under the decree can perform laundry services and other unspecified miscellaneous services and remain a ``nonprofit, tax-exempt organization'' under federal tax laws. However, current federal tax statutes and court decisions interpreting them indicate that a ``cooperative hospitals service organization'' formed to provide laundry services for two or more non-profit hospital is not eligible for tax exempt status. HCSC-Laundry v. United States, 450 U.S. 1, 6&hyph;8 (1981). It is also quite possible that a joint venture formed by the hospitals to provide other ``miscellaneous services not related to patient care''_and not specifically listed as a tax-exempt service in Section 501(e) of the Internal Revenue Code_would not be entitled to tax-exempt status. The United States certainly does not view this consent decree as affording Morton Plant or Mease a new exemption from federal (or state) taxes. Moreover, Morton Plant and Mease have provided written assurances that they do not intend to interpret the consent decree as providing an amendment to or exemption under any tax law. (A copy of that written assurance from the hospitals' trial counsel is enclosed.) In short, the proposed consent decree is clearly not intended, and should not be read, to alter or amend tax laws, rules, or regulations, or to create any new tax exemptions or loopholes. In order to qualify for tax-exempt status, the hospitals' joint venture must satisfy any applicable tax regulations, not simply rely upon the language of the proposed decree. I trust that this responds to the concerns you have expressed. Thank you for your keen interest in the enforcement of our federal antitrust and tax laws. Sincerely yours, Anthony E. Harris, Attorney, Professions & Intellectual Property Section. Enclosure cc: Mr. John Burke Assistant Commissioner, Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations Internal Revenue Service.
