FR941220-0-00111 FR941220-0-00014 ยง XXX .734 The fourth labor condition statement: notice. An employer seeking to employ H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants shall state on Form ETA 9035 that the employer has provided notice of the filing of the labor condition application to the bargaining representative of the employer's employees in the occupational classification in which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants will be employed or are intended to be employed in the area of intended employment, or, if there is no such bargaining representative, has posted notice of filing in conspicuous locations in the employer's establishment(s) in the area of intended employment, in the manner described in this section. (a) Establishing the notice requirement. The fourth labor condition application requirement shall be established when the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section are met. (1)(i) Where there is a collective bargaining representative for the occupational classification in which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants will be employed, on or within 30 days before the date the labor condition application is filed with ETA, the employer shall provide notice to the bargaining representative that a labor condition application is being, or will be, filed with ETA. The notice shall identify the number of H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants the employer is seeking to employ; the occupational classification in which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants will be employed; the wages offered; the period of employment; and the location(s) at which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants will be employed. Notice under this paragraph (a)(1)(i) shall include the following statement: ``Complaints alleging misrepresentation of material facts in the labor condition application and/or failure to comply with the terms of the labor condition application may be filed with any office of the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor.'' (ii) Where there is no collective bargaining representative, the employer shall, on or within 30 days before the date the labor condition application is filed with ETA, provide a notice of the filing of the labor condition application to its employees by posting a notice in at least two conspicuous locations at each place of employment where any H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant will be employed. The notice shall indicate that H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants are sought; the number of such nonimmigrants the employer is seeking; the occupational classification; the wages offered; the period of employment; the location(s) at which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants will be employed; and that the labor condition application is available for public inspection at the employer's principal place of business in the U.S. or at the worksite. The notice shall also include the statement: ``Complaints alleging misrepresentation of material facts in the labor condition application and/or failure to comply with the terms of the labor condition application may be filed with any office of the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor.'' The posting of exact copies of the labor condition application shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this paragraph (a)(1)(ii). (A) The notice shall be of sufficient size and visibility, and shall be posted in two or more conspicuous places so that the employer's workers at the place(s) of employment can easily see and read the posted notice(s). (B) Appropriate locations for posting the notices include, but are not limited to, locations in the immediate proximity of wage and hour notices required by 29 CFR 516.4 or occupational safety and health notices required by 29 CFR 1903.2(a). (C) The notices shall be posted on or within 30 days before the date the labor condition application is filed and shall remain posted for a total of 10 days. (D) Where the employer places any H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant(s) at one or more worksites not contemplated at the time of filing the application, but which are within the area of intended employment listed on the LCA, the employer is required to post notice(s) at such worksite(s) on or before the date any H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant begins work, which notice shall remain posted for a total of ten days. (2) The employer shall, no later than the date the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant reports to work at the place of employment, provide the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant with a copy of the labor condition application certified by the Department. (b) Documentation of the fourth labor condition statement. The employer shall develop and maintain documentation sufficient to meet its burden of proving the validity of the statement referenced in paragraph (a) of this section and attested to on form ETA 9035. Such documentation shall include a copy of the dated notice and the name and address of the collective bargaining representative to whom the notice was provided. Where there is no collective bargaining representative, the employer shall note and retain the dates when, and locations where, the notice was posted and shall retain a copy of the posted notice. (c) Records retention; records availability. The employer's documentation shall not be submitted to ETA with the labor condition application, but shall be retained for the period of time specified in ยง XXX .760(c) of this part. The documentation shall be made available for public examination as required in ยง XXX .760(a) of this part, and shall be made available to DOL upon request. ยง XXX .735 Special provisions for short-term placement of H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants at place(s) of employment outside the area(s) of intended employment listed on labor condition application.
