FR940727-2-00060 FR940727-2-00028 • At a minimum , be capable of decontaminating at least one nonambulatory patient. •During and after chemical agent releases that cause mass casualties, decontaminate patients outdoors. Having indoor decontamination facilities does not obviate a hospital's need to have plans for decontaminating patients outdoors during mass casualty situations. •Design hospital disaster plans, keeping in mind the possibility of integrating local emergency response resources. Such resources could include hazardous materials emergency response teams or portable decontamination vehicles or facilities. •In cold weather, set up temporary shelters and heaters to protect patients from extreme environmental conditions when undergoing decontamination outdoors. •Have in place a method of controlling the flow of air in the decontamination area to prevent such air from contaminating other areas of the hospital. •Set up a system to allow medical personnel in the decontamination area to be in continuous communication with other medical personnel in the emergency department. 5. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Chemical protective clothing and respiratory protection enable responders to care for chemically exposed patients while protecting themselves from secondary contamination. This equipment must protect the skin, eyes, and respiratory tracts of the responders. •Use DA BDOs and PAPRs with organic vapor cartridges to protect civilian personnel against chemical warfare agents. The BDO can be used in an agent-contaminated environment for up to 24 hours at contamination levels of up to 10 grams of agent per square meter of surface area. •Have hospital personnel follow Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) guidelines when managing patients exposed to unknown chemicals. •Have hospital emergency responders use the equipment with which they are most familiar, providing that such equipment is at least as protective as the equipment recommended by CDC. •Train response personnel to use PPE when responding to a chemical agent emergency according to OSHA guidelines (2). 6. Level of Training •Train medical staff designated by the hospital disaster plan to provide direct patient care during a chemical warfare agent emergency to a level of medical preparedness that allows them to assess, decontaminate, and manage the treatment of victims of chemical warfare agent releases. •Medical staff who are required to wear decontamination attire in decontamination procedures must receive training in the use of PPE according to OSHA regulations (2&hyph;4). 7. Transportation of Patients to Other Medical Facilities •Have prearranged written agreements with those medical facilities that agree to accept patients who are exposed to military chemical agents. •Do not transfer patients without notifying the hospital and having the patient accepted by a physician. •Have standardized forms available to record patient information and management status. 8. Specific Antidotes •Have decontaminating solutions available in the emergency department. If nerve agents are stored adjacent to the civilian community, have atropine in multiple-dose units available in the emergency department and in the hospital pharmacy. In addition, have the hospital pharmacy stock atropine and pralidoxime in sufficient quantities to cope with the anticipated number of patients who could be managed by that facility in response to a chemical warfare agent release. Atropine and pralidoxime should be administered intravenously in the emergency environment. 9. Hospital Disaster Plan •Include plans for providing medical care for patients exposed to chemical agents in the hospital's disaster plan. •Have in place a method for using the emergency communication system so that reports of a chemical warfare agent release can be verified rapidly. Also include provisions to coordinate activities with State and local disaster plans for mass decontamination. •Include in disaster drills scenarios in which patients have become exposed to chemical warfare agents. •Use the hospital quality assurance program to review disaster drills and decontamination procedures and to assist in maintaining the professional skills of hospital personnel necessary to treat the effects of exposure to a chemical warfare agent.
