FR940524-1-00083 FR940524-1-00010 (iii) Two minutes, running in place; and (iv) Two minutes, pumping with a tire pump into a 28-liter (1 cubic-foot) container. (4) Each wearer shall not detect the odor of isoamyl-acetate vapor during the test. §84.206 Particulate tests; respirators with filters; minimum requirements; general. (a) Three respirators with cartridges containing, or having attached to them, filters for protection against particulates will be tested in accordance with the provisions of §84.207. (b) In addition to the test requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, three such respirators will be tested, as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of §§84.180 through 84.186; however, the maximum allowable resistance of complete particulate, and gas, vapor, or gas and vapor chemical cartridge respirators shall not exceed the maximum allowable limits set forth in §84.203. §84.207 Bench tests; gas and vapor tests; minimum requirements; general. (a) Bench tests will be made on an apparatus that allows the test atmosphere at 50 # 5 percent relative humidity and room temperature, approximately 25 ○C, to enter the cartridges continuously at predetermined concentrations and rates of flow, and that has means for determining the test life of the cartridges. (b) Where two cartridges are used in parallel on a chemical cartridge respirator, the bench test will be performed with the cartridges arranged in parallel, and the test requirements will apply to the combination rather than to the individual cartridges. (c) Three cartridges or pairs of cartridges will be removed from containers and tested as received from the applicant. (d) Two cartridges or pairs of cartridges will be equilibrated at room temperature by passing 25 percent relative humidity air through them at the following flow rates (expressed in liters per minute (l.p.m.)) for 6 hours: ␣ 1Type of cartridge 1Airflow rate, l. p.m. Air purifying 25 Powered air purifying with tight-fitting facepiece 115 Powered air purifying with loose-fitting hood or helmet 170 (e) Two cartridges or pairs of cartridges will be equilibrated by passing 85 percent relative humidity air through them at the flow rates stated in paragraph (d) of this section. (f) All cartridges will be resealed, kept in an upright position, at room temperatures, and tested within 18 hours. (g) Cartridges will be tested and shall meet the minimum requirements set forth in Table 11 of this subpart.
