FR940613-1-00033 FR940613-1-00004 The State of West Virginia maintenance plan requires the continuation of the federal RVP program. These reductions due to lower RVP and more stringent tailpipe standards resulting from the FMVCP were determined using the mobile emission inventory model MOBILE 5.0a and the relevant vehicle miles traveled data. Permanent and enforceable decreases in VOCs at stationary sources contributed a small amount to the total VOC reduction in the Charleston, West Virginia area. In association with its emission inventory, the State of West Virginia demonstrated that point source VOC emissions were not artificially low due to local economic downturn during the period in which the Charleston, West Virginia area's ambient air quality came into attainment. Reductions due to decreases in production levels or from other unenforceable scenarios such as voluntary reductions were not included in the determination of the emission reductions. EPA finds that the combination of measures contained in the SIP and federal measures have resulted in permanent and enforceable reductions in ozone precursors that have allowed the Charleston West Virginia area to attain the NAAQS, and therefore, that the redesignation criterion of section 107(d)(3)(E)(iii) has been met. 5. Fully Approved Maintenance Plan Under Section 175A EPA is proposing approval of the State of West Virginia maintenance plan for the Charleston, West Virginia area because EPA finds that West Virginia's submittal meets the requirements of section 175A of the Act. If EPA determines after notice and comment that it should give final approval to the maintenance plan, the Charleston, West Virginia nonattainment area will have a fully approved maintenance plan in accordance with section 175A of the Act. Section 175A of the Act sets forth the elements of a maintenance plan for areas seeking redesignation from nonattainment to attainment. The plan must demonstrate continued attainment of the applicable NAAQS for at least ten years after the area is redesignated. Eight years after the redesignation, the state must submit a revised maintenance plan which demonstrates attainment for the ten years following the initial ten-year period. To provide for the possibility of future NAAQS violations, the maintenance plan must contain contingency measures, with a schedule for implementation, adequate to assure prompt correction of any air quality problems. 5.A. Emissions Inventory_Base Year Inventory On November 13, 1992, the State of West Virginia submitted comprehensive inventories of VOC and NO X emissions from area, stationary, and mobile using 1990 as the base year for calculations to demonstrate maintenance. The 1990 VOC inventory is considered most representative of attainment conditions because no violations occurred in 1990 and it reflects the typical inventory for the three-year period demonstrating attainment of the standard. The State of West Virginia submittal contains detailed inventory data and summaries by source categories. The State of West Virginia submittal also contains information related to how it comported with EPA's guidance, which model and emission factors were used (note MOBILE 5.0a was used), how Vehicle Miles Travelled (VMT) data was generated, what RVP was considered in the base year, and other technical information verifying the validity of the Charleston West Virginia emission inventory. The State of West Virginia's submittal contains the detailed inventory data and summaries by source category. This inventory was prepared in accordance with EPA guidances. A summary of the base year and projected maintenance year inventories are shown in the following six tables. The TSD which has been prepared for this action contains more in-depth details regarding the base year for the Charleston area.
