FR940628-1-00081 FR940628-1-00014 NHTSA does not agree with those manufacturers who believe that labeling vehicles with stability information will mislead consumers or that consumers would consider the metric an absolute measure of the likelihood of rollover, regardless of driver behavior or roadway conditions. It has never been shown that improvements in safety or availability of information regarding safety increase risk-taking. In addition, the proposed label not only contains the stability information, it contains the statements: ``All vehicles roll over! Always wear seat belts! In a rollover crash, an unbelted person is 6 to 9 times more likely to die than a person wearing a seat belt.'' These statements emphasize to the consumer that a vehicle with a higher stability rating can still roll over. NHTSA is considering two possible options for specifying the stability metric. Under option one, NHTSA would select one of two metrics, critical sliding velocity or tilt table angle, and require the metric to be stated for each vehicle. NHTSA requests comments on which metric is preferable if NHTSA selects only one metric. (Note: The proposed regulatory text in this notice illustrates this option first for critical sliding velocity, and then for tilt table angle.) Under option two, NHTSA would not require a metric to be stated. Instead, the agency would require vehicles to be labeled with a statement concerning the rollover stability (e.g., one, two, or three stars) based on vehicle performance when tested for one or both of the metrics. B. Proposed Label NHTSA is proposing to require three types of information on the label and in owner's manuals. First, manufacturers would be required to include the stability metric for that vehicle. This information would either be the same as that reported by the manufacturer to NHTSA (for option one) or the ``rating'' provided by NHTSA (for option two). This metric would be required to be reported ``accurate to the nearest kilometer per hour'' for critical sliding velocity and ``accurate to the nearest degree'' for tilt table angle. As explained in the discussion of the two metrics in this notice, NHTSA believes that the test procedure for both metrics produces results repeatable to this degree of accuracy. Manufacturers would be allowed to choose which models and configurations could be grouped together, because they have the same metric, for the purpose of reporting metrics. However, for each metric reported by a manufacturer, the manufacturer would have to fully describe the vehicles to which the metric applies. Second, the label would be required to contain the metric or rating ranges provided by NHTSA for both passenger cars and light trucks. The purpose of this requirement is to emphasize to consumers that there are significant differences between the stability of the average passenger car and that of the average truck-based vehicle. This information would allow consumers to make an informed choice in purchasing a passenger car or a truck-based vehicle and to compare a vehicle they are considering to other vehicles in its class. Third, NHTSA is proposing to require a warning to inform consumers that all vehicles can, and do, roll over and that the best protection against injury or fatality, should a rollover occur, is wearing seat belts. C. Stability Metrics As noted above, NHTSA's analyses indicate that there are two metrics, critical sliding velocity and tilt table angle, which correlate well with rollover accident data. Either of these metrics could be used in a stability labeling regulation. Each has its advantages and disadvantages. Critical sliding velocity, a dynamic metric, includes the influence of roll moment of inertia as well as the various static factors included by the static metrics such as tilt table angle. The advantage of critical sliding velocity is that it more consistently predicts rollover risk for light trucks. The disadvantage is that calculation of critical sliding velocity requires knowledge of the vehicle's center of gravity height and roll mass moment of inertia. These two parameters are difficult to measure on complete vehicles and require specialized equipment to obtain accurate results. However, these parameters can be measured on vehicle components and manufacturers of complete vehicles could calculate center of gravity height and roll mass moment of inertia of complete vehicles from data they have on component parameters. However, the agency is unsure whether final stage manufacturers and alterers of specialty vehicles are provided enough information from incomplete vehicle manufacturers to do this. Tilt table angle, a static metric, is simple and inexpensive to measure. The nature of the test is easy for the consumer to understand. The disadvantage of this metric stems from the statistical relationship between tilt table angle and accident data. The correlation between tilt table angle and accident data breaks down if passenger cars are analyzed separately from light trucks. Further, statistical models containing tilt table angle data consistently overestimate the rollover risk for standard vans. 1. Critical Sliding Velocity
