FR940525-1-00030 FR940525-1-00007 VI. Additional Issues for Comment The Agencies request comment on all aspects of the proposed amendments to the risk-based capital treatment of recourse and direct credit substitutes and on all aspects of the proposal to adopt a multi-level approach. In addition to the questions set out above, the agencies request comment on the following: A. Proposal 1. Definitions of Recourse and Direct Credit Substitutes (Question 22) Does the proposed definition of the term ``standard representations and warranties'' provide a workable definition for determining whether a representation or warranty will be considered recourse or a direct credit substitute? (Question 23) Does the proposed definition of a ``servicer cash advance'' provide a workable definition for determining whether a cash advance will be considered recourse or a direct credit substitute? 2. Low-Level Recourse Rule (Question 24) Would the low-level recourse rule lower transaction costs or otherwise help facilitate the sale or securitization of banking organization assets? 3. Treatment of Direct Credit Substitutes (Question 25) For banking organizations and thrifts in general, or for your particular institution, please answer the following questions: (a) For securitized or pooled transactions, and separately for non-securitized transactions, approximately what portion of third-party financial standby letters of credit provides less than 100% loss protection for the underlying assets? What are the typical circumstances of such arrangements? (b) For securitized or pooled transactions, and separately for non-securitized transactions, do financial standby letters of credit typically absorb the first dollars of losses or the second dollars of losses from third-party assets, as defined in this section of the proposal? What is the approximate dollar amount of financial standby letters of credit provided by banking organizations and thrifts that absorb the first dollars of losses from third-party assets? (c) What is the approximate dollar amount of purchased subordinated interests that absorb the first dollars of losses from third-party assets, as defined in this section of the proposal? B. Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking_Ratings-Based Multi-Level Approach (Question 26) Should the Agencies require that prior credit enhancements be free of performance risk in order for second dollar loss enhancements and senior positions to qualify for reduced risk-based capital requirements? (Question 27) The discussion of the multi-level approach deals with varying the capital requirement in asset securitizations based on an institution's degree of exposure to credit risk. Does a multi-level approach have any applicability to sales or participations of individual, secured, unrated loans (including multifamily loans) with recourse under various loss sharing arrangements? VII. Regulatory Flexibility Act
