FR941216-1-00166 FR941216-1-00013 Note: The regulations specified in this paragraph apply only within the navigable waters of the United States. In all waters within the IACC Offshore Race Venue which fall outside the navigable waters of the United States, during the specified dates and times, the following nonobligatory guidelines apply: (A) All unaffiliated vessels should remain clear of the race venue and avoid interfering with any participant, AC'95 or CORC Race Vessel, or Official Vessel. Interference with race activities may constitute a safety hazard warranting cancelation or termination of all or part of the race activities by the Patrol Commander. (B) Any unauthorized entry within the race course perimeter, as marked by the AC'95 or CORC Race Vessels and Official Vessels, by unaffiliated vessels constitutes a risk to the safety of marine traffic. Such entry will constitute a factor to be considered in determining whether a person has operated a vessel in a negligent manner in violation of 46 U.S.C. 2302. (4) One-way traffic and five knot speed limit. The Patrol Commander may implement one-way traffic patterns and a five knot speed limit in the regulated areas or portions thereof if the Patrol Commander deems it necessary to ensure safe navigation. Notice of one-way traffic and a five knot speed limit will be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. If one-way traffic patterns are implemented, participant and unaffiliated vessels are required to transit the applicable regulated area(s) in either an inbound direction (proceeding into port) or an outbound direction (proceeding to sea). No traffic in any direction other than inbound or outbound (i.e., cross traffic) will be permitted in the area of implementation. If a five knot speed limit is implemented, all traffic entering or exiting the harbors will be required to make a speed of no more than five knots through the water. If one-way traffic or a five knot speed limit is implemented, all participant and unaffiliated vessels shall also abide by all other nonconflicting provisions contained within these special local regulations associated with the regulated area. (d) Effective dates. These sections become effective at 10 a.m. PST on March 18, 1995 and terminate at 7 p.m. PDT on May 27, 1995 unless canceled earlier by the District Commander. Dated: December 6, 1994. D.D. Polk, Captain, U.S. Coast Guard Acting Commander, Eleventh Coast Guard District. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30927 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
