FR940214-0-00040 FR940214-0-00004 (g) Purchase and install ranges, refrigerators, drapes, blinds/shades, drapery rods, and clothes washers and dryers. Laundry facilities are required in all projects and clothes washers and dryers should be provided in a central laundry room. Normally, a minimum of one washer and dryer should be provided for every 8 to 12 units in a project. Clothes washers and dryers may not be installed in individual units if the installation is not customary in the area for the size of project and type of housing involved. In any case, both central and individual laundry facilities will not be provided in a single project. * * * * * (i) Pay related costs such as fees and charges for market studies, tax credit application, legal (costs pertaining to the closing of the FmHA loan only), archeological, architectural, engineering, environmental, and other appropriate technical and professional services. The fees and charges may be paid to an applicant or officer, director, trustee, stockholder, member, or agent of the applicant provided those fees and charges are reasonable and typical for the area and are earned and the identity of interest is disclosed. Legal, technical, and professional fees do not include the costs incurred in the formation or incorporation of the limited profit applicant, costs of syndication, or the payment of a loan packaging or development fee. (j) Provide loan funds to enable a nonprofit group or public body to pay fees for technical assistance received from a nonprofit organization, with housing and/or community development experience, to assist it in the formation or incorporation and development and packaging of its loan docket and project, as well as legal, technical and professional fees incurred in the formation or incorporation of the applicant entity. * * * * * 14. Section 1944.213 is amended by removing paragraph (c)(12); by redesignating paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5), and (b)(6) as paragraphs (b)(5), (b)(6), and (b)(7), respectively; by adding paragraph (b)(4); and by revising paragraphs (c)(6), (c)(10), the introductory text of paragraph (d), paragraph (d)(1)(ii), and the introductory text of paragraph (e)(1) to read as follows: §1944.213 Limitations. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (4) The examples set forth in Exhibit A&hyph;13 of this subpart (available in any FmHA office) provide clarity in determining the proper loan amount for various types of loans.
