FR941003-1-00065 FR941003-1-00006 1. Agency Implementing Procedures Section 110(a)(2)(E)(i) of the NHPA requires that each Federal agency have procedures for compliance with Section 106 that are consistent with the Council's regulations. The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, and the Council share oversight for this provision, since the Secretary is charged with providing guidance on implementing Section 110 responsibilities. The Council wishes to encourage Federal agencies to develop such procedures to adapt the Section 106 process to their particular needs and to better integrate Section 106 into their regular planning processes. Subpart B of the revised regulations sets forth criteria for evaluating consistency; outlines a process for Council review of such procedures; and defines the consequences of a Council finding regarding consistency. Does the proposed process meet the need for agency program oversight? Are there ways the regulations could better encourage Federal agencies to adopt the required procedures in a timely manner? Are there better alternatives to the proposed consistency standards and review process? Are the criteria appropriate to meet the objective on achieving internal Federal agency procedures that effectively implement Section 106? 2. Exemption of Certain Undertakings From the Section 106 Process As part of the development of agency procedures to implement Section 106, the proposed regulations include a new provision that will allow agencies to waive the Section 106 review for categories of undertakings which generally would not have an effect on historic properties. Since the use of categorical exclusions has been a major component of the NEPA process, there is the potential that this provision may be confusing. Further, approval of such a listing may incorrectly infer that the exemption of a class of undertakings means that an included undertaking could never result in adverse effect to historic properties. Should the procedures for categorical exemptions be included in the revised regulations? Should they be further distinguished from NEPA categorical exclusions to avoid confusion? Are the criteria for categorical exemptions too broad or too narrow? Should parties other than the agency and the Council be able to require individual Section 106 reviews for undertakings previously listed as categorical exclusions? 3. Regulation Versus Guidance When surveyed, users of the current Section 106 regulations generally requested more specificity and guidance on various provisions of the regulations. The revised regulations respond to that concern. Are the regulatory provisions sufficiently detailed or have they become too specific? Where should any changes be made? Should some existing material or additional material be set forth in appendices to the regulations or in separate, subsequently issued guidance documents? 4. Public Participation The proposed regulations rely heavily on increased access for the public to the Section 106 process to offset the Council's reduced role in individual cases. These enhanced opportunities for public involvement anticipate both a greater public role in shaping decisions regarding the treatment of effects on historic properties and a more active watchdog function for the public to ensure that procedures are followed and decisions are made properly. Conversely, expanded public participation can impose burdens on Federal planning processes and adequate opportunities for public input often require that extra efforts and time be expended by Federal officials. The revised regulations attempt to strike a balance between these two extremes, with an emphasis on public access to the process. Has this balance been struck effectively? Are there specific places where public notification or participation should be strengthened or reduced? Should the regulations be more specific on public participation or should additional guidance be provided in less formal channels, such as guidance documents? 5. Role of Certain Interested Parties The proposed regulations seek to clarify and enhance the involvement of individuals and organizations that have significant interests in the negotiating process designed to avoid or minimize adverse effects (See Section 800.10(b)(1)). One such group is owners of properties affected by the undertaking and whose interests may be impacted by decisions made in the Section 106 process regarding the avoidance or mitigation of the undertaking's adverse effects on historic properties. The proposed regulations allow all owners of affected properties to participate in negotiations for a Memorandum of Agreement, provided that the Council can limit participation to a representative if the number of owners desiring to participate becomes unwieldy. Is this a reasonable balance of access and procedural efficiency? Should only owners of historic properties be given this status? How broadly should ``affected'' be defined? 6. Substitution of State and Local Review Processes for These Regulations. The current regulations allow a Certified Local Government (CLG), as established under Section 101(c)(1) of the NHPA, to assume the role of the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) in the Section 106 review when the Council, SHPO, and local government are in agreement. The proposed regulations delete this provision, in the interest of avoiding too many variations on the Section 106 process and resultant confusion. Should the current role of CLGs be maintained? Should it be expanded to allow review procedures established under local law and administered by a CLG to substitute for the Council's regulations? Should the regulations require Federal agencies to routinely consult with CLGs in addition to or in lieu of consultation with SHPOs? The current regulations allow State review systems to substitute for the Federal process under certain circumstances. The revised regulations delete this. Should it be retained and, if so, should it be modified from its current form?
