FR940628-1-00089 FR940628-1-00014 (ii) Each dealer shall maintain or cause to be maintained, any vehicle rollover stability label on the vehicles it receives until the vehicles are sold to consumers for purposes other than resale. If a label becomes damaged so that any of the information on it is not legible, the dealer shall replace it by affixing an identical, undamaged label. (iii) Each vehicle required by paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section to have a vehicle rollover stability label shall have in the vehicle owner's manual the same information required to be on the label under paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(vii) of this section. (2) Location of Label . (i) The label required by paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section shall be affixed on a side window of the vehicle in a manner so that it can be read from outside the vehicle. (ii) The label shall be either a separate label, a part of the price information label required by 15 U.S.C. ยง1232, or a part of the fuel economy label required by 15 U.S.C. ยง2006. If the rollover stability label is separate and the window is not large enough to contain both the price information label and the rollover stability label, it shall be affixed on a side window, as close as possible to the price information label. (3) Label Requirements . (i) Each rollover stability label shall be rectangular, not less than 114 mm high by 178 mm wide, and shall be in the exact format shown in Figure 2. Each label shall bear the exact wording shown in Figure 2. The TTA in the circle shall be the TTA reported to the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section for the labeled vehicle and the square brackets shall be replaced by TTA range data given to the vehicle manufacturer by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section for the production year of the labeled vehicle. (ii) The color of the label picture and text shall contrast with the background of the label. (iii) All rollover stability information on the label shall be completely surrounded by a border at least 3 mm wide which contrasts with the background of the label. (iv) The title, ``Vehicle Rollover Stability,'' shall be centered over the label and shall be printed in bold caps no smaller than 12 points. (v) The remainder of the label text shall be 10 points. (vi) The illustration of the vehicle in Figure 2 shall be centered in a square not less than 50 mm on each side. The inside diameter of the circle in which the TTA appears shall be no smaller than 16 mm. The TTA figure shall be centered in the circle and no smaller than 10 mm in height. (f) Test Conditions _(1) Tilt table . (i) The tilt table has a rigid platform or platforms onto which a test vehicle can be rolled. BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEP28JN94.005 BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;C
