FR940214-0-00020 FR940214-0-00004 14. Section 1944.213(b)(2) Comment: While 3 respondents agreed with the proposed computation of the loan amounts, numerous others disagreed. Most felt that the Agency was attempting to increase the borrower's equity contribution. FmHA response: FmHA has removed the examples from this section and, instead, will provide instructions to its staff in how loans should be calculated in a new Exhibit A&hyph;12. The Exhibit provides administrative guidance only and is not being published with this document. A copy is available in any FmHA office. 15. Section 1944.213(c)(10) Comment: One respondent expressed an opinion that there should be an exception to this provision which allows the person who has owned land for a period of at least 3 years to recover costs associated with the increase in value and betterment of the site. Another respondent suggested the restriction be expanded to provide that there be no common interest for at least 3 years and that the option be with the owner of public record; an exception could be made for subsequent loans on adjacent property. FmHA response: FmHA does not agree with this suggestion. Regulations, except in the case of a broadly-based nonprofit organization, prohibit the use of loan funds to purchase land from the applicant or a member of the applicant organization. In the case of a nonprofit organization, the appraisal will determine the value which can be included in the loan. We think the suggestion concerning common interest has merit and have changed this section to add a 3-year provision. 16. Section 1944.213(c)(12) Comment: One respondent felt that this section is no longer needed in light of the provisions of ยง1944.211(a)(7) (i) and (ii) which would require the applicant to put up in cash the amount necessary for the initial 2 percent O&M. FmHA response: FmHA agrees with this comment and the section has been deleted. 17. Section 1944.213(d) Comment: A few respondents expressed their opinion that this provision would be burdensome and time-consuming. One respondent pointed out that the expense of a market study is always incurred prior to the applicant's filing a preapplication. Another respondent pointed out the language of this section does not allow for predevelopment loans from nonprofit organizations as was originally intended. FmHA response: Since most borrowers are familiar with the process and are aware of what must be done during the preapplication and application phase, obtaining written verification from FmHA should pose no undue delay. OIG strongly recommended that FmHA be aware of the applicant's intention to incur debts before they are actually incurred to preclude the appearance of giving blanket approval for all such expenses. We agree that the language does not allow for predevelopment loans from nonprofit organizations and the language has been amended to correct this omission. We have also exempted market studies from the prior written approval requirement since they must be completed prior to filing a preapplication. 18. Section 1944.213(e)(1) Comment: Several persons objected to this section because of the delay it would cause during the construction process. Some suggested that FmHA require post-approval instead of pre-approval to avoid such delays. FmHA response: The Agency feels that obtaining pre-approval from the District Office will not sufficiently hamper the construction process if the contractor and borrower react in a timely manner. The only two occurrences which will allow an increase in per unit cost is design changes by FmHA or State or local jurisdictions or changes in financing approved by FmHA. Neither of these events would be construed as an emergency.
