FR941227-2-00107 FR941227-2-00076 LANDSAT ADVISORY PROCESS SURVEY November 1994. Landsat Advisory Process Survey (1) How did you learn about the Landsat Advisory Process? The Internet. A government publication. A professional journal or other publication. A professional meeting. From a colleague. Other (please specify) XXXXXXXX (2) Which of the following user categories best describes your area of interest in the use of Landsat data products? (choose one only) National security. University research. Post-secondary education. Primary or secondary education. Consultant services. News media. State/local government. Federal civil agency. Private industry. Public interest (non-profit) organization. International (non-US) organization. Private citizen. Other (please specify) XXXXXXXX (3) In which of the following fields do you now use, plan to use, or would like to use Landsat data products? (please check all that apply) Agriculture. Cartography. Coastal studies. Cold regions research. Contruction. Engineering. Environmental monitoring. Forestry. Geology. Global change funded research. Hydrology. Land cover classification. Land use classification. Ocean studies. Transportation. Vegetation analysis. Wetlands. Wildlife studies. Other (please specify) XXXXXXXX (4) Which of the following best describes the most frequent spatial domain of your application of Landsat data? (choose one only) Local area, e.g. within state or province. US national (including Alaska and Hawaii). National, non-US. Regional, non-US. Global. (5) How long have you been using Landsat data? 0 to 3 years. 3 to 7 years. More than 7 years. Not a current user of Landsat data. (6) How important is Landsat or Landsat-type data to the accomplishment of your objectives? Essential. Very important. Moderately important. Marginal. (7) On what type(s) of media do you currently receive Landsat data? Hard copy image. Electronic file transfer. Magnetic tape. CD&hyph;ROM. Tape cartridge. Other (please specify) XXXXXXXX (8) On what type(s) of media would you prefer to receive Landsat data? Hard copy image. Electronic file transfer. Magnetic tape. CD&hyph;ROM. Tape cartrige. Other (please specify) XXXXXXXX (9) What other types of remotely-sensed data of the Earth do you use? (check all that apply) Ground-based measurement. Aerial photography. Non-photographic data from airborne platforms. Space photography. Non-photographic data from space-based platforms.
