FR940713-2-00113 FR940713-2-00064 C. Responses to the Motion to Consolidate Proceedings Responses to the joint motion to consolidate proceedings were filed by James Cannings, Eugene Curry, and Alicia Carolyn Evelyn. Mr. Cannings agreed with the consolidation of the 1992, 1993 and 1994 proceedings provided that the distribution methodology proposed by Bopp du Wopp, Inc. is considered as one possible method by the claimants. Mr. Cannings urged diligent and good faith efforts at settlement before 1995. Mr. Curry questioned whether the proposed consolidation of 1992, 1993 and 1994 would lead to another consolidation next year, then the year after that, ad infinitum. Mr. Curry would agree to future years being consolidated, i.e., 1994, 1995, and 1996, but wanted an immediate distribution of 1992 and 1993 moneys this August. Ms. Evelyn stated that she would object to the motion to consolidate so long as public performance royalty issues she has raised with BMI and ASCAP remain unresolved. She joined with Mr. Cannings in support of Bopp du Wopp, Inc.'s proposed distribution methodology. IV. Grant of Motion to Consolidate The Library of Congress and the Copyright Office agree with the arguments made by the joint commentators and hereby grant the motion to consolidate the 1992, 1993, and 1994 DART royalty distribution proceedings into one proceeding that will begin in 1995. As we discussed in our notice of March 1, 1994, the Audio Home Recording Act established certain statutory deadlines for the commencement of DART distribution proceedings which, as the agency delegated the responsibility, we were prepared to meet. However, as observed by the Administrative Conference of the United States, 1 C.F.R. 305.78&hyph;3, there are special circumstances when the meeting of a statutory deadline would not serve the public interest. Here, the majority of the claimants themselves have asked for a waiving of the statutory dates so that they might realize the economies that would accrue from a consolidation of proceedings, and so that they might continue settlement talks that could potentially avoid the cost of a CARP proceeding altogether. Under these circumstances, to initiate a CARP proceeding immediately will only serve to spend the claimants' royalties needlessly, and will likely result in the claimants receiving fewer royalties today than if they waited until 1995. 2 In addition, we see no financial harm in waiting until 1995. The claimants' royalties will remain invested in United States Treasury securities, and will continue to earn interest. 2 When confronted with the question of whether to nullify the Copyright Royalty Tribunal's cable rate adjustment because the Tribunal missed its statutory deadline by 28 days, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia stated that ``Statutes that, for guidance of a government official's discharge of duties, propose to secure order, system, and dispatch in proceedings, are usually construed as directory, whether or not worded in the imperative, especially when the alternative is harshness or absurdity.'' The Court also noted that ``agencies rigidly tied to a deadline *␣*␣* would become Penelopes, forever engaged in unraveling the webs they wove.'' National Cable Television Association v. Copyright Royalty Tribunal, 724 F. 2d 176, 189, fn. 23 (D.C. Cir. 1983). The objection of Mr. Curry to consolidation is based on a concern that consolidations will happen every year, and no moneys will ever be distributed. We do not see that occurring. Our goal, and, we believe that of the moving parties, is economy, not delay. The moving parties do not want to see their royalties remaining with the government and neither do we. The objection of Ms. Evelyn is tied to her other issues with ASCAP and BMI, and are not relevant to our consideration here. As stated earlier, in our Order, dated June 21, 1994, we granted the joint commentators' motion to stay all previously announced procedural dates intended to govern a 1992 and 1993 DART royalty distribution proceeding. 3 Consistent with our ruling today to consolidate the 1992, 1993, and 1994 proceedings, new procedural dates will be established in 1995, in accordance with our yearly statutory obligation under Chapter 10 of the Copyright Code to ascertain DART controversies and to initiate DART proceedings. 3 As discussed below, in part VI, we are making a full distribution of the Nonfeatured Musicians Subfund and the Nonfeatured Vocalists Subfund on July 28, 1994. See, discussion below, at VI. V. Inquiry Into Best Evidence The concerns expressed by the commentators about the potential for the costs of a DART proceeding to use up most or all of the DART royalties available for distribution are valid, and are very much shared by the Library and the Copyright Office. Two scenarios especially concern us. One, there is the possibility of holding extensive hearings for controversies where the amounts in dispute are ultimately determined to be quite small. Two, even if the amounts in controversy are sizable, there is the possibility of holding months-long hearings about the validity of the evidence offered by the parties, which again would ultimately use up the bulk of the royalties in the DART funds, and the time allotted for arbitration. This is especially likely because DART proceedings have never been held, and there is no precedent concerning what is the most relevant evidence. We note that at a similar stage in its regulatory history, the issue of the best evidence for distributing jukebox royalties was the subject of a full evidentiary hearing at the Copyright Royalty Tribunal, but, nevertheless, resulted in the Tribunal deciding that no distribution determination could be reached without further efforts at producing better evidence. 4 This is a situation we should like to avoid. 4 ``The Tribunal considers that the record of the current proceeding is insufficient as a basis on which we can make a distribution of the 1979 jukebox royalties. *␣*␣* The Tribunal, therefore, has elected not to make a distribution in this proceeding.'' 1979 Jukebox Royalty Distribution, 46 FR 58139, 58142 (Nov. 30, 1981). Consequently, the Library of Congress and the Copyright Office will hold a public meeting at 10 a.m., Tuesday, September 27, 1994 at the temporary CARP hearing room, Suite 921, 1825 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20009. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss what would be the best evidence for distribution of the Sound Recordings Fund and the Musical Works Fund.
