FR940407-2-00073 FR940407-2-00038 1. Availability of Application Forms In order to be considered for a grant under this program announcement, an application must be submitted on the forms supplied and in the manner prescribed by ANA. The application kits containing the necessary forms and instructions may be obtained from: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Administration for Native Americans, room 348F, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20201&hyph;0001, Attention: Rita LeBeau, Phone: (202) 690&hyph;5790. 2. Application Submission One signed original, and two copies of the grant application, including all attachments, must be hand delivered or postmarked by the closing date to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, 6th Floor East, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Washington, DC 20447. The application must be signed by an individual authorized (1) to act for the applicant, and (2) to assume the applicant's obligations under the terms and conditions of the grant award, including statutory and regulatory requirements. 3. Application Consideration The Commissioner of the Administration for Native Americans determines the final action to be taken on each grant application received under this program announcement. The following points should be taken into consideration by all applicants: •Incomplete applications and applications that do not conform to this announcement will not be accepted for review. Applicants will be notified in writing of any such determination by ANA. •Complete applications that conform to all the requirements of this program announcement are subjected to a competitive review and evaluation process (discussed in section I below). An independent review panel consisting of reviewers familiar with American Indian Tribes, tribal communities and organizations, and environmental issues evaluates each application against the published criteria in this announcement. The review will result in a numerical score attributed to each application. The results of this review assist the Commissioner in making final funding decisions. •The Commissioner's funding decision also takes into account the analysis of the application, and recommendations and comments of ANA staff, State and Federal agencies having contract and grant performance related information, and other interested parties. •The Commissioner makes grant awards consistent with the purpose of the Act, all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements, this program announcement, and the availability of funds. •After the Commissioner has made decisions on all applications, unsuccessful applicants are notified in writing within approximately 120 days of the closing date. The notification will be accompanied by a critique including recommendations for improving the application. Successful applicants are notified through an official Financial Assistance Award (FAA) document. The Administration for Native Americans staff cannot respond to requests for information regarding funding decisions prior to the official notification to the applicants. The FAA will state the amount of Federal funds awarded, the purpose of the grant, the terms and conditions of the grant award, the effective date of the award, the project period, the budget period, and the amount of the non-Federal matching share requirement. I. Review Process and Criteria 1. Initial Application Review Timely applications submitted under this program announcement will undergo a pre-review to determine that: •The applicant is eligible in accordance with the Eligible Applicants Section of this announcement; and •The application narrative, forms and materials submitted are adequate to allow the review panel to undertake an in depth evaluation. (All required materials and forms are listed in the Grant Application Checklist in the Application Kit.) 2. Determination of Ineligibility Applicants who are initially rejected from competitive evaluation because of ineligibility, may appeal an ANA decision of applicant ineligibility. Likewise, applicants may also appeal an ANA decision that an applicant's proposed activities are ineligible for funding consideration. Section 810(b) [42 U.S.C. 2991h] of the Native American Programs Act Amendments provides for an appeals process when ANA determines that an organization or activities are ineligible for assistance. Section 810(b) [42 U.S.C. 2991h] provides that if an application is rejected on the grounds that the applicant is ineligible or that activities proposed by the applicant are ineligible for funding, the applicant may appeal to the Secretary, not later than 30 days after the date of receipt of notification of such rejection, for a review of the grounds for such rejection. On appeal, if the Secretary finds that an applicant is eligible or that its proposed activities are eligible, such eligibility shall not be effective until the next cycle of grant proposals are considered by the Administration. 3. Competitive Review of Accepted Applications Applications which pass the pre-review will be evaluated and rated by an independent review panel on the basis of the five evaluation criteria listed below. These criteria are used to evaluate the quality of a proposed project, and to determine the likelihood of its success.
