FR940607-2-00093 FR940607-2-00063 b. The rate for each month shall be determined by the total number of designated securities and OTC Equity Securities at the start of business on the first day of that month. The NASD requests the Commission to find good cause, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 3 for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after publication in the Federal Register . The NASD and Nasdaq believe that accelerated approval is appropriate because: (1) The instant fee increase to $9.75/terminal/month is below the $10 maximum originally approved by the Commission in 1982 for subscribers to access the Last Sale information on more than 1,000 reportable securities; 4 (2) the increase of $.75/terminal/month will entitle vendors' subscribers to access real-time last sale data on substantially more securities, approximately 20,000 issues classified as OTC Equity Securities (hereinafter referred to as ``OTC equities''); 5 (3) the amount of the increase is reasonable in light of (i) the number of additional reportable issues, (ii) their relative share volume in comparison to the volume being reported in Nasdaq-listed securities, and (iii) the amount of additional data that must be collected, processed, and distributed to support the expanded Last Sale Service; (4) the expanded data has been available to vendors' subscribers since April 4, 1994 at no additional charge; and (5) the next bi-monthly billing cycle for Last Sale Service begins on June 1, 1994 and the increased fee will be applied prospectively. 3 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). 4 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 19108 (October 6, 1982). The Commission notes that the approval order permitted a maximum charge of $10.00 per month per subscriber terminal for the receipt of lover 1,000 Nasdaq ``National Market System'' (currently called ``Nasdaq/National Market'') securities. Currently, of the total number of securities for which last sale reports are available to subscribers, 3,599 are Nasdaq/National Market securities. Conversation between Michael Kulczak, NASD, with Elizabeth Prout, Commission, on May 31, 1994. 5 OTC equities comprise the universe of equity securities that are (i) not listed on Nasdaq and (ii) not qualified as ``reported securities'' for purposes of the National Market System plans governing the collection and dissemination of transaction data. Pursuant to Part XII of Schedule D to the NASD By-Laws, NASD members are required to report their transactions in OTC equities within 90 seconds of execution for regulatory purposes as well as for dissemination through vendor channels. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has proposed summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose This rule change is designed to effect an increase of $.75/terminal/month for receipt of an expanded Last Sale Service that now includes real-time transaction reports in OTC equities. Last Sale Service is provided to the subscribers of authorized vendors who redistribute last sale information pursuant to an agreement with Nasdaq. The actual distribution of last sale information that includes trade reports on OTC equities commenced on April 4, 1994. Access to this expanded stream of last sale information is now provided to all subscribers who had been receiving last sale information on Nasdaq-listed securities. The proposed fee increase will apply prospectively to all such subscribers, starting June 1, 1994. 6 In sum, a bundled last sale service_covering all Nasdaq-listed securities and all domestic OTC equities_will be provided to vendors' subscribers for a single monthly charge of $9.75/terminal. 6 Last Sale subscribers are billed bi-monthly in advance; the next billing cycle begins on June 1, 1994. The instant filing also includes technical changes in the language of the present fee schedule to indicate (i) changes in the numbering of other parts of Schedule D and (ii) expansion of the Last Sale Service offering to include reportable OTC equities. These changes are necessary to update the service description contained in the published fee schedule. 2. Statutory Basis The NASD and Nasdaq believe that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of Section 15A(b)(5) of the Act. 7 Section 15A(b)(5) specifies that the rules of a national securities association shall provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees, and other charges among members, issuers and other persons using any facility or system that the Association operates or controls. The proposed increase of $.75/terminal/month represents an 8.3% increase over the prevailing rate. This increase is designed to offset the developmental and operating costs associated with extending real-time trade reporting to a large universe of OTC equities, numbering more than 20,000 securities. This universe includes approximately 4,200 OTC equities that are quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board Service (``OTCBB''). In terms of reported share volume for the month ending January 31, 1994, share volume attributable to OTC equities quoted in the OTCBB equaled 8.4% of share volume in Nasdaq-listed securities; the comparable figure for OTC equities not quoted in the OTCBB was approximately 11% of Nasdaq share volume. Accordingly, the NASD and Nasdaq believe that the proposed 8.4% increase in the last sale charge is reasonable in relation to the expanded base of reportable securities and the relative share volume in those issues for which last sale data will be collected, processed and disseminated. Lastly, the amended fee remains below the $10/terminal/month maximum that the Commission previously approved when real-time trade reporting commenced for Nasdaq-listed securities. 715 U.S.C. 78o&hyph;3(b)(5) (1988). B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on the Burden on Competition The NASD and Nasdaq believe that this proposal will not create any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Solicitation of Comments
