FR941004-1-00003 FR941004-1-00001 Reasons for the Proposed Changes The needs for these proposed amendments to the fracture toughness regulations have been identified from three sources: 1. The 1989 Nuclear Utility Backfitting and Reform Group (NUBARG) appeal concerning use of nuclear heat to warm the RPV for system leakage and hydrostatic pressure tests; 2. The 1990 review of the RPV integrity of the Yankee Nuclear Power Station; and 3. A comprehensive review of the regulations by NRC staff, resulting in the identification of the need for clarifications, corrections, and improved guidance in certain areas. The recognition in 1986 by NRC staff that certain boiling water reactor (BWR) units were using nuclear heat to warm the system prior to performing leakage and pressure tests led to an NRC staff initiative to amend Appendix G to 10 CFR Part 50. During the NRC staff review to determine if this use of nuclear heating was permissible under either the ASME Code or the NRC regulations, the Nuclear Utility Backfitting and Reform Group (NUBARG) filed a backfitting claim, and later an appeal of the determination that a backfit was not involved. Stemming from this claim and appeal process, the Committee to Review Generic Requirements recommended to the Executive Director for Operations that the affected portions of Appendix G be revised to clearly indicate that all required leakage and pressure tests of the reactor pressure vessel must be performed when the core is not critical. In 1990, the NRC began a review of the integrity of the Yankee Nuclear Power Station (YNPS) RPV. That review, along with stated plans by the licensee to consider thermal annealing of the RPV, highlighted the need for the NRC to amend its regulations and guidance pertaining to RPV integrity. The NRC staff proposed a plan to revise and clarify the pertinent regulations in SECY&hyph;91&hyph;333 (October 22, 1991) and SECY&hyph;92&hyph;283 (August 14, 1992), including schedules and general descriptions of the changes contemplated. The proposed changes included clarifications and corrections planned prior to the YNPS review. However, the YNPS review identified the need to clarify the requirements in Sections IV and V of Appendix G to 10 CFR Part 50, and the need to provide more complete requirements and guidance for thermal annealing. The PTS rule, 10 CFR 50.61, was amended on May 15, 1991 (56 FR 22300) to make the method for evaluating irradiation embrittlement consistent with the recommended procedures of Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2, ``Radiation Embrittlement of Reactor Vessel Materials.'' Subsequent inquiries to the Commission concerning the appropriate margin terms and use of surveillance data indicated that the PTS rule required clarification. A recent review of the rule by NRC staff concluded that the PTS rule should also be modified to bring the procedures for evaluating RTPTS into complete agreement with the recommended procedures in Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2. Overview of the Proposed Changes PTS Rule (10 CFR 50.61) The pressurized thermal shock rule, 10 CFR 50.61, was initially published in final form on July 23, 1985 (50 FR 29937) and amended on May 15, 1991 (56 FR 22300). This rule provides a screening criterion for irradiation embrittlement of RPV beltline materials, above which the plant cannot continue to be operated without justification. Historically, a value of reference temperature has been determined for each vessel beltline material for comparison to the PTS screening criteria. These values of reference temperature are termed RT PTS values. However, the method for evaluating RT PTS values has not been consistent with the embrittlement estimates used for other purposes, such as pressure-temperature limit calculations. The May 15, 1991, amendment was a step towards unifying the embrittlement estimate methodology. The amendment included the procedures given in Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2, for the evaluation of irradiation embrittlement of the RPV beltline materials. The 1991 amendment left two differences between the rule and Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2. These two differences are: 1. Values of unirradiated RT NDT are specified for general classes of material in the PTS rule, while greater flexibility in determining unirradiated values is permitted in Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2; and 2. The margin terms used in the PTS rule are based on assumptions which are not consistent with the method used in Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2 for calculating the margin term. This proposed amendment is intended to make the evaluation of RT PTS consistent with the recommended methods of Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2, which are used to evaluate RT NDT . In this case, the RT PTS value for each vessel beltline material is simply the RT NDT value estimated for the projected end of license fluence. This proposed amendment to the PTS rule would make three changes: 1. The Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2, method for determining RT NDT , of which RT PTS is a unique value determined for the end of license fluence, would be incorporated in total, including treatment of the unirradiated RT NDT value, the margin term, and the explicit definition of ``credible'' surveillance data. 2. The section would be restructured to improve clarity, with the requirements section giving only the requirements for the RT PTS value. The method for calculating RT PTS would be moved to a new paragraph of the rule.
