FR941116-0-00080 FR941116-0-00012 In consideration of the foregoing, the Commission adds Part 348, Chapter I, Title 18, Code of Federal Regulations, to read as follows: PART 348_OIL PIPELINE APPLICATIONS FOR MARKET POWER DETERMINATIONS Sec. 348.1␣Content of application for a market power determination. 348.2␣Procedures. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7101&hyph;7352; 49 U.S.C. 60502; 49 App. U.S.C. 1&hyph;85. §348.1 Content of application for a market power determination. (a) If, under §342.4(b) of this chapter, a carrier seeks to establish that it lacks significant market power in the market in which it proposes to charge market-based rates, it must file and provide an application for such a determination. An application must include a statement of position and the information required by paragraph (c) of this section. (b) The carrier's statement of position required by paragraph (a) of this section must include an executive summary of its statement of position and a statement of material facts in addition to its complete statement of position. The statement of material facts must include citation to the supporting statements, exhibits, affidavits, and prepared testimony. (c) The carrier must include with its application the following information: (1) Statement A_geographic market . This statement must describe the geographic markets in which the carrier seeks to establish that it lacks significant market power. The carrier must include the origin market and the destination market related to the service for which it proposes to charge market-based rates. The statement must explain why the carrier's method for selecting the geographic markets is appropriate. (2) Statement B_product market . This statement must identify the product market or markets for which the carrier seeks to establish that it lacks significant market power. The statement must explain why the particular product definition is appropriate. (3) Statement C_the carrier's facilities and services . This statement must describe the carrier's own facilities and services in the relevant markets identified in statements A and B in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section. The statement must include all pertinent data about the pipeline's facilities and services. (4) Statement D_competitive alternatives . This statement must describe available transportation alternatives in competition with the carrier in the relevant markets and other competition constraining the carrier's rates in those markets. To the extent available, the statement must include all pertinent data about transportation alternatives and other constraining competition.
