FR940406-2-00021 FR940406-2-00007 We deducted German and Japanese packing costs and added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. We included in FMV the amount of the consumption tax collected in the Japanese home market. We also calculated the amount of the tax that was due solely to the inclusion of expenses in the original tax base that are later deducted from home market price to calculate FMV (i.e., three percent of the sum of any adjustments, expenses, charges, and offsets that were deducted from the home market price). We deducted this amount after all other additions and deductions were made. By making this additional tax adjustment, we avoid a distortion that would cause the creation of a dumping margin even when pre-tax dumping is zero. In addition, we calculated a re-adjustment of the amount of tax to take into account the amount of packing expenses added to FMV (i.e., three percent of the packing expenses). Currency Conversion We made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information used in making our final determination. Critical Circumstances On March 2, 1994, petitioner alleged that ``critical circumstances'' exist with respect to imports of color negative photographic paper and chemical components thereof from the Netherlands. We will preliminary determine that critical circumstances exist in accordance with section 733(e)(1) of the Act if we determine that there is a reasonable basis to believe or suspect that: (A)(i) There is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of the investigation, or (ii) The person by whom, or for whose account, the merchandise was imported knew or should have known that the exporter was selling the merchandise which is the subject of the investigation at less than its fair value, and (B) There have been massive imports of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of the investigation over a relatively short period. Regarding requisite (A)(i) above, we normally consider whether there has been an antidumping order in the United States or elsewhere on the subject merchandise in determining whether there is a history of dumping. Regarding requisite (A)(ii) above, we normally consider margins of 25 percent or more for purchase price comparisons and 15 percent or more for exporter's sales price comparisons as sufficient to impute knowledge of dumping. Because the preliminary estimated dumping margin for all exporters of color negative photographic paper and chemical components thereof from the Netherlands is in excess of 15 percent, we can impute knowledge of dumping under section 733(e)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act. Under 19 CFR 353.16(f), we normally consider the following factors in determining whether imports have been massive over a short period of time: (1) The volume and value of the imports; (2) Seasonal trends (if applicable); and (3) The share of domestic consumption accounted for by imports. To determine whether or not there have been massive imports of CNPP, we compared export volumes for the six months subsequent to the filing of the petition to the six months prior to the filing of the petition. We found that exports of the subject merchandise from the Netherlands during the period subsequent to receipt of the petition had increased by an amount sufficient to categorize the imports as massive. Accordingly, we preliminarily determine that critical circumstances do exist. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, and with 19 CFR 353.16(c), we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of CNPP from the Netherlands, as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date which is 90 days prior to the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated preliminary dumping margin, as shown below. The suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice.
