FR940104-0-00099 FR940104-0-00017 (a) The borrower may have performed analysis and prepared comparable documentation for other purposes, such as for a state regulatory commission. This information may be acceptable to REA as an IRP or a DSM plan if the borrower demonstrates that the alternative information meets the goals and objectives of this subpart. (b) The borrower shall advise REA of all material information provided to other lenders or other governmental authorities relating to their DSM plans. This information shall be provided to REA as requested. §1710.361 Type and term of loans. (a) The final maturity of loans for purposes under this subpart shall be determined by REA based on the expected life of needed capital improvements, expected cost recovery periods, the expected life of program benefits, the certainty of these benefits, and matching costs and benefits. (b) REA will normally consider final maturities for DSM loans of up to 5 years. Longer loan terms, not to exceed 10 years, for loans for these purposes will be considered if the borrower can satisfactorily demonstrate to the Administrator an acceptable basis for doing so and can demonstrate that the loan will be feasible and secure pursuant to §§1710.112 and 1710.113, respectively, for the longer period. As used in this paragraph, renewable energy resource equipment and facilities are not considered a DSM purpose. Maturities for such loans will be limited to the expected useful life of the equipment and facilities. §1710.362 Loan approval. The amount and scope of loans approved by REA under this subpart are subject to the discretion of REA. Applications will be evaluated on the merits of the proposals as outlined in the plans specified in this subpart. REA approval of a loan for purposes under this subpart and/or REA approval of IRPs and DSM plans does not relieve a borrower of its responsibilities under this subpart or constitute a representation or warranty by REA to the borrower or any person that its IRP or DSM plan will work as described therein. §1710.363 Advance and documentation of use of loan funds. (a) Loan funds for on-grid renewable energy systems will be advanced using the same procedure as loans for other electric system facilities. (b) Loan funds for DSM activities. (1) Funds for these purposes shall be advanced and used only for the specific projects and purposes detailed in the loan application and supporting documents. Generally funds shall be drawn down on a reimbursement basis. The borrower shall certify completion of work according to the DSM plan. (2) The borrower shall maintain accounting and plant records sufficient to document the cost and location of DSM activities and to support loan fund advances and disbursements. (3) All cost associated with DSM projects related to construction, operations or maintenance, shall be accumulated using the borrower's work order procedure. An individual work order or work orders shall be used to record and control the costs of each DSM project. Daily time and material reports referenced to the DSM activity shall be kept to record labor and materials used as the activity(ies) is completed. (4) All other disbursements for DSM activities must be properly supported by invoices, contracts, or other forms of evidence required by REA regulations. All such supporting material shall be available at the borrower's premises for review by the REA Field Accountant, borrower's certified public accountant and other authorized parties as applicable. Costs of DSM activities related to operations and maintenance should be charged to expense in the month incurred. Departures from this prescribed accounting must be approved by REA subject to the provisions of 7 CFR 1767.13. (c) Requirements on advance of funds for all insured electric loans are in 7 CFR part 1721, subpart B. §1710.364 Loan limits. Cumulative loans DSM activities at the time of loan approval for, including energy conservation programs and off-grid renewable energy systems, shall not exceed the lesser of: (a) Twenty percent of the borrower's equity at the time of the loan or any time during amortization of the loan; or (b) An amount approved for such purposes in a final non-appealable order by the applicable regulatory body for inclusion in the borrower's rate base. Dated: December 29, 1993. Michael V. Dunn, Acting Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 93&hyph;32110 Filed 12&hyph;30&hyph;93; 3:19 pm] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;M
