FR940819-2-00026 FR940819-2-00011 Comment 16: Petitioners contend that the Department found at verification that Minasligas had not accurately accounted for loss allowances for quartz and charcoal used in 1991 silicon metal production. Petitioners contend that the Department should make an upward adjustment to Minasligas's reported 1991 quartz and charcoal costs to account for this expense. Petitioners suggest that the Department use the loss allowances provided by Minasligas for 1992 silicon metal production to make this adjustment. Minasligas contends that the question of whether quartz and charcoal losses were understated prior to 1992 is irrelevant because Minasligas had no U.S. sales during that time. Minasligas notes that it did provide an acceptable calculation for charcoal and quartz losses for 1992. Department's Position: We agree with the petitioners that, prior to 1992, the measured consumption of charcoal and quartz into the furnace was not consistently and scientifically adjusted to reflect losses sustained between the time the material was delivered into the factory stockyard and introduced into a furnace. Beginning in 1992, Minasligas established a loss allowance and consistently applied it to both quartz and charcoal. For 1991 quartz and charcoal, Minasligas estimated loss allowances and recorded them on an occasional basis. We have recalculated loss allowances for 1991 based upon BIA. As BIA, we have used the loss allowance established by the company in 1992 and applied this percentage to both quartz and charcoal consumption for all months in 1991. We disagree with Minasligas's assertion that the 1991 costs are irrelevant, since they are used to determine whether home market sales were sold at or above their COP. Comment 17: Petitioners contend that the Department should allocate Minasligas's consumption of iron rods and tubes over all months of the period of review, instead of accepting Minasligas's approach. (Minasligas recognized the entire expense associated with these charges in the month in which they were requisitioned out of inventory.) Petitioners suggest that for those months for which Minasligas did not report iron rods and tube costs, the Department should use the per-unit output costs for rods and tubes from the most recent month with an adjustment for inflation. Minasligas contends that allocating the consumption of rods and tubes over the period of review would only marginally change the cost of materials for the month that Minasligas had a U.S. sale. Minasligas contends that more rods were requisitioned during that month than were consumed. Department's Position: We agree with petitioners that it is more accurate to allocate the number of rods and tubes removed from inventory to production tons over the period in which they were consumed, rather than just the month of requisition. Accordingly, we have reallocated the total rods and tubes consumed during the period of review equally to tons produced during this same time period. Each month's allocated consumption quantity was then valued at the reported replacement cost for that same month. We also agree with Minasligas that this adjustment does not have a serious impact on the reported cost information. Comment 18: Petitioners assert that verification revealed that Minasligas's supplier measures electricity from the fifth of one month to the fifth of the following month. Petitioners further argue that Minasligas used the invoice received from its supplier on approximately the tenth of the month to represent the electricity costs for that month. Petitioners contend that such a methodology understates the replacement costs for electricity since it primarily reflects the costs incurred during the previous month. Petitioners contend that for each month of the review period the Department should use the electricity costs reported by Minasligas for the following month.
