FR941007-0-00099 FR941007-0-00024 (A) Priority actions to ensure the safety of personnel and the ship, assess the damage to the ship, and take appropriate further action; (B) Information for making damage stability and longitudinal strength assessments, or contacting classification societies to acquire such information. Nothing in this section shall be construed as creating a requirement for damage stability plans or calculations beyond those required by law or regulation; and (C) Lightening procedures to be followed in cases of extensive structural damage. The plan must contain information on procedures to be followed for ship-to-ship transfer of cargo. Reference may be made in the plan to existing company guides. A copy of such company procedures for ship-to-ship transfer operations must be kept in the plan. The plan must address the coordination of this activity with the coastal or port state, as appropriate. (5) National and Local Coordination. This section of the plan must contain information to assist the master in initiating action by the coastal State, local government, or other involved parties. This information must include guidance to assist the master with organizing a response to the incident should a response not be organized by the shore authorities. Detailed information for specific areas may be included as appendices to the plan. (6) Appendices. Appendices must include the following information: (i) Twenty-four hour contact information and alternates to the designated contacts. These details must be routinely updated to account for personnel changes and changes in telephone, telex, and telefacsimile numbers. Clear guidance must also be provided regarding the preferred means of communication. (ii) The following lists, each identified as a separate appendix: (A) A list of agencies or officials of coastal state administrations responsible for receiving and processing incident reports; (B) A list of agencies or officials in regularly visited ports. When this is not feasible, the master must obtain details concerning local reporting procedures upon arrival in port; and (C) A list of all parties with a financial interest in the ship such as ship and cargo owners, insurers, and salvage interests. (D) A list which specifies who will be responsible for informing the parties listed and the priority in which they must be notified. (iii) A record of annual reviews and changes. (7) Non-mandatory provisions. If this section is included by the shipowner, it should include the following types of information or any other information that may be appropriate: (i) Diagrams; (ii) Response equipment or oil spill removal organizations; (iii) Public affairs practices; (iv) Recordkeeping; (v) Plan exercising; and (vi) Individuals qualified to respond. (8) Index of sections. The plan must be organized as depicted in Table 151.26(b)(8).
