FR941012-0-00171 FR941012-0-00011 (ii) The exhaust pipes on each machine shall be mounted or guarded to protect each employee from accidental contact. (iii) The exhaust pipes shall be equipped with spark arresters. Engines equipped with turbochargers do not require spark arresters. (iv) Each machine muffler provided by the manufacturer, or their equivalent, shall be in place at all times the machine is in operation. (7) Brakes. (i) Brakes shall be sufficient to hold each machine and its rated load capacity on the slopes over which it is being operated. (ii) Each machine shall be equipped with a secondary braking system, such as an emergency brake or a parking brake, which shall be effective in stopping the machine and maintaining parking performance, regardless of the direction of travel or whether the engine is running. (8) Guarding. (i) Each machine shall be equipped with guarding to protect employees from exposed moving elements, such as but not limited to, shafts, pulleys, belts on conveyors, and gears, in accordance with the requirements of subpart O of part 1910. (ii) Each machine used for debarking, limbing and chipping shall be equipped with guarding to protect employees from flying wood chunks, logs, chips, bark, limbs and other material in accordance with the requirements of subpart O of part 1910. (iii) The guarding on each machine shall be in place at all times the machine is in operation. (g) Vehicles. (1) The employer shall assure that each vehicle used to transport any employee off public roads or to perform any logging operation, including any vehicle provided by an employee, is maintained in serviceable condition. (2) The employer shall assure each vehicle used to transport any employee off public roads or to perform any logging operation, including any vehicle provided by an employee, is inspected before initial use during each workshift. Defects or damage shall be repaired or the unserviceable vehicle shall be replaced before work is commenced. (3) The employer shall assure that operating and maintenance instructions are available in each vehicle. Each vehicle operator and maintenance employee shall comply with the operating and maintenance instructions. (4) The employer shall assure that each vehicle operator has a valid operator's license for the class of vehicle being operated. (5) Mounting steps and handholds shall be provided for each vehicle wherever it is necessary to prevent an employee from being injured when entering or leaving the vehicle. (6) The seats of each vehicle shall be securely fastened. (7) The requirements of paragraphs (f)(2)(iii), (f)(2)(v), (f)(2)(vii), (f)(2)(x), (f)(2)(xiii), and (f)(7) of this section shall also apply to each vehicle used to transport any employee off public roads or to perform any logging operation, including any vehicle provided by an employee. (h) Tree harvesting. (1) General requirements. (i) Trees shall not be felled in a manner that may create a hazard for an employee, such as but not limited to, striking a rope, cable, power line, or machine. (ii) The immediate supervisor shall be consulted when unfamiliar or unusually hazardous conditions necessitate the supervisor's approval before cutting is commenced. (iii) While manual felling is in progress, no yarding machine shall be operated within two tree lengths of trees being manually felled. (iv) No employee shall approach a feller closer than two tree lengths of trees being felled until the feller has acknowledged that it is safe to do so, unless the employer demonstrates that a team of employees is necessary to manually fell a particular tree. (v) No employee shall approach a mechanical felling operation closer than two tree lengths of the trees being felled until the machine operator has acknowledged that it is safe to do so. (vi) Each danger tree shall be felled, removed or avoided. Each danger tree, including lodged trees and snags, shall be felled or removed using mechanical or other techniques that minimize employee exposure before work is commenced in the area of the danger tree. If the danger tree is not felled or removed, it shall be marked and no work shall be conducted within two tree lengths of the danger tree unless the employer demonstrates that a shorter distance will not create a hazard for an employee.
