FR940106-1-00037 FR940106-1-00008 All future sales and allocation facilities and sales or allocation facilities in existence on the effective date of this Order, unless covered by a valid variance, shall meet the minimum standards prescribed in this Order; provided, however, that all gas produced from or allocated to Federal and Indian (except Osage) oil and gas leases wherein the gas is measured through sales or allocation meters handling 100 thousand cubic feet (Mcf) per day or less on a monthly basis are exempt from the standards in section III. C.1., C.2., D.10.a., D.10.b., and D.11.c. of this Order. The authorized officer may, where appropriate and necessary for proper measurement, work with the operators in designating consolidated gas sales and/or allocation meter stations. Meter installations constructed in accordance with the AGA Committee Report No. 3 standards in effect at that time shall not automatically be required to retrofit if the standards are revised. The Bureau will review any revised standards and, when necessary, will amend the Order through the rulemaking process. The intent of these minimum standards is to ensure that when equipment malfunctions occur that could result in inaccurate measurement, proper corrective actions are taken, the authorized officer is notified, and a report is submitted. Failure to comply with these minimum standards will be considered noncompliance and an incident of noncompliance (INC) will be issued. Operators who discover noncompliance with these minimum standards and take immediate corrective action will not be issued an INC. If the authorized officer or his representative is present when an operator discovers a malfunction or uses incorrect procedures as specified in this Order, an INC will be issued unless immediate corrective action is taken. Failure of equipment will not be considered a violation. However, the incidents of noncompliance which may result from equipment failure are considered violations. A partial list of such incidents follows: Failure to install equipment properly. Failure to repair or correct equipment malfunction properly or in a timely manner. Failure to submit report of alternate method of sales. Failure to submit required reports in a timely manner. Failure to adhere to the minimum standard procedures specified in this Order. The use of improper equipment, when discovered, will be considered a violation and a formal INC will be issued. The use of improper procedures will be considered a violation and when witnessed by the authorized officer or his representative, immediate corrective action will be required. In the event that proper procedures are then used as required by this Order, and prior to completing the operation, calibration, or proving, the violation will be considered as properly corrected. In this case, although the violation will be documented in the agency files, no INC will be issued. The failure to take timely corrective action as required to meet any standard in this article will be considered either a major or minor violation in accordance with the classification set out below for each standard, unless an applicable variance has been granted or the standards have been otherwise modified in accordance with Article IV. A major violation, as defined in this Order, will generally require an immediate shut-in of the metering device. However, where the non-recoupable loss is not significant or where damage to the resource is likely to occur if a shut-in is required, an abatement period of 24 hours may be granted by the authorized officer or his representative. Where abatement is required ``prior to sales or removal,'' action is required to be taken so that no gas can be removed beyond the measurement point until properly measured. C. Primary Element_Orifice Meters The following are minimum standards for the measurement of natural gas using orifice meters. 1. For meters measuring more than 100 Mcf per day on a monthly basis, the orifice to pipe diameter ratio (d/D), or the beta ratio, with meters using ``flange taps,'' shall be between 0.15 and 0.70. Violation: Major.
