FR940216-0-00270 FR940216-0-00010 (ii) Trace back to the batch or batches in which the non-finished-gasoline petroleum product was produced or imported. Obtain the refiner's or importer's internal laboratory analysis for each batch and compare such analysis for consistency with the product-type assigned by the refiner or importer (e.g., alkylate, isobutane, etc.), and agree that this product type is excluded from the applicable blendstock list at ยง80.102(a). (i) In the case of a refiner or importer required to account for blendstocks produced or imported under ยง80.102(e)(2): (1) Obtain listings for those tenders of non-finished-gasoline tenders classified by the refiner or importer as: (i) Blendstock which is included in the compliance calculations for the refinery or importer; and (ii) All other non-finished-gasoline petroleum products; (2) Test the mathematical accuracy of the calculations contained in the listings under paragraph (i)(1) of this section; (3) Agree the listings of tenders' volumes to the gasoline inventory reconciliation in paragraph (b) of this section; (4) Select a representative sample from the listing of blendstock tenders which are included in the compliance calculations for the refinery or importer, and for such sample: (i) Agree the volumes to records supporting the transfer of the tender to another person; (ii) Review the product transfer documents for the statement indicating the blendstock has been accounted-for, and may not be included in another party's compliance calculations; and (iii) Trace back to the batch or batches in which the blendstock was produced or imported. Obtain the refiner's or importer's internal laboratory analyses for each batch and compare such analyses for consistency with the analyses results reported to EPA; and (5) Select a representative sample from the listing of tenders of non-finished-gasoline petroleum products that are excluded from the refiner's or importer's compliance calculations, and for such sample confirm that documents demonstrate the petroleum products were used for a purpose other than the production of gasoline within the United States. ยง80.129 Agreed upon procedures for downstream oxygenate blenders. The following are the procedures to be carried out at each oxygenate blending facility that is subject to the requirements of this subpart F: (a) Read the blenders reports filed with the EPA for the previous year as required by ยง80.75. (b) Obtain a material balance analysis summarizing receipts of RBOB and oxygenate to the blender, and the deliveries of reformulated gasoline from the blender. (1) Test the mathematical accuracy of the calculations contained in the analysis. (2) Agree the beginning and ending inventory to the blender's perpetual inventory records. (3) Agree the analysis, where applicable, to the EPA reports. (c) Obtain a listing of all RBOB receipts for the previous year. (1) Test the mathematical accuracy of the volumetric calculations contained in the listing. (2) Agree the volumetric calculations of RBOB receipts to the calculations contained in the material balance analysis.
