FR940214-2-00095 FR940214-2-00057 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20061; File No. 812&hyph;8684] First Transamerica Life Insurance Company, et al.; Application for Exemption February 7, 1994 Agency: Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission''). Action: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``1940 Act''). Applicants: First Transamerica Life Insurance Company (``First Transamerica'' or the ``Company''), Separate Account VA&hyph;5 of First Transamerica Life Insurance Company (the ``Separate Account''), and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (``Schwab'') (collectively referred to herein as ``Applicants''). Relevant 1940 Act Section: Order requested under section 6(c) of the 1940 Act for exemptions from sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) thereof. Summary of Application: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction from the assets of the Separate Account of a mortality and expense risk charge imposed under certain individual and group flexible purchase payment deferred variable annuity contracts (the ``Contracts''). Filing Date: The application was filed on November 17, 1993 and amended on January 31, 1994. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m., on March 4, 1994, and should be accompanied by a proof of service on the Applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of the date of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the Commission. Addresses: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o James W. Dederer, Esq., First Transamerica Life Insurance Company, 575 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10017. For Further Information Contact: Joyce M. Pickholz, Senior Attorney, or Wendell M. Faria, Deputy Chief, at (202) 272&hyph;2060, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. Supplementary Information: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. First Transamerica is a stock life insurance company incorporated under te laws of New York in 1986. 2. The Separate Account was established by First Transamerica on November 10, 1993. Schwab will serve as the distributor and principal underwriter of the Contracts. 3. The Contract is a flexible purchase payment deferred variable annuity which can be purchased on a non-tax qualified basis or used as a funding vehicle in connection with certain retirement plans which qualify for favorable income tax treatment. Purchase payments under the Contracts will be allocated to one or more sub-accounts of the Separate Account. The initial purchase payment under a Contract must be at least $5,000. Additional purchase payments of at least $1,000 each may be made at any time before the annuity date. 4. Each Contract contains death benefit provisons that provide a benefit equal to the greatest of (a) the sum of all purchase payments, less the sum of all withdrawals and any applicable premium or similar taxes, or (b) the account value, as of the end of the valuation period during which the later of (1) due proof of death is received and (2) the receipt of a written notice of the method of settlement elected by the beneficiary. 5. A Transfer fee of $10 will be deducted under the Contract for each transfer in excess of 10 per Contract year. First Transamerica will also deduct an annual Contract charge of $25 for each Contract at the end of each Contract Year for administrative services. While First Transamerica does not currently impose an Administrative Expense Charge, it reserves the right to deduct such a charge on a daily basis in the future from the assets of the Separate Account. However, the Administrative Expense Charge is guaranteed not to exceed an effective annual rate of 0.15% of the average net assets held in each sub-account. First Transamerica does not anticipate any profit from these charges. First Transamerica will deduct the administrative charges in reliance upon and in compliance with Rule 26a&hyph;1 under the 1940 Act. 6. First Transamerica will deduct any premium taxes related to a particular Contract from purchase payments, upon surrender, or upon annuitization, in reliance on Rule 26a&hyph;2 under the 1940 Act. No charges are currently made for federal, state, or local taxes other than premium taxes. However, First Transamerica may deduct such taxes in the future. 7. There are no charges or deductions for sales load from purchase payments, Separate Account assets, or upon withdrawal of surrender of a Contract. First Transamerica will incur expenses relating to the sale of the Contracts which will be paid from its general assets.
