FR940304-1-00074 FR940304-1-00014 2. Significance of Savings. Under section 325(l)(3)(B) of the Act, the Department is prohibited from adopting a standard for a product if that standard would not result in ``significant'' energy savings. While the term ``significant'' has never been defined in the Act, the U.S. Court of Appeals, in Natural Resources Defense Council v. Herrington , 768 F.2d 1355, 1406 (DC Cir. 1985), concluded that Congressional intent in using the word ``significant'' was to mean ``non-trivial.'' Id . at 1373. e. Rebuttable Presumption The National Appliance Energy Conservation Act established new criteria for determining whether a standard level is economically justified. Section 325(l)(2)(B)(iii) states: ``If the Secretary finds that the additional cost to the consumer of purchasing a product complying with an energy conservation standard level will be less than three times the value of the energy savings during the first year that the consumer will receive as a result of the standard, as calculated under the applicable test procedure, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that such standard level is economically justified. A determination by the Secretary that such criterion is not met shall not be taken into consideration in the Secretary's determination of whether a standard is economically justified.'' If the increase in initial price of an appliance due to a conservation standard would repay itself to the consumer in energy savings in less than three years, then it is presumed that such standard is economically justified. 6 This presumption of economic justification can be rebutted upon a proper showing. 6 For this calculation, the Department calculated cost-of-operation based on the DOE test procedures. Therefore, the consumer is assumed to be an ``average'' consumer as defined by the DOE test procedures. Consumers that use the products less than the test procedure assumes will experience a longer payback while those that use them more than the test procedure assumes will have a shorter payback. f. Economic Justification As noted earlier, Section 325(l)(2)(B)(i) of the Act provides seven factors to be evaluated in determining whether a conservation standard is economically justified. 1. Economic Impact on Manufacturers and Consumers The engineering analysis identified improvements in efficiency along with the associated costs to manufacturers for each class of product. For each design option, these costs constitute the increased per-unit cost to manufacturers to achieve the indicated energy efficiency levels. Manufacturer, wholesaler, and retailer markups will result in a consumer purchase price higher than the manufacturer cost. To assess the likely impacts of standards on manufacturers, and to determine the effects of standards on different-sized firms, the Department used a computer model that simulated hypothetical firms in the eight industries under consideration. This model, the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Manufacturer Impact Model, is explained in the Technical Support Document. See Technical Support Document, Appendix C. The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Manufacturer Impact Model provides a broad array of outputs, including shipments, price, revenue, net income, and short- and long-run returns on equity. An ``Output Table'' lists values for all these outputs in the base case and in each of the standards cases under consideration. It also gives a range for each of these estimates. A ``Sensitivity Chart'' shows how returns on equity would be affected by a change in any one of the model's nine control variables. For consumers, measures of economic impact are the changes in purchase price and annual energy expense. The purchase price and annual energy expense, i.e., life-cycle cost, of each standard level are presented in Chapter 6 of the Technical Support Document. Under section 325 of the Act, the life-cycle cost analysis is a separate factor to be considered in determining economic justification. 2. Life-cycle Costs. One measure of the effect of proposed standards on consumers is the change in operating expense as compared to the change in purchase price, both resulting from standards. This is quantified by the difference in the life-cycle costs between the base and standards cases for the appliance classes analyzed. The life-cycle cost is the sum of the purchase price and the operating expense, including installation and maintenance expenditures, discounted over the lifetime of the appliance.
