FR940505-1-00458 FR940505-1-00012 (iv) All results and documentation of tests and procedures used by the engine configuration certifier as evidence of compliance with applicable recall emission standards; (v) A description of the test replacement part selection criteria used, and a statement that the replacement parts used for certification testing is representative production equipment consistent with paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section; (vi) A description of the test engine selection criteria used, and rationale that supports the technical judgment of the engine configuration certifier that the engine meets the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (f)(1)(iii) of this section; (vii) Results of durability testing and an engineering analysis showing that the emissions performance of engines can be expected to be maintained over the useful life renewal period; (viii) A copy of any written installation instructions that are to be used and a copy of the warranty to be provided to the owner; (ix) A copy of the written instructions for proper maintenance and use of the engine during the useful life renewal period; (x) A copy of the useful life renewal certificate to be provided to the owner pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section; (xi) A statement of commitment and willingness to comply with all the relevant terms and conditions of this section; (xii) A statement by the engine configuration certifier that changes done to an engine to bring it to the engine configuration being certified will not cause a substantial increase to engine emissions in any normal driving mode not represented during certification testing; and (xiii) The office or officer of the engine configuration certifier authorized to receive correspondence regarding certification requirements pursuant to this subpart. (3) The notification shall be signed by an officer of the engine configuration certifier attesting to the accuracy and completeness of the information supplied in the notification. (4) Notification to the Agency shall be by certified mail or another method by which date of receipt can be established. (5) Two complete and identical copies of the notification and any subsequent industry comments on any such notification shall be submitted by the engine configuration certifier to: MOD Director, MOD (6405J), Attention: Engine Configuration Certification, 401 ``M'' Street SW, Washington, DC 20460. (i) [Reserved]. (j) Objections to certification. (1) At any time prior to certification, the MOD Director may notify the engine configuration certifier that such its engine configuration shall not be certified pending further investigation. The basis upon which this notification shall be made may include, but not be limited to, information or test results submitted by the engine configuration certifier including: (i) The test procedure used to demonstrate compliance with the applicable recall standards does not meet the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section; (ii) Use of the candidate engine configuration could cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare or safety in its operation or function; (iii) Installation of the candidate replacement parts requires procedures or materials which would likely cause such parts to be improperly installed under normal conditions or would likely result in an engine being misadjusted; or (iv) Information and/or data required to be in the notification of intent to certify as provided by paragraph (h) of this section have not been provided or may be inadequate. (2) The engine configuration certifier must respond in writing to the statements made in the notification by the MOD Director, or the MOD Director shall withdraw the notification of intent to certify. (3) The MOD Director may, at his or her discretion, allow oral presentations by the engine configuration certifier. (4) If notification has been provided to an engine configuration certifier pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section, the MOD Director shall, after reviewing all pertinent data and information, render a decision and inform the engine configuration certifier in writing as to whether such engine configuration may be certified and, if so, under what conditions the engine configuration may be certified. The written decision shall include an explanation of the reasons therefor. (i) The decision by the MOD Director shall be provided to the engine configuration certifier after receipt of all necessary information by the certifier or interested parties, or of the date of any oral presentation regarding the certification, whichever occurs second. (ii) Within 20 days of receipt of a decision made pursuant to paragraph (j)(4)(i) of this section, any party may file a written appeal to the Office Director. The Office Director may, in his or her discretion, allow additional oral or written submissions, prior to rendering a final decision. (iii) If no party files an appeal with the Office Director within 20 days, then the decision of the MOD Director shall be final. (iv) The Office Director shall make a final decision regarding the certification of engine configuration after receipt of all necessary information by the engine configuration certifier or from the date of any oral presentation, whichever occurs later. (k) Changes after certification. The engine configuration certifier shall recertify any engine configuration which was certified pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section and to which modifications are made affecting emissions or the capability of the engine to meet any other requirement of this section. (l) Labeling requirements. (1) All engine configurations certified pursuant to this section shall contain a label affixed to the rebuilt engine that states: (i) Identification of the engine configuration;
