FR940721-2-00058 FR940721-2-00035 •Subscriber Name and Address. •Subscriber Date of Birth. •Subscriber Social Security Number. •Dependent Name. •Dependent Date of Birth. •Dependent Social Security Number. •Dependent Relationship to Subscriber. •Insurer/Underwriter/TPA Name and Address. •Insurer/Underwriter/TPA Group Number. •Insurer/Underwriter/TPA Group Name. •Prescription Drug Coverage. •Policy Number. •Effective Date of Coverage. •Employer Name, Employer Identification Number (EIN) and Address. •Employment Status. •Amounts of Payment. To Administer the Medicare Secondary Payer provision at 42 U.S.C. 1395y(b)(1) more effectively for entities such as Workers Compensation carriers or boards, liability insurers, no-fault and automobile medical policies or plans, HCFA would receive (to the extent that it is available) and may disclose the following information: •Beneficiary's Name and Address. •Beneficiary's Date of Birth. •Beneficiary's Social Security Number. •Name of Insured. •Insurer Name and Address. •Type of coverage; automobile medical, no-fault, liability payment, or workers' compensation settlement. •Insured's Policy Number. •Effective Date of Coverage. •Date of accident, injury or illness. •Amount of payment under liability, no-fault, or automobile medical policies, plans, and workers' compensation settlement. •Employer Name and Address (Workers' Compensation only). •Name of insured could be the driver of the car, a business, the beneficiary (i.e., the name of the individual or entity which carries the insurance policy or plan). In order to receive this information the entity must agree to the following conditions: a. To utilize the information solely for the purpose of coordination of benefits with the Medicare program and other third party payers in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 1395y(b); b. To safeguard the confidentiality of the data and to prevent unauthorized access to it; c. To prohibit the use of beneficiary-specific data for purposes other than for the coordination of benefits among third party payers and the Medicare program. This agreement would allow the entities to use the information to determine cases where they or other third party payers have primary responsibility for payment. Examples of prohibited uses would include but are not limited to: Creation of a mailing list, sale or transfer of data. _To administer the MSP provisions more effectively, HCFA may receive or disclose the following types of information from or to entities including insurers, underwriters, third party administrators (TPAs), and self-insured plans, concerning potentially affected individuals: •Subscriber Health Insurance Claim Number. •Dependent Name. •Funding arrangements of employer group health plans, for example, contributory or non-contributory plan, self-insured, re-insured, HMO, TPA insurance. •Claims payment information, for example, the amount paid, the date of payment, the name of the insurer or payer. •Dates of employment including termination date, if appropriate. •Number of full and/or part-time employees in the current and preceding calendar years. •Employment status of subscriber, for example full or part time, self employed.
