FR941004-1-00078 FR941004-1-00018 The principles emphasize the paramount importance of the safety of all members of the family, including victims of child abuse and neglect and victims of domestic violence and their dependents. ``Family preservation'' does NOT mean that the family must stay together or ``be preserved'' under all circumstances. At the same time, the principles reflect the goal of supporting, preserving, and strengthening families as the best way to promote the safety, well-being, and the healthy development of children. They emphasize family-focused services where family strengths are identified, enhanced, respected, and mobilized. The service principles also address the needs of individual family members who may need protection or special treatment and whose ``best interest'' may be temporary care or permanent placement away from the family. They also address the need for permanency for all children, including services to emancipating youth. In addition, the principles provide guidance in bringing about changes in State, local, and Indian tribal child and family service delivery. They emphasize the importance of accessibility, flexibility, coordination, and building on community and cultural strengths. A service delivery system organized as a continuum with linkages to other supports and programs is seen as most effective in serving children and families. Accessibility in Relation to the Americans With Disabilities Act Related to the principle that services should be accessible is the civil rights requirement under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) for accessibility to services by the disabled. Enacted on July 26, 1990, the ADA provides comprehensive civil rights protection to individuals with disabilities in the areas of employment, public accommodation, State and local government services, and telecommunications. The ADA defines public accommodations as facilities whose operations affect commerce and fall within twelve specified categories, including social service center establishments. Title II of the ADA governs actions by State and local governments; title III governs actions by public accommodation. The ADA is administered by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). However, most States have established a central contact, usually in the Office of the Governor or Attorney General, and questions about the ADA should be referred to that contact first. In addition, DOJ has established a technical assistance Information Line for public inquiries. The Information Line is available 24 hours daily at (202) 514&hyph;0301 (voice) or (202) 514&hyph;0381 (TDD). (This number will be replaced with a toll free 800 number in the future.) Lastly, written inquiries about the ADA may be directed to: U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Public Access Section, P.O. Box 66738, Washington, DC 20035&hyph;6738. Section 1355.30␣Other Applicable Regulations This section is amended to provide an updated and corrected list of other regulations applicable to titles IV&hyph;B and IV&hyph;E. We also have indicated which regulations or which sections of the regulations apply to which titles. We have added: •Part 30 (claims collection); •Part 76 (drug free work place requirements); •Parts 80, 81, 84, and 91 (implementation of the civil rights statutes); •Part 92 (uniform administrative requirements for grants to States); •Part 93 (lobbying restrictions); •Part 97 (consolidated grants to insular areas); and
