FR940527-1-00083 FR940527-1-00014 For example, if a resident completed a 3-year internal medicine program and then started a cardiology program that requires an additional 2 years of training, the resident would be counted as 1.0 FTE for the 3 years spent in internal medicine and as a .50 for 2 years in the cardiology program. (Prior to Public Law 103-66, the resident would have been counted as 1.0 FTE during the first year of the cardiology residency program.) 2. Part-time Resident Currently, the last sentence of §413.86(f)(1)(ii) specifies that, for purposes of GME, ``[a] part-time resident counts as a partial FTE based on the proportion of time worked as compared to the average time spent by other residents working in the same specialty program.'' The definition of part-time resident for purposes of GME is consistent with the definition of part-time resident for purposes of IME. However, the language in the regulations text differs and this difference has led to some confusion. Therefore, we are proposing to revise the language at §413.86(f)(1)(ii) as follows: A part-time resident counts as a partial FTE based on the proportion of time worked in the hospital compared to the total time necessary to fill a full-time internship or residency slot. This definition of part-time resident, for the purpose of determining GME full-time equivalent resident counts, is consistent with the IME definition specified at §412.105(g). Thus, in determining the FTE count for a part-time resident, for purposes of GME, the proportion of time the resident works in an approved program in any area of the hospital complex is compared to the total time necessary to fill a full-time slot. We are also proposing to make a technical change to §412.113(b)(3) to correct a reference to §413.86. K. Other Technical Changes (§412.232) We are republishing provisions in §412.232(c) that were inadvertently deleted from the regulations text published in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) due to an error in amendatory language in our September 1, 1992 final rule. In order to provide the public with the complete text of the provisions of §412.232(c), pending publication of the next edition of the CFR, we are publishing §412.232(c) in its entirety. V. Proposed Changes and Clarifications to the Prospective Payment System for Capital-Related Costs A. Evaluation of Provisions Relating to Obligated Capital for Hospitals Subject to Lengthy Certificate-of-Need (CON) Process (§412.302(c)(2)) Section 412.302(c)(2) of the regulations specifies the conditions under which capital projects may be treated as obligated capital for hospitals subject to a lengthy CON process. Under this provision, a capital project that is subject to a CON process may qualify as obligated capital if several conditions are met. These conditions are: •The hospital is required under State law to obtain prior approval of the capital project by a designated State or local planning authority in the State in which the hospital is located; •The hospital filed by December 31, 1989, an initial application meeting the requirements of the State that includes, at a minimum, a detailed description of the project and its estimated cost, and had not received approval or disapproval by September 30, 1990; •The hospital expended the lesser of $750,000 or 10 percent of the estimated project cost by December 31, 1990; and •The project is completed and the asset put into use for patient care on or before the earlier of September 30, 1996 or 4 years from the date CON approval is received. The purpose of allowing hospitals in CON states to qualify projects for recognition as obligated capital under these special conditions was to recognize that in situations where there is a lengthy CON process, hospitals may have deferred making the legal commitments required under the general rule for recognizing obligated capital until the CON approval was received. We believe that such hospitals should not be disadvantaged if they reasonably anticipated the CON approval process in their capital planning but were unable to meet the December 31, 1990 cut-off date for obligated capital because timely approval had not been received. Our intent was not to afford more favorable treatment for these hospitals relative to other hospitals, but rather to make a reasonable and equitable allowance for the impact a lengthy CON process may have on the ability of hospitals that have already made a substantial financial commitment to meet the criteria for recognition of obligated capital costs. Thus, the intent was to put these hospitals on an even footing with other hospitals. Since we established this special provision in the August 30, 1991 final rule implementing the prospective payment system for capital-related costs (56 FR 43393&hyph;43394), we have received comments from individual hospitals and hospital associations requesting revision to the provision. With one exception, these hospitals come from a single State and indeed most of them are located in a single large urban area of that State. Citing varied problems and delays frequently encountered throughout the CON process, such as a requirement for separate CON approval for each phase of a multi-phase project, the commenters have suggested that the policies be revised as follows: •Allow later phases of a staged construction project to be deemed part of the originally approved obligation for purposes of meeting the December 31, 1989 deadline. •Extend the deadline for putting the project into use for patient care by up to 3 years. •Allow a 10-year transition for each phase under the hold-harmless methodology. We stated in our September 1, 1993 final rule that we would conduct an evaluation of the issues raised by these commenters once we were able to obtain data on the impact of the current provision. We also noted that any reassessment of the current provisions would be made solely within the policy framework used to establish the initial transition payment policies. We emphasized that we would not adopt revisions that would give hospitals subject to CON processes more favorable treatment than other hospitals.
