FR940819-1-00056 FR940819-1-00011 9. By revising the first sentence in §225.27(a) and by adding new §225.27(c) as follows: §225.27 Retention of records. (a) Each railroad must retain all logs, and listings, required by §225.25 for at least 5 years after the end of the calendar year to which they relate. *␣*␣* * * * * * (c) Each railroad must identify one or more central locations where all reports filed under §225.21 are maintained and available for photocopying as addressed in §225.41. 10. By removing ``$250'' in the first sentence in §225.29 and adding in lieu thereof ``$500''. 11. By adding new §225.33 as follows: §225.33 Internal Control Plans. (a) Each railroad must maintain a written Internal Control Plan that shall include, at a minimum, each of the following components: (1) A brief description of the railroad organization, including identification of (i) all components that regularly come into possession of information pertinent to the preparation of reports under this part ( e.g. , medical, claims, and legal departments; operating, mechanical, and track structures departments; payroll, accounting, and personnel departments); (ii) the name and title of each railroad reporting officer; (iii) the name and title of each manager of such components, by component; and (iv) all officers to whom managers of such components are responsible, by component. (2) Identification (categorically or individually) of all positions within the components identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section whose incumbents have access to such information and responsibility for transferring the information to the railroad reporting officer. (3) Procedures for timely, periodic transfer of information to the railroad reporting officer from each component identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, including transfer of updated or corrected information, and notification that a new claim has been opened by a railroad worker. (4) Specification of the railroad officer responsible for auditing the performance of the reporting function, a statement of the frequency (not less than once per calendar year) with which audits are conducted, and a description of the place where the most recent audit report may be found for inspection and photocopying. (5) Identification of any computerized databases necessary or useful in gathering or verifying data required to be reported under this part, the fields within such databases that are necessary or useful for this purpose, and the officers and workers responsible for maintaining or accessing this data for purposes of this part. (6) A description of the method by which all pertinent officers and workers of the railroad having responsibility for information required to be reported are apprised of their responsibilities, including any training necessary to make such officers and workers aware of the duty of the railroad to report the information in question. (7) A procedure for resolving, within the railroad, whether conditions or events of claimed or marginal reportability are properly reportable. (8) Procedures and assignment of responsibility for development and accurate reporting of normalizing statistics (train miles, work hours). (b) Each railroad must make a reasonable and conscientious effort to adhere to the Plan. 12. By adding new §225.37 as follows: §225.37 Computer magnetic media transfer. (a) A railroad has the option of submitting the following reports, updates, and amendments by way of magnetic media (computer diskette or magnetic tape): the Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report (Form FRA F 6180.54), the Railroad Injury and Illness Summary (Continuation Sheet) (Form FRA F 6180.55a), and the Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Accident/Incident Report (Form FRA F 6180.57). (b) Each railroad utilizing the magnetic media option shall submit the following: (1) the computer diskette or magnetic tape; (2) a batch control form, signed by the railroad's reporting officer, as prescribed in the ``FRA Guide for Preparing Accident/Incident Reports''; and (3) a notarized hard copy of the Railroad Injury and Illness Summary (Form FRA F 6180.55), signed by the railroad's reporting officer. (c) In addition to fulfilling the requirements stated in paragraph (b) of this section, the railroad must also submit the hard copy report(s) for each accident/incident it reports by means of magnetic media during an initial three-month assimilation period. The three-month assimilation period will begin whenever the magnetic media and hard copies of the report are in total agreement, as determined in writing by FRA. 13. By adding new §225.39 to read as follows: §225.39 Employer Notification and Copy of ``Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log'' to Worker. (a) Each railroad worker must notify his or her employer, in writing, of any reportable or recordable injury or illness within seven calendar says of either incurring that reportable or recordable injury or illness or obtaining knowledge of incurring such injury or illness. (b) Each railroad shall provide the worker whose injury or illness is reported on the Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log, Form FRA F 6180.XX, with a copy of such log within seven calendar days of completing the log.
