FR940202-0-00095 FR940202-0-00010 Response: We agree. To clarify that only the principal of a loan can be disregarded, the final regulation provides that the disregard does not extend to interest earned on a loan while held by the borrower, or purchases made with the proceeds of a loan. Consistent with the general AFDC policy for the treatment of interest earned on bank accounts, the final rule also provides that interest earned on the proceeds of a loan while held in a savings account, checking account or other financial instrument will be counted as unearned income in the month received and as a resource thereafter. Accordingly, we have revised the regulation at ยง233.20(a)(3)(iv)(B) and added a new ยง233.20(a)(3)(xxi) to implement this policy. Regulatory Procedures Executive Order 12291 These regulations have been reviewed under Executive Order 12291 and do not meet any of the criteria for a major regulation. Therefore, a regulatory impact analysis is not required because these regulations will not: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more; (2) impose a major increase in costs or prices for consumers, individual industries, Federal, State or local government agencies or geographic regions; or (3) result in significant adverse effects on competition, employment, investment, innovation, or on the ability of United States-based enterprises to compete with foreign-based enterprises in domestic or export markets. Paperwork Reduction Act This rule does not require any information collection activities and, therefore, no approvals are necessary under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354) requires the Federal government to anticipate and reduce the impact of regulations and paperwork requirements on small businesses. The primary impact of these final rules is on State governments and individuals. Therefore, we certify that these regulations will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities because they primarily affect individuals and States. Thus, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Programs 93.560, Assistance Payments-Maintenance Assistance) List of Subjects in 45 CFR Part 233 Aliens, Grant programs_social programs, Public assistance programs, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: November 6, 1993. Mary Jo Bane, Assistant Secretary for Children and Families. Approved: January 24, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services.
