FR940902-1-00087 FR940902-1-00012 Executive Order 12866 Clarity of the Regulations Executive Order 12866 requires each agency to write regulations that are easy to understand. The Secretary invites comments on how to make these regulations easier to understand, including answers to questions such as the following: (1) Are the requirements in the regulations clearly stated? (2) Do the regulations contain technical terms or other wording that interferes with their clarity? (3) Does the format of the regulations (grouping and order of sections, use of headings, paragraphing, etc.) aid or reduce their clarity? Would the regulations be easier to understand if they were divided into more (but shorter) sections? (A ``section'' is preceded by the symbol ``ยง'' and a numbered heading; for example, ยง645.20. (4) Is the description of the proposed regulations in the Supplementary Information section of this preamble helpful in understanding the proposed regulations? How could this description be more helpful in making the proposed regulations easier to understand? (5) What else could the Department do to make the regulations easier to understand? A copy of any comments that concern whether these proposed regulations are easy to understand should also be sent to Stanley Cohen, Regulations Quality Officer, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW. (Room 5125, FOB&hyph;6), Washington, DC 20202&hyph;2241. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Secretary certifies that these proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The small entities that would be affected by these regulations are small institutions of higher education, other agencies and organizations, and secondary schools that receive Federal funds under this program. However, the regulations would not have a significant economic impact on the small entities affected because the regulations would not impose excessive regulatory burdens or require unnecessary Federal supervision. The regulations would impose minimal requirements to ensure the proper expenditure of program funds. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Sections 645.4, 645.31, 645.32, and 645.43 contain information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of these sections to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)). Institutions of higher education; public and private agencies and organizations; combinations of institutions, agencies, and organizations; and secondary schools are eligible to apply for grants under these regulations. The Department needs and uses the application data and information to make grants. Annual grantee reporting is estimated to average 40 hours per response for over 600 respondents, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirement should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, Room 10235, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20504; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed regulations. All comments submitted in response to these proposed regulations will be available for public inspection during and after the comment period in Room 5065, FOB&hyph;6, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., Washington, DC., between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 645 Colleges and Universities, Education of disadvantaged, Grant programs_education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Secondary education. Dated: August 17, 1994. David A. Longanecker, Assistant Secretary, Office of Postsecondary Education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.047, Upward Bound Program.)
