FR940505-1-00223 FR940505-1-00012 The proposed surcharge, shown in the table below (``New- Vehicle Emission Surcharges for Heavy-Duty Vehicles'') for the different classes of heavy-duty vehicles and urban buses, is based on a cost of $10,000 per ton of increased NO X emissions at a 2.5 g/bhp-hr level compared to the 1.5 g/bhp-hr standard. In computing the surcharge, estimated lifetime emissions were discounted to the year of sale using a seven percent discount rate. Urban buses, as defined under existing EPA regulations, are treated separately for surcharge purposes because of their unique operating characteristics; all other buses are considered heavy-duty vehicles in the table below. Details of the individual values can be found in the docket. 110 110 ``New Vehicle/Equipment Surcharges for Heavy-Duty Onhighway and Nonroad Engines Under the California FIP,'' EPA Memorandum to the Docket from Alan Stout, February 1994. New-Vehicle Emission Surcharges for Heavy-Duty Vehicles 1â£ 1GVWR (pounds) 1Emissions surcharge Urban buses all $16,000 Other heavy-duty vehicles 8,501&hyph;19,500 19,501&hyph;60,000 >60,000 1,000 7,000 20,000 As described in the sections addressing nonroad engines and the fleet averaging program, the surcharges being proposed today are all based on a value of $10,000 per ton of emissions reduced. The Agency intends this level to represent an appropriate level for valuing incremental NO X control in California as well as to provide a strong incentive for manufacturers to develop, and customers to buy, engines meeting the 1.5 g/bhp-hr standard rather than pay the emissions surcharge. At the same time, it will provide an option for those few applications in which complying engines are unavailable. Comments are requested on the appropriateness of the surcharge levels, as well as on the 2.5 g/bhp-hr standard proposed for engines subject to the surcharge. Interested readers should review the docket for further information regarding the surcharge value (``Technical Support_Surcharge Evaluation'' memo from Joann Jackson-Stephens to docket dated March 1994). The projected impact of these more stringent NO X standards on engine technology is discussed below. The impacts are presented separately for each major fuel type. The Agency recognizes that this discussion is based on information from technology development programs that are, in some cases, in their very early stages. More complete information may exist and the Agency solicits a full range of comments on this issue. Any information submitted confidentially will be treated appropriately, in accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations requirements. Diesel-fueled engines. Manufacturers attempting to develop diesel-fueled engines that comply with the 1.5 g/bhp-hr standard must consider a variety of areas. These include: (1) improvements in fuel injection systems, such as very high pressure injection, electronic unit injectors with minimized sac volumes, improved fuel injection nozzles, and significant advances in fuel injection rate shaping, (2) improvements in intake air management, focusing on optimized intake air pressurization systems such as variable geometry turbochargers or wastegate turbochargers and more extensive use of air-to-air intercooling, (3) continued progress in lubricating oil control (to minimize any NO X /particulate trade-offs), (4) major advances in exhaust gas recirculation using variable flow and variable temperature control mechanisms, and (5) more sophisticated, integrated electronic control of all engine systems. Advances in oxidation catalysts (e.g., additional progress in catalytic materials and washcoating processes) may also be needed to control particulate emissions from diesel-fueled engines, while permitting further optimization of NO X emission variables. Also, fuels improvements such as higher cetane levels may need to be considered. While these changes will enable diesel-fueled engines to meet NO X emission standards significantly lower than the current 5.0 g/bhp-hr standard, further advances may be necessary to reach 1.5 g/bhp-hr. One technology that is being actively researched to meet this challenge is a catalyst designed to reduce NO X in the lean operating environment of the diesel engine. The current research into these devices has yielded NO X reductions of about 10 to 20 percent, and researchers project that 50 percent NO X reduction efficiencies under transient conditions may be possible. Research in Japan has shown 50 to 70 percent efficiencies under steady state conditions with a 5 percent fuel penalty. The work done to date has been performed on engines that have NO X emissions higher than about 4.0 g/bhp-hr. It is not known if the efficiencies that have been reported will also apply to engines in the 2.5 g/bhp-hr range. The Agency also has no clear information on the fuel consumption impact, cost or durability of lean NO X catalysts. This technology holds promise for significantly reducing NO X from diesels. EPA requests comments on ongoing research activity related to NO X control for diesels and the focus of such work.
