FR940830-1-00068 FR940830-1-00011 The paint waste was placed in trenches and burned. DuPont estimates that as a result of incomplete burning 4,500 to 7,000 tons of ash might remain on the site. The Baier site was listed as a potentially, uncontrolled, hazardous waste site in the Eckhardt Subcommittee Report in November 1979. The site was placed on the NPL with a hazard ranking System (HRS) score of 46.01 on August 30, 1990, 55 FR 169. A Preliminary Assessment (PA) of the Baier Farm was conducted in September 1980 by the U.S. EPA Field Investigative Team (FIT). A Field Investigation of the Baier Farm was conducted by FIT in April 1983. Soil sample analysis found seven priority pollutant metals in concentrations exceeding background (concentrations ranged from 90 to 18,000 ppm). Also detected were six priority pollutant organics in soil samples (with concentrations up to 220,000 ppb). On March 28, 1984, EPA sent an information request letter to DuPont regarding the waste site. DuPont's response indicated another possible waste site at the McCarl property on Chalkridge Road. In July 1985 FIT oversaw the installation of three ground water monitoring wells at the Baier Site. Analyses of ground water samples collected from the wells showed elevated levels of aluminum, barium, calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium, iron, manganese and lead. A second round of sampling of these wells in 1986 resulted in similar findings, with chromium exceeding the Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCLs) set forth in 40 CFR part 141. Downstream surface water samples showed high concentrations of metals including lead and chromium. The Preliminary Assessment for the McCarl subsite was conducted in January 1985 by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources. FIT conducted the Site Investigation for the McCarl subsite in July 1986, including the installation and sampling of three ground water monitoring wells. Analysis of soil samples from the investigation showed concentrations in excess of background for barium, cadmium, chromium, lead, copper, manganese, selenium and zinc. Analysis of ground water samples showed concentrations in excess of MCLs for antimony (32 times the MCL), cadmium, chromium, selenium. Other metals were also detected. DuPont sampled the McCarl ground water wells in July 1988 and found higher levels of selenium than found by FIT. A Special Notice letter for RI/FS negotiations was sent to DuPont on January 31, 1989. The EPA issued a Unilateral Administrative Order (UAO) to DuPont on July 5, 1989. The UAO required a removal action at the Baier/Fedler subsite and an RI/FS for both subsites. The Removal Action was indefinitely deferred in February 7, 1990, in an amendment to the UAO. RI/FS activities were completed in January 1991. As part of the RI/FS a Baseline Risk Assessment was performed, based on data from the RI, to evaluate the potential risks to human health posed by potential soil and ground water contamination at the Site. An ecological risk assessment was prepared in conjunction with the Baseline Risk Assessment. Protective concentrations of contaminants were established, based on residential exposure for both the average and reasonable worst-case scenarios. Action levels (cleanup criteria) based on these exposure scenarios were then developed for soils at the Site. The Baseline Risk Assessment indicated that ground water contamination posed no threat to human health because of the lack of a complete exposure pathway due to the lack of yield from the contaminated water bearing unit. Few receptor wells exist in the Site vicinity. Furthermore, the nearby residential wells, sampled periodically, indicated that metals and volatile organic compounds were below all regulatory health-based standards. The ``no-action'' alternative was selected for ground water.
