FR940418-2-00019 FR940418-2-00005 1. Subsidized Export Financing Under Law 227/77 2. Early Retirement Provision under Law 181/89 3. Personnel Retraining Grants under Law 675/77 B. We established at verification that loans provided under the following programs were not outstanding in the POI. 1. Finsider Loans 2. Interest Subsidies under Law 617/81 3. Financing under Law 464/72 C. We established at verification that the following programs were directed to the South of Italy. Since production of the subject merchandise takes place outside the South, we determine that these programs did not benefit the subject merchandise. 1. Law 675/77 Capital Grants 2. Reductions of the Value Added Tax (``VAT'') under Law 675/77 3. Interest Contributions under the Sabatini Law (Law 1329/65) 4. Social Security Exemptions 5. ILOR and IRPEG Exemptions Interested Party Comments Comment 1 Petitioners argue that the Department's preliminary decision to measure subsidization by a comparison of TAS' equity before and after restructuring, which they labeled the ``snapshot'' approach, was improperly substituted for, and contrasts sharply with, the cash flow approach the Department has historically used to measure subsidies. Petitioners allege that by focusing only on the differences in TAS' balance sheet at two different points in time, to the exclusion of a review of the intermediate activities undertaken by the GOI to bestow funds on ILVA, the Department ignored the full measure of debt forgiveness and other assistance provided to ILVA. Petitioners also argue that the problem with the Department's approach is that it ignored the sizeable liabilities and negative equity position left behind in the ``empty shell'' of TAS which were brought about by the restructuring as a result of the artificial separation of TAS' assets and liabilities. Petitioners maintain the Department's approach focuses exclusively on net changes in equity, regardless of the individual transactions that caused the changes which would have been captured in a cash flow analysis. According to petitioners, the only way to accurately measure the subsidies provided to Terni/TAS is to identify and measure the value of each individual transaction, be it a grant, equity infusion, debt forgiveness, or loss coverage. Respondents contend that the Department should exclude from the calculation of any countervailable subsidy any of the TAS assets transferred to ILVA or assets remaining in TAS. In addition, respondents argue that changes in TAS' equity position resulting from the official appraisal of assets and liabilities conferred no countervailable benefit to ILVA. Furthermore, according to respondents, assets and liabilities remaining in TAS could not have conferred a countervailable benefit to ILVA. Finally, respondents argue that ยง355.48 of the Proposed Regulations explicitly provides for a departure from the cash flow methodology in ``unusual circumstances.'' Respondents argue that it would be unreasonable to review each of the transactions as suggested by petitioners because of the extreme complexity of the transactions involved in this case. Respondents maintain the Department has performed a transaction-specific analysis wherever practicable. DOC Position Insofar as our preliminary determination focused on the change in the net equity position of TAS, it failed to account for certain liabilities and losses left behind in TAS. In this final determination, we have addressed this shortcoming. We recognize that the restructuring resulted in TAS holding liabilities and absorbing losses, and that those liabilities and losses would somehow have to be covered. As ILVA would not be covering them, ILVA received a benefit in that amount. However, we disagree with petitioners that the so-called snapshot approach cannot be substituted for the cash flow approach traditionally used by the Department. First, our approach in this final determination is consistent with the methodology used to assess countervailable benefits arising out of restructuring in Certain Steel from Austria. Second, it fully and accurately measures the benefits conferred on the production of the subject merchandise. Finally, petitioners misuse the concept of the cash flow effect.
