FR941103-2-00045 FR941103-2-00029 (9) A statement as to whether the ownership of the applicant's firm changed during or since the Remedial Order period. If an ownership change occurred, the applicant should list the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of any prior or subsequent owners. The applicant should also provide copies of any relevant Purchase and Sales Agreements, if available. If such written documents are not available, the applicants should submit a description of the ownership change, including the year of the sale and the type of sale (e.g., sale of corporate stock, sale of company assets); (10) A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been a party in a DOE enforcement action or a private Section 210 action. If so, an explanation of the case and copies of relevant documents should also be provided; (11) The statement listed below signed by the individual applicant or a responsible official of the firm filing the refund application: I swear (or affirm) that the information contained in this application and its attachments is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that anyone who is convicted of providing false information to the federal government may be subject to a fine, a jail sentence, or both, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001. I understand that the information contained in this application is subject to public disclosure. I have enclosed a duplicate of this entire application which will be placed in the OHA Public Reference Room. All applications should be either typed or printed and clearly labeled ``Beacon Bay Special Refund Proceeding, Case No. LEF&hyph;0074.'' Each applicant must submit an original and one copy of the application. If the applicant believes that any of the information in its application is confidential and does not wish for this information to be publicly disclosed, it must submit an original application, clearly designated ``confidential,'' containing the confidential information, and two copies of the application with the confidential information deleted. All refund applications should be postmarked no later than May 1, 1995, and sent to: Beacon Bay Special Refund Proceeding, Office of Hearings and Appeals, Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Ave., Washington, D.C. 20585. In addition, we will adopt the following procedures relating to refund applications filed on behalf of applicants by ``representatives,'' including refund filing services, consulting firms, accountants, and attorneys. See Texaco Inc., 20 DOE ¶ 85,147 (1990). Each such filing service shall, contemporaneously with its first filing in the Beacon Bay proceeding, submit a statement indicating its qualifications for representing refund applicants and containing a detailed description of the solicitation practices and application procedures that it has used and plans to use. 11 This statement should contain the following information: 12 11 This statement should be submitted under separate cover and reference the Beacon Bay refund proceeding, Case No. LEF&hyph;0074. 12 This information with regard to some filing services has already been requested and received by this Office. Therefore, any filing service that has had more than 10 Applications for Refund approved before the issuance of this Decision and Order need not submit this information if it has already done so in another proceeding. Instead, such a filing service need only include a copy of the previous submission(s) responsive to items (1)&hyph;(5) and provide an update if its response to any of these questions has changed since it first submitted its information. However, in light of the importance of this information, it is prudent for all filing services to review their practices and inform the OHA of any alterations or improvements that have been made. (1) A description of the procedures used to solicit refund applications in the Beacon Bay proceeding and copies of any solicitation materials mailed to prospective Beacon Bay applicants; (2) A description of how the filing service obtains authorization from its clients to act as their representative, including copies of any type of authorization form signed by refund applicants; (3) A description of how the filing service obtains and verifies the information contained in refund applications; (4) A description of the procedures used to forward refunds to its clients; (5) A description of the procedures used to prevent and check for duplicate filings. Upon receipt of this information, we may suggest alteration of a filing service's procedures if they do not conform to the procedural requirements of 10 CFR Part 205 and this proceeding. Second, we will require strict compliance with the filing requirements as specified in 10 CFR 205.283, particularly the requirement that applications and the accompanying certification statement be signed by the applicant. Third, in any case where an application has been signed and dated before the issuance of this Decision and Order, we will require a certification statement, signed and dated by the applicant after the date of the issuance of this Decision and Order. The certification should state that the applicant has not filed and will not file any other Application for Refund in the Beacon Bay proceeding and that, after having been provided a copy of this Decision and Order, it still authorizes that filing service to represent it. Fourth, we will require from each representative a statement certifying that it maintains a separate escrow account at a bank or other financial institution for the deposit of all refunds received on behalf of applicants, and that its normal business practice is to deposit all Subpart V refund checks in that account within two business days of receipt and to disburse refunds to the applicants within 30 calendar days thereafter. Unless such certification is received by the OHA, all refund checks approved will be made payable solely to the applicant. Representatives who have not previously submitted an escrow certification form to the OHA may obtain a copy of the appropriate form by contacting: Marcia B. Carlson, HG&hyph;13, Chief, Docket & Publications Branch, Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. 20585. Finally, the OHA reiterates its policy to scrutinize applications filed by filing services closely. Applications submitted by a filing service should contain all of the information in this Decision and Order. C. Distribution of Funds Remaining After First Stage Any funds that remain after all first stage claims have been decided shall be distributed in accordance with the provisions of the Petroleum Overcharge Distribution and Restitution Act of 1986 (PODRA), 15 U.S.C. §§4501&hyph;07. The PODRA requires that the Secretary of Energy determine annually the amount of oil overcharge funds that will not be required to refund monies to injured parties in Subpart V proceedings and make those funds available to state governments for use in four energy conservation programs. The Secretary has delegated those responsibilities to the OHA, and any funds in the Beacon Bay Remedial Order fund that the OHA determines will not be needed to effect direct restitution to injured customers will be distributed in accordance with the provisions of the PODRA. It Is Therefore Ordered That: (1) Applications for Refund from the funds remitted to the Departement of Energy by Beacon Bay Enterprises, Inc. pursuant to the Remedial Order issued on June 21, 1982, may now be filed. (2) Applications for Refund must be postmarked no later than May 1, 1995. Dated: October 27, 1994. George B. Breznay, Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27304 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
