FR940928-2-00116 FR940928-2-00067 The reanalyses of the six most limiting MTC-related transients and review of the ATWS event demonstrate that this proposed change does not involve an increase in the potential consequences of any accidents previously evaluated. (2) Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The MTC is a physical characteristic of the reactor core and is not an accident initiator. A changed MTC changes the reactor's response to the postulated transients in chapter 14 of Kewaunee's USAR. Therefore an MTC of 5.0 pcm/ ○F at or below 60% rated thermal power does not create the possibility of a new or different type of accident from any accident previously evaluated. (3) Involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The six most limiting MTC-related transients in chapter 14 of the KNPP USAR were reanalyzed. Five of the six were reanalyzed to verify the DNBR would not go below the DNBR acceptance criterion of 1.300. The results of these five DNBR-related analyses demonstrate that the reanalyzed DNBR value is greater than the DNBR from the currently bounding safety analyses. The sixth transient was reanalyzed to verify the PCT limit of 2700 ○F would not be exceeded. Reanalysis of this sixth accident, Rod Ejection at Hot Zero Power and Beginning of Cycle, indicated a need to lower the allowable hot channel factor (FQ). Reanalysis incorporating this more restrictive FQ value resulted in a calculated PCT value of 2504 ○F, which is less than the previous PCT value of 2585 ○F. The new FQ limit will be incorporated into the next USAR revision, which will be submitted in accordance with 10 CFR 50.71. In addition, WPSC reviewed the effects of this change on Kewaunee's anticipated transient without scram (ATWS) analysis. This review demonstrated that the ATWS analysis was found to include assumptions bounding Kewaunee's proposed MTC limits. The reanalyses of the six most bounding transients and review of the ATWS event demonstrate that restricting the MTC value to 5.0 pcm/ ○F at or below 60% power does not reduce the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: University of Wisconsin Library Learning Center, 2420 Nicolet Drive, Green Bay, Wisconsin 54301. Attorney for licensee: Bradley D. Jackson, Esq., Foley and Lardner, P. O. Box 1497, Madison, Wisconsin 53701&hyph;1497. NRC Project Director: John N. Hannon. Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, Docket No. 50&hyph;305, Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant, Kewaunee County, Wisconsin Date of amendment request: May 20, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant (KNPP) Technical Specification (TS) 3.4, ``Steam and Power Conversion System,'' by modifying and clarifying the operability requirements for the main steam safety valves (MSSVs), auxiliary feedwater system (AFW), and the condensate storage tank system. The proposed amendment would eliminate inconsistencies within Technical Specification Section 3.4 and would provide the basis for operation of the AFW system below 15% reactor power. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration which is presented below: Significant Hazards Determination for Proposed Changes to Technical Specification (TS) 3.4.a ``Main Steam Safety Valves'' The proposed changes were reviewed in accordance with the provisions of 10 CFR 50.92 to show no significant hazards exist. The proposed changes will not: (1) Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Currently, TS 3.4.a.1.A.2 requires five MSSV's to be operable prior to heating the reactor > 350 ○F. The proposed change requires a minimum of two MSSVs per steam generator to be operable prior to heating the reactor coolant system > 350 ○F, and five MSSVs per steam generator to be operable prior to reactor criticality. If these conditions cannot be met within 48 hours, within 1 hour action shall be initiated to achieve hot standby within 6 hours, achieve hot shutdown within the following 6 hours, and achieve and maintain the reactor coolant system temperature < 350 ○F within an additional 12 hours. The MSSVs are relied upon to function in each of the following USAR analyzed accidents: Reactor Coolant Pump Locked Rotor, Loss of External Electrical Load, Loss of Normal Feedwater, Uncontrolled Rod Cluster Control Assembly Withdrawal at Power, Uncontrolled Rod Cluster Control Assembly Withdrawal From a Subcritical Condition, Steam Generator Tube Rupture, and Anticipated Transients without Scram. The initial conditions in the analysis of a Loss of External Electrical Load Accident, Loss of Normal Feedwater Accident, Uncontrolled Rod Withdrawal at Power Accident, Uncontrolled Rod Cluster Control Assembly Withdrawal from a Subcritical Condition Accident and an Anticipated Transients without Scram Accident assume critical conditions. Because this proposed TS requires all MSSVs to be operable prior to reactor criticality, there will be no adverse effect on the health and safety of the public. Two operable MSSVs are capable of relieving the maximum steam generated during a Reactor Coolant Pump Locked Rotor Accident or a Steam Generator Tube Rupture from a subcritical condition. The maximum required steam relief rate resulting from a Steam Generator Tube Rupture is 270,000 lbm/hr, well below the relief capacity of 1,532,076 lbm/hr of two MSSVs on a single steam generator. Also, this condition results in no increase in the radiological dose to the public. Two MSSVs on one steam generator are capable of relieving the steam generated corresponding to approximately 20% reactor power. This relief capacity is well above the maximum steam generation rate resulting from a Reactor Coolant Pump Locked Rotor Accident from a subcritical condition. In all cases, the relieving capacity of the MSSVs exceeds the maximum steam generation rate, and reactor criticality is not permitted unless all MSSVs are operable. Therefore, there is no adverse effect on the health and safety of the public and no significant increase [in the probability or] consequences of an accident previously evaluated. (2) Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed change does not alter the plant configuration, operating setpoints, or overall plant performance. Therefore, it does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident.
