FR940912-2-00142 FR940912-2-00098 •New combinations of funding in support of transit infrastructure, such as in-kind local contributions, sale of development rights, realizing or enhancing land-use impact benefits, or private funding of transit facilities; •Using 49 U.S.C. 5312(a), added by ISTEA to transfer existing, federally supported assets to more effective use; •Initiating innovative procurements such as multi-year rolling stock procurements, forming consortia to facilitate efficiencies of scale in rolling stock procurements, or using design-build (Turnkey) as a method of infrastructure project delivery; and •Using various securities to attract private capital investment to transit, refinance existing debt, or otherwise ensure long-term, stable sources of funding for infrastructure investment. •Establishing or using existing authority to provide direct loans for transit and other infrastructure projects, possibly through a revolving loan fund mechanism. The preceding are examples only. We welcome all ideas and projects that have the potential to leverage existing or planned infrastructure investment, or that will help to reduce public transportation costs over time. FTA will make full use of its regulatory and statutory flexibility in fostering innovative financing proposals for transit. However, the projects proposed under this initiative must comply with all other statutory and regulatory requirements such as the National Environmental Policy Act, Civil Rights, Americans with Disabilities Act, and the Clean Air Act. Project Proposals The proposals for candidate projects should describe: •The project specifics_i.e., what is being bought, constructed, financed; •Project funding_federal aid, by type, as well as other funding sources. This should include funding realized through capturing external economic benefits resulting from project financing, as appropriate; •Construction Financing_What mechanisms are being used to finance the construction portion of the project; •Intermodal Impacts/Benefits_The degree to which the transit investment benefits other modes (airports, intercity rail, etc.) or is enhanced by other modes; •The status of major Federal and State clearances; •The financing innovation, and how its use in this context could benefit and apply to other projects in the region or the Nation; •The incentive required_i.e., fast-tracking, re-programming, additional funding, administrative or regulatory flexibility or relief, etc.; •How the proposed innovation will leverage Federal, State, local and private investment for public transit; and •A timeline for advancing the project, including milestones. Proposals must be for projects eligible under the FT Act. New construction and reconstruction projects are appropriate, as are rolling stock projects. Those proposals which meet major Federal clearance requirements will receive preference in the review process. Upon acceptance of a grantee's proposal, the project will be advanced in an expedited manner. Limited capital funds are available. Therefore, projects proposed will be judged on the basis of broad applicability of the innovation, current project status (in planning, final engineering, environmental clearance, commencement of construction), the likelihood of near-term (1&hyph;2 years) project completion, and level of Federal funding required. We do not expect to fund all projects received. Projects and initiatives requiring administrative or regulatory flexibility will not be limited as to number, but will be judged on the basis of the innovation, their potential for application to other transit systems or other modes, and the likelihood of near-term results from the administrative or regulatory change. Issued on: September 7, 1994. Gordon J. Linton, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22426 Filed 9&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;57&hyph;P
