FR940512-2-00179 FR940512-2-00078 9. Applicant must agree to gather and submit program and client data required by FYSB's Management Information System (MIS). While the computer software and training for the implementation of the MIS will be provided by FYSB to grantees, applicant should include a request for funds in its budget for any computer equipment needed for implementation of the MIS. 10. Applicant must agree to cooperate with any research or evaluation efforts sponsored by the Administration for Children and Families. Staff Background and Organizational Experience 1. As priority for funding will be given to agencies and organizations that have documented experience in providing direct services to runaway and homeless youth, applicant must include a brief description of the organization and its experience in providing services to this client population. 2. Applicant must include a brief description of current and proposed staff skills and knowledge regarding runaway and homeless youth and indicate how staff will be utilized in achieving the goals and objectives of the program. Information on proposed staff training and brief resumes or job descriptions may be included. 3. Applicant must describe procedures for maintaining confidentiality of records on the youth and families served. Procedures must insure that no information on the youth and families is disclosed without the consent of the individual youth, parent or legal guardian. Disclosures without consent can be made to another agency compiling statistical records if individual identities are not provided or to a government agency involved in the disposition of criminal charges against an individual runaway or homeless youth. Budget Appropriateness 1. Applicant must discuss and justify the costs of the proposed project in terms of numbers of youth and families to be served, types and quantities of services to be provided, and the anticipated outcomes for the youth and families. 2. The applicant must describe the fiscal control and accounting procedures that will be used to ensure prudent use, proper disbursement, and accurate accounting of funds received under this program announcement. Duration of project: This announcement solicits applications for Drug Abuse Prevention Projects of up to three years duration (36-month project periods). Initial grant awards, made on a competitive basis, will be for one-year (12-month) budget periods. Applications for continuation grants beyond the one-year budget period, but within the 36 month project period, will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis, subject to the availability of funds, satisfactory progress of the grantee and determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the government. Federal share of project costs: Up to $100,000 per year, which equals a maximum Federal share of $300,000 for a 3-year project period. Applicant share of project costs: Grantees must provide at least 25 percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the Federal share and the non-Federal share. For example, a project requesting $300,000 in Federal funds over a three-year project period (based on an award of $100,000 per twelve-month budget period) must include a match of at least $100,000 (25% of the total approved cost of the project). C. Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth (TLP)
