FR941110-1-00119 FR941110-1-00011 Appendix D to Subpart A_Harmonized Tariff Schedule Description of Products That May Contain Controlled Substances in Appendix A to Subpart A, Class I Groups I and II This Appendix is based on information provided by the Ozone Secretariat of the United Nations Ozone Environment Programme. 1 The Appendix lists available U.S. harmonized tariff schedule codes identifying headings and subheadings for Annex D products that may contain controlled substances. The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States uses an enumeration system to identify products imported and exported to and from the U.S. This system relies on a four digit heading, a four digit subheading and additional two digit statistical suffix to characterize products. The United States uses the suffix for its own statistical records and analyses. This Appendix lists only headings and subheadings. 1 ``A Note Regarding the Harmonized System Code Numbers for the Products Listed in Annex D.'' Adopted by Decision IV/15 paragraph 3, of the Fourth Meeting of the Parties in Copenhagen, 23&hyph;25 November, 1992. While some can be readily associated with harmonized system codes, many products cannot be tied to HS classifications unless their exact composition and the presentation are known. It should be noted that the specified HS classifications represent the most likely headings and subheadings which may contain substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol. The codes given should only be used as a starting point; further verification is needed to ascertain whether or not the products actually contain controlled substances. Category 1. Automobile and Truck Air Conditioning Units (Whether Incorporated in Vehicles or Not) There are no separate code numbers for air conditioning units specially used in automobiles and trucks. Although a code has been proposed for car air conditioners, it is not yet officially listed in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (see category 2). The following codes apply to the vehicles potentially containing air conditioning units.
