FR940721-2-00126 FR940721-2-00072 [Release No. 34&hyph;34387; File No. SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;03] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to Listing of Reduced-Value Long-Term Options on the National Over-the-Counter Index July 15, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on January 12, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PHLX'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 On March 1, 1994, the PHLX amended PHLX Rule 1001A, ``Position Limits,'' to add paragraphs (d)(i) and (ii), which describe the aggregation procedures for quarterly expiring options, reduced-value long-term Value Line Composite Index options, and reduced-value long-term National Over-the-Counter Index options. See Letter from Edith Hallahan, Special Counsel, PHLX, to Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation (``Division''), Commission, dated February 28, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). After the provisions proposed in paragraph (d)(i) were approved in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34234 (June 17, 1994), the PHLX deleted paragraph (d)(i) from the current proposal. See Letter from Edith Hallahan, Special Counsel, PHLX, to Mike Walinskas, Branch Chief, Options Regulation, Division, Commission, dated July 13, 1994 (``Amendment No. 2''). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The PHLX proposes to amend its rules to list long-term reduced-value options equal to one-tenth the value of the Exchange's current National Over-the-Counter Index (``Index'' or ``XOC''). Options on the long-term, reduced-value XOC (``reduced-value XOC'') will have expirations of up to 36 months. For aggregation purposes, 10 reduced-value long-term XOC options are the equivalent of one full-value XOC contract. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, PHLX, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the proposed Rule Change 1. Description of the Proposal Since 1985 the PHLX has been trading options on the XOC, a broad-based, capitalization-weighted index comprised of the 100 largest domestic corporations whose stocks are traded over-the-counter (``OTC'') by at least four market makers and are not listed on any exchange. 2 All of the XOC's component stocks are traded through the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (``NASDAQ'') system and are National Market Securities (``NMS''). On February 26, 1991, the Commission approved a proposed rule change, SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;90&hyph;38, allowing the Exchange to list long-term options having up to 36 months to expiration on any of the Exchange's broad-based index options. 3 2 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 22044 (May 17, 1985), 50 FR 21532 (May 24, 1985). 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28910 (February 26, 1991), 56 FR 9032 (March 4, 1991). The PHLX proposes to list long-term options on a reduced-value XOC index that would be computed at one-tenth the value of the Exchange's current XOC index. The proposed options will have expirations of up to 36 months. The PHLX believes that the listing of long-term, reduced-value XOC options will provide retail investors with the opportunity to obtain long term portfolio protection at an affordable price. 2. Composition of the Index The XOC is a capitalization-weighted index comprised of the 100 most highly capitalized NMS common stock issues traded through the NASDAQ system. The XOC, which was developed by the Exchange and is computed by Bridge Data, is comprised of stocks from approximately thirty industry groups and responds to the general market trends of the OTC market. The Index is updated every 15 seconds during the trading day. Pursuant to PHLX Rule 1100A, ``Dissemination of Information,'' updated Index values are disseminated and displayed by means of the Consolidated Last Sale Reporting System and the facilities of the Options Price Reporting Authority (``OPRA''). The closing Index value is published in The Wall Street Journal and other financial publications. 3. Index Construction and Calculation In order to keep the XOC current and representative of general market trends in the OTC market, each January and July the Exchange identifies and ranks the 125 most highly capitalized NMS common stock issues. The stocks included in the 125 ranking are compared to the issues in the Index, and issue(s) not ranked within the 100 most highly capitalized issues are deleted from the Index and replaced by the issue(s) which has increased in capitalization since the previous ranking. Thus, on a semi-annual basis, the XOC is adjusted to reflect changes in the capitalization ranking of NMS stock issues. In addition, any time a component stock registers on a national securities exchange or is the subject of a merger or acquisition, the stock is deleted from the Index and replaced by the next highest capitalized issue as identified in the most current ranking of the 125 most highly capitalized NMS issues. The Index is adjusted to reflect stock splits and dividends.
