FR940405-0-00043 FR940405-0-00004 Administrative Controls mean provisions relating to organization and management, procedures, record keeping, assessment, and reporting necessary to ensure safe operation of a facility. Contractor means any person under contract with the Department of Energy with responsibility to perform activities in connection with a nuclear facility. Department or DOE means the Department of Energy. Document means recorded information that describes, specifies, reports, certifies, requires, or provides data or results. A document is not considered a record until it meets the definition of record. Fissionable materials means a nuclide capable of sustaining a neutron-induced fission chain reaction (e.g., uranium-233, uranium-235, plutonium-238, plutonium-239, plutonium-241, neptunium-237, americium-241, and curium-244). Graded Approach means a process by which the level of analysis, documentation, and actions necessary to comply with a requirement in this Part are commensurate with: (1) The relative importance to safety, safeguards, and security; (2) The magnitude of any hazard involved; (3) The life cycle stage of a facility; (4) The programmatic mission of a facility; (5) The particular characteristics of a facility; and (6) Any other relevant factor. Hazard means a source of danger (i.e., material, energy source, or operation) with the potential to cause illness, injury, or death to personnel or damage to a facility or to the environment (without regard to the likelihood or credibility of accident scenarios or consequence mitigation). Implementation Plan means a document prepared by a contractor that sets forth: (1) When and how the actions appropriate to comply with the requirements of a section of this Part, including the requirements of a plan or program required by the section, shall be taken, and (2) What relief will be sought if a contractor cannot attain full compliance with a requirement in a reasonable manner. Item is an all-inclusive term used in place of any of the following: appurtenance, assembly, component, equipment, material, module, part, structure, subassembly, subsystem, system, unit, or support systems. Nonreactor nuclear facility means those activities or operations that involve radioactive and/or fissionable materials in such form and quantity that a nuclear hazard potentially exists to the employees or the general public. Incidental use and generating of radioactive materials in a facility operation (e.g., check and calibration sources, use of radioactive sources in research and experimental and analytical laboratory activities, electron microscopes, and X-ray machines) would not ordinarily require the facility to be included in this definition. Transportation of radioactive materials, accelerators and reactors and their operations are not included. The application of any rule to a nonreactor nuclear facility shall be applied using a graded approach. Included are activities or operations that: (1) Produce, process, or store radioactive liquid or solid waste, fissionable materials, or tritium; (2) Conduct separations operations;
