FR940622-0-00044 FR940622-0-00011 Response: We see no need to revise these medical record requirements of the regulation. Records must accompany an individual whether or not his or her condition is stabilized. Under §489.24(d)(2)(iii) (formerly paragraph (d)(2)(ii)), hospitals transferring unstabilized individuals must provide the receiving facility with all medical records related to the emergency condition for which the individual has presented in addition to other information required by the statute and regulations. Under the current conditions of participation for hospitals (§482.21(b)(2)), all patients, including stabilized patients being discharged from hospitals to other facilities and agencies, must be accompanied by necessary medical information. This is a routine requirement that was in place before the dumping statute was enacted. Comment: One commenter stated that in order for a receiving hospital to make an informed assessment about whether a transferring hospital has inappropriately transferred an individual, the transferring hospital should be required to send a memorandum of transfer, any consent or refusal forms signed by the patient, and reports by the doctors. Response: We agree that it would be helpful for many reasons for the receiving hospital to have the individual's medical record at the time the individual is actually transferred. The medical record usually includes doctors' reports, consent or refusal forms and transfer certifications. We are therefore amending proposed §489.24(d)(2)(ii) (now paragraph (d)(2)(iii)) to require a transferring hospital to send with the transferred individual whatever records are available at the time and place of the transfer. Comment: Four commenters wanted the regulations to specify what information is to be in the ``appropriate medical records'' and listed what they thought should be in them, including, in one case, records of previous admissions. Response: We agree with this comment, and section 6211(d)(2) of OBRA 89 amended section 1867(c)(2)(C) of the Act to address this issue. The statute now directs transferring hospitals to send receiving hospitals all medical records related to the individual's emergency condition ``available at the time of transfer'' (note next Comment and Response) and specifically lists some of the information that should be included in these records. We have, therefore, amended proposed §489.24(d)(2)(ii) (now paragraph (d)(2)(iii)) to reflect the new legislative requirements. The conditions of participation in §482.24(c) contain other Federal requirements relating to medical records. To the extent that services are performed before transfer we expect them to be reflected in the records transferred, consistent with the conditions of participation. Although it may be desirable, depending on the patient's condition, to send along records of previous admissions, the patient's transfer should not be delayed. Comment: Several commenters recommended that ``timely'' medical records be defined as those available at the time the patient is transferred. Those commenters also recommended that records, such as test results, that were not available at the time of transfer should be sent to the receiving hospital as soon as possible. Response: We agree with both points, and we have amended proposed §489.24(d)(2)(ii) (now paragraph (d)(2)(iii)) accordingly to require that a transferring hospital send with the transferred individual whatever records (including copies of results of diagnostic studies or telephone reports of the studies) are available at the time and place of the transfer. If a transfer is in an individual's best interests, it should not be delayed until records are retrieved or test results come back from the laboratory. Whatever documents are available at the time the individual is transferred should be sent to the receiving hospital with the individual. Test results that become available after the individual is transferred should be telephoned to the receiving hospital. Records that become available after the patient is transferred, such as hard copies of test results or relevant records of earlier admissions, for example, should be sent to the receiving hospital as expeditiously as possible. Comment: Two commenters wanted us to define what medical personnel may be qualified, in addition to the physician, to certify that a transfer is appropriate. Response: The regulations require hospitals to determine which of their personnel are qualified to certify, in consultation with a physician who later countersigns, that a transfer is appropriate. This decision will vary among hospitals and States as availability, qualifications, and practice limitations of a particular category of staff differ. HCFA holds the governing body of a hospital responsible for assuring that its staff functions within the bounds of State law and this and other federal health and safety regulations. Based upon these comments and section 6211(c)(2)(D) of OBRA 89, we are amending §489.24(d)(1)(ii)(C) to specify that, if a physician is not physically present in the emergency department at the time an individual is transferred, a qualified medical person may sign a certification stating that the transfer is in the individual's best interest. However, the qualified medical person may sign a transfer certification only after a physician, in consultation with the qualified medical person, has made the determination to transfer. The physician must subsequently countersign the certification. The regulation also provides that the hospital must determine who are ``other qualified medical personnel.''
