FR940622-0-00082 FR940622-0-00011 Appendix II_Posting of Signs Section 6018(a)(2) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989 (OBRA '89), effective July 1, 1990, requires hospitals and rural primary care hospitals with emergency departments to post signs which specify the rights (under section 1867 of the Social Security Act) of women in labor and individuals with emergency medical conditions to examination and treatment. To comply with these requirements: •At a minimum, the signs must specify the rights of unstable individuals with emergency conditions and women in labor who come to the emergency department for health care services; •It must indicate whether the facility participates in the Medicaid program; •The wording of the sign must be clear and in simple terms understandable by the population serviced; •Print the signs in English and other major languages that are common to the population of the area serviced; •The letters within the signs must be clearly readable at a distance of at least 20 feet or the expected vantage point of the emergency department patrons; and •Post signs in a place or places likely to be noticed by all individuals entering the emergency department, as well as those individuals waiting for examination and treatment (e.g., entrance, admitting area, waiting room, treatment area). The sample on the following page, which may be adapted for your use, contains sufficient information to satisfy these requirements. It does not, however, satisfy the visibility requirement. Appendix III_It's the Law! If You Have a Medical Emergency or Are in Labor You have the right to receive, within the capabilities of this hospital's staff and facilities: •An appropriate medical Screening Examination. •Necessary Stabilizing Treatment (including treatment for an unborn child) and if necessary. •An appropriate Transfer to another facility even if you cannot pay or do not have medical insurance or you are not entitled to Medicare or Medicaid. This hospital (does/does not) participate in the Medicaid program. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14926 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 1:43 pm] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
