FR940524-0-00018 FR940524-0-00007 33. Bidders will be held to their bids on the maximum number of licenses they are permitted to hold. If there are multiple defaults each bidder will be responsible for the difference between its bid and the amount of the next highest valid bid. Holding each bidder in a single round auction responsible for the difference between its bid and the next highest valid bid will discourage cascading defaults, without penalizing bidders for bidding on more licenses than they are permitted to hold. Losing bidders, may decline a defaulted license without penalty if such default occurs more than 30 days after the Commission releases the initial public notice announcing the winning bidders. Where a bidder defaults or is disqualified more than 30 days after the release of the initial public notice announcing the winning bidders the Commission retains the discretion to either offer the license to the bidder with the next highest valid bid at its original bid price or re-auction the license. If the Commission re-auctions the license, new applications will be accepted and the additional three percent penalty will apply. 34. Oral sequential auctions. Where oral sequential bidding is employed, the general procedures described above will be followed with one exception. Qualified bidders will be required to bring a cashier's check for the full amount of their upfront payment to the auction site. Bidders will be required to display their upfront payment check as a condition of being issued a bidder identification number and admittance to the bidder section of the auction site. After bidding closes on a particular license, the high bidder will be asked to tender its upfront payment and sign a bid confirmation form. If the high bidder declines to tender the upfront payment and/or refuses to sign the bid confirmation form, no penalty will be assessed because the license would be immediately re-auctioned. The only damage from such withdrawal would be delay. And in an oral sequential auction such delay may be minimal. The standard default penalty and the additional three percent penalty will be assessed, however, if the bidder defaults on the 20 percent down payment, fails to pay for the license or is disqualified after the close of an auction. Regulatory Safeguards 35. Unjust enrichment provisions. The transfer disclosure requirements in section 1.2111(a) of our rules, adopted in the Second Report and Order, will apply to all narrowband PCS licenses obtained through the competitive bidding process. Generally, applicants transferring their licenses within three years after the initial license grant will be required to file, together with their transfer application, the associated contracts for sale and all other documents disclosing the total consideration received in return for the transfer of its license. 36. Performance requirements. The narrowband PCS service rules contain specific performance requirements, such as the requirement to construct within a specified period of time. Failure to satisfy these construction requirements will result in forfeiture of the license. Therefore, additional performance requirements are not necessary. 37. Rules prohibiting collusion. The rules prohibiting collusion, adopted in the Second Report and Order, apply to all auctionable services including narrowband PCS. Bidders will generally be required to identify on their Form 175 applications all parties with whom they have arrangements or agreements which relate to the competitive bidding process. Bidders will also be required to provide certifications that they have entered into no other agreements. After the short-form application is filed, and prior to the down payment of a winning bid, bidders are prohibited from collaborating or discussing the substance of their bids or bidding strategies with bidders not members of a bidding consortium previously identified in the short-form application. 38. Winning bidders are required to attach as an exhibit to the Form 401 application a detailed explanation of the terms, conditions and parties in any agreement relating to the competitive bidding process. All such arrangements must have been entered into prior to the filing of short-form applications. Specific instances of collusion in the competitive bidding process may result in investigation by the FCC or referral to the United States Department of Justice for investigation. Adjudicated violations of our rules or the anti-trust laws may result in forfeiture of payments, license revocations and prohibition from participation in future auctions. Designated Entity Preferences 39. Bidding credits. In this Report and Order, we adopt specific preferences for narrowband PCS designed to ensure that designated entities are given the opportunity to participate in the competitive bidding process and the provision of narrowband PCS services. We will make a 25 percent bidding credit available to businesses owned by women and minorities bidding on the following licenses: (1) The nationwide license on Channel 5, Channel 8 and Channel 11; (2) all regional licenses on Channel 13 and Channel 17; (3) all MTA licenses on Channel 19, Channel 22, Channel 24; and (4) all BTA licenses on Channel 26. 40. Given the history of under-representation of minorities and women in telecommunications and the inability of these groups to access financing, we find that the best way we can accomplish these statutory mandates is to provide bidding credits exclusively to minority and female-owned businesses, regardless of their status as small or large entities. We think that a 25 percent bidding credit is sufficient to ensure minority and female entry. It is not so substantial, however, as to foster participation by firms that are not otherwise financially capable of building-out a narrowband PCS network. We will also monitor carefully the effectiveness of the 25 percent bidding credit in the narrowband PCS auctions and continually assess whether it is achieving the goal of ensuring that minority and women-owned firms participate successfully in auctions for this service.
