FR940527-2-00011 FR940527-2-00009 On February 25, 1994, Oxidor requested an extension of time in which to respond to the Department's Section A, B, and C deficiency letter. On February 25, 1994, we granted the extension. On March 2, 1994, petitioners submitted an allegation of sales below COP using company-specific data previously reported by Oxidor. On March 10, 1994, we published, in the Federal Register , a notice announcing the postponement of the preliminary determination until not later than May 20, 1994, pursuant to petitioners' request. On March 11, 1994, Oxidor submitted comments concerning petitioners' request for a COP investigation. On March 14, 1994, petitioners submitted a response to Oxidor's comments concerning the COP allegation. On March 15, 1994, we received Oxidor's Sections A, B, and C deficiency response. On March 16, 1994, Oxidor submitted corrections to its deficiency response. On March 17, 1994, Oxidor submitted further comments concerning petitioners' COP allegation. On March 28, 1994, petitioners responded to Oxidor's March 17, 1994 submission. On April 5, 1994, we initiated a COP investigation. On April 6, 1994, we issued a Section D questionnaire to Oxidor. On May 4, 1994, Oxidor requested an extension of time to respond to Section D of the questionnaire. On May 6, 1994, we granted the extension. On May 10, 1994, Oxidor submitted its response to Section D of the questionnaire. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales of PA from Venezuela to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (``USP'') to the foreign market value (``FMV''), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price For sales by Oxidor directly from Venezuela to the United States, we based USP on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold to unrelated purchasers in the United States prior to importation and because exporter's sales price methodology was not otherwise indicated. We calculated purchase price based on packed prices to unrelated customers. In accordance with section 772(d)(2)(A) of the Act, we made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, foreign inland insurance, foreign brokerage and handling (which Oxidor reported as commission expenses), ocean freight and other miscellaneous handling fees. We made an adjustment to USP for the tax paid on the comparison sales in Venezuela. In this investigation, there is one tax, the Impuesto al Valor Agregado (IVA), which is a value-added tax (VAT), levied on sales of the subject merchandise in the home market, beginning on October 1, 1993. Sales invoiced prior to October 1, 1993, are not subject to the IVA. The IVA is a fixed percentage rate tax of ten percent of the gross unit price. We have only performed the tax calculations on U.S. sales invoiced on or after October 1, 1993, compared to home market sales invoiced on or after October 1, 1993. (See ``Concurrence Memorandum: Preliminary Determination in the Antidumping Duty Investigation of Phthalic Anhydride from Venezuela,'' dated May 17, 1994, on file in room B&hyph;099 of the main Commerce Department Building, 14th and Constitution, NW., Washington, DC 20230.) On October 7, 1993, the Court of International Trade (CIT), in Federal-Mogul Corp. and The Torrington Co. v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 (CIT, October 7, 1993), rejected the Department's methodology for calculating an addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act to account for taxes that the exporting country would have assessed on the merchandise had it been sold in the home market. The CIT held that the addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act should be the result of applying the foreign market tax rate to the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. Federal-Mogul, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 at 12. The Department has changed its methodology in accordance with the Federal-Mogul decision, and has applied this new methodology in making the preliminary determination in this investigation. We have added to USP the product of the foreign market tax rate and the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. We have also deducted from the USP and the FMV those portions of the foreign market tax and the USP tax adjustment attributable to expenses included in the foreign market and United States bases of the tax if those expenses are later deducted to calculate FMV and USP. These adjustments to the foreign market tax and the USP tax adjustment are necessary to prevent the methodology for calculating the USP tax adjustment from creating antidumping duty margins where no margins would exist if no taxes were levied upon foreign market sales. This margin creation effect is due to the fact that the basis for calculating both the amount of tax included in the price of the foreign market merchandise and the amount of the USP tax adjustment include many expenses that are later deducted when calculating USP and FMV. After these deductions are made, the tax included in FMV and the USP tax adjustment still reflect the inclusion of these expenses in the bases. Thus, a margin may be created that is not dependent upon a difference between USP and FMV, but is the result of the price of the United States merchandise containing greater expenses than the price of the foreign market merchandise. This adjustment to avoid the margin creation effect is in accordance with the United States Court of Appeals' holding that the application of the USP tax adjustment under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act should not create an antidumping duty margin if pre-tax FMV does not exceed USP. Zenith Electronics Corp. v. United States, 988 F.2d 1573, 1581 (Fed. Cir. 1993). In addition, the CIT has specifically held that an adjustment should be made to mitigate the impact of expenses that are deducted from FMV and USP upon the USP tax adjustment and the amount of tax included in FMV. Daewoo Electronics Co., Ltd. v. United States, 760 F. Supp. 200, 208 (CIT, 1991). However, the mechanics of the Department's adjustments to the USP tax adjustment and the foreign market tax amount as described above are not identical to those suggested in Daewoo . Foreign Market Value In order to determine whether there were sufficient sales of PA in the home market to serve as a viable basis for calculating FMV, we compared the volume of home market sales of PA to the volume of third country sales of PA in accordance with section 773(a)(1)(B) of the Act. Based on this comparison, we determine that Oxidor had a viable home market with respect to sales of PA during the POI. Petitioners alleged that Oxidor was selling in the home market at prices below COP. Based on petitioners' allegation, we initiated a COP investigation, and requested data on Oxidor's production costs. Oxidor's cost data was not submitted in time to be considered for the preliminary determination. However, Oxidor's submitted cost data will be examined at verification and will be analyzed for purposes of our final determination.
