FR940720-2-00151 FR940720-2-00085 [Release No. IC&hyph;20405; File No. 812&hyph;8994] First North American Life Assurance Company, et al. July 13, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: First North American Life Assurance Company (``First North American''), FNAL Variable Account (``Variable Account''), NASL Financial Services, Inc. (``NASL Financial'') and Wood Logan Associates Inc. (``Wood Logan''). Relevant 1940 Act Sections: Exemption requested under Section 6(c) from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2). SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to the extent necessary to permit the deduction from the assets of the Variable Account of a mortality and expense risks charge imposed under certain flexible purchase payment individual deferred variable annuity contracts. FILING DATE: The application was filed on May 19, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested person may request a hearing on this application by writing to the Secretary of the SEC and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m., on August 8, 1994 and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of Service. Notification of the date of a hearing may be requested by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20549. Applicants: Kenneth H. Conrad, First North American Life Assurance Company, Corporate Center at Rye, 555 Theodore Fremd Avenue, Rye, New York 10580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joyce M. Pickholz, Senior Counsel, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. First North American, a wholly owned subsidiary of North American Security Life Insurance Company (``Security Life''), is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of New York in 1992. Security Life is a wholly owned subsidiary of North American Life Assurance Company. First North American is the depositor of the Variable Account. The Variable Account is registered under the Act as a unit investment trust and was established under New York law to offer certain variable annuity contracts, including the variable annuity contracts described in the application (the ``Contracts''). The Variable Account is divided into sub-accounts which invest in corresponding portfolios of NASL Series Trust (the ``Trust''). 2. NASL Financial, a wholly owned subsidiary of Security Life, is the principal underwriter of the Contracts. It is a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``1934 Act'') and a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. NASL Financial also serves as investment adviser to the Trust and is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. 3. Wood Logan, a Connecticut corporation registered as a broker-dealer under the 1934 Act, serves as the exclusive promotional agent for the Contracts. 4. The Contracts are flexible purchase payment individual deferred variable annuity contracts which will provide for the accumulation of values and the payment of annuity benefits on a fixed or variable basis. The Contracts are designed for use in connection with retirement plans which may or may not qualify for special income tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 5. Prior to the maturity date, First North American will, on the last day of each contract year, deduct from the accumulated value of each Contract an annual administration fee of $30. This annual administration fee will also be deducted when a Contract is surrendered on any date other than a contract anniversary. However, if prior to the maturity date the contract value exceeds $100,000 at the time of the fee's assessment, the fee will be waived. During the annuity period, the fee is deducted on a pro-rata basis from each annuity payment. In addition, First North American will deduct from the sub-accounts each valuation period an administration charge equal to .15% of the sub-account assets on an annualized basis. These fees are intended to compensate First North American for the cost of providing administrative services attributable to the Contracts and the operations of the Variable Account and the Company in connection with the Contracts. The fees are based upon First North American's current estimates of the administrative costs attributable to the Contracts over their lifetime and are not designed or expected to generate a profit. These fees are guaranteed never to be increased. Applicants will rely on Rule 26a&hyph;1 under the Act for the necessary exemptive relief to charge such fees.
