FR941012-1-00066 FR941012-1-00012 Tellurium metal was listed on the basis of a study (Lenchenko and Plotko (1969)) which reported an LD 50 (median lethal dose, the dose that killed 50 percent of the test animals) oral toxicity of 20 mg/kg of body weight. As explained in the November 17, 1986 (51 FR 41574) Federal Register notice, EPA listed a substance as an extremely hazardous substance if oral studies showed an LD 50 of less than or equal to 25 mg per kilogram (kg) of body weight. The petitioner brought to the Agency's attention that the study was actually on sodium tellurate (CAS # 10102&hyph;20&hyph;2; already listed as an EHS) and not on tellurium metal. The petitioner also provided a study (Prinsen (1991)) which showed an LD 50 for tellurium metal in excess of 5000 mg/kg. Based upon this information, the Agency is proposing to remove tellurium from the EHS listing while maintaining the listing for sodium tellurate. The Agency requests comments on whether it should proceed to delist these four chemicals based upon this information or any additional information submitted by commenters relating to whether these chemicals meet the section 302 listing criteria. HULs America, Inc. submitted a petition to delist isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI). EPA is denying the petition to delist because IPDI meets the criteria for listing, as discussed in the next Unit on Petition Denials. However, in considering this petition, EPA noted that the threshold planning quantity had been determined based on IPDI's being a reactive solid at standard temperatures, when in fact it is a liquid and not highly reactive. Accordingly, EPA is proposing to change the threshold planning quantity for IPDI based on the methodology for determining threshold planning quantities for liquids instead of the methodology for reactive solids. EPA's methodology for establishing threshold planning quantities for liquids, once it is determined that the substance meets the listing criteria, consists of initially determining the maximum short term exposure concentration in air that would not lead to serious irreversible health effects in the general population when exposed to the substance for relatively short duration. This is the so-called ``level of concern.'' (See the Threshold Planning Quantities Technical Support Document, April 7, 1987.) There are two ways to determine a ``level of concern.'' If it is available for a chemical, EPA may use the Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health (IDLH) level established by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). This is the maximum concentration of a substance in air to which a healthy worker can be exposed for 30 minutes and escape without suffering irreversible health effects or impairing symptoms. If the IDLH value is not available, as is the case for most of the EHSs, the EPA uses an IDLH equivalent value using available toxicity data with an adjustment factor to estimate the IDLH value. For the initial TPQ for IPDI the LC 50 of 0.12 mg/l over a 4 hour exposure period was multiplied by 0.1 to estimate the IDLH value. The level of concern is then divided by a factor ``V'' which represents the extent to which the material can volatilize and become airborne and dispersed. This is explained in the November 17, 1986 Federal Register notice at 51 FR 41577. For liquids this involves knowing the molecular weight and vapor pressure. The derivation of the factor ``V'' for liquids is explained in Appendix 1 of the November 17, 1986 Federal Register notice for the interim final rule (51 FR 41580). The final threshold planning quantity is then determined from a set of index values. The index values and their corresponding threshold planning quantities are found in the threshold planning quantity technical support document. Applying this methodology to IPDI gives it a threshold planning quantity of 1000 pounds. The calculations for this determination are found in the administrative record for this petition. EPA is, thus, proposing to raise the threshold planning quantity for IPDI from 100 to 1000 pounds. III. Petition Denials
