FR941128-1-00021 FR941128-1-00003 IV. Regulatory Impact Assessment As explained elsewhere, the Agency considers the new language a clarification of the existing standard, and not a new burden on employers. Therefore, the Agency believes no new costs are implied by this modification. V. Federalism This proposed amendment has been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12612 (52 FR 31685, October 30, 1987) regarding Federalism. This order requires that agencies, to the extent possible, refrain from limiting State policy options and consult with States prior to taking any action. Agencies may act only when there is clear constitutional authority and the presence of a problem of national scope. The order provides for preemption of State law only if there is a clear congressional intent for the Agency to do so. Any such preemption is to be limited to the extent possible. Section 18 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 expresses Congress' clear intent to preempt State laws relating to issues on which Federal OSHA has promulgated occupational safety and health standards. Under the OSHA Act, a State can avoid preemption only if it submits, and obtains Federal approval of, a plan for the development of such standards and their enforcement. Occupational safety and health standards developed by such Plan-States must, among other things, be at least as effective in providing safe and healthful employment and places of employment as Federal Standards. Where such standards are applicable to products distributed or used in interstate commerce, they may not unduly burden commerce and must be justified by compelling local conditions (See Section 18(c)(2) of the OSHA Act). This proposed rule is drafted so that employees in every State will be protected by general, performance-oriented standards. To the extent that there are State or regional peculiarities caused by the terrain, the climate or other factors, States would be able, under the OSHA Act, to develop their own State standards to deal with any special problems. And, under the Act, if a State develops an approved State program, it could make additional requirements in its standards. Moreover, the performance nature of this standard, of and by itself, allows for flexibility by States and employers to provide as much safety as possible using varying methods consonant with conditions in each State. In short, there is a clear national problem related to occupational safety and health concerning entry into permit-required confined spaces. Those States which elect to participate under the statute would not be preempted by this regulation and would be able to address special, local conditions within the framework provided by this performance-oriented standard. VI. Public Participation Written Comments: Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments with respect to this proposal. These comments must be postmarked by (February 27, 1995, in the Federal Register ) and submitted to the Docket Office, Docket S&hyph;019A, room N2634, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Written submissions must clearly identify the issues or specific provisions of the proposal which are addressed and the position taken with respect to each issue or provision. The data, views and arguments that are submitted will be available for public inspection and copying at the above address. All timely submissions received will be made a part of the record of this proceeding. Hearing Requests: Additionally, under section 6(b)(3) of the OSHA Act and 29 CFR 1911.11, interested persons may file objections to the proposed amendment and request an informal hearing. The objections and hearing request should be submitted to the Docket Office at the above address and must comply with the following conditions: 1. The objections and hearing requests must include the name and address of the objector; 2. The objections and hearing requests must be postmarked on or before February 27, 1995; 3. The objections and hearing requests must specify with particularity the provisions of the proposed amendment to which objection is taken and must state the grounds therefore; 4. Each objection and hearing request must be separately stated and numbered, and; 5. The objections and hearing requests must be accompanied by a detailed summary of the evidence proposed to be adduced at the requested hearing. VII. State Plan States The 25 States and territories with their own OSHA-approved occupational safety and health plans must adopt a comparable amended standard within six months of the publication date of a final standard. These 25 States and territories are: Alaska, Arizona, California, Connecticut (for State and local government employees only), Hawaii, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, New York (for state and local government employees only), North Carolina, Oregon, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Virgin Islands, Washington and Wyoming. Until such time as a State standard is promulgated, Federal OSHA will provide interim enforcement assistance, as appropriate, in these states. VIII. List of Subjects in 29 CFR Part 1910 Confined spaces, Monitoring, Occupational safety and health, Personal protective equipment, Rescue equipment, Retrieval lines, Safety. IX. Authority This document was prepared under the direction of Joseph A. Dear, Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. Accordingly, pursuant to sections 4, 6(b) and 8 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 653, 655, 657), Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1&hyph;90 (55 FR 9033) and 29 CFR part 1911, OSHA proposes to amend ยง1910.146 of 29 CFR as set forth below. Signed at Washington, D.C. this 21st day of November 1994. Joseph A. Dear, Assistant Secretary of Labor.
