FR940622-0-00034 FR940622-0-00011 For services provided to CHAMPVA patients, inpatient hospital services are being reimbursed through the CHAMPUS DRG-based payment system with, we expect, similar results. With regard to VA beneficiaries, for admissions on or after November 23, 1990, hospital reimbursements are being made in accordance with the regulations published on October 24, 1990 (55 FR 42848) concerning the payment methodology and amounts that the VA provides for those hospitals that furnish inpatient hospital care to veterans whose care has been authorized or will be sponsored by the VA. As noted in section I.B. of this preamble, this rule was developed jointly by VA and HHS, and the VA payment system conforms to Medicare's inpatient hospital prospective payment system in most cases. Comment: One commenter believes that, at a minimum, disproportionate share providers should receive special protection. He stated that since Congress recognized that additional Medicare payments under the prospective payment system should be made to hospitals that admit a disproportionate share of low-income patients, a similar disproportionate share status may be necessary to protect Medicare providers located in areas surrounding military bases or other military installations. Response: The preamble to the final rule implementing the CHAMPUS DRG-Based Payment System (52 FR 32992) provides information to suggest that there should not be a disproportionate number of CHAMPUS beneficiaries seeking care in Medicare participating hospitals (civilian hospitals). Specifically, when discussing ``emergency treatment'' (page 32996, first column), it states that ``*␣*␣*all CHAMPUS beneficiaries who live within catchment areas of military treatment facilities (MTFs) are required to first seek inpatient care at the MTF before going to a civilian hospital*␣*␣*'' The catchment area is defined as within 40 miles of an MTF. On the other hand, however, we have been informed that CHAMPVA beneficiaries are not eligible for care in MTFs; therefore, they must use either VA or civilian hospitals. We believe the payment rates under CHAMPUS are adequate to pay for treatment of its enrolled population. If the commenter believes otherwise he should furnish the VA with data on this matter and present detailed findings to support the need for a suggested adjustment to payment rates. Comment: Two commenters stated that these regulations should not be imposed until the joint regulations are issued and thereafter should be prospective in nature only. Response: The joint regulations to which the statute refers are regulations establishing payment procedures and amounts, not regulations requiring participation. Such regulations have already been published (55 FR 42848 for VA and 52 FR 32992 for CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA). In addition, we consulted on these regulations with pertinent members of OCHAMPUS and VA before publication; thus, these regulations are also a joint action. They are also prospective, not retroactive. B. Discharge Rights Notice Twenty-five commenters addressed the hospital discharge rights notice. These comments were from a physician, citizen organizations, professional organizations, hospital associations, a consultant group, and hospitals. Comment: Three commenters suggested alternatives to the notice, including the posting of signs in the hospital, sending a copy of the notice with each beneficiary's social security check, and having the hospital mail the notice to the beneficiary before his or her admission to the hospital. Response: We do not believe that most of these methods would serve the purpose Congress intended. Posting a sign could still result in many, if not most, beneficiaries not noticing it at all; a mass mailing would be untimely for most patients and thus subject to being ignored. Moreover, the law requires that the notice be furnished by the hospital. Finally, many admissions are not planned or occur with little advance notice; so, having the hospital mail the statement before admission would be a viable method of informing some but not all beneficiaries of their discharge rights on a timely basis. We note, however, that hospitals may choose this approach with patients whose admissions are planned in advance. Comment: One commenter stated that the public had not had adequate opportunity to participate in developing the discharge rights statement. Response: Section 1866(a)(1)(M) of the Act requires a Medicare participating hospital to furnish a statement concerning discharge rights to each Medicare beneficiary.
