FR941019-1-00005 FR941019-1-00001 Further, undesirable events continue to occur during shutdown operations. Recent operating experiences during shutdown include (1) entry into midloop operation with a degraded RHR pump at a PWR on December 11, 1993, (2) the discovery of a large, undetected nitrogen gas bubble in the RCS during extended cold shutdown at a PWR on December 17, 1993, (3) a hydrogen burn in an empty pressurizer caused by welding activities during cold shutdown at a PWR on February 3, 1994, and (4) the loss of one train of RHR 2 days after shutdown due to outage activities at a BWR on March 17, 1994. These recent events reinforce the previous assessment of shutdown operations documented in NUREG&hyph;1449. Industry Work The industry has addressed outage planning and control with programs that include workshops, Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) inspections, Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) support, as well as enhanced training and procedures. One activity (a formal initiative proposed by the Nuclear Management and Resources Council (NUMARC)) has produced for the utilities a set of guidelines to use for self-assessment of shutdown operations (NUMARC 91&hyph;06). 2 This high-level guidance addresses many, but not all, of the areas in outage planning that need improvement. Detailed guidance on developing an outage planning program is outside the scope of the NUMARC effort. The NRC staff believes that NUMARC 91&hyph;06 represents a significant and constructive step, effects of which have already been realized by many utilities using the draft guidance in recent outages. 3 For example, on the basis of its review of operating experience and pilot team inspections, the staff observed that industry efforts and improvements have been made which should reduce risk in the shutdown and low-power operations area. Some licensees were observed to have in-depth contingency planning for backup cooling; other licensees were found to have well-planned and tightly conducted outages run by outage-experienced, operationally oriented personnel; and other licensees had developed well-defined strategies and procedures for plant and hardware configurations, including fuel offload, midloop operation in PWRs, use of nozzle dams in PWRs, venting in PWRs, electrical equipment, onsite sources of ac power, containment status and control, and such key instrumentation as RCS temperature, reactor water level, and RCS pressure. Further, industry s defense-in-depth concept for safety functions and outage strategy contained in NUMARC 91&hyph;06 have been recognized as excellent self-improvements in the shutdown and low-power operations area. However, implementation of these efforts and improvements has been unevenly and inconsistently applied, as observed at several site inspections conducted by the staff. 2 These guidelines serve as the basis for an industry-wide program that has been implemented at all plants. 3 NUMARC 91&hyph;06 is available from Nuclear Energy Institute, 1776 Eye Street NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20006&hyph;3708.
