FR940627-0-00209 FR940627-0-00019 ( 3 ) Separate non-baseline gasoline groups shall also be defined for gasoline formulations derived from each particular non-conventional petroleum source or process. ( i ) Such groups may include, but are not limited to, the following: coal-derived gasoline formulations; chemically-synthesized gasoline formulations (including those using recycled chemical/petrochemical products); tar sand-derived gasoline formulations; shale-derived gasoline formulations; and other types of soil-recovered products used in formulating gasolines. ( ii ) In any such group, the first product to be registered or to apply for EPA registration shall be the representative of that group. If two or more such products are registered or apply for first registration simultaneously, then the representative shall be chosen by a random method from among such candidate products. ( 4 ) Pursuant to ยง79.51(i), non-baseline gasoline products may belong to more than one fuel/additive group. (B) Non-Baseline Diesel . The Non-Baseline diesel fuels and associated additives shall sort into groups according to the following criteria: ( 1 ) For diesel fuel and additive products which contain 1.0 percent oxygen by weight or more, a separate non-baseline diesel group shall be defined by each individual alcohol or ether listed as a component in the registration application or basic registration data of any such fuel or additive. For each such group, the representative to be used in testing shall be a formulation consisting of the diesel base fuel blended with the relevant alcohol or ether in an amount equivalent to the highest actual or recommended concentration-in-use of the alcohol or ether recorded in the basic registration data of any member fuel or additive product. ( 2 ) A separate non-baseline diesel group is also defined for each of the following classes of oxygenating compounds: mixed nitroso- compounds; mixed nitro- compounds; mixed alkyl nitrates; mixed alkyl nitrites; peroxides; furans; mixed alkyl esters of plant origin; and mixed alkyl esters of animal origin. For each such group, the representative to be used in testing shall be formulated as follows: ( i ) From the class of compounds which defines the group, a particular oxygenate compound shall be chosen from among all such compounds recorded in the registration application or basic registration data of any fuel or additive in the group. ( ii ) The selected compound shall be the one recorded in any member product's registration application with the highest actual or recommended maximum concentration-in-use. This compound, when mixed into the diesel base fuel at the indicated maximum concentration, shall serve as the group representative. ( iii ) In the event that two or more oxygenate compounds in the relevant class have the highest recorded concentration-in-use, then the oxygenate compound to be used in the group representative shall be chosen at random from the qualifying candidate compounds. ( 3 ) A separate non-baseline diesel group shall also be defined for each diesel fuel derived from a particular synthetic petroleum source or process. ( i ) Such groups include, but shall not be limited to, the following: coal-derived diesel formulations; chemically-synthesized diesel formulations (including those using recycled chemical/petrochemical products); tar sand-derived diesel formulations; shale-derived diesel formulations; and other types of soil-recovered products used in formulating diesel fuel(s). ( ii ) In any such group, the first product to be registered or to apply for EPA registration shall be the representative of that group. If two or more products are registered or apply for first registration simultaneously, then the representative shall be chosen by a random method from among such candidate products. ( 4 ) Pursuant to ยง79.51(i), non-baseline diesel products may belong to more than one fuel/additive group. (C) Non-Baseline Methanol . The Non-Baseline methanol formulations are sorted into groups based on the non-methanol, non-gasoline component(s) of the blended fuel. Each such component occurring separately and each unique combination of such components shall define a separate group. ( 1 ) The representative of each such non-baseline methanol group shall be the group member with the highest percent by volume of non-methanol, non-gasoline component(s). ( 2 ) In case two or more such members have the same and highest concentration of non-methanol, non-gasoline component(s), the representative of the group shall be chosen at random from among such equivalent member products. (D) Non-Baseline Ethanol . The Non-Baseline ethanol formulations are sorted into groups based on the non-ethanol, non-gasoline component(s) of the blended fuel. Each such component occurring separately and each unique combination of such components shall define a separate group. ( 1 ) The representative of each such non-baseline ethanol group shall be the group member with the highest percent by volume of non-ethanol, non-gasoline component(s). ( 2 ) In case two or more such members have the same and highest concentration of non-ethanol, non-gasoline component(s), the representative of the group shall be chosen at random from among such equivalent member products.
