FR940907-2-00109 FR940907-2-00078 The Phlx believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and, in particular, with Section 6(b)(5), in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, by furthering the purposes of Rule 203 which, in turn, should foster a fair and orderly market in Exchange traded securities. III. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Sections 6(b), 6(d), 11(b) and 19(d). 11 In particular, the Commission believes the proposed advice is consistent with the Section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. The Commission also believes that the proposed advice is consistent with the requirement of Section 11(b), and Rule 11b&hyph;1 thereunder, 12 that specialist transactions must contribute to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. 11 15 U.S.C. §§78f(b), 78f(d), 78k(b) and 78s(d) (1988). 12 17 CFR 240.11b&hyph;1 (1991). The Commission historically has been concerned that the practice of stopping stock may compromise the specialist's fiduciary duty to unexecuted customer orders on the limit order book. 13 The Commission, however, has approved the practice in limited circumstances where the potential harm is offset by gains to the specialist's market making function and by the possibility of price improvement. 14 Accordingly, those exchanges with stopping stock rules 15 require their specialists to reduce the spread between the consolidated best bid and offer or, in a minimum variation market, to add size at the inside quote. The Commission believes that such a requirement strikes an appropriate balance between the interests of various market participants. Moreover, by encouraging accurate representation of the trading interest held by the specialist, it also facilitates greater transparency in the securities markets. In the Commission's opinion, such safeguards are a critical aspect of an exchange's stopping stock rule. 13 See, e.g., SEC, Report of the Special Study of the Securities Markets of the Securities and Exchange Commission, H.R. Doc. No. 95, 88th Cong., 1st Sess. Pt 2 (1963). When stock is stopped, book orders on the opposite side of the market that are entitled to immediate execution lose their priority. If the stopped order then receives an improved price, limit orders at the stop price are bypassed and, if the market turns away from that limit, may never be executed. Book orders on the same side of the market are bypassed when a stopped order receives an execution at an improved price before existing limit orders at that price. 14 See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28999 (March 21, 1991), 56 FR 12964 (March 28, 1991) (File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;90&hyph;48) (approving proposed rule change to permit New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') specialists to stop stock in minimum variation markets when (1) an imbalance exists on the opposite side of the market and (2) such imbalance is of sufficient size to suggest the likelihood of price improvement). In approving the NYSE proposal, the Commission found, among other things, that a stopped order is the equivalent of a limit order for purposes of Section 11(b) of the Act. 15 See NYSE Rule 116.30; American Stock Exchange (``Amex'') Rule 109; and Article XX, Rule 12 of the Chicago Stock Exchange (``CHX'') Rules. A Boston Stock Exchange (``BSE'') proposal to adopt a stopping stock rule currently is pending with the Commission. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34569 (August 22, 1994) (File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;09). After careful review of Advice A&hyph;2, the Commission has concluded that the proposed rule change should help ensure that specialists handle stopped orders in a manner which is consistent with their obligation to maintain fair and orderly markets. 16 Under the proposed advice, a specialist who stops an order will, except as discussed below, be required to display a representative size of that order in his or her market. As a practical matter, the Phlx has indicated that the specialist must reduce the spread between the consolidated best bid and offer or, in a minimum variation market, add size at the inside quote. 17 The Commission therefore is satisfied that proposed Advice A&hyph;2 should increase the likelihood that a customer whose order is stopped will receive price improvement and result in narrower and/or deeper markets. This, in turn, should enhance the liquidity and transparency of the market for securities traded on the Phlx. 16 See Phlx Rule 203. 17 For further discussion of procedures by which the specialist must implement the advice's requirements, including the maintenance of auction market procedures, see supra, note 8 and accompanying text. The Commission finds that it is reasonable for the Phlx to allow its specialists to execute an order immediately after granting a stop, so long as the specialist does not use this discretion to circumvent his or her market marking responsibilities. Because such circumvention would raise serious regulatory concerns, the Commission expects the Phlx to monitor compliance with Advice A&hyph;2 and to take appropriate action if it finds that stopped stock not executed immediately is not then displayed in the manner indicated in the Phlx proposal. 18 18 See supra, note 8 and accompanying text. Finally, the Commission notes that Advice A&hyph;2's yielding and due diligence requirements merely codify how the fundamental principles of an agency auction market apply in the context of stopped stock. In this regard, the Commission agrees with the Phlx that the advice will provide specialists with a ``ready reminder'' of their responsibilities, thereby deterring potential violations of Commission and Exchange rules. Although the Commission has concluded that Advice A&hyph;2's requirements are consistent with the Act, the Commission believes further action could be taken to ensure proper handling of stopped stock. Specifically, the Commission expects the Phlx to submit a proposed rule change to complement its floor procedure advice. In developing such a rule, the Phlx should consider including the following elements: a definition of an agreement to ``stop'' stock and the obligations of the member who agrees to grant the stop; the market conditions under which a stop should be granted; a policy for the execution of stopped stock and, in particular, for determining the price at which the order should be executed; and pilot procedures for minimum variation markets that are consistent with the rules of priority, parity and precedence. 19 19 The Commission has approved NYSE, Amex and CHX procedures for stopping stock in a minimum variation market on a pilot basis until March 21, 1995. In addition, the Commission finds that the proposed amendments to the MRVE Plan are consistent with the Section 6(b)(6) requirement that the rules of an exchange provide that its members and persons associated with its members shall be appropriately disciplined for violations of rules of the exchange. In this regard, the proposal provides an efficient procedure for appropriate disciplining of members for a rule violation that is technical and objective in nature. Moreover, because the MRVE Plan provides procedural rights to the person fined and permits a disciplined person to request a full hearing on the matter, the proposal provides a fair procedure for the disciplining of members and persons associated with members, consistent with Sections 6(b)(7) and 6(d)(1) of the Act.
