FR940228-1-00068 FR940228-1-00010 It should be noted that because the statute specifies both the amount of work expected to be completed and the minimum timeframe for an academic year for use in the Title IV, HEA programs, an institution might need to prorate or adjust Title IV, HEA program assistance for its students. For example, if the span of time from the first scheduled class at the beginning of the school year until the last examination at the end of the school year (excluding any weeks that consist exclusively of vacation time and all other activities not directly related to instruction, preparation for examinations or examinations) is twenty-five weeks, the institution would need to make adjustments in accordance with individual program regulations. Because summer sessions generally would not be long enough to constitute the equivalent of a complete semester or quarter, as they are under various current program regulations, Title IV, HEA program funds awarded for summer sessions would need to be adjusted to reflect the lengths of the sessions. A comprehensive discussion of the potential effect of this new definition of academic year on Federal Pell Grant calculations may be found in the NPRM on the Federal Pell Grant Program to be published shortly. Full-Time Student The Secretary believes it is necessary to have a definition of full-time student that is applicable to all Title IV, HEA programs. A definition of full-time student is needed because the definition of academic year is based, in part, on the workload of a full-time student, and because the term is used elsewhere for other purposes in part 668. The Secretary has proposed a definition of full-time student that would be based on a slightly modified definition found in the Federal Pell Grant and the campus-based program regulations. This definition also would incorporate parts of the definition of full-time student found in the FFEL program regulations. Generally, the Secretary proposes to define a full-time student as an enrolled student who is carrying a full-time academic workload (other than by correspondence) as determined by the institution under a standard applicable to all students enrolled in a particular educational program. In determining a student's workload, an institution would be permitted to include combinations of courses, work, research, or special studies that the institution considers sufficient to classify the student as a full-time student. Under this proposal, for an undergraduate student, an institution's minimum standard must equal or exceed: (1) 12 semester hours or 12 quarter hours per academic term in an educational program using a semester, trimester, or quarter system; (2) 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours per academic year for an educational program using credit hours but not using a semester, trimester, or quarter system (or the prorated equivalent for a program of less than one academic year); or (3) 24 clock hours per week for an educational program using clock hours. This definition also provides for a method for determining full-time status for students enrolled in an educational program using both credit and clock hours. In order to evaluate the combined workload of the student, an institution could determine full-time status based on the sum of the proportionate workload carried in terms of credit hours and the proportionate workload carried in terms of clock hours. Further, an undergraduate student could be considered a full-time student if he or she undertakes a series of courses or seminars that equals at least 12 semester hours or 12 quarter hours in a maximum of 18 weeks. For cooperative education programs, an undergraduate student could be considered a full-time student if the work portion of a cooperative education program in which the amount of work performed is equivalent to the academic workload of a full-time student. The Secretary is particularly interested in establishing a minimum standard for a full-time academic workload for students who receive funds under the FFEL programs. Currently, for the purpose of those programs, an institution determines what a full-time academic workload is for these students. The Secretary recognizes that, because no minimum requirement for an academic workload of a full-time student exists under the FFEL programs, there is the potential for abuse of FFEL program funds through the use of the definition of an academic year. For example, an institution might have educational programs that are measured in credit hours and do not use academic terms. The institution could claim that it offers a full academic year's worth of work over a thirty-week period by giving a full-time student a small amount of instruction, which the institution claims to be equivalent to 24 semester or 36 quarter hours. This situation would result in the receipt of an inordinately large amount of FFEL program funds for the amount of work actually accomplished. The Secretary requests comments on whether, to further address this potential abuse, he should also establish a weekly minimum full-time workload for educational programs that are measured in credit hours but do not use academic terms.
