FR940603-1-00030 FR940603-1-00007 Original qualifying length means the registered length of an original qualifying vessel that appears on the most recently submitted application for U.S. Coast Guard Certificate of Documentation prior to June 24, 1992, or State of Alaska documentation if the vessel is not required to and does not have a U.S. Coast Guard Certificate of Documentation. Original qualifying vessel means a U.S. vessel that made a qualifying landing. Person means any individual who is a citizen of the United States or any corporation, partnership, association, or other entity (or their successor in interest), whether or not organized or existing under the laws of any state, that is a United States citizen. Qualifying landing means the legal landing of any amount of a moratorium species during the qualifying period. Qualifying period means the period of time from January 1, 1980, through February 9, 1992. Vessel reconstruction means an adjustment in the LOA of a vessel. Vessel reconstruction begins and ends with the start and completion of the physical modification of the vessel. ยง676.3 Issuance of vessel permits. This section is effective from [date 30 days from date of publication of final rule in the Federal Register ], through December 31, 1997. (a) Applicability. Except for the exemptions to the vessel moratorium listed in ยง676.4, the moratorium applies to all catcher vessels and catcher/processor vessels that apply for the following permits or licenses: (1) To commercially harvest king or Tanner crab in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area under 50 CFR 671.4; (2) To harvest groundfish of the Gulf of Alaska management area under 50 CFR 672.4; (3) To harvest groundfish of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area under 50 CFR 675.4; and (4) To commercially harvest Pacific halibut from Convention waters that are in and off the State of Alaska under 50 CFR part 301. (b) Eligibility criteria. In order for a vessel to receive a vessel permit or license during the moratorium, the vessel must have made a qualifying landing, and the maximum LOA for the vessel must be greater than or equal to the LOA of the vessel. (1) Transfer of moratorium qualification. Moratorium qualification may be transferred from a vessel to another vessel or to a person, or from a person to another person or to a vessel. The maximum LOA for the vessel must be transferred with the moratorium qualification. The transfer of moratorium qualification will be authorized under the following conditions: (i) The owner of the moratorium qualification must submit a written application to NMFS for the transfer of moratorium qualification that must include a copy of a written contract that contains the following information: (A) Names and addresses of all persons taking part in the transfer; (B) Vessel names, U.S. Coast Guard identification numbers of any vessels taking part in the transfer, and the LOA of all vessels taking part in the transfer; (C) A statement describing the transfer of the moratorium qualification; and (D) Signatures and dates when signed by all persons taking part in the transfer. (ii) The vessel transferring moratorium qualification must surrender to NMFS all valid permits or licenses to harvest moratorium species and the vessel must not harvest any moratorium species for the remainder of the moratorium unless the vessel subsequently receives moratorium qualification from another vessel; (iii) NMFS must give written approval to a vessel owner of any transfer of the moratorium qualification prior to receipt by the vessel of moratorium qualification and any harvesting of moratorium species. (iv) NMFS must give written approval to a person that has received the transfer of moratorium qualification before the transfer will be authorized. (2) Adjustment to maximum LOA through reconstruction. The maximum LOA for a vessel may be adjusted through vessel reconstruction under the following conditions: (i) If vessel reconstruction was completed before June 24, 1992, the LOA of the reconstructed vessel will be the new original qualifying length for the vessel, from which a new maximum LOA will be calculated for the reconstructed vessel. (ii) If vessel reconstruction began before June 24, 1992, but was not completed by that date, the LOA resulting from the reconstruction is the new maximum LOA and no further adjustment in maximum LOA is permitted for the duration of the moratorium. (iii) If vessel reconstruction was started on or after June 24, 1992, the maximum LOA may not be adjusted. (iv) Maximum LOA for vessels over 125 feet (38.1 meters) LOA cannot be increased through reconstruction. (v) NMFS must give written approval to the vessel owner of an adjustment in the maximum LOA due to vessel reconstruction. A vessel owner must receive written approval and a permit or license with the new maximum LOA prior to harvesting any moratorium species. In order to adjust the maximum LOA for a vessel, the vessel owner must submit to NMFS an application for adjustment of the maximum LOA that includes the following information: (A) Name and address of vessel owner(s); (B) Vessel name and U.S. Coast Guard vessel identification number; (C) Written contracts or written agreements with the boatyard or shipyard concerning the vessel reconstruction; (D) An affidavit signed by the vessel owner(s) and the owner/manager of the company performing the vessel reconstruction that states the beginning and ending dates of reconstruction; and (E) An affidavit signed by the vessel owner that lists the new LOA of the vessel. (3) Lost or destroyed vessel. A lost or destroyed vessel may transfer its moratorium qualification or be salvaged under the following conditions: (i) Transfer of the Moratorium Qualification of a Lost or Destroyed Vessel. (A) An eligible vessel that is lost or destroyed between January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1997, may transfer its moratorium qualification to another vessel or person as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
