FR941207-0-00069 FR941207-0-00011 Technical Assistance and Training/Evaluation In keeping with the intent of Congress to assist states in meeting these assurances, the Department proposes to designate up to 10 percent of the funds available in this program to provide technical assistance and training to states that presently do not meet the required general assurances or want to expand and improve on current efforts in these areas. Specifically, the Department will provide training and assistance to states with the comprehensive corrections planning process, the development of truth in sentencing statutes, and in otherwise moving toward compliance with the required conditions. States which meet the general assurances in fiscal year 1995, or are working toward compliance, will be in a better position to receive grant monies under these programs over the next several years. Further, it is the intent of the Department that selected federal initiatives under the new anti-crime law be evaluated. To accomplish this goal, a portion of the overall funds authorized under this Subtitle will be set aside for purposes of implementing a national evaluation strategy. Recipients of funds must agree to cooperate with federally-sponsored evaluations of their projects and to conduct evaluations as required by the national evaluation strategy. In addition, recipients of program funds will be required to conduct a local assessment and report on program implementation. Request for Comments In submitting comments, please be cognizant of the above-described statutory limitations. In administering the Subtitle A, Correctional Facilities Grant Program, OJP seeks to fulfill congressional intent by ensuring that the statutory limitations are applied appropriately to all recipients. Comments are particularly encouraged with respect to the following definitions and implementation policy issues: (1) Definition of ``Violent Offender'' [§91.2(a), §91.4(b)] (This interim rule reserves the issue for now, but the Department will issue a final rule based on comments received, in advance of the implementation of Subtitle A in fiscal year 1996); (2) Definition of ``Serious Drug Offense'' [§91.4(b)]; (3) How a state can demonstrate compliance with the assurance that it has implemented, or will implement, correctional policies and programs, including ``truth in sentencing laws that: (a) ``ensure that violent offenders serve a substantial portion of the sentences imposed,'' (b) ``are designed to provide sufficiently severe punishment for violent offenders, including violent juvenile offenders,'' and (c) ``the prison time served is appropriately related to the determination that the inmate is a violent offender and for a period of time deemed necessary to protect the public.'' [§91.2(i), §91.3(b)(1)]; (4) How a state can demonstrate compliance with the condition to ``provide for the recognition of the rights and needs of crime victims'' [§91.3(b)(2)]; (5) How a state can demonstrate that, as a result of the funds received under this section, secure space will be made available for the confinement of violent offenders [§91.3(b)(3)]; (6) How to ensure that states have met the condition to involve and share funds received with counties and other units of local government [§91.3(b)(5)]; (7) How to define the scope of the Comprehensive Correctional Plan [§91.3(d)]; and (8) How a state can demonstrate compliance with the condition for receiving Truth in Sentencing Incentive Grants, i.e., ``persons convicted of violent crimes serve not less than 85% of the sentence imposed'' [§91.4(b)]. In soliciting comments on the above definitions and key policy implementation issues, OJP hopes to forge a productive federal/state/local partnership in addressing the challenge of providing an effective criminal justice system response to the increased numbers of violent offenders. The final rule will address all comments submitted and substantive differences incorporated will be explained. Administrative Requirements This regulation has been drafted and reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866, section 1(b), Principles of Regulation. This rule is a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, section 3(f), Regulatory Planning and Review, and accordingly this rule has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. The Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)) has reviewed this regulation and by approving it certifies that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. No information collection requirements are contained in this rule. Any information collection requirements contained in future application notices for programs authorized by this rule will be reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), as is required by the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act, 91 U.S.C. 3504(h). This regulation is being published as an interim final rule, without prior publication of notice and comment, and is made effective immediately, for good cause as explained below. Under 5 U.S.C. 553(a)(2), matters relating to grants are exempted from notice and comment requirements. Moreover, in this case, advance notice and comment would be impractical and contrary to the public interest. Title II, Subtitle A of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 requires the publication of regulations implementing the grant program within 90 days of enactment of the Act.
