FR940228-1-00097 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary proposes to require each institution to have procedures for receiving, investigating, and resolving student complaints. The Secretary proposes to require that if the stated objectives of an educational program are to prepare students for gainful employment, the institution must be able to show that there is a reasonable relationship between the length of the program and entry level requirements for employment. In addition to supporting the length of a program, the institution should be able to substantiate the need for the number of hours of training. The Secretary proposes to consider the relationship between the quantity of training provided in the program and entry-level requirements to be reasonable if the number of clock hours in the program does not exceed by more than 50 percent any State requirement for the minimum number of clock hours necessary to train the student in the occupation for which the program prepares the student. For example, the Secretary is aware of an institution that sought approval of a 600-hour program when the state in which the institution is located requires only 40 hours of training for entry level positions for which the program provided training. The Secretary believes that in situations such as this, the onus is on the institution to demonstrate the value of the longer program. The Secretary believes that the excessive length of programs requires a student to incur additional unnecessary debt. A corollary requirement is that the need for the training provided is established. Over the past several years, the Secretary has been made aware of many schools that have provided three to six months of training for entry-level jobs, some of which required no external training before employment, as the employers have internal training programs or provide on-the-job training. As a basic tenet of student financial assistance is to enable students who would not otherwise be able to afford needed training or education to enroll in an appropriate program, the Secretary believes that if an institution is administering the Title IV, HEA programs adequately, it can demonstrate that the training it provides is needed. The Secretary solicits suggestions on the most appropriate documentation to show the need for the training. The Secretary proposes to add to the administrative capability standards the requirement that the institution make information on job availability and state licensing requirements available to students in occupational, professional and vocational educational programs. The Secretary believes that, in order for a prospective occupational, professional or vocational education student and financial aid applicant to make an informed decision about enrollment and use of student financial assistance in a particular program, the applicant must have access to accurate, up-to-date information on the job market for that field, and the availability of specific jobs for which he or she would be adequately prepared after completion of the program. Similarly, the applicant should have access to information on the extent to which the educational or training program addresses state licensing standards, so the informed student can determine, with reasonable assurance, that necessary topics are covered in the program and the extent to which additional information, not necessary for state licensure, is covered. The Secretary notes that this information may be obtained by the institution from other Federal and State sources, such as Employment Service or State occupational coordinating committees. An institution would not be required to produce this information on its own. The Secretary proposes to include within the administrative capability standards a requirement that the institution have advertising, promotion, and student recruitment practices that accurately reflect the content and objectives of the educational programs offered by the institution. The Secretary believes that to administer the Title IV, HEA programs in a responsible manner, the institution must advertise its programs and the financial assistance available in an accurate manner. The Secretary proposes to specify that an institution provide all required program and fiscal reports and financial statements in a timely manner. The Secretary believes strongly that adequate, timely submission of accurate reports is an essential element in the proper administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. The failure to meet requirements for submission of reports is an indication that an institution's administrative capability is impaired.
