FR940805-1-00092 FR940805-1-00013 (7) Community residential worker in-service training. All full or part-time community residential workers shall receive an additional forty hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (8) Clerical and support staff orientation training. All new clerical and support staff who have minimal contact with residents shall receive the number of hours of orientation and training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, within their first year of employment. (9) Clerical and support staff in-service training. All clerical and support staff shall receive an additional sixteen hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (10) Administrative and managerial staff orientation training. New administrative and managerial staff shall receive at least the number of hours of orientation training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, within their first year of employment in this position. (11) Administrative and managerial staff in-service training. Administrative and managerial staff shall receive at least twenty-four hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (12) Specialized training. At least one community resident worker per shift shall be certified as an emergency medical technician. All community residential staff who have contact with residents receive training in advanced first aid and CPR. (e) Facility Records _(1) Compliance. The facility shall comply with 5 U.S.C. 552 (the Freedom of Information Act), 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974), as amended, 43 CFR 2.79(a), or comparable tribal regulations. (2) Records management. The facility shall have a system for the management, dissemination, retrieval, storage, archiving and (when appropriate) destruction of information and community residential records. (3) Law enforcement sensitive information. Law enforcement sensitive records and information shall be marked privileged. The administrator or designee shall keep these records in a locked cabinet or file room. (4) Release of information and consent. Residents shall sign a Release of Information Consent Form in compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974) as amended prior to the release of privileged information. The administrator or designee shall keep a copy of the signed release in the resident's record. (5) Separation of record contents. The administrator or designee shall identify and separate contents of resident records according to an established format which, at a minimum, shall separate privileged from public information. (6) Access to information. The administrator shall define clearly personnel who have access to resident records. (7) Daily report. The administrator or designee shall maintain a daily report which shall identify: (i) the names of residents in custody, including residents on temporary release or in other locations; (ii) names of residents admitted and released; and (iii) the number of days each resident has been in the facility. (8) Identification and location record. The facility shall maintain a system that identifies all residents and their actual physical location. (9) Resident record. The facility shall maintain resident records of all residents held at the facility. The record shall include, but not be limited to: (i) initial intake form; (ii) a copy of the initial detention booking record which resulted in this placement; (iii) case information from referral source, if available; (iv) case history or social history; (v) medical record; (vi) individual plan or program; (vii) signed release of information forms; (viii) current employment or education data; (ix) signed acknowledgement of receipt of program rules and disciplinary policy; documented legal authority to accept resident; (x) grievance and disciplinary record; (xi) referrals to other agencies; and (xii) final release or transfer report. (10) Admission information. The administrator or designee shall record initial admission information for each resident. The record shall included, unless prohibited by statute, at a minimum: (i) admission number; (ii) name and address; (iii) date and place of birth; (iv) gender; (v) ethnic origin or tribal affiliation; (vi) present or last place of employment; (vii) emergency contact name, relationship, address and phone number; (viii) date and time of admission; (ix) name of referring agency or committing authority; (x) special medical problems or needs; (xi) legal status, including jurisdiction, length and conditions of sentence; and (xii) signature of both resident and employee taking the information. (11) Conducting research. All research conducted shall comply with federal and tribal regulations pertaining to conducting and disseminating research findings as well as professional and scientific ethics. The administrator, Agency Superintendent and the Area Director shall approve all research prior to implementation. The administrator shall regulate voluntary resident participation in research. (f) Citizen involvement and volunteers _(1) Volunteer coordinator. The administrator shall encourage citizen participation in volunteer programs by designating a staff member as volunteer coordinator.
