FR941222-0-00006 FR941222-0-00001 One commenter stated that while APHIS has said that M-branding is necessary to facilitate the disease eradication and surveillance objectives of the National Cooperative State/Federal Tuberculosis Eradication Program, it has failed to establish how M-branding actually serves those objectives. Because of that failure, it follows that there is no rational basis to support the expansion of M-branding to spayed heifers and those provisions of the proposed rule dealing with the branding of spayed heifers should be withdrawn. We believe that we have established the need for M-branding in previous rulemakings. The permanence of branding is perhaps the key factor in our reliance on M-branding; other identification methods can be lost, removed, or obscured. As we have stated before, M-branding is the only permanent, readily visible means we have to identify cattle imported into the United States from Mexico. We believe that the higher incidence of tuberculosis in Mexico makes it necessary for us to be able to identify such cattle when searching for the origin of a tuberculosis-infected animal. If we can determine that a diseased animal originated in Mexico, we will not waste time and effort searching for its herd of origin in the United States. Conversely, if the animal is not M-branded, we can concentrate our disease traceback efforts to those cattle that are more likely to be of U.S. origin. We continue to believe that M-branding serves the needs of our tuberculosis eradication efforts. In addition to the comments discussed above, some of the commenters raised issues that are not within the scope of the proposed rule and, in some cases, are not within APHIS' regulatory purview. Those issues related to: The treatment of calves by veal producers, the treatment of geese by fois gras producers, the treatment of chickens by poultry producers, horse roping for sport in Mexico, rodeos in Mexico and the United States, the use of bovine growth hormone in dairy herds, banning shetitah (the slaughtering of animals for food in the manner prescribed by Jewish law), conditions at zoos in the United States, government spending to promote fur exports, the transportation of farm animals and the care of animals injured during movement, ``factory farming,'' and the welfare of laboratory animals. Because such comments are outside the scope of the proposed rule, no changes have been made in this final rule as a result of those comments. Any regulatory changes related to those issues within APHIS' regulatory purview would have to be proposed as part of a separate proposed rule. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule and in this document, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule, with the changes discussed in this document. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for the purposes of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. Cattle imported from Mexico account for about 1 percent of the total U.S. cattle population, which in 1991 stood at 99.4 million head. The average price per head for cattle from Mexico in 1991 was $350, with the total value of imported Mexican cattle exceeding $361 million for the year. During 1991, approximately 1 million live cattle were imported into the United States from Mexico. We are amending the animal importation regulations to require that certain spayed heifers imported into the United States from Mexico be marked with a permanent, legible ``M x '' on the right hip, and that certain steers imported into the United States from Mexico be marked with a permanent, legible ``M'' on the right hip, rather than on the jaw. Three primary considerations led APHIS to conclude that the marking requirements contained in this rule will not have an economic impact on any U.S. entities, large or small. First, all steers imported into the United States from Mexico, except those steers imported for immediate slaughter or in-bond for feeding and return to Mexico, were already required to be identified with an M-brand. For these steers, which represent 99 percent of the cattle imported into the United States from Mexico, only the location of the ``M'' has changed. The second consideration follows from the first: That is, although there had been no provisions in the regulations requiring spayed heifers to be permanently identified as being of Mexican origin, spayed heifers represent less than 1 percent of the cattle imported into the United States from Mexico. Thus, requiring certain spayed heifers to be marked with an ``M x '' prior to arriving at the U.S. port of entry will have an insignificant effect on exporters or importers of spayed heifers from Mexico. The third consideration is that the cost of marking the cattle, which is negligible, will be borne by the Mexican exporter of the cattle. Therefore, we expect this rule will have no significant economic impact on any large or small entities because its provisions will not significantly increase or decrease their cost of doing business. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12778 This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule: (1) Preempts all State and local laws and regulations that are inconsistent with this rule; (2) has no retroactive effect; and (3) does not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act This rule contains no information collection or recordkeeping requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). List of Subjects in 9 CFR Part 92 Animal diseases, Imports, Livestock, Poultry and poultry products, Quarantine, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
