FR941006-2-00109 FR941006-2-00083 An issuer of ELNs may provide for periodic interest payments to holders, whether based on a fixed or floating rate. 12 Furthermore, a particular issuance of ELNs may also be subject to a ``cap'' on the maximum principal amount to be repaid to holders upon maturity of the ELNs, and, additionally, may feature a ``floor'' on the minimum principal amount to be repaid to holders upon maturity of the ELNs. The Exchange believes that the listing flexibility available to an issuer of ELNs will permit the creation of securities which will offer investors the opportunity to more precisely focus on a specific investment strategy. 12 The Exchange has agreed to notify the Commission if an issuer of ELNs intends to provide for periodic interest payments to holders based on a floating interest rate. Id. The Commission, at that time, may require the CBOE to submit a rule filing pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act prior to permitting the Exchange to list an ELN with such terms. ELNs will conform to the listing guidelines under CBOE Rule 31.5.F, which provide that: (1) Issuers must satisfy certain asset/equity requirements; 13 and (2) issues must have (a) a minimum public distribution of one million trading units; (b) a minimum of 400 unit holders; and (c) an aggregate market value of at least $4 million. 14 Several additional criteria will also apply to the listing of ELNs. First, the issuer must have a minimum tangible net worth of $150 million. Second, the original issue price of a series of ELNs, when combined with all of the issuer's other ELNs listed on a national securities exchange or otherwise publicly traded in the United States, may not be greater than 25% of the issuer's net worth at the time of issuance. Third, ELNs will have an original term to maturity of not less than two years and not more than seven years, except ELNs linked to a security issued by a non-U.S. company 15 (including a sponsored ADR) must have an original term to maturity of not more than three years. Additionally, ELNs will be treated as equity instruments for, among other purposes, margin requirements. 16 13 Specifically, issuers must have assets in excess of $100 million and stockholders' equity of at least $10 million. In the case of an issuer which does not satisfy the earnings criteria set forth in CBOE 31.5.A ( see supra note 6), the Exchange generally will require the issuer to have: (i) Assets in excess of $200 million and stockholders' equity of at least $10 million; or (ii) assets in excess of $100 million and stockholders' equity of at least $20 million. 14 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 15 The Exchange defines a non-U.S. company as any company which was formed or incorporated outside of the U.S. Id. 16 Id. Although the Exchange does not believe that ELNs will have any discernible impact on the trading market for the underlying linked stock, it nevertheless proposes that each equity security (including sponsored ADRs) on which the value of the ELN is based must either have: (1) A market capitalization of at least $3 billion and U.S. trading volume of at least 2.5 million shares during the one-year period preceding the listing of the ELN, (2) a market capitalization of at least $1.5 billion and U.S. trading volume of at least 20 million shares during the one-year period preceding the listing of the ELN, or (3) a market capitalization of at least $500 million and U.S. trading volume of at least 80 million shares during the one-year period preceding the listing of the ELN. Moreover, the proposed rule change would provide the Exchange with flexibility, subject to the concurrence of the staff of the Commission, to list an ELN linked to a security that does not meet the specific market capitalization and volume criteria. 17 In addition to the market capitalization and trading volume requirements, the underlying security to which an ELN is linked must be: (1) Issued by a company which is subject to reporting requirements under the Act; (2) listed on a national securities exchange or traded through Nasdaq; and (3) subject to last sale reporting pursuant to Rule 11As3&hyph;1 of the Act. 18 Finally, without the concurrence of the staff of the Commission, an issue of ELNs linked to a security issued by a U.S. company may not be linked to more than 5% of the total outstanding shares of that security. 19 17 Depending on the proposed facts, the Commission may require the Exchange to submit a rule filing to the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act to address the regulatory issues raised by any proposed offering of ELNs that does not satisfy the market capitalization and/or trading volume requirements set forth above. In this connection, the Commission notes that any proposal to list an ELN linked to a security with a market capitalization of less than $500 million would raised significant regulatory concerns for which a section 19(b) rule filing would be required. 18 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 19 As with the market capitalization and trading volume requirements, the Commission notes that based on the proposed facts, the Exchange may be required to submit a rule filing to the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act to address regulatory issues raised by any Exchange proposal to list an ELN related to more than the allowable percentages of outstanding shares of the underlying security.
