FR940208-2-00175 FR940208-2-00093 Subrule 15(2) has been added to provide that the responsible Secretary shall file the Disclosure Undertaking or the Protective Order Application with the appropriate investigating authority. Subrules 15(3) and (4) address the requirements for issuance of a Disclosure Order or Protective Order. Former subrule 11(3) had provided that the person to whom the Disclosure Order or Protective Order was issued would file with the responsible Secretariat the order and the required number of copies. Under new subrule 15(3), the investigating authority issues the appropriate Order and transmit it to the responsible Secretary. Under subrule 15(4) the responsible Secretary, on receipt of the appropriate Order, transmits that Order to the person named in the Order. The rationale for this amendment was to ensure that the Secretary could act as the conduit for assembling, filing and receipt of Orders for all persons who are not counsel in an extraordinary challenge proceeding. Rule 16 has been added to correspond to the procedure under subrules 49(2), 49(3) and 49(4) of the Article 1904 Panel Rules and provides for the amendment and modification of Disclosure Undertakings and Protective Order Applications and for the amendment, modification or revocation of Disclosure Orders and Protective Orders. Under subrule 16(1), a committee member, assistant to a committee member, court reporter, or translator provides to the responsible Secretariat a copy of any amendment or modification made to a Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order Application. Under subrule 16(2), the responsible Secretary then files the amendment or modification to the Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order Application with the competent investigating authority. Under subrule 16(3), the competent investigating authority, as appropriate, amends, modifies or revokes the Disclosure Order or Protective Order and then transmits to the responsible Secretariat the amended or modified Order or the notice of revocation of the Order. Under subrule 16(4), the responsible Secretary transmits the amended or modified Order or the notice of revocation of the Order to the person named therein. Rule 17 has been added to correspond to the procedure under subrule 23(d) of the Article 1904 Panel Rules for service by the responsible Secretary of Disclosure Orders and Protective Orders, amendments and modifications thereto and notices of revocation thereof. Rule 18 has been added to correspond to the procedure under rule 48(1) of the Article 1904 Panel Rules and provides for the issuance of Disclosure Orders or Protective Orders to new counsel of record or any professional retained by, or under the control of, new counsel of record. A professional retained by counsel refers, for example, to a professional who is retained on a contractual basis. A professional under the control of counsel refers, for example, to an employee of counsel who is not hired on a contractual basis, but takes direction from counsel. Subrule 18(1) provides that a new counsel of record or such professional shall file a Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order Application with the responsible Secretariat and with the competent investigating authority. Subrule 18(2) provides that the Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order Application shall be served on all participants. Subrule 18(3) limits the competent investigating authority to 10 days after the filing of the Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order Application to issue or to transmit reasons for not issuing a Disclosure Order or Protective Order. Rule 19 has been added to correspond to rule 50 of the Article 1904 Panel Rules. Subrule 19(1) provides that counsel may file a notice of motion requesting that a committee review the decision of a competent investigating authority refusing to issue a Disclosure Order or Protective Order to persons named in subrule 18(1) or issuing a Disclosure Order or Protective Order with terms unacceptable to a person named in subrule 18(1). Subrule 19(2) provides for notice by a committee to counsel and the competent investigating authority where the committee decides that an order should be issued or that the terms of a Disclosure Order or Protective Order should be amended or modified. Subrule 19(3) provides that if a United States investigating authority fails to comply with a notice of the committee set out in subrule 19(2), the committee may issue such orders as are just in the circumstances.
