FR941110-0-00052 FR941110-0-00016 If HCFA or the State terminates the provider agreement, we would require the survey agency to arrange for the orderly transfer of all Medicare and Medicaid residents to another SNF or NF. If there is a closure of a Medicaid NF or dually participating facility by the State, we proposed at §488.240 that the State would be required to arrange for an orderly transfer of all residents. 18. Conflict Resolution In the proposed rule, we sought public comment about the desirability and feasibility of establishing a conflict resolution system whereby facilities dissatisfied with a certification of noncompliance would be afforded a formal mechanism for disputing deficiencies prior to the administrative and judicial review processes. We also requested comments on the best way for such a system to be implemented. K. Incentives for High Quality Care Section 1919(h)(2)(F) of the Act, as added by section 4213 of OBRA '87, provides that, in addition to the remedies discussed, a State may establish a program to reward, through public recognition, incentive payments, or both, nursing facilities that provide the highest quality care to residents who are entitled to Medicaid. A State would incorporate such an incentive program in its State plan. We proposed incorporating this provision in our proposed §488.153(b). L. Educational Program Sections 1819(g)(l)(B) and 1919(g)(1)(B) of the Act provide that each State must conduct periodic educational programs for the staff and residents (and their representatives) of nursing homes in order to present current regulations, procedures, and policies on the survey and certification and enforcement processes. We proposed incorporating this provision in §§488.153(c) and 488.184. M. Conforming Changes In addition to changes already discussed in this preamble, we proposed making other conforming changes to regulations under part 431, 442, and 489. III. Summary of Major Provisions in Final Rule In response to public comments, we made numerous technical changes and some major policy changes, which are explained in detail in the following section. In summary, the major changes include the following: •We reconfigured the criteria used to determine enforcement remedies when facilities are out of compliance with Federal requirements, so that there is a clearer correlation between levels of noncompliance and types of remedies imposed. We have also grouped the remedies into three remedy categories ranging from least to most severe. In this final rule, we present an enforcement scheme in which States may use their own methods for interpreting terms that describe the relative frequency or seriousness of deficiencies, other than immediate jeopardy, as long as they are consistent with the guidance presented in the regulation. •We provide that remedies may cease when substantial compliance is achieved, and define substantial compliance as ``a measure of compliance with the participation requirements such that no deficiencies exist which pose actual harm or have the potential for more than minimal harm.'' The only exceptions to this rule are those involving temporary management and State monitoring and denial of payment imposed for repeated noncompliance. In these cases, in addition to achieving substantial compliance, the facility must prove to HCFA's or the State's satisfaction that it will remain in substantial compliance. •We also revise or add definitions for abuse, neglect, immediate jeopardy, substandard quality of care, standard survey, validation survey, extended survey, partial extended survey, abbreviated standard survey, deficiency, nursing facility, skilled nursing facility, substantial compliance, noncompliance and revisit.
