FR940719-1-00059 FR940719-1-00015 A second question concerns the conditions under which air that has passed by an unsealed worked-out area can be used to ventilate a working section. Worked-out areas that are not sealed must be ventilated, §75.334(a). Under §75.332(b)(1) the air used to ventilate worked-out areas cannot be used to ventilate working sections, unless examined in accordance with §75.360, §75.361, or §75.364. There is only one condition under which air that passes by a worked-out area that is not examined can be used to ventilate a working section or an area where equipment is being installed or removed. This is when the worked-out area is ventilated by a separate split of air and the remainder of the intake air continues past the worked-out area. This remaining intake air could be used to ventilate a working section or an area where equipment is being installed or removed. However, the air that enters the worked-out area cannot reenter the intake air course because the definition of return air, in §75.301, states in part that ``If air mixes with air that has ventilated the last working place on any split of any working section or any worked-out area, whether pillared or nonpillared, it is considered return air.'' In the case of worked-out areas with multiple openings, this would preclude air from being used to ventilate a working place when it enters a worked-out area in one entry and exits the worked-out area in another entry to remix with the air passing by. To determine that the air that has passed by a worked-out area has not been contaminated, proposed §75.360(b)(4) would require that when intake entries carry air by worked-out areas to ventilate working places where persons are scheduled to work, the approaches to the worked-out areas be preshift examined immediately inby and outby each entry that carries air into the worked-out area. The purpose of this examination is to assure that the air is not oxygen deficient and does not contain methane in excess of allowable limits and to determine that the air is not coming from the worked-out area. By preshift examining the intake entries in these areas, it can be determined that the air in these entries is suitable for use in working places. Additionally, proposed §75.360(b)(4) would require that when intake entries carry air by worked-out areas to ventilate working places where persons are scheduled to work, the entries used to carry air into the worked-out area be preshift examined at a point immediately inby the intersection of each entry with the intake air course. Preshift examining of these entries is intended to assure that air that enters a worked-out area in one entry does not reenter the intake air course. While the Agency is not contemplating a change to §75.332 at this time, comments are specifically solicited on the issues discussed. Section 75.333␣Ventilation Controls The Agency is proposing to revise paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (e)(1) and add new paragraph (h) to §75.333. As proposed, paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3), and (b)(4) would be revised to clarify the application of the permanent ventilation control standards when a continuous face haulage system is used. Continuous face haulage systems employ mobile bridge conveyors to transport coal directly from the continuous mining machine to a low profile conveyor belt. The mobile bridge system uses a ``dolly'' to transfer the coal to the low profile conveyor belt at the section loading point. Because the dolly travels along the low profile conveyor belt, the location of the section loading point changes during mining as the mobile bridge dolly moves. For escapeway purposes, paragraph (b)(4) would designate the loading point for a continuous haulage system as the inby most point of travel of the dolly. In the past, the Agency has not required the use of permanent ventilation controls to separate continuous face haulage systems from return, intake, or primary escapeway entries in rooms developed 600 feet or less from the centerline of the entry from which the rooms were developed. As with the existing standard, proposed paragraph (b)(1) would require permanent stoppings or other permanent ventilation control devices between intake and return air courses, except temporary controls may be used in rooms that are 600 feet or less from the centerline of the entry from which the room was developed. The proposal would clarify the existing standard by explicitly stating that when continuous face haulage systems are used, temporary controls may be used to separate the system from the return and intake in rooms developed 600 feet or less from the centerline of the entry from which the rooms were developed. Because the room in which the continuous haulage system is installed is continuously attended by the system operators, an immediate response to any safety-related problem with the haulage system would be expected. Additionally, two or three rooms are often concurrently developed using this system and the life of the actively developing rooms is often less than three days. The result of this short life is that mining in these rooms would often be completed before construction of permanent controls is finished. The proposal recognizes the short-lived nature of these rooms and permits the use of properly constructed temporary controls to deliver ventilation to the faces. Requiring the construction of permanent controls in these instances would result in no additional safety benefit. The Agency has also received comment that additional material handling hazards would be associated with the transportation of permanent control construction materials into an often limited number of rooms during development. Additionally, access to the continuous haulage system is required through crosscuts for maintenance and operation of the system.
