FR940204-1-00026 FR940204-1-00002 (e) Information in any part of the report may be incorporated by reference in answer or partial answer to any other item of the report. Information required by this part may be presented in any order deemed suitable by the Funding Corporation. (f) The report shall include a statement in a prominent location that Systemwide debt securities and consolidated bank debt obligations are joint and several liabilities of individual banks and that copies of each bank's recent periodic reports to shareholders are available upon request. The report shall also include addresses and telephone numbers where copies of the report to investors and the periodic reports of individual banks can be obtained. Copies of the report to investors shall be available for public inspection at the Funding Corporation. (g) Three complete copies of the report shall be filed with the Chief Examiner, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090, within the applicable period prescribed under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. (1) At least one copy of the report filed with the FCA shall be dated and manually signed by the following officers and director(s) of the Funding Corporation on its behalf: (i) The officer(s) designated by the board of directors to certify the report; (ii) The chief executive officer; and (iii) Each member of the board or, at a minimum, one of the following board members formally designated by action of the board to certify on behalf of individual board members: the chairperson of the board or a board member designated by the chairperson of the board. (2) The name and position title of each person signing the report shall be typed or printed beneath his or her signature. Signers of the report shall attest as follows: The undersigned certify that this report has been prepared in accordance with all applicable statutory or regulatory requirements and that the information contained herein is true, accurate, and complete to the best of his or her knowledge and belief. ยง630.4 Responsibilities for preparing the report to investors. (a) Responsibilities of the Funding Corporation. The Funding Corporation shall: (1) Prepare the reports to investors required by ยง630.3(a), including the Systemwide combined financial statements and notes thereto, and such other disclosures, supplemental information, and related analysis as are required by this part to make the reports meaningful and not misleading. (2) Establish a system of internal controls sufficient to reasonably ensure that any information it releases to investors and the general public concerning any matter required to be disclosed by this part is true and that there are no omissions of material information. The system of internal controls, at a minimum, shall require that the Funding Corporation: (i) Maintain written policies and procedures, approved by the System Audit Committee, to be carried out by the disclosure entities for preparation of the report to investors; (ii) Provide instructions to the disclosure entities regarding information required to be included in the Systemwide combined financial statements and the information required to be disclosed in the report to investors; (iii) Review the information submitted to it for preparation of the report to investors, and make reasonable inquiries to ascertain whether the information is reliable, accurate, and complete; and (iv) Specify procedures for monitoring interim disclosures of System institutions and disclose in a timely manner any material changes in information contained in the most recently published report to investors. (3) Collect from each disclosure entity financial data and related analyses needed for preparation of the report to investors. (4) File the reports with the FCA in accordance with ยง630.3(g).
