FR940318-2-00234 FR940318-2-00117 Release No. 34&hyph;33759; File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;93&hyph;12] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendments No. 1 and No. 2 to Proposed Rule Change by Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc., Amending Its Listing and Maintenance Requirements March 14, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on August 11, 1993, the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change, and on January 10, 1994, filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change, 1 and on February 3, 1994, filed Amendment No. 2 to the proposed rule change, 2 as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 Amendment No. 1: (1) Provided additional qualitative requirements in determining a company's listing eligibility under proposed Rule 3.2(a)(7) and more stringent requirements for convertible preferred stock and bonds under proposed Rule 3.2(d) and (e); (2) replaced the term ``Small Corporate Offering Registration'' (``SCOR'') with ``Small Business Stock Offering'' (``SBSO''); (3) expanded the Tier II designation to include listing requirements for initial and continued listing of secondary issues; (4) revised the public distribution criteria in proposed Rule 3.5(m)(1) and (2) to more closely conform with the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's proposed Tier II common stock maintenance requirements; (5) added reasons for suspending or delisting the securities of a company under Rule 3.5; and (6) made stylistic changes. 2 Amendment No. 2 replaced the term ``Small Business Stock Offering'' (``SBSO'') with ``Small Corporate Offering Registration/Regulation A'' (``SCOR''). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change. The PSE is submitting this proposed rule change in order to strengthen its listing requirements and practices. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries set forth in Section A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose Introduction. The development and enforcement of adequate regulations governing the listing of securities on the Exchange is of critical importance to the investing public. Therefore, the Exchange proposes to amend Rule 3 of its rules to revise its listing requirements for initial and continued listing of securities on the Exchange. The Exchange seeks to impose more stringent listing requirements by establishing mandatory minimum requirements. The Exchange believes that the employment of mandatory requirements, as opposed to mere guidelines, will serve as a mechanism to equitably screen issuers and to provide listed status only to bona fide companies ( i.e., companies with sufficient financial resources to meet their financial obligations). Limited exceptions to the mandatory minimum requirements will be made only in cases, described more fully below, where a security is also listed on the New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE''), American Stock Exchange (``Amex'') or NASDAQ National Market System (``NASDAQ/NMS''). However, no exceptions will be made for any security listed under the Tier I designation under the Exchange's rules. Initial Listing Requirements. The amendments proposed by the Exchange are substantial and comprehensive, as they impact not only common stock but also preferred stock, warrants, and debt instruments. In addition to reorganizing and defining specific terms within Rule 3.1, 3 the Exchange is proposing to add Rule 3.2(a), which outlines definitive requirements to be considered in an application for listing. The Exchange will consider not only established numerical requirements, but also other qualitative factors, including the nature and scope of the company's operations, the financial condition and accounting practices, composition of assets, management experience, and the extent of competition and economic conditions within the particular industry. 3 The Exchange rules governing the listing of currency and index warrants have been incorporated into Rule 7.
