FR941216-1-00086 FR941216-1-00012 (iii) Interchange of truck, trailers, railcars, or MILVANS between the common carrier and the establishment. (2) If any activities, other than those previously listed, are conducted at the inspection station, Q/D tables apply. (3) Any cars or trucks suspected of being hazardous shall be isolated consistent with applicable Q/D separation for the hazard class and explosives quantity involved. This shall be accomplished before any subsequent action. (d) Administration, industrial, and convenience areas. (1) Administration and industrial areas shall be separated from PES's by inhabited building distances. (2) Auxiliary facilities such as heating plants, line offices, break areas, briefing rooms for daily work schedules or site safety matters, joiner shops, security posts, and similar functions that are required to be at explosives operations and servicing only one building or operation shall be so located and constructed as to provide prudent fire protection. (e) Underground tanks or pipelines. These should be separated from buildings or stacks containing A&E of Hazard Divisions 1.2 through 1.4 by a minimum distance of 80 feet. The separation for Hazard Division 1.1, should correspond to the formula D = 3W 1/3 with a minimum distance of 80 feet, unless the donor building is designed to contain the effects of an explosion. (f) Storage tanks built on or above the surface of the ground. If protection of above-ground storage tanks is required, the distances in column 5, Appendix A to Subpart F of this part shall apply. (g) Recreational, training, and other such areas. Open areas between explosives storage and handling sites and between these sites and non-explosives buildings and structures, should be carefully controlled, when used as employee recreation or training facilities. The severe fragment hazard will usually extend from the explosion site to approximately the public traffic route distances. Accordingly, exposed recreation and training facilities where employees are in the open shall be sited at not less than public traffic route distances and as close to inhabited building distances as practicable. When structures, including bleachers, are included as part of these facilities, they shall be sited at not less than inhabited building distances. (h) Demolition or burning areas. Sites for demolition and burning of explosives shall be separated from other facilities based on the hazards associated with the quantity and type of material to be destroyed. (i) Adjacent operating lines. These shall be separated from one another by no less than unbarricaded intraline distance (18W 1/3 ) for the hazard class and explosive quantities involved, whether or not barricaded, and provided that ammunition and explosives involved in each operating line present similar hazards. The criticality of survivability of one or more of the operating lines may require that each line be given an inhabited building distance level of protection. (j) A&E storage magazines. A&E storage locations that service the establishment in general shall be separated by appropriate inhabited building distance (blast overpressure or fragmentation, whichever applies) from A&E operating lines/locations, inert areas (warehouses, shops, administrative facilities, and so forth) and property boundaries. (k) Spacing for movement of ammunition and explosives within operating lines. Items or groups of items of ammunition and explosives that are transported from one operating building to another, or from bay to bay within an operating building, shall be separated to preclude the establishment of a path for the propagation of an explosion or fire between the buildings or bays. For this purpose, the minimum spacing between items, or groups of items, in transport shall be intraline distance unless reduced distances have been approved by the PCO. BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEP16DE94.000 E:GRAPHICSEP16DE94.001 E:GRAPHICSEP16DE94.002 BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;C
