FR940926-1-00033 FR940926-1-00011 _This label must be large enough to be easily read and must be permanent. _The background color must be unique to the refrigerant. _The label must be affixed to the system over information related to the previous refrigerant, in a location not normally replaced during vehicle repair. _Information on the previous refrigerant that cannot be covered by the new label must be permanently rendered unreadable. •No substitute refrigerant may be used to ``top-off'' a system that uses another refrigerant. The original refrigerant must be recovered in accordance with regulations issued under section 609 of the CAA prior to charging with a substitute. Since these use conditions necessitate unique fittings and labels, it will be necessary for developers of automotive refrigerants to consult with EPA about the existence of other alternatives. Such discussions will lower the risk of duplicating fittings already in use. No determination guarantees satisfactory performance from a refrigerant. Consult the original equipment manufacturer or service personnel for further information on using a refrigerant in a particular system. (a) HFC&hyph;134a. HFC&hyph;134a is acceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;12 in retrofitted and new motor vehicle air conditioners, subject to the use conditions applicable to motor vehicle air conditioning described above. HFC&hyph;134a does not contribute to ozone depletion. HFC&hyph;134a's GWP and atmospheric lifetime are close to those of other alternatives which have been determined to be acceptable for this end-use. However, HFC&hyph;134a's contribution to global warming could be significant in leaky end-uses such as motor vehicle air conditioning systems (MVACS). EPA has determined that the use of HFC&hyph;134a in these applications is acceptable because industry continues to develop technology to limit emissions. In addition, the number of available substitutes for use in MVACS is currently limited. HFC&hyph;134a is not flammable and its toxicity is low. While HFC&hyph;134a is compatible with most existing refrigeration and air conditioning equipment parts, it is not compatible with the mineral oils currently used in such systems. An appropriate ester-based, polyalkylene glycol-based, or other type of lubricant should be used. Consult the original equipment manufacturer or the retrofit kit manufacturer for further information. (b) R&hyph;401C. R&hyph;401C, which consists of HCFC&hyph;22, HFC&hyph;152a, and HCFC&hyph;124, is acceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;12 in retrofitted and new motor vehicle air conditioners, subject to the use conditions applicable to motor vehicle air conditioning described above. HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;124 contribute to ozone depletion, but to a much lesser degree than CFC&hyph;12. The production of HCFC&hyph;22 will be phased out according to the accelerated phaseout schedule (published 12/10/93, 58 FR 65018). The GWP of HCFC&hyph;22 is somewhat higher than other alternatives for this end-use. Experimental data indicate that HCFC&hyph;22 may leak through flexible hosing in mobile air conditioners at a high rate. In order to preserve the blend's composition and to reduce its contribution to global warming, EPA strongly recommends using barrier hoses when hose assemblies need to be replaced during a retrofit procedure. The GWPs of the other components are low. Although this blend does contain one flammable constituent, the blend itself is not flammable. Leak testing demonstrated that the blend never becomes flammable. (c) HCFC Blend Beta. HCFC Blend Beta is acceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;12 in retrofitted and new motor vehicle air conditioners, subject to the use conditions applicable to motor vehicle air conditioning described above. The composition of this blend has been claimed confidential by the manufacturer. This blend contains at least one HCFC, and therefore contributes to ozone depletion, but to a much lesser degree than CFC&hyph;12. Regulations regarding recycling and reclamation issued under section 609 of the Clean Air Act apply to this blend. Its production will be phased out according to the accelerated schedule (published 12/10/93, 58 FR 65018). The GWPs of the components are moderate to low. This blend is nonflammable, and leak testing has demonstrated that the blend never becomes flammable. b. Acceptable Subject to Narrowed Use Limits. (1) Non-mechanical Heat Transfer, New and Retrofit. (a) Perfluorocarbons. Perfluorocarbons are proposed acceptable as substitutes for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12, CFC&hyph;113, CFC&hyph;114, and CFC&hyph;115 in new and retrofitted thermosyphons and recirculating coolers only where no other alternatives are technically feasible due to safety or performance requirements. PFCs covered by this determination are C 3 F 8 , C 4 F 10 , C 5 F 12 , C 5 F 11 NO, C 6 F 14 , C 6 F 13 NO, C 7 F 16 , C 7 F 15 NO, C 8 F 18 , C 8 F 16 O, AND C 9 F 21 N. PFCs offer high dielectric resistance and they are low in toxicity and nonflammable. The principal characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have long atmospheric lifetimes and have the potential to contribute to global climate change. For instance, C 5 F 12 has a lifetime of 4,100 years and a 100-year GWP of 5,600. PFCs are also included in the Climate Change Action Plan which broadly instructs EPA to use section 612 of the CAA, as well as voluntary programs, to control emissions. Despite these concerns, EPA is proposing to list PFCs as acceptable in certain small applications because they may be the only substitutes that can satisfy safety or performance requirements. For example, a transformer may require very high dielectric strength, or a heat transfer system for a chlorine manufacturing process could require compatibility with the process stream. Users should note, however, that use of a PFC should be a last resort. As the proposed determination states, PFCs should be used ``only where no other alternatives are technically feasible due to safety or performance requirements.'' This statement requires users to conduct a thorough search for other substitutes. Although EPA does not require users to submit information on such a search, companies must keep the results on file for future reference. In cases where users must adopt PFCs, they should make every effort to: •Recover and recycle these fluids during servicing •Adopt maintenance practices that reduce leakage as much as is technically feasible •Recover these fluids after the end of the equipment's useful life and either recycle them or destroy them •Continue to search for other long-term alternatives Users of PFCs should note that if other alternatives become available, EPA could be petitioned to list PFCs as unacceptable due to the availability of other suitable substitutes. If such a petition were granted, EPA may grandfather existing uses but only upon consideration of cost and timing of testing and implementation of new substitutes. In addition, while this listing allows for use of PFCs in some new systems, a petition indicating widespread design of systems using PFCs where other alternatives exist could adversely impact any grandfathering decisions. EPA believes these end-uses are covered under section 608 of the CAA and encourages voluntary compliance with the recycling and leak repair provisions of that rule until new rulemakings specifically address non-ozone-depleting refrigerants. c. Unacceptable Substitutes. (1) R&hyph;403B
