FR941206-0-00085 FR941206-0-00011 (E) Repeat the procedures in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section three times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control device. (iii) In the event that the outlet concentration from the control device is below the detection limit for ethylene oxide for determining the efficiency in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C) or (ii)(D) of this section, the owner or operator shall assume the control device is meeting the standard in §63.362(e)(1) or (2) if the inlet ethylene oxide concentration is at or below approximately 50 ppmv. (e) Determination of baseline parameters for acid- water scrubbers. The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to determine the monitored parameters established in §63.363(b), (d), or (e) for acid-water scrubbers and to monitor the parameters as established in §63.364(b). (1) Ethylene glycol concentration. For determining the ethylene glycol concentration, the facility owner or operator shall establish the maximum ethylene glycol concentration as the ethylene glycol concentration averaged over three test runs; the sampling and analysis procedures in ASTM D 3695&hyph;88, Standard Test Method for Volatile Alcohols in Water By Direct Aqueous-Injection Gas Chromatography, (incorporated by reference_see §63.14) shall be used to determine the ethylene glycol concentration. (2) Scrubber liquor tank level. For determining the scrubber liquor tank level, the sterilization facility owner or operator shall establish the maximum liquor tank level based on a single measurement of the liquor tank level during one test run. (f) Determination of baseline temperature for oxidation units. The procedures in this paragraph shall be used to demonstrate the baseline temperature required in §63.363(b), (c), (d), or (e) for catalytic oxidation units or thermal oxidation units and to continuously monitor the oxidation temperature as established in §63.364(c). (1) Sterilization chamber vent. The sterilization facility owner or operator shall establish the baseline temperature for the sterilization chamber vent as the temperature for the catalytic oxidation unit or the oxidation temperature at the exhaust point from the thermal oxidation unit averaged over three test runs using the procedures in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (2) Aeration room vent. The sterilization facility owner or operator shall establish the baseline temperature for the aeration room vent as the temperature for the catalytic oxidation unit or the oxidation temperature at the exhaust point from the thermal oxidation unit averaged over three test runs using the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. (3) Chamber exhaust vent. The sterilization facility owner or operator shall establish the baseline temperature for the chamber exhaust vent as the temperature for the catalytic oxidation unit or the oxidation temperature at the exhaust point from the thermal oxidation unit averaged over three test runs using the procedures in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (g) An owner or operator of a sterilization facility seeking to demonstrate compliance with the standards found at §63.362(c), (d), or (e) with a control device other than an acid-water scrubber or catalytic or thermal oxidation unit shall provide to the Administrator the information requested under §63.363(f). The owner or operator shall submit: a description of the device; test results collected in accordance with §63.363(f) verifying the performance of the device for controlling ethylene oxide emissions to the atmosphere to the levels required by the applicable standards; the appropriate operating parameters that will be monitored; and the frequency of measuring and recording to establish continuous compliance with the standards. The monitoring plan submitted identifying the compliance monitoring is subject to the Administrator's approval. The owner or operator of the sterilization facility shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the monitor(s) approved by the Administrator based on the information submitted by the owner or operator. The owner or operator shall include in the information submitted to the Administrator proposed performance specifications and quality assurance procedures for their monitors. The Administrator may request further information and shall approve appropriate test methods and procedures. (h) An owner or operator of a sterilization facility seeking to demonstrate compliance with the standards found at §§63.362(d) or (e) with a monitoring device or procedure other than a gas chromatograph shall provide to the Administrator information describing the operation of the monitoring device or procedure and the parameter(s) that would indicate proper operation and maintenance of the device or procedure. The Administrator may request further information and will specify appropriate test methods and procedures. §63.366 Reporting requirements. (a) The owner or operator of a source subject to the emissions standards in §63.362 shall fulfill all reporting requirements in §§63.10(a), (d), (e), and (f) of subpart A, according to the applicability in Table 1 of §63.360. These reports will be made to the Administrator at the appropriate address identified in §63.13 of subpart A of this part. (1) Reports required by subpart A and this section may be sent by U.S. mail, fax, or by another courier. (i) Submittals sent by U.S. mail shall be postmarked on or before the specified date. (ii) Submittals sent by other methods shall be received by the Administrator on or before the specified date.
