FR940128-2-00131 FR940128-2-00087 •``Home-Based Services: an Alternative to Out-of-Home Shelter''; •``Transitional Living/Independent Living Collaboration''; •``Cooperation Between Law Enforcement Agencies and Runaway and Homeless Youth Centers''; •``Prevention and Treatment of Alcohol Abuse Among Native American Youth in Runaway and Homeless Youth Centers''; •``Improving Minority Participation in Runaway and Homeless Youth Centers''; and •``Developing an Urban Strategy for the Prevention of Youth Suicide.'' There is need for analysis, synthesis, and interpretation of this new information, leading to the identification of issues and trends in regard to both the client population served and the services being provided. This information will be used to initiate a dialogue with the field around current program requirements, practices, and concerns, and to identify needed changes in the manner in which FYSB programs are funded and implemented. For example, directors of FYSB grantee agencies and Federal officials have raised a number of program and management issues that an analysis, synthesis and interpretation of the emerging data will help clarify and prioritize. These issues include youth eligibility for FYSB's Runaway and Homeless Youth programs, fees for services, consolidation of Runaway and Homeless Youth programs, availability of physical and mental health care for runaway and homeless youth, and State and local laws affecting runaway and homeless youth programs. Readers are invited to suggest other areas in which program guidance is needed. An announcement of the availability of grant funds for these purposes, along with needed forms and instructions, will be published in the Federal Register as early in 1994 as possible after the comment period ends. IV. Evaluation Studies Continuation funding will be awarded to two ongoing evaluation studies: •``Evaluation of the transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth`` (FY 1991_present). In addition to describing the number and characteristics of youth served by the grantees and the types of services provided, this study is examining the effectiveness of the program in alleviating the immediate problems of the youth, in preparing the youth for self-sufficiency through education and work, and in strengthening family relationships. •``Development of Manuals for ACYF to Use in Evaluating Demonstration Projects'' (FY 1993_present). This project is developing general and specific manuals to assist ACYF grantees in the design and implementation of their internal program evaluations. One of the specific manuals will be designed for FYSB grantees. (Catalogue of Federal Domestic Assistance, Program Number 93.623, Runaway and Homeless Youth Program, and Program Number 93.550, Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth.) Dated: January 3, 1994. Olivia A. Golden, Commissioner, Administration on Children, Youth and Families. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1857 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;M
