FR940222-2-00028 FR940222-2-00021 [FRL&hyph;4838&hyph;1] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before March 24, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information, or to obtain a copy of this ICR, contact Sandy Farmer at EPA (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Prevention, Pesticides and Toxic Substances Title: Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs): Manufacturing, Processing, and Distribution in Commerce Exemptions. (EPA ICR No.: 0857.06; OMB No.: 2070&hyph;0021). This is a request for extension of the expiration date of a currently approved collection. Abstract: The Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) prohibits the manufacture of PCBs, or their processing or distribution in commerce. However, the statute sets conditions under which EPA may grant exemptions to this prohibition. Companies wishing to obtain the exemption must petition EPA by submitting certain information to the Agency. The information includes name and address of the petitioner, and amount and use of PCBs the petitioner wishes to manufacture, process, or distribute in commerce. The petitioner must provide evidence that the use of PCBs will not result in an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment. The petitioner must also provide evidence that demonstrates good faith efforts to develop a chemical substitute for PCBs which does not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment. To renew an existing exemption, a petitioner must submit to the Agency a letter stating that there are no changes in the original petition for exemption. The letter must be submitted at least six months prior to the date the existing exemption expires, it must be signed by a designated official, and it must be sent to the EPA by certified mail. EPA uses the information to determine whether petitioners have met the exemption requirements prescribed by TSCA. Burden Statement: The burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 8 hours per response for new petitions and 2 hours per response for renewal petitions. This estimate includes the time needed to review instructions, gather the data needed, and review the collection of information. Respondents: Companies wishing to obtain an exemption from prohibitions against the manufacture, processing or distribution of PCBs in commerce. Estimated No. of Respondents: 6 respondents for new petitions and 5 respondents for renewal petitions. Estimated No. of Responses per Respondent: 1. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 58 hours. Frequency of Collection: Annually and on occasion. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of the information collection, including suggestions for reducing the burden to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2136), 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. and Matthew Mitchell, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20530. Dated: February 14, 1994. Paul Lapsley, Director, Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3897 Filed 2&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
