FR940616-2-00012 FR940616-2-00009 International Trade Administration [A&hyph;570&hyph;827] Notice of Preliminary Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Cased Pencils From the People's Republic of China AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 16, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Cynthia Thirumalai or Kristin Heim, Office of Countervailing Investigations, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20230; telephone: (202) 482&hyph;4087 or (202) 482&hyph;3798, respectively. Preliminary Determination: We preliminarily determine that certain cased pencils (pencils) from the People's Republic of China (PRC) are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value (LTFV), as provided in section 733 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act). The estimated margins are shown in the ``Suspension of Liquidation'' section of this notice. Case History Since the initiation of this investigation on November 29, 1993 (58 FR 64548, December 8, 1993), the following events have occurred. On December 27, 1993, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) notified us of its preliminary determination that there is a reasonable indication that an industry in the United States is materially injured by reason of imports of pencils from the PRC that are alleged to be sold at less than fair value. On January 5, 1994, we sent a survey to the PRC's Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC) and certain companies in the PRC requesting information on production and sales of pencils exported to the United States. The names of the companies were found in the petition and in data supplied by the Port Import-Export Reporting Service (PIERS). We requested MOFTEC's assistance in forwarding the survey to all exporters and producers of pencils and submitting complete responses on their behalf. On January 14, the survey was sent to the Asia Pencil Association. On January 31, 1994, responses to the survey were received from the China First Pencil Co., Ltd. (China First), an exporter and producer; Shanghai Foreign Trade Corp. (SFTC), an exporter; Shanghai Lansheng Corp. (Shanghai Lansheng), an exporter; Shanghai Machinery & Equipment Import & Export Corp. (Shanghai Machinery), an exporter; and Shanghai Three Star Stationery Industry Corp. (Three Star), a producer and domestic reseller. Shanghai Machinery reported that while it had exported pencils in the past, it did not make any sales to the United States during the POI. On February 9, 1994, four more companies responded to our survey: Songnan Pencil Factory, a producer; Xinbang Joint Venture Factory, a producer; Guangdong Provincial Stationery & Sporting Goods Import & Export Corp. (Guangdong), an exporter; and Anhui Stationery Company (Anhui), a producer. On February 16, 17, and 23, 1994, all PRC producers and exporters identified in the course of this proceeding, i.e., through the petition, in PIERS data, in letters of appearance and as provided by MOFTEC, for which we had addresses were sent full questionnaires. During the month of March, in response to our questionnaire, we received letters from a number of companies stating that they either did not export cased pencils to the United States during the POI or acted merely as freight forwarders. On March 8, 1994, we postponed the preliminary determination in this investigation (see 59 FR 10784, March 8, 1994). SFTC requested on March 24, 1994, that it not be required to submit sales and factors of production information for certain pencils it exported to the United States during the POI. On April 4, 1994, SFTC amended its request. Because the sales and factor of production information covered a small percentage of SFTC's sales to the United States, we granted SFTC's amended request (see Memorandum from E. Graham to B. Stafford, April 7, 1994, on file in the Central Records Unit in room B&hyph;099 of the Main Commerce Building). On May 10, 11, and 25, 1994, petitioner submitted information concerning the costs of certain raw materials which are used in the production of pencils but that were not specifically addressed in the petition. Petitioner also requested that the Department recalculate the petition margins based on the information in its submission of May 25, 1994. Between June 3, 1994, and this preliminary determination, respondents submitted updated and additional information. Given the late dates on which this information was provided, we found it administratively infeasible to use this information (with the exception of company-specific conversion factors) in our preliminary determination. Scope of Investigation The products covered by this investigation are certain cased pencils of any shape or dimension which are writing and/or drawing instruments that feature cores of graphite or other materials encased in wood and/or man-made materials, whether or not decorated and whether or not tipped ( e.g., with erasers, etc.) in any fashion, and either sharpened or unsharpened. The pencils subject to this investigation are classified under subheading 9609.10.00 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (``HTSUS''). Specifically excluded from the scope of this investigation are mechanical pencils, cosmetic pencils, pens, non-cased crayons (wax), pastels, charcoals, or chalks. Although the HTSUS subheading is provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this investigation is dispositive.
