FR940426-1-00010 FR940426-1-00003 Sec. 701.1␣Purpose. 701.2␣Definitions. 701.3␣Applicability and Scope. 701.4␣Procedures. 701.5␣Confidentiality. Authority: Title I, sec. 124, Pub. L. 102&hyph;558, 106 Stat. 4207 (50 U.S.C. App. 2099) §701.1 Purpose. The Defense Production Act Amendments of 1992 require the Secretary of Commerce to promulgate regulations for U.S. firms entering into contracts for the sale of weapons or defense-related items to foreign countries or foreign firms that are subject to offset agreements exceeding $5,000,000 in value to furnish information regarding such sales. The Secretary of Commerce has designated the Bureau of Export Administration as the organization responsible for implementing this provision. The information provided by U.S. firms will be aggregated and used to determine the impact of offset transactions on the defense preparedness, industrial competitiveness, employment, and trade of the United States. Summary reports will be submitted annually to the Congress pursuant to section 309 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended. §701.2 Definitions. (a) Offsets. Compensation practices required as a condition of purchase in either government-to-government or commercial sales of defense articles and/or defense services as defined by the Arms Export Control Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. Types of offsets include, but are not limited to, coproduction, licensed production, subcontractor production, overseas investment, technology transfer, countertrade, barter, counterpurchase, and buy back. (b) Military export sales. Exports that are either Foreign Military Sales (FMS) or commercial (direct) sales of defense articles and/or defense services as defined by the Arms Export Control Act and International Traffic in Arms Regulations. (c) Prime contractor. A firm that has a sales contract with a foreign entity or with the U.S. Government for military export sales. (d) United States. Includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and U.S. territories. (e) Offset agreement. Any offset as defined in paragraph (a) of this section that the U.S. firm agrees to in order to conclude a military export sales contract. This includes all offsets, whether they are ``best effort'' agreements or are subject to penalty clauses. (f) Offset transaction. Any activity for which the U.S. firm receives credit for full or partial fulfillment of the offset agreement. §701.3 Applicability and scope. (a) This part applies to U.S. firms entering contracts for the sale of weapons systems or defense-related items (as defined in the Arms Export Control Act and International Traffic in Arms Regulations) to a foreign country or foreign firm for which the contract is subject to an offset agreement exceeding $5,000,000 in value. (b) This part applies to all offset transactions completed in performance of existing offset commitments since January 1, 1993 for which offset credit has been received from the foreign representative, and new offset agreements entered into since that time. §701.4 Procedures. (a) To avoid double counting, firms should report only offset transactions for which they are directly responsible for reporting to the foreign customer (i.e., prime contractors should report for their subcontractors if the subcontractors are not a direct party to the offset agreement). (b) Reports should be delivered to the Offsets Program Manager, U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of Industrial Resource Administration, Bureau of Export Administration, room 3878, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington DC 20230. The first industry reports should be submitted to the Bureau of Export Administration not later than (date to be provided) and should cover offset transactions completed during the calendar year 1993, as well as information regarding all unfulfilled offset agreements. After this initial submission, companies should provide information twice yearly not later than August 15 covering the first six months of a calendar year and February 15 covering the second six months of a calendar year. All submissions should include a point of contact (name and telephone number) and should be by a company official authorized to provide such information. (c) Companies are encouraged to submit this information in computerized spreadsheet/database format (e.g., Lotus 1&hyph;2&hyph;3, Quattro Pro, dbase IV) using a 3.5 inch 1.44 megabyte diskette, accompanied by a printed copy. (d) Offset transaction reporting. (1) Reports should include an itemized list of offset transactions completed during the reporting period, including the following data elements (Estimates are acceptable when actual figures are unavailable; estimated figures should be followed by the letter ``E''): (i) Name of Country_Country of entity purchasing the weapon system, defense item or service subject to offset. (ii) Name or Description of Weapon system, Defense Item, or Service Subject to Offset. (iii) Name of Offset Fulfilling Entity_Entity fulfilling offset transaction (including first tier subcontractors). (iv) Name of Offset Receiving Entity_Entity receiving benefits from offset transaction.
