FR940713-0-00012 FR940713-0-00006 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Parts 40, 72, 74, 75, 150 RIN 3150&hyph;AE35 Licensee Submittal of Data in Computer-Readable Form AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is amending its regulations to require certain licensees to submit data to the NRC in computer-readable format. The final rule streamlines the collection of nuclear material transaction data and increases the accuracy of the reported information. The final rule will save money for both NRC and licensees in the data collection process. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 11, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard H. Gramann, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555&hyph;0001, Telephone (301) 415&hyph;8118. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The NRC has a major interest in the potential use for computer-readable submittal. This innovation not only can result in monetary savings, but also can increase efficiency and accuracy of data collection efforts. In the past, the NRC has permitted the use of computer-readable forms as well as the use of computer generated facsimiles of the printed forms. Many licensees now generate their own facsimiles. The latest revision of ``Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees'' (Nuclear Materials Management and Safeguards System (NMMSS) Report D&hyph;24) contains specific procedures for submitting in computer-readable format: DOE/NRC Form 741, ``Nuclear Material Transaction Report''; DOE/NRC Form 741A, ``Nuclear Material Transaction Report (Continuation Page)''; DOE/NRC Form 740M, ``Concise Note''; DOE/NRC Form 742, ``Material Balance Report''; and DOE/NRC Form 742C, ``Physical Inventory Listing.'' The amendments make mandatory the reporting in computer-readable format prescribed by the D&hyph;24 document. These amendments eliminate the need for paper forms, thus providing a cost saving for the NRC in satisfying its statutory and treaty obligations. The amendments affect each licensee who transfers, receives, or adjusts the inventory, in any manner, of uranium or thorium source material of foreign origin by 1 kilogram or more. Each specific licensee who transfers or receives 1 gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium would also be affected. These amendments are intended only to take advantage of current computer technology and to make the data collection process more efficient and less costly. The Commission believes there will be minimal costs associated with the implementation of these amendments. Many licensees already have their material accounting automated and can generate computer-readable reports. For those licensees who have not yet automated their reporting, a diskette with the appropriate formats and user prompts may be obtained from the NRC to facilitate this process. Licensees may obtain a copy of the NMMSS report or the diskette by writing the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Cycle Safety and Safeguards, Washington, DC 20555&hyph;0001.
