FR940406-2-00019 FR940406-2-00007 (4) We excluded the enterprise tax in our calculation of general and administrative expenses because this tax is based on income and is not considered a production cost. In calculating the FMVs, Japanese prices included a consumption tax and German prices did not. Thus, we adjusted the Japanese FMV by deducting the consumption tax. Next, we deducted the German comparison adjustment from the German FMV and the Japanese comparison adjustment from the Japanese FMV. We multiplied the resulting amount for each product by the quantity of U.S. merchandise to which the product was compared in order to provide for an equitable comparison. Finally, we aggregated the values. From these aggregated values, we determined that the Japanese value was higher than the German value. Thus, the third criterion for invoking the MNC provision has been met. Because all of the above criteria for the MNC provision have been met, we are required to base the FMV for the Netherlands on sales prices by Fuji Photo Film Co., Ltd. in Japan (see the March 10, 1994, memorandum from the team to Barbara R. Stafford for a further discussion of the Department's MNC methodology). United States Price We based USP on exporter's sales price (ESP), in accordance with section 772(c) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold to the first unrelated purchaser after importation into the United States. Respondent did not provide a revised sales listing for the foreign extended POI sales because of ambiguous language in our deficiency questionnaire regarding the due dates. Therefore, we have not considered the extended U.S. POI sale for purposes of the preliminary determination, but will do so for purposes of the final determination. Additionally, we determined that it is not necessary to examine U.S. further-manufactured sales from the Netherlands for purposes of this investigation (see January 17, 1994, memorandum from Richard W. Moreland to Barbara R. Stafford). On March 21, 1994, respondent submitted clarifications regarding its response to section C of the Department's questionnaire regarding U.S. sales. Respondent requested that the Department recalculate a certain inland insurance expense and a certain indirect selling expense. This submission was received too late to be used for purposes of the preliminary determination; however, we will consider this submission in our final determination. Based on information submitted by respondent, we reclassified a certain movement expense as revenue, and added it to the U.S. gross unit price. We made deductions, where appropriate, for discounts and rebates and for the following movement charges: foreign brokerage, foreign inland freight, marine insurance, ocean freight, U.S. brokerage and handling charges, U.S. duty, U.S. inland freight, and U.S. inland insurance. We added an amount for duty drawback. We deducted commissions and direct selling expenses which include advertising, credit expenses, and a combination of promotional expenses which constitute other direct selling expenses. We recalculated U.S. imputed credit using the reported dates of shipment and payment because the amounts reported by the respondent did not consistently reflect the method described in the questionnaire response. We have adjusted USP for additional product preparation performed by certain parties after exportation. We also deducted indirect selling expenses which include those indirect selling expenses that Fuji-USA (respondent's principal related U.S. entity) incurred in its general sales activities, those indirect selling expenses that Fuji-Hunt (a U.S. entity related to respondent) incurred in its sales and marketing activities, foreign and U.S. pre-sale warehousing expenses, inventory carrying costs, premiums for product liability insurance, and indirect selling expenses incurred in Japan. For purposes of the preliminary determination, we are accepting respondent's treatment of Fuji-USA's commissions paid to an unrelated party and Fuji-Hunt's commissions as direct selling expenses, and commissions paid to Fuji-USA's employees as indirect selling expenses. We treated all advertising costs as direct selling expenses because respondent reported that all advertising is directed at their customers' customers.
