FR941031-2-00078 FR941031-2-00059 [File No. 922 3236] Hyde Athletic Industries, Inc.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis To Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Corrections in Analysis To Aid Public Comment. SUMMARY: This document contains a corrected version of the Analysis to Aid Public Comment which was published on Friday, September 23, 1994 (59 FR 48892), in connection with a consent agreement accepted subject to final approval by the Federal Trade Commission. The consent agreement would settle alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition by prohibiting a Massachusetts footwear marketer from, among other things, misrepresenting the extent to which any footwear is made in the United States. It would also require the respondent to maintain materials relied upon for any country of origin representations and to distribute copies of the Commission order to its operating divisions and certain company officials. The corrected version of the Analysis to Aid Public Comment is attached. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: C. Steven Baker, Chicago Regional Office, Federal Trade Commission, 55 East Monroe St., Suite 1437, Chicago IL 60603. (312) 353&hyph;8156. Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted an agreement, subject to final approval, to a proposed consent order from respondent Hyde Athletic Industries, Inc. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement and take other appropriate action or make final the agreement's proposed order. This matter concerns country of origin claims made by the respondent for its ``Saucony'' brand footwear, which appeared in respondent's advertising and on labeling for certain of its footwear. The Commission's complaint charges that respondent represented that Saucony footwear is made in the United States, that is, that all or virtually all of the component parts of the footwear are made in the United States, and all or virtually all of the labor in assembling the footwear is performed in the United States. The complaint alleges that this claim is false and misleading because a substantial amount of Saucony footwear is assembled in foreign countries of foreign component parts, and a substantial amount of Saucony footwear assembled in the United States consists largely of foreign component parts. The proposed consent order contains provisions designed to remedy the violations charged and to prevent the respondent from engaging in similar acts and practices in the future. Part I of the proposed order prohibits the respondent from misrepresenting, directly or by implication, the extent to which any footwear is made in the United States. This Part provides, however, that ``Made in the USA'' claims will not violate the order if all or virtually all of the parts and labor are of domestic origin. This Part also contains a safe harbor provision that specifies language respondent can use when making a country of origin disclosure for footwear that is made or assembled in one country in whole or in part of materials made in another country. Part II of the proposed consent order provides that the respondent may continue to deplete its existing inventory of footwear and footwear packaging printed or labeled prior to the date of service of this order, provided that the respondent itself does not sell or distribute that inventory more than ninety (90) days after the date of service of the order. The remaining parts of the proposed consent order require the respondent to maintain materials relied upon in disseminating any country of origin representations, to distribute copies of the order to each of its operating divisions and to certain company officials, to notify the Commission of certain changes in corporate structure, and to file one or more compliance reports. The standard set forth in the complaint and proposed order for an unqualified ``Made in the USA'' (or the like) claim is that all or virtually all of the parts and labor used in the manufacture of the product must be of domestic origin. This standard is consistent with Commission case precedent, 1 certain other statutes enforced by the Commission, 2 and extrinsic evidence obtained by the Commission regarding consumer perceptions of ``Made in USA'' claims. The Commission would be interested in receiving any information relevant to its standard for ``Made in USA'' claims, including information on the competitive and other effects of this standard and on consumer perceptions of country of origin claims. 1 See, e.g., Windsor Pen Corp. , 64 F.T.C. 454 (1964); Joseph H. Meyer Bros. , 47 F.T.C. 49 (1950); Vulcan Lamp Works, Inc. , 32 F.T.C. 7 (1940). The Commission's advisory opinions have also set forth this standard. See, e.g. , Advisory Opinion No. 215, Misrepresenting Hoist as ``Made in U.S.A.,'' 73 F.T.C. 1321 (1968). 2 Wool Products Labeling Act, 15 U.S.C. §§68&hyph;68j (1973 & Supp. 1994); Textile Fiber Products Identification Act, 15 U.S.C. §§70&hyph;70k (1972 & Supp. 1994). The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed consent order. It is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Donal S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26937 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
