FR940505-1-00091 FR940505-1-00012 (i) Modifications to the method for estimating water content. DPR is currently investigating several analytical methods for estimating water content including both Karl Fischer titration and spectroscopic analysis of the vapor-phase effluent from the TGA analysis. Until adequate validation of these methods is available, DPR may calculate water content based on the ``percentage water added'' component of the statement of formulation required pursuant to FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136a(c)(1)(E)). Because this generally does not account for water present as impurity, water produced in reaction, or water present as a component of other raw materials, it should provide a conservative (i.e., low) estimate of true water content. Reliance on formulation data is consistent with EPA's historic policy regarding analogous coating regulations before reliable test methods (e.g., ASTM D&hyph;4017 and D&hyph;3792) were available. 56 56 See, for example, ``Procedure for Certifying Quantity of Volatile Organic Compounds Emitted by Paint, Ink, and Other Coatings, ``U.S. EPA, EPA&hyph;450/3&hyph;84&hyph;019, December 1984. (ii) Modifications to the method for estimating exempt compounds. Again, until adequate validation of a specific test method(s) is available, DPR may rely on the statement of formulation for estimating the amount of exempt compounds present in specific pesticides. This is also analogous to coating regulations which generally relied on formulation data until ASTM D&hyph;4457 was available. 57 57 ibid. (iii) Modifications to address solid pesticide formulations. As described in §52.2960 (d) and (e), producers of affected pesticides must submit copies of all raw data and a summary of the results of the VOC content analyses. Distributors must submit a distributor notification and an annual report summarizing the pesticides distributed in the affected area during the preceding year. Applicators must submit a copy of the PUR for all pesticide applications within the affected area. Pesticide producers, distributors, and applicators are required to maintain all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the regulation for a period of five years. At a minimum, this information must include copies of all reports specifically required in paragraph 52.2960(d), and any technical support to these reports. (4) Relationship to State rules. As discussed in sections I.D., III.J., and elsewhere in this NPRM, EPA believes that State and local agencies can adopt and implement regulations that are better tailored to the specific characteristics and needs of the affected areas. Therefore, EPA strongly encourages the State to continue ongoing efforts to adopt approvable rules to replace all or part of the FIP. Pursuant to §110(l) of the Act, State rules are not approvable if they, ``*␣*␣* interfere with any applicable requirement concerning attainment and reasonable further progress *␣*␣* or any other applicable requirement.'' For purposes of the pesticide rule, EPA intends to determine approvability based largely on emissions. Modifications to the pesticide rule which EPA may consider approvable, if shown to result in no significant emission increases, include the following: (i) Provisions for exempting de minimis use of high-VOC pesticides. (ii) Provisions for allowing use of high-VOC pesticides to prevent overwhelming economic dislocation. (iii) Provisions for allowing use of high VOC pesticides to prevent harm to human health or the environment. (iv) Provisions for allowing use of high-VOC pesticides during times of the year when low ambient ozone concentrations are projected. (v) Modifications of the test method discussed in section III.C.3.d(3) of this NPRM. (vi) Modifications to 40 CFR 52.2960(c)(2) of the proposed rule, such as ranking pesticides based on emissions instead of VOC content as discussed in section III.C.3.d(2) of this NPRM. (vii) Consideration of the relative reactivity of different VOCs. Or, of course, the State could adopt rules based on completely different regulatory strategies that still achieve equivalent emission reductions. 58 58 EPA, for example, considered several other regulatory strategies for inclusion in the FIP, and analyzed two in detail through a contract to Midwest Research Institute (``Development of Pesticide Rules for the Sacramento, South Coast, and Ventura Nonattainment Area FIPs,'' prepared by Midwest Research Institute for EPA, April 30, 1993 draft final report). The no-use day strategy was fashioned after existing no-burn day programs. EPA would establish meteorologic criteria for predicting unfavorable ozone conditions and pesticide use would be restricted on a day-to-day basis. A major drawback to this strategy is that postponing pesticide application for several consecutive days could result in significant crop damage and an increase in overall annual pesticide use. The users bubble strategy would be somewhat analogous to the stationary source emission cap programs proposed in this notice. Pesticide users (e.g., growers) would calculate a base-year VOC emission rate as: amount of pesticide applied times VOC content of pesticides divided by total acreage. Users would then be required to reduce their VOC emission rate a certain percentage by the attainment year. A major drawback to this strategy is the difficulty in establishing equitable baseline inventories. EPA selected the VOC content strategy incorporated in this notice for a variety of reasons including better enforceability, consistency with State regulatory plans, and minimization of disruption to the affected industries. EPA invites comment on mechanisms to improve the proposed pesticides rule, as well as on other strategies to reduce VOC emissions from pesticides. EPA is interested, for example, in mechanisms to encourage pesticide application technologies (e.g., electrostatic application) that decrease VOC emissions. In addition, EPA requests comment on how to optimize the interaction between the proposed FIP rule and ongoing pesticide programs and initiatives including those targeting pesticide use reduction, pollution prevention, and integrated pest management.
