FR941227-2-00145 FR941227-2-00093 2. Section 9(c) of the Act provides that, upon application, the SEC shall grant an exemption from the disqualification provisions of section 9(a), either unconditionally or on an appropriate temporary or other conditional basis, if it is established that the prohibitions of section 9(a), as applied to the applicant, are unduly or disproportionately severe or that the conduct of such person has been such as not to make it against the public interest or protection of investors to grant such application. 3. In support of its position that the SEC should grant the requested exemptions from the prohibitions of section 9(a), PaineWebber asserts that: (a) Neither PaineWebber nor any affiliated person of PaineWebber was the subject of the Injunction, and the facts and circumstances to which the Injunction relate do not involve any activities of PaineWebber or its affiliates. (b) None of the PaineWebber investment companies were in any way involved in any of the circumstances referred to in the Injunction. (c) As an employee in PaineWebber's investment banking department, Mr. Trotman will have no involvement with, or responsibilities for, the PaineWebber investment companies. (d) The allegations in the Commission's complaint against Mr. Trotman and the terms of the Injunction and the circumstances to which they relate in no way involve any activities of an investment company. During Mr. Trotman's tenure with Kidder and Drexel, he was not involved with the activities of any of Kidder's or Drexel's investment companies. (e) Since the entry of the Injunction, Mr. Trotman has not been subject to any similar actions, or sanctioned in any way by the SEC, any self-regulatory organization, or any state securities commission, nor are there any customer complaints, lawsuits, or regulatory actions pending against Mr. Trotman. (f) The prohibitions of section 9(a) deprive Mr. Trotman of the opportunity to serve as an employee of any company, such as PaineWebber, that serves as an investment adviser, principle underwriter, or depositor of investment companies, in circumstances in which he would have no involvement in investment company operations. (g) The prohibitions of section 9(a) would be unduly and disproportionately severe as applied to applicant because they would deprive PaineWebber of Mr. Trotman's services in an area totally unrelated to the activities of an investment company. (h) Because the Commission has previously considered and granted, to both Drexel and Kidder, temporary and permanent exemptions from the provisions of section 9(a) operative as a result of the Injunction, it is appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act that the temporary exemption be granted. (i) The temporary exemption is appropriate as it would: (i) permit Mr. Trotman to commence his employment with PaineWebber and thus avoid loss of income which could occur if he were forced to forego this employment pending the final disposition of the application; (ii) permit PaineWebber to provide investment banking services to former clients of Kidder that wish to continue to utilize Mr. Trotman's services as an employee of PaineWebber; (iii) provide continuity of services for such clients; and (iv) allow PaineWebber to provide continuity of service to its investment company clients. 4. In making the application, PaineWebber acknowledges, understands, and agrees that the application and any exemption issued by the SEC to applicant shall be without prejudice to, and shall not limit, the SEC's rights in any manner with respect to any SEC investigation or enforcement action under the federal securities laws, or the consideration by the SEC of any application for exemption from statutory requirements, including, without limitation, the consideration of the instant application for a permanent exemption pursuant to section 9(c) from the provisions of section 9(a) of the Act or the revocation or removal of any exemption granted in connection with the application. Applicant's Condition As a condition of the requested relief, neither PaineWebber, nor any affiliated person of PaineWebber relying upon relief granted pursuant to the application, will employ Mr. Trotman in any capacity related directly to the provision of investment advisory services to, or acting as a depositor for, any registered investment company or to acting as a principal underwriter for any registered open-end investment company, unit investment trust or registered face amount certificate company without first making further application to the SEC. Temporary Order The Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority, has considered the matter and finds that, under the standards of section 9(c) of the Act applicable to this matter, applicant has made the showing necessary to justify granting a temporary exemption. Accordingly, It is ordered, under section 9(c) of the Act, that applicant is hereby temporarily exempted from the provisions of section 9(a) of the Act, for a period to expire on the earlier of ninety days from the entry of the temporary order, the date on which the SEC sets PaineWebber's application for permanent relief for a hearing, or the date on which the SEC takes final action on the application for an order granting applicant a permanent exemption from the provisions of section 9(a). For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31660 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
