FR940202-0-00041 FR940202-0-00006 Section 1.1275&hyph;3␣OID Information Reporting Requirements The legending requirements in the final regulations for debt instruments with OID are generally the same as the requirements in the proposed regulations. Section 1.1275&hyph;5␣Variable Rate Debt Instruments In response to comments that the definition of a variable rate debt instrument contained in the proposed regulations is overly restrictive, the final regulations liberalize the rules in several respects. First, the regulations allow the issue price of a variable rate debt instrument to exceed the total noncontingent principal payments on the instrument, provided that the excess is not greater than a specified amount. Second, the regulations allow a variable rate debt instrument to provide for stated interest at more than two qualified floating rates, at a single fixed rate and one or more qualified floating rates, and at a single fixed rate and an objective rate that is a qualified inverse floating rate. Third, the regulations provide that interest that is stated at an initial fixed rate for a period of not more than one year, followed by a qualified floating rate or an objective rate, is treated as stated at a single qualified floating rate or an objective rate in certain circumstances. This rule applies, for example, if interest for the initial accrual period is set a short time prior to the issue date at a fixed rate chosen to approximate the expected value of the qualified floating rate or objective rate on the issue date. Fourth, the regulations allow certain multiples of a qualified floating rate to be treated as qualified floating rates. Fifth, the regulations expand the definition of an objective rate to include a rate based on the yield of actively traded property, a rate that would be a qualified floating rate if the debt instrument were denominated in a foreign currency, and any combination of objective rates. In addition, the final regulations provide that other rates may be treated as objective rates if designated by revenue ruling or revenue procedure. In response to a comment, the definition of an objective rate has been narrowed in two respects. While the proposed regulations permit a rate based on the price of actively traded personal property, the final regulations permit only a rate based on the change in the price of actively traded personal property to be an objective rate. In addition, the final regulations provide a more general rule relating to the frontloading or backloading of interest such that a variable rate is not an objective rate if it results in significant frontloading or backloading of interest. The rules in the proposed regulations relating to permissible objective rates on tax-exempt debt instruments have been changed in the final regulations. Under the revised rules, a variable rate on a tax-exempt debt instrument is an objective rate only if it is a qualified inverse floating rate. In general, an objective rate is a qualified inverse floating rate if the rate is equal to a fixed rate minus a qualified floating rate and the rate varies in a manner that inversely reflects contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds. The rules in the proposed regulations for determining the accrual of OID and the amount of qualified stated interest on a variable rate debt instrument have been revised and simplified in the final regulations. Under the revised rules, a debt instrument providing for qualified floating rates is converted to an equivalent fixed rate debt instrument by assuming that each qualified floating rate will remain at its value as of the issue date. A debt instrument providing for an objective rate is converted to an equivalent fixed rate debt instrument by assuming that the objective rate will equal a fixed rate that reflects the yield that is reasonably expected for the instrument. The rules applicable to fixed rate debt instruments are then applied to determine the OID accruals and the qualified stated interest payments on the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument. Appropriate adjustments to these amounts are made in each accrual period if the interest actually accrued or paid during the accrual period is greater than or less than the interest assumed to be accrued or paid under the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument.
