FR940203-2-00088 FR940203-2-00055 [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;277 and 50&hyph;278] Philadelphia Electric Co., et al.; Notice of Issuance of Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License Nos. DPR&hyph;44 and DPR&hyph;56, issued to the Philadelphia Electric Company, et al. (the licensee), for operation of the Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station, Units 2 and 3, located in York County, Pennsylvania. Summary of Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed amendment would consist of changes to the Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station, Units 2 and 3, operating licenses DPR&hyph;44 and DPR&hyph;56, respectively, to extend the expiration dates of the operating licenses from January 31, 2008 to August 8, 2013 and July 2, 2014, respectively. The amendments are in response to the licensee's application dated May 21, 1992. The revised dates provide for a licensed operating period of 40 years from issuance of the respective unit operating license. The Commission's staff has prepared an environment assessment of the proposed action, ``Environmental Assessment by the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation Related to the Change in the Expiration Date of Facility Operating Licenses DPR&hyph;44 and DPR&hyph;56, Philadelphia Electric Company, Public Service Electric and Gas Company, Delmarva Power and Light Company, Atlantic City Electric Company, Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station, Units 2 and 3,'' dated January 24, 1994. The NRC staff has reviewed the potential environmental impact of the proposed change in the expiration dates of the operating licenses for Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station, Units 2 and 3 (Peach Bottom, Units 2 and 3). The staff reviewed the ``Final Environmental Statement Related to Operation of Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station Units 2 and 3,'' dated April 1973 (FES) and the information provided in the licensee's May 21, 1992 license amendment application to determine if any significant environmental impacts, other than those previously considered, would be associated with the proposed license extension. Radiological Impact The NRC staff concludes that, although the population in the vicinity of Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station has increased, the population growth was less than projections provided in the FES. Based on updated census information and updated population growth estimates, the existing FES is expected to remain bounding with respect to population projections. Station radiological effluents to unrestricted areas during normal operation have been well within Commission regulations regarding ``as low as reasonably achievable'' (ALARA) limits and are expected to remain within ALARA limits. Based on the continued operation of existing liquid and gaseous radwaste treatment systems coupled with the current radiological monitoring program, the NRC staff anticipates liquid and gaseous effluent doses during the period covered by the requested amendment will remain a fraction of the 10 CFR part 50, Appendix I, limits and will not adversely impact the environment. With regard to normal plant operation, occupational radiation exposures to personnel have decreased as a result of recent plant improvements. Further reductions in radiation dose rates are expected as a result of the ALARA program. Accordingly, the NRC staff concludes that, as a result of the license extension, the radiological impact on the general public would not increase over that previously evaluated in the FES and the occupational exposure will be at least consistent with the industry average and in accordance with 10 CFR Part 20. The NRC staff has in the past concluded that the environmental impacts associated with the uranium fuel cycle are very small when compared with the dose commitments resulting from natural background sources. The environmental impacts attributable to transportation of fuel and waste to and from Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station, with respect to normal conditions of transport and possible accidents in transport, would be founded as set forth in Summary Table S&hyph;4 of 10 CFR 51.52. The values in Table S&hyph;4 would continue to represent the contribution of transportation to the environmental costs associated with reactor operation. Nonradiological Impacts The NRC staff has concluded that the proposed extension would not cause a significant increase in the nonradiological impact to the environment and would not change any conclusions previously reached by the NRC staff.
