FR941213-0-00052 FR941213-0-00010 •Section 482.43(b)(5)_We are omitting the qualifier, ``, to the greatest extent possible,'' from the requirement that appropriate arrangements be made before discharge. •Section 482.43(c)(3)_We are requiring the hospital to arrange for the initial implementation of the discharge plan rather than requiring that a hospital assist in implementing a discharge plan. •Section 482.43(c)(4)_We are requiring the hospital to reassess a patient's discharge plan if there are factors that may affect continuing care needs or the appropriateness of the discharge plan, rather than requiring the proposed periodic reassessment. •Section 482.43(e)_We are revising the proposed requirement that a hospital reassess its discharge planning process by reviewing discharge plans to instead include review of the plans as part of the reassessment. Also, as noted in section III. B of this preamble, we are not adopting the proposed changes in §§405.2135 and 405.2137 to the ESRD conditions for coverage. VI. Other Revisions A. Medical Director 1. Background Section 1861(e)(3) of the Act requires a hospital participating in Medicare to have by-laws in effect concerning its staff of physicians. The staff of physicians is also a matter of health and safety for the hospital's patients; therefore, section 1861(e)(9) of the Act, which gives the Secretary the authority to promulgate health and safety standards, serves as a basis for governing the appointment of a medical director. Among the conditions of participation a hospital participating in Medicare must meet is one at §482.22 concerning medical staff. One of the standards, concerning medical staff organization and accountability (see §482.22(b)(3)), requires that the responsibility for the organization and conduct of the medical staff be assigned only to an individual doctor of medicine or osteopathy. This person is the medical director. On December 19, 1989, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989 (OBRA '89) (Pub. L. 101&hyph;239) was enacted. Section 6025 of that law permits a Medicare-participating hospital the flexibility to consider and assign a doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine when naming a medical director, if permitted by State law of the State in which the hospital is located. 2. Revision As a result of section 6025 of OBRA '89, we are revising standard (b)(3), Medical staff organization and accountability, of §482.22, Condition of participation: Medical staff. We are requiring that the responsibility for organization and conduct of the medical staff may be assigned only to an individual doctor of medicine or osteopathy, except when State law of the State in which the hospital is located permits a hospital to have a doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine as its medical director. We are revising our regulations to conform to the OBRA '89 provision. Doing so will give hospitals flexibility in some States, eliminate conflicts between State and Federal laws in some instances, and acknowledge changing practices in the delivery of medical care. B. Accrediting Program Name Change The name of the entity accrediting programs for x-ray technologists in §405.1413, Conditions for Coverage_qualifications, orientation and health of technical personnel, paragraph (a)(1), has been changed from ``the Council on Medical Education'' to ``the Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation.'' We are making the necessary conforming change to our regulations. VII. Impact Statement We generally prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis that is consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612) unless the Secretary certifies that a final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. For purposes of the RFA, we treat all hospitals and ESRD facilities as small entities. We do not have the data to assess accurately the magnitude of the change in procedures that will result from the new condition of participation on discharge planning. However, we believe that adequate planning is already done in most hospitals for the following reasons: •The prospective payment system has created an incentive for hospitals to have good discharge planning procedures; and •The conditions of participation have a standard requiring each hospital to do discharge planning. In the absence of positive evidence to the contrary, we believe that this final rule will have little effect. We wish to point out, however, that incorporating the statutory requirements as a condition, instead of a standard, could result in graver consequences for those hospitals that do not engage in adequate planning in the event that a routine or complaint survey establishes noncompliance. However, we do not expect this to happen often. If it were correct to presume that a lack of planning leads to systematic underservice of beneficiary needs, then the requirement for discharge planning, especially early assessment of the need for planning, should: •Ensure that needs are identified and appropriate transfers and referrals are made; and •Result in some increase in health care utilization by patients who might otherwise not have received needed care. We do not believe that all patients receive all needed care. However, factors other than the lack of planning affect whether or not patients receive needed services. Even when planning is available, patients sometimes defer or avoid recommended referrals or follow-up care. The other provisions of this rule will have no significant effect. We have determined and the Secretary certifies that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. We have therefore not prepared a regulatory flexibility analysis. Section 1102(b) of the Social Security Act requires the Secretary to prepare a regulatory impact analysis if a final rule may have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. Such an analysis must conform to the provisions of section 604 of the RFA. For purposes of section 1102(b) of the Act, we define a small rural hospital as a hospital that is located outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area and has fewer than 50 beds. We are not preparing a rural impact statement since we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this final rule will not have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. In accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 12866, this regulation was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget.
