FR940506-2-00073 FR940506-2-00047 (a) In regard to any non-foam polystyrene product or package, that such product or package is recyclable in the few communities with recycling collection programs for non-foam polystyrene; and in regard to any non-corrugated paperboard or cardboard product or package, that such product or package is recyclable in the few communities with recycling collection programs for non-corrugated paperboard or cardboard; or (b) The approximate number of U.S. communities with recycling collection programs for such product or package; or (c) The approximate percentage of U.S. communities or the U.S. population to which recycling collection programs for such product or package are available; and (2) In addition, in the case of a non-foam polystyrene product or package, such product or package itself bear a clear identification of the specific plastic resin(s) from which it is made. For purposes of this provision, a disclosure elsewhere on the product package shall be deemed to be ``in close proximity'' to such representation if there is a clear and conspicuous cross-reference to the disclosure. The use of an asterisk or other symbol shall not constitute a clear and conspicuous cross-reference. A cross-reference shall be deemed clear and conspicuous if it is of sufficient prominence to be readily noticeable and readable by the prospective purchaser when examining the part of the package on which the representation appears. III It is further ordered that respondents, LePage's, Inc., a corporation, and LP Holdings, Inc, a corporation, their successors and assigns, and their officers, representatives, agents, and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the advertising, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of any product or package in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, that any such product or package offers any environmental benefit, unless at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable evidence, which when appropriate must be competent and reliable scientific evidence, that substantiates such representation. IV It is further ordered that for five (5) years after the last date of dissemination of any representation covered by this Order, respondents, or their successors and assigns, shall maintain and upon request make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: A. All materials that were relied upon in disseminating such representation; and B. All tests, reports, studies, surveys, demonstrations, or other evidence in their possession or control that contradict, qualify, or call into question such representation, or the basis relied upon for such representation, including complaints from consumers. V It is further ordered that respondents shall distribute a copy of this Order to each of their operating divisions and to each of their officers, agents, representatives, or employees engaged in the preparation and placement of advertisements, promotional materials, product labels or other such sales materials covered by this Order. VI It is further ordered that respondents shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in the corporations such as a dissolution, assignment, or sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries, or any other change in the corporations which may affect compliance obligations under this Order. VII It is further ordered that respondents shall, within sixty (60) days after service of this Order upon them, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which they have complied with this Order.
