FR940606-0-00065 FR940606-0-00019 (ii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or (B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or (iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex permanently after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or (B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable; or (iv) Any person, including a person who moves before the owner's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition, if the Owner, the LHA or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition for the assisted project. (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if: (i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and the LHA determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance; (ii) The person moved into the property after the execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition, and, before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated, or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (or for assistance under this section) as a result of the project; (iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or (iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project. (3) The Owner or LHA may request, at any time, HUD's determination of whether a displacement is or would be covered by this section. (h) Definition of initiation of negotiations. For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of private-owner rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition of the real property, the term initiation of negotiations means the Owner's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition. (Approved by Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number 2506&hyph;0121) PART 941_PUBLIC HOUSING DEVELOPMENT 31. The authority citation for part 941 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437b, 1437c, 1437g, and 3535(d). 32. Section 941.207 is revised to read as follows: ยง941.207 Displacement, relocation, and acquisition. (a) Minimizing displacement. Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, the PHA shall assure that it has taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part.
