FR940428-2-00103 FR940428-2-00052 The higher boron concentration may result in increased probability of equipment failure following an accident due to in-containment or in-process equipment being exposed to a more severe post-accident environment. The general chemical properties of the slightly higher boron concentration fluid indicates no mechanism that would result in an appreciable increase in the component failure rate. While the corrosive nature of the fluid will increase, this increase will be only minimal. Thus, there is no significant increase in the consequences of any accident due to an increase in the probability of equipment failure. The changes in containment spray and sump solution pH may change the radioisotope removal and partition characteristics. While some relevant characteristics are affected, the resulting limiting coefficient values associated with the pH changes are bounded by the values used in the design calculations for CPSES. Thus, no adverse impact of the radiological consequences arising from this mechanism has been identified. The impact of the containment spray, with a lower pH, upon the combustible gas production rate was also evaluated. No mechanism for increased combustible gas production was identified. The higher boron concentration could have an adverse impact on the inadvertent actuation of the ECCS event. Although the timing of the sequence of events may be affected, the departure from nucleate boiling ratio continues to increase from its initial value throughout the event. On the basis of its review of this event, the licensee has identified no changes in the event probability or consequences; however, the continued validity of this conclusion will be reconfirmed by the licensee on a cycle-specific basis. 2. The proposed change would not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. The proposed change only changes the allowable boron concentration. No new or different accident sequences have been identified. Furthermore, the licensee has reviewed the heat tracing requirements and determined that there are no additional requirements resulting from the boron concentration increase. There are no previously unconsidered failure mechanisms. 3. The proposed change would not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The decrease in the containment spray and sump solution pH could be expected to result in higher airborne iodine concentrations. The accident source terms could be impacted by variations in the iodine spray removal and partition factors. A comparison of the coefficients for the minimum equilibrium containment sump solution pH to those used in the CPSES design analyses indicated that the expected coefficient values would remain bounded by the values used in the previous analyses. Thus, no significant reduction in the margin of safety has been identified. Based on this review, it appears that the standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the request for amendments involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: University of Texas at Arlington Library, Government Publications/Maps, 701 South Cooper, P.O. Box 19497, Arlington, Texas 76019. Attorney for Licensee: George L. Edgar, Esq., Newman and Holtzinger, 1615 L Street, NW., suite 1000, Washington, DC 20036. NRC Project Director: Suzanne C. Black. TU Electric Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;445 and 50&hyph;446, Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station, Units 1 and 2, Somervell County, Texas Date of Amendment Request: February 14, 1994. Brief Description of Amendments: The proposed amendment will revise the Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station, Units 1 and 2, technical specifications to be consistent with the new 10 CFR part 20. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of a previously evaluated accident. The proposed revisions to the liquid and gaseous effluent release limits will not change the type or amount of effluent released nor will there be an increase in individual or cumulative dose. The changes will result in levels of radioactive materials in effluents being maintained ALARA [as low as reasonably achievable] and comply with 10 CFR 50.36a and 10 CFR 50 Appendix I. The change to the high radiation area dose measurement distance will ensure that high radiation areas are conservatively posted per 10 CFR 20.1601(a)(1) and provide controls to minimize individual dose. The changes do not impact the operation or design of any plant structure, system or component. Other proposed changes are administrative only. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve an increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not affect the plant design or operation nor do they result in a change to the configuration of any equipment. No change is proposed that will change the type or quantity of effluents released off site or change the source terms available for release. Therefore, the proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated.
