FR940728-1-00028 FR940728-1-00010 The final list of measures consists of the 21 EPA suggested RACM. The SIP's emission inventory identifies the major contributors to the PM 10 nonattainment problem in the PPA as re-entrained dust on paved roads and other sources of fugitive dust including, but not limited to, construction and demolition activities, farming operations, uncovered haul trucks, and emissions from unpaved roads. These sources constitute over 50 percent of the PM 10 emissions in the PPA and will be controlled by the implementation of Maricopa County Rule 310 ``Open Fugitive Dust Sources''. According to the State, implementation of this rule could reduce annual PM 10 emissions in the urban portion of the PPA by approximately 1,427 to 3,991 tons per year. The low end of this range is based on the assumption that there will be no change in the current level of enforcement staff at the County and in the level of citizen complaint response. The high end assumes that all local governing bodies will cooperate in the enforcement of Rule 310, there will be a significant increase in citizen complaints due to greater public awareness of the requirements and impacts of Rule 310, and that the County will establish a 24 hour hotline to enable citizens to report violations of the rule. Section 189(a)(1)(C) of the Act requires RACM to be implemented by December 10, 1993. Rule 310 was implemented as of December 1, 1993. 8 8 See footnote 3. The State claims emission reduction credits for some additional measures. Since 1989, Maricopa County has implemented a Trip Reduction Program which attempts to reduce VMT by encouraging the use of carpooling and mass transit. The SIP revision estimates that implementation of this measure throughout the nonattainment area will reduce VMT in 1994 by 0.8 percent or 315 tons per year. The State also claims credit for the use of two methanol buses in the PPA. This measure provides a small but quantifiable reduction in PM 10 emissions of 0.63 tons per year. Maricopa County also has an adopted regulation for the control of prescribed burning activities, Rule 314. This rule was already adopted prior to the development of this moderate area PM 10 SIP so no additional emission reduction credits are associated with it. The emission reductions achieved from this rule are built into the baseline and projected emission inventories submitted with the SIP revision. Rule 314 applies throughout the nonattainment area. The General Preamble states that at a minimum all major stationary sources of PM 10 in a nonattainment area be required to apply RACT. The State should then apply RACT to other PM 10 sources in the area, taking into account the attainment needs of the area and the feasibility of such controls. Maricopa County has adopted regulations requiring RACT for stationary sources of PM 10 : Rule 311, ``Particulate Matter from Process Industries'', and Rule 316, ``Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Processing''. These RACT rules apply throughout the nonattainment area and to all affected sources regardless of their size. The SIP does not claim emission reduction credits for Rule 311, since this was an existing regulation which the County revised in order to make it more enforceable. Rule 316 is a new regulation, but the County has stated that emission reduction credits would be difficult to quantify. The sources to which this rule will apply contribute only 1 percent to the total annual emission inventory. A more detailed discussion of the control strategy in the SIP revision can be found in the Technical Support Document (TSD). EPA believes that the State has provided a reasoned justification for eliminating measures from its initial list of possible RACM. The remaining measures are legally enforceable. In addition, the State has provided for the application of RACT to existing sources and new sources of PM 10 . Therefore, EPA has concluded that the regulations adopted for the State's moderate area PM 10 SIP revision represent RACM (including RACT) as required by sections 189(a)(1)(C) and 172(c) of the Act. By this notice, EPA is proposing to approve the control strategy. 4. Demonstration As noted, the initial moderate PM 10 nonattainment areas must submit a demonstration (including air quality modeling) showing that the plan will provide for attainment as expeditiously as practicable but no later than December 31, 1994. Alternatively, the state must show that attainment by December 31, 1994 is impracticable. See section 189(a)(1)(B) of the Act. In order for a state to properly demonstrate attainment of the NAAQS, the SIP control strategy must provide for attainment of each primary ambient air quality standard. There are two primary air quality standards for PM 10 , a 24 hour standard (150 μg/m3) and an annual standard (50 μg/m3). The 24 hour standard is attained when the expected number of days per calendar year with a 24-hour average concentration above 150 μg/m3 is equal to or less than one. The annual standard is attained when the expected annual arithmetic mean concentration is less than or equal to 50 μg/m3 (lid). See 40 CFR 50.6. Arizona used receptor modeling coupled with a proportional rollback model for its PPA air quality analysis. This analysis indicated that neither the 24 hour nor the annual standard for PM 10 can be attained by December 31, 1994. The SIP revision indicates that a 27.2 percent reduction in PM 10 emissions would be necessary in order to attain the annual PM 10 NAAQS in 1994. The State's analysis of the adopted control measures in the plan claims that the measures provide for a reduction of 11.1 percent. It should be noted however, that EPA, using the information contained in the plan, calculates that a reduction target of 22.8 percent is needed to attain the annual NAAQS and EPA's analysis of the control measures results in a reduction of 18.8 percent. This difference in the control strategy's effectiveness is due to the fact that the State's analysis made an assumption that the control strategy would not be applied to the entire nonattainment area. However, Rule 310, the measure from which the greatest reductions in PM 10 emissions would be realized, clearly applies to the entire PPA. The TSD accompanying this notice provides more detail on EPA's analysis of control measure effectiveness. Regardless of the difference in EPA's and the State's analysis of the control strategy's effect on the annual standard, the SIP's design value for the 24 hour PM 10 NAAQS is 242 μg/m3, 61 percent greater than the standard. Therefore even if the control strategy does provide a greater benefit than the State predicted, it still falls far short of meeting the 24 hour NAAQS. The control strategy used to achieve these design concentrations is summarized in the section of this notice entitled ``RACM (including RACT).'' By this notice EPA is proposing to approve the State's demonstration that attainment of the PM 10 NAAQS by December 31, 1994 is impracticable. For a more detailed description of the demonstration of impracticability and the control strategy used, see the TSD accompanying this notice. 5. Reclassification Since EPA is proposing to approve the control strategy and the State's demonstration that attainment of the PM 10 NAAQS by December 31, 1994 is impracticable, EPA has the discretion, pursuant to section 188(b)(1) of the Act, to propose to reclassify the PPA as a serious nonattainment area at this time. If the PPA is reclassified under this section of the Act, the State would have four years from the final reclassification to submit a demonstration (including air quality modeling) that the area will attain the PM 10 NAAQS no later than December 31, 2001. See sections 188(c)(2) and 189(b)(2).
