FR940628-1-00026 FR940628-1-00001 Poultry. Chickens, doves, ducks, geese, grouse, guinea fowl, partridges, pea fowl, pheasants, pigeons, quail, swans, and turkeys. State. Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States. State animal health official. The State official responsible for livestock- and poultry-disease control and eradication programs. State representative. An individual employed in animal health work and authorized by a State or political subdivision of a State to perform the tasks required by this subpart. Veterinarian in charge. A Federal veterinarian employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and authorized by the Administrator to supervise and manage the animal health work of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in a specified area of the United States. §82.20 General restrictions. The following items may not be moved interstate: (a) Live poultry infected with chlamydiosis; (b) Dead poultry that were infected with chlamydiosis when they died, and parts of dead poultry that were infected with chlamydiosis when they died; and (c) Offal from poultry infected with chlamydiosis. §82.21 Vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment used for infected poultry. (a) Before moving vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment interstate that have held or have otherwise been used in the handling of poultry infected with chlamydiosis, and after using these items to move poultry infected with chlamydiosis interstate, the vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment must be cleaned and disinfected in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section: (1) Clean and disinfect the vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment at the place where the poultry are unloaded or where the equipment is used, no more than 2 hours after the poultry infected with chlamydiosis are unloaded or the equipment is used; (2) Clean the items in accordance with part 71 of this chapter; (3) Have a Federal representative, State representative, 1 or an accredited veterinarian, inspect the items after they have been cleaned; 1 See footnote 3 to §82.5. (4) Disinfect the items in the presence of a Federal representative, State representative, or an accredited veterinarian; and (5) Disinfect the items in accordance with part 71 of this chapter and by using a disinfectant as specified in part 71 of this chapter. (b) If the place where the cleaning and disinfection would otherwise be required has no facilities for cleaning and disinfecting, the items may be moved to a place where facilities are available for cleaning and disinfecting, provided a Federal representative or State representative has determined that such movement will not cause a risk of the spread of chlamydiosis. (c) Vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment moved interstate under this section must be accompanied by a permit obtained in accordance with §82.23, and copies of the permit accompanying the vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment interstate must be submitted so that a copy is received by both the State animal health official and the Veterinarian in charge 2 for the State of destination within 72 hours of the arrival of the vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment at the destination listed on the permit. 2 See footnote 4 of §82.5. §82.22 Cleaning and disinfecting premises. Premises that contained poultry that were infected with chlamydiosis must be cleaned and disinfected in accordance with this section before any poultry are moved interstate onto the premises. (a) The premises must be cleaned in accordance with part 71 of this chapter; (b) After being cleaned, the premises must be inspected by a Federal representative, State representative, or an accredited veterinarian; (c) After being inspected, the premises must be disinfected in the presence of a Federal representative, State representative, or an accredited veterinarian, in accordance with part 71 of this chapter, using a disinfectant listed in part 71 of this chapter. §82.23 Issuance of permits. (a) Application for the permit required by this subpart to move vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, or other equipment interstate must be in writing, and must be submitted to a Federal representative or State representative. The application must include the following: (1) The applicant's name and mailing address; (2) The name and mailing address of the person who will receive the items; (3) The addresses of both the origin and destination of the items; (4) The number and types of items intended for interstate movement; and (5) The reason for the interstate movement.
