FR941007-0-00022 FR941007-0-00004 Regulatory Flexibility Act The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this regulation and by approving it certifies that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because of the following factors. By temporarily removing certain restrictions on eligibility for adjustment of status, the rule will eliminate inconvenience to a number of individuals currently in the United States who otherwise would have incurred significant monetary expenses by traveling abroad to apply for an immigrant visa at a United States consulate or embassy abroad. It will have no effect on small entities. Executive Order 12866 This rule is not considered by the Department of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization Service to be a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, ยง3(f), Regulatory Planning and Review, and the Office of Management and Budget has waived its review process under section 6(a)(3)(A). Executive Order 12612 The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Executive Order 12606 The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service certifies that she has assessed this rule in light of the criteria in Executive Order 12606 and has determined that this regulation would enhance family well-being by allowing certain family members, who were formerly precluded from adjusting status, to become lawful permanent residents of the United States without first having obtained immigrant visas abroad. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements contained in this rule have been cleared by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act. List of Subjects 8 CFR Part 103 Administrative practice and procedure, Authority delegations (Government agencies), Fees, Forms, Freedom of information, Privacy, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surety bonds.
