FR940616-0-00115 FR940616-0-00012 (e) Adequacy of resources . (5 points) The Secretary evaluates each application on the basis of criterion in §385.32(e). (f)(1) Evidence of need . (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the need for the training project has been adequately justified. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows that the need for the training project has been established in terms of rehabilitation supply and demand for qualified rehabilitation personnel and includes an assessment of how the project will respond to personnel needs established in local, State, or national studies. (g)(1) Relevance to State-Federal rehabilitation service program . (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the proposed project appropriately relates to the mission of the State-Federal rehabilitation service program. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows that the project can be expected either to increase the supply of trained personnel available to State and other public or nonprofit agencies involved in the rehabilitation of individuals with physical or mental disabilities through degree or certificate granting programs, or to improve the skills and quality of professional personnel in the rehabilitation field in which the training is to be provided through the granting of a degree or certificate. (h)(1) Nature and scope of curriculum . (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application for information that demonstrates the adequacy of the proposed curriculum. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The scope and nature of the coursework reflect content that can be expected to enable the achievement of the established project objectives; (ii) The curriculum and teaching methods provide for an integration of theory and practice relevant to the educational objectives of the program; (iii) There is evidence of educationally focused practical and other field experiences in settings that ensure student involvement in the provision of vocational rehabilitation, supported employment, or independent living rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities, especially individuals with severe disabilities; (iv) The coursework includes student exposure to vocational rehabilitation, supported employment, or independent living rehabilitation processes, concepts, programs, and services; and (v) If applicable, there is evidence of current professional accreditation by the designated accrediting agency in the professional field in which grant support is being requested. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820&hyph;0018.) (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 771a) Subpart D_What Conditions Must Be Met After an Award? §386.30 What are the matching requirements? The Federal share may not be more than 90 percent of the total cost of a project under this program. The Secretary may waive part of the non-Federal share of the cost of the project after negotiations if the applicant demonstrates that it does not have sufficient resources to contribute the entire match. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c)) §386.31 What are the requirements for directing grant funds? (a) A grantee must use at least 75 percent of the total award for scholarships as defined in §386.4. (b) The Secretary may award grants that use less than 75 percent of the total award for scholarships based upon the unique nature of the project, such as the establishment of a new training program or long-term training in an emerging field that does not award degrees or certificates. (c) For multi-year projects in existence on October 1, 1994, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply for the remainder of the project period. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 771a) §386.32 What are allowable costs? In addition to those allowable costs established in the Education Department General Administrative Regulations in 34 CFR 75.530 through 75.562, the following items are allowable under long-term training projects:
