FR940927-2-00058 FR940927-2-00043 [TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,504] Alsco Amerimark Building Products Gnadenhutten, OH, Notice of Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration By an application dated August 12, 1994, the United Steelworkers of America (USW) requested administrative reconsideration of the subject petition for trade adjustment assistance. The denial notice was signed on June 20, 1994 and published in the Federal Register on June 30, 1994 (59 FR 33786). Pursuant to 29 CFR 90.18(c) reconsideration may be granted under the following circumstances: (1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous; (2) If it appears that the determination complained of was based on a mistake in the determination of facts not previously considered; or (3) If in the opinion of the Certifying Officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justified reconsideration of the decision. The workers produce coated or painted aluminum coil. Investigation findings show that the plant melted scrap aluminum cans and rolled the aluminum into coils which were then painted. The smelter and rolling mill closed in December 1993. Currently the plant is painting only domestically purchased coil. Its claimed that imports of Russian aluminum ingots and coil affected the pricing of aluminum coil. The articles produced by the subject workers is coated aluminum coil, not aluminum ingots or aluminum coil. Accordingly, the Department must look at imports of coated aluminum coil. Granted, the price of domestic aluminum may have been affected by imports of Russian aluminum. Price, however, is not one of the worker group criteria necessary for a worker group certification. The Department's survey of Amerimark's customers shows that none of them reported increased import purchases of coated aluminum coil while reducing their purchases from Amerimark during the period applicable to the petition. Customer comments from the Department's survey indicated there were non-trade reasons for Amerimark's customers reducing their purchases from Amerimark. Other findings show that Amerimark did not purchase ingots (foreign or domestic) for use in its production process for coated aluminum coil but purchased scrap aluminum cans. The scrap market is a different market from the London Metals Exchange (LME). Conclusion After review of the application and investigative findings, I conclude that there has been no error or misinterpretation of the law or of the facts which would justify reconsideration of the Department of Labor's prior decision. Accordingly, the application is denied. Signed at Washington, D.C., this 16th day of September 1994. Victor J. Trunzo, Program Manager, Policy and Reemployment Services, Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23861 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
