FR941213-0-00040 FR941213-0-00010 Health Care Financing Administration 42 CFR Parts 405 and 482 [BPD&hyph;421&hyph;F] RIN 0938&hyph;AD11 Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Revisions to Conditions of Participation for Hospitals AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), HHS. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule establishes as a condition of participation (which facilities must meet in order to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs) the requirement that hospitals have a discharge planning process for patients who require such services and specifies the elements of that process. It also changes the required qualifications of a hospital's medical director. These provisions implement sections 9305(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986 (OBRA '86) and 6025 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989. Also, we are not adopting several minor proposed revisions to the conditions for coverage of suppliers of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) services. We are now developing comprehensive revisions to the ESRD regulations and believe that it would be appropriate to reconsider the proposed changes as part of that rulemaking process. DATES: Effective date: These rules are effective January 12, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Arlene Ford (410) 966&hyph;4617_For hospital discharge planning Beverly Christian (410) 966&hyph;4616_For qualifications of medical directors Jackie Sheridan (410) 966&hyph;4635_For ESRD-related issues SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background A. General On June 16, 1988, we published a proposed rule (53 FR 22506) concerning discharge planning as a hospital condition of participation, certain laboratory director qualifications required by recent legislation, and proposed revisions to regulations aimed at reducing paperwork and information collection requirements. In the proposal, we explained that conditions of participation (conditions) are the requirements that hospitals must meet in order to participate in the Medicare program; hospitals that participate in the Medicaid program must meet the same requirements. These conditions implement sections 1861(e), (f), (k), and (z) of the Social Security Act (the Act). These conditions are intended to protect patient health and safety and to help assure that high-quality care is provided to all patients. The current regulations containing the conditions of participation for hospitals are located in the Code of Federal Regulations at 42 CFR Part 482, Subparts A, B, C, D, and E. Providers are surveyed by a State survey agency to ensure that they meet our participation requirements. (Our regulations concerning survey and certification procedures for providers affected by this rule are at 42 CFR Part 488 unless otherwise noted.) Hospitals accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) or the American Osteopathic Association (AOA) are deemed under section 1865 of the Act and ยง488.5 of our regulations to meet most of our requirements in the hospital conditions of participation and need not be routinely surveyed. Failure to meet a condition of participation may jeopardize the continuation of a facility's participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program. B. Discharge Planning Process Over the past 20 years, the average length of a hospital stay has become significantly shorter for a number of reasons. Factors contributing to this reduction include payment methods for hospitals, such as Medicare's prospective payment system, which furnishes incentives to hospitals to retain only those patients needing care that can be safely furnished only in the inpatient hospital setting. Additionally, increases in the aged population, coupled with shorter lengths of hospital stays, have created a demand for rehabilitative and restorative treatments in non-hospital settings that can be furnished after hospital discharge. To assure the coordination needed to achieve a timely transition to post-hospital care, discharge planning is necessary. It enables a hospital and patient to arrange for services that do not need to be furnished in an inpatient hospital setting. Our current regulations do not require discharge planning as a distinct condition of participation. However, we include as a standard under the quality assurance condition (42 CFR 482.21(b)) the requirement that a hospital have an effective, ongoing discharge planning program that facilitates the provision of followup care. We require the hospital to initiate the discharge planning process in a timely manner and to transfer or refer patients, along with necessary medical information, to appropriate facilities, agencies or outpatient services, as needed, for followup or ancillary services. C. Clinical Laboratory Director Standards In order to assure the health and safety of patients, our conditions of participation for hospitals and conditions for coverage of services of laboratories include standards that personnel, including laboratory directors, must meet. The clinical laboratory director requirements apply in all States, including those that have adopted their own qualification requirements. When OBRA '86 was enacted, it specified in section 9339(d) that if a State has standards that a clinical laboratory director (including a hospital laboratory director) must meet, directors who meet these standards will be considered as meeting Federal standards. We included this provision in our June 16, 1988 proposed rule. Subsequently, on October 31, 1988, the enactment of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA), Public Law 100&hyph;578, drastically revised laboratory requirements, obviating the proposal. Because the Medicare provision has been superseded, we are withdrawing our proposal and not discussing public comments in this final rule. (See our February 28, 1992 final rule (57 FR 7002) for the regulations implementing clinical laboratory director requirements under CLIA.) D. Other Revisions Following the summary of changes made to the proposed rule based on our evaluation of public comments, we discuss in section VI of this preamble technical changes to our regulations concerning hospital medical director qualifications. An unrelated change inserts in regulations the new name adopted by the accrediting program of the Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation. These changes were not issued in a proposed rule. The first change is technical and conforms the rules to the statute without interpretation, while the second change merely updates the rules by substituting the new name of an accrediting program.
