FR940719-0-00051 FR940719-0-00018 (7) Operation of FEMA's ethics program and Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act program. (c) Delegated authorities. The General Counsel is authorized to exercise the duties and powers of the Director to: (1) Accept service of process on behalf of the Agency, and on behalf of its officials and employees in connection with performance of their official duties; (2) Determine the agency's position with respect to litigation and refer matters directly to the Attorney General for prosecution or for initiation of litigation; (3) Determine the government's position in connection with any dispute before a Board of Contract Appeals, including the authority to settle or adjust any such claim. (4) Consider, compromise and settle tort claims against FEMA, but any award, compromise, or settlement of more than $25,000 requires the prior written approval of the Attorney General or designee; (5) Serve as the Designated Agency Ethics Officer; (6) Make technical corrections to all FEMA documents, including rules and regulations submitted to the Federal Register; (7) Consider, compromise and settle personnel claims of less than $15,000 against FEMA; (8) Waive claims of the United States against a person arising out of pay and allowances to an employee of FEMA in amounts of not more than $1,500, and in accordance with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5584, and the implementing regulations and standards of the Comptroller General; and (9) Enter into ratification agreements at the direction of the Department of Justice in order to insure that FEMA's subrogation interest will be represented. ยง2.14 Office of Congressional and Governmental Affairs. (a) Mission. The Office of Congressional and Governmental Affairs coordinates FEMA's ongoing emergency management relationships with the Congress, public interest groups, and State and local organizations. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Office of Congressional and Governmental Affairs are: (1) Liaison with Congress, the Office of Management and Budget, and the White House on legislative matters directly affecting FEMA; (2) Advising the Director and other FEMA officials on actions pending or anticipated in Congress; (3) Liaison with Federal Coordinating Officers following declarations of disasters or emergencies under the Stafford Act, on matters requiring coordination with Congress; and (4) Liaison with FEMA's constituencies on FEMA legislative matters. (c) Delegated authorities. The Director of the Office of Congressional and Governmental Affairs is authorized to exercise the duties and powers of the Director in the Director's capacity as agency head in support of the functions listed in paragraph (b) of this section. ยง2.15 Office of Emergency Information and Public Affairs. (a) Mission. The Office of Emergency Information and Public Affairs informs the public about FEMA's programs and activities, both in time of disaster and in other times. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Office of Emergency Information and Public Affairs are: (1) Gathering and dissemination of information about FEMA's programs and activities; (2) Liaison with news media; (3) Management of Joint Information Centers during disasters. (c) Delegated authorities. The Director of the Office of Emergency Information and Public Affairs is authorized to exercise the duties and powers of the Director in the Director's capacity as agency head as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. ยง2.16 Office of Policy and Assessment. (a) Mission. The Office of Policy and Assessment manages and facilitates policy development, strategic planning, planning, performance standards and assessment, innovation, and organizational development to achieve FEMA's overall mission.
