FR940406-1-00044 FR940406-1-00011 The information should be in tabular form, with a separate table for each model year. Each grouping is to be subdivided into separate listings for models with 4×2 and 4×4 drive systems. Engines having the same displacement but belonging to different engine families are to be grouped separately. The vehicles are to be sorted first by truckline, second by basic engine, and third by transmission type. For these groupings, the average test weights are to be placed in ascending order. List the categories in terms ``a'' through ``k'' below in the order specified from left to right across the top of the table. Include in the table for each model year the total sales-weighted harmonic average fuel economy and average test weight for imported and domestic light trucks for each truckline and for all of the respondent's light trucks. a. Truckline, e.g., C&hyph;10, F&hyph;150, B&hyph;150. Model types which are essentially identical except for their nameplates (e.g., Chevrolet S&hyph;10/GMC S&hyph;15 and Dodge Caravan/Plymouth Voyager) may be combined into one line item. b. Light truck vehicle type, e.g., compact pickup, cargo van, passenger van, utility, truck-based station wagon, and chassis cab. Other light truck designations, which are adequately defined, can be used if these are not suitable. c. Basic engine: Include the engine characteristics used in Definition 3. d. Transmission class (e.g., A3, L4, A40D, M5, CVT): Include the characteristics used in Definition 16. e. Average ratio of engine speed to vehicle speed in top gear (N/V), rounded to one decimal place. f. Average test weight. g. Average PAU setting: Provide the value and show whether the value (or estimated value) is based on coastdown testing (T) or calculated from the vehicle frontal area (C). Round the PAU value to one decimal place. h. Composite fuel economy (Sales weighted, harmonically averaged over the specified vehicles, rounded to the nearest 0.1 mpg). i. Projected sales for the vehicles described in each line item. 9. For each transmission identified in response to 8(d) above, provide a listing showing whether the transmission is manual or automatic, the gear ratios for the transmission, and the models which will use the transmission. 10. Indicate any MY 1998&hyph;2006 light truck model types which have higher average test weights than comparable MY 1994 model types. Describe the reasons for any weight increases (e.g., increased option content, less use of premium materials) and provide supporting justification. 11. For each new or redesigned vehicle identified in response to Question 3 and each new engine or fuel economy improvement identified in your response to Questions 3, 5, and 6, provide your best estimate of the following, in terms of constant 1993 dollars: (a) Total capital costs required to implement the new/redesigned model or improvement according to the implementation schedules specified in your response. Subdivide the capital costs into tooling, facilities, launch, and engineering costs. (b) The maximum production capacity, expressed in units of capacity per year, associated with the capital expenditure in (a) above. Specify the number of production shifts on which your response is based and define ``maximum capacity'' as used in your answer. (c) The actual capacity that is planned to be used each year for each new/redesigned model or fuel economy improvement. (d) The increase in variable costs per affected unit, based on the production volume specified in (b) above. (e) The equivalent retail price increase per affected vehicle for each new/redesigned model or improvement. Provide an example describing methodology used to determine the equivalent retail price increase. 12. Please provide respondent's actual and projected U.S. light truck sales, 4×2 and 4×4, 0&hyph;8,500 lbs. GVWR and 8501&hyph;10,000 lbs., GVWR for each model year from 1994 thorough 2006, inclusive. Please subdivide the data into the following vehicle categories: i. Standard Pickup Heavy (e.g., C&hyph;20/30, F&hyph;250/350, D&hyph;250/350) ii. Standard Pickup Light (e.g., C&hyph;10, F&hyph;150, D&hyph;150)
