FR940425-1-00018 FR940425-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 575 [Docket No. 94&hyph;30, Notice 01] RIN 2127&hyph;AF17 Consumer Information Regulations Uniform Tire Quality Grading Standards AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Request for comments. SUMMARY: The Uniform Tire Quality Grading Standards (UTQGS) require tire manufacturers to grade their tires for treadwear, traction, and temperature resistance to assist consumers in making informed decisions when purchasing passenger car tires. NHTSA is soliciting comments on ways in which the agency might propose amending the UTQGS to make the quality ratings more meaningful to the tire-buying public. In addition, the Administration's Climate Change Action Plan calls for DOT, through NHTSA, to establish tire labels measuring the tires' impact on fuel economy due to rolling resistance and an information program to encourage consumers to purchase aftermarket tires with lower rolling resistance. Accordingly, NHTSA requests comments on whether to propose amending the UTQGS by adding a rolling resistance grade, either while retaining the temperature resistance grade or by substituting the rolling resistance for the temperature resistance grade. DATES: Comments must be received by June 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to the docket and notice number set forth above and be submitted, preferably in 10 copies, to: Docket Section, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., room 5109, Washington, DC 20590. Docket room hours are from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Nelson Gordy, Office of Market Incentives, Office of the Associate Administrator for Rulemaking, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., room 5320, Washington, DC 20590, (202) 366&hyph;4797. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 203 of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, 15 U.S.C. 1381, et seq. (Safety Act), requires the Secretary of Transportation to prescribe a uniform quality grading system for motor vehicle tires. The purpose of the system is to assist consumers in making informed decisions when purchasing tires. NHTSA implemented that statutory mandate by issuing the UTQGS (49 CFR 575.104). Those standards, applicable to passenger car tires, require motor vehicle and tire manufacturers and tire brand name owners to provide consumers with information about their tires' relative performance regarding treadwear, traction, and temperature resistance. Excluded from the standards are deep tread, winter-type snow tires, space-saver or temporary use spare tires, tires with nominal rim diameters of 10 to 12 inches, and limited production tires. The treadwear, traction, and temperature resistance characteristics were chosen by NHTSA for rating under the UTQGS after careful study, testing, and consideration of public comments. Those characteristics were selected because they provide the best balance of tire properties for meaningful evaluation by consumers. Those characteristics interact with each other so that improvement of one of them could detract from the rating of another. For example, treadwear life can be increased by varying the construction compounds to produce a ``harder'' tire. To do so, however, would have a negative effect on traction performance. Treadwear life could also be increased by adding more rubber to the tread. Increased tread depth, however, would increase rolling resistance because of the additional friction. That would cause the tire to run hotter, thus detracting from its temperature resistance, and increase the possibility of tire failure. Various problems have been encountered in implementing the UTQGS to make them as technically accurate, yet as meaningful and understandable to consumers as possible. Many of those problems have been resolved by changes in test procedures as the program has evolved. Certain problems remain, however, as discussed below. I. Treadwear Treadwear has been one of the graded tire characteristics from the inception of the quality grading program (see 33 FR 7261, May 16, 1968). NHTSA concluded, from consideration of public comments early in the program, that consumers were most interested in evaluations of tire tread life, traction, and high speed performance. Since that time, NHTSA has found that treadwear is understood by the average tire buyer, making it one of the more meaningful of the UTQGS ratings. In its compliance testing, NHTSA measures treadwear by running the tires being tested, called candidate tires, over a 400-mile course of public roads near San Angelo, Texas. Candidate tires are first ``broken-in'' by running them over two circuits of the test course. Treadwear measurements are taken after that initial break-in and after each 800-mile segment thereafter or, optionally, only at the beginning and at the end of the complete 6,400 mile test. The test vehicles' wheels are aligned to manufacturers' specifications, correct tire pressure is maintained throughout the test, and tire loading is maintained at 85 percent of the tires' maximum load ratings. The test cars travel in convoys, at posted speed limits, with regular changes of drivers and with changes in the positions of the cars and tires.
