FR940711-1-00014 FR940711-1-00003 The financial stability of the electric industry during the transition to a competitive wholesale generation market will depend in large part on: (1) Whether the transition to a competitive environment, at either the wholesale or retail level, will leave utility companies without an adequate opportunity to recover costs invested to serve customers under less competitive circumstances; and (2) whether and how regulators address recovery of some or all of those ``stranded'' costs. While there is no universally accepted estimate of the potential magnitude of stranded costs, some observers have suggested that stranded costs could total tens of billions of dollars, while others have suggested $200 billion or more. These estimates are based, to a large degree, on the difference between the book value of generating assets and their presumed market value. 30 30 These estimates include both wholesale and retail stranded costs. It has been suggested that the potential amount of retail stranded costs may be an order of magnitude larger than the potential amount of wholesale stranded costs, given that only 10&hyph;15 percent of generating investment by investor-owned utilities is in wholesale rate base. In addition to concerns about the financial stability of the industry, we believe it is important to provide as much regulatory certainty as possible, as early as possible, to buyers and sellers of electric energy and transmission, regarding the recovery of these potentially significant costs. Buyers seeking competitive generation alternatives need to know the costs associated with leaving their existing suppliers in order to make reasoned decisions. Likewise, sellers need to know the extent, if any, to which they will be obligated to provide requirements service on an extra-contractual basis so that they can plan their participation in competitive generation markets. Accordingly, the Commission believes it can best fulfill its regulatory responsibilities by addressing the issue of stranded costs during the initial stages of the transition to a competitive wholesale generation market. 31 The Commission therefore is proposing to establish generic policies and procedures covering the treatment of stranded costs by public utilities and transmitting utilities. 31 Indeed, our experience during the regulatory restructuring of the gas pipeline industry, including the issue of ``take-or-pay'' contracts, tells us that reasoned decisionmaking requires thorough consideration of the effects of regulatory and statutory changes, including stranded costs. See Associated Gas Distributors v. FERC, 824 F.2d 981, 1021&hyph;1030 (D.C. Cir. 1987). The Commission believes that stranded cost recovery is a transition problem. In the past, costs may have been incurred by wholesale suppliers under an implicit regulatory ``bargain,'' i.e. , based on a reasonable expectation that captive customers would continue taking service beyond the term of their contracts and that the utility would continue to plan for their needs. 32 This regulatory ``bargain,'' particularly in the context of the recovery of extra-contractual stranded costs, may not be sustainable in the face of wholesale market forces. The expectation is that market forces will ensure adequate supply and wholesale customers will be able to contract for services from alternative suppliers. 32 See also 18 CFR 35.15 (requiring utilities to make a filing with the Commission before terminating a rate schedule); Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 25 FERC ¶61,142 at 61,381 (1983) (``termination is a change in service for which notice is statutorily required''). Whereas any obligation to serve requirements customers at the wholesale level is a contractual one, the traditional obligation to serve at the retail level arises through utility monopoly franchise rights. The traditional retail regulatory compact has ensured the utility's financial integrity by granting it an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs plus a fair rate of return, in exchange for regulation by the State regulatory authority and the duty to provide safe, reliable, reasonably priced electric service on demand. Some states have recently considered whether the traditional franchise duty to serve all customers within the boundaries of the designated franchise area ought to evolve and whether this duty should be modified by the State. 33 33 See, e.g. , California Commission Order Instituting Rulemaking, supra, section III.A. & n.19. The Commission notes that new generating capacity can be built and operated at costs that are less than many utilities' current embedded generating costs. This simple fact of current economic conditions is encouraging many users to seek access to the new lower cost sources of supply. Utilities traditionally have been obligated to serve all retail customers within their franchise territory and all wholesale requirements customers to whom they have contractually agreed to provide service. They have constructed or contracted for generating capacity sufficient to meet these service obligations. If existing customers leave their current utility suppliers, the utilities may not be able to recover all of their prudently incurred costs. In light of the utilities' status as regulated entities with retail franchise service obligations and contractual (and perhaps extra-contractual) wholesale service commitments, the Commission believes it is appropriate to provide a mechanism for utilities to seek to recover prudently incurred costs that are stranded during the transition to a competitive electricity supply market. However, the amount of and responsibility for any costs stranded in the transition to competitive markets should be resolved in as short a time as possible, so as not to inhibit customers from taking advantage of the competitive market and so that sellers can restructure their marketing strategy to reflect competitive markets. 34 34 In competitive markets, sellers can recover their costs, whether prudently incurred or not, only up to the market price. The Commission assumes that stranded costs will be dominated by generating capacity. However, we believe that it is appropriate to consider stranded costs more broadly, including the possibility that fuel supply costs, purchased power costs, nuclear decommissioning costs, regulatory assets and possibly other costs that the utility seller is obligated to pay may be stranded. The Commission seeks public comment on what categories of costs, in addition to investment costs, should be eligible for stranded cost recovery. The Commission also seeks comment concerning how stranded costs should be allocated to specific customers .
