FR940825-0-00093 FR940825-0-00016 §74.21 Standards for financial management systems. (a) Recipients shall relate financial data to performance data and develop unit cost information whenever practical. For awards that support research, unit cost information is usually not appropriate. (b) Recipients' financial management systems shall provide for the following: (1) Accurate, current and complete disclosure of the financial results of each HHS-sponsored project or program in accordance with the reporting requirements set forth in §74.52. If the HHS awarding agency requires reporting on an accrual basis from a recipient that maintains its records on other than an accrual basis, the recipient shall not be required to establish an accrual accounting system. These recipients may develop such accrual data for their reports on the basis of an analysis of the documentation on hand. (2) Records that identify adequately the source and application of funds for HHS-sponsored activities. These records shall contain information pertaining to Federal awards, authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, outlays, income and interest. (3) Effective control over and accountability for all funds, property and other assets. Recipients shall adequately safeguard all such assets and assure they are used solely for authorized purposes. (4) Comparison of outlays with budget amounts for each award. Whenever appropriate, financial information should be related to performance and unit cost data. (Unit cost data are usually not appropriate for awards that support research.) (5) Written procedures to minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds to the recipient from the U.S. Treasury and the issuance or redemption of checks, warrants or payments by other means for program purposes by the recipient. To the extent that the provisions of the Cash Management Improvement Act (CMIA) (Pub. L. 101&hyph;453) and its implementing regulations, ``Rules and Procedures for Funds Transfers,'' (31 CFR part 205) apply, payment methods of State agencies, instrumentalities, and fiscal agents shall be consistent with CMIA Treasury-State Agreements, or the CMIA default procedures codified at 31 CFR 205.9(f). (6) Written procedures for determining the reasonableness, allocability and allowability of costs in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Federal cost principles and the terms and conditions of the award. (7) Accounting records, including cost accounting records, that are supported by source documentation. (c) Where the Federal Government guarantees or insures the repayment of money borrowed by the recipient, the HHS awarding agency, at its discretion, may require adequate bonding and insurance if the bonding and insurance requirements of the recipient are not deemed adequate to protect the interest of the Federal Government. (d) The HHS awarding agency may require adequate fidelity bond coverage where the recipient lacks sufficient coverage to protect the Federal Government's interest. (e) Where bonds are required in the situations described in §74.21 (c) and (d), the bonds shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties, as prescribed in 31 CFR part 223, ``Surety Companies Doing Business with the United States.'' §74.22 Payment. (a) Unless inconsistent with statutory program purposes, payment methods shall minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from the U.S. Treasury and the issuance or redemption of checks, warrants, or payment by other means by the recipients. Payment methods of State agencies or instrumentalities shall be consistent with Treasury-State CMIA agreements, or the CMIA default procedures codified at 31 CFR 205.9, to the extent that either applies. (b) (1) Recipients will be paid in advance, provided they maintain or demonstrate the willingness to maintain: (i) Written procedures that minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and disbursement by the recipient; and (ii) Financial management systems that meet the standards for fund control and accountability as established in §74.21.
