FR941110-0-00134 FR941110-0-00016 Section 488.402␣General Provisions. Comment: We received a number of comments from the health care industry, from consumer organizations, and from professional groups regarding the purpose of the regulations as set forth in proposed §488.202. The consensus of those who commented on paragraph (a) was that protecting residents from ``actual or potential harmful outcomes resulting from deficiencies'' is but one of many purposes of the regulations. Other purposes commenters suggested we include were to_ •Deter noncompliance; •Punish noncompliance through the use of appropriate sanctions; •Ensure correction of deficiencies for residents whose care is deficient; •Encourage sustained compliance; and •Protect patient rights. Two commenters suggested we change paragraph (a) of proposed §488.202 to read, ``The purpose of remedies is to encourage prompt, rapid compliance with program requirements at the minimum level that will achieve correction so as to protect residents from actual or potential outcomes resulting from deficiencies.'' They said that, ``The Congress made it clear that a purpose of enforcement remedies is to render the time period between identification of deficiencies and correction (emphasis in original) as short as possible. This intent precludes punitive measures and promotes the least disruption to facility operation. Based on Congressional intent, general consensus now exists that the enforcement process should be corrective, not punitive, and that enforcement remedies should be set at the minimum level required to achieve the desired correction. Successively stricter measures would be used as needed for failure to correct.'' Finally, one commenter said that ``prompt, rapid,'' is redundant. Response: A number of these comments suggest to us that there is some confusion between the purpose of these remedies and the expected outcomes of the regulations. Therefore, in order to be absolutely unequivocal, we are revising §488.402(a) to read, ``The purpose of remedies is to ensure prompt compliance with program requirements.'' Comment: Two commenters suggested that the last sentence of proposed §488.202(b)(1) be revised to read, ``Survey findings are reported to the State and HCFA which will make recommendations for corrective action.'' Their rationale was that the determination of remedies to fit a particular deficiency or deficiencies should be made by an objective party in the survey agency or HCFA who did not survey the facility. Another said that the same sentence should be revised to state, ``Survey findings are reported to the State or HCFA, as appropriate, with recommendations for corrective action.'' Still another said that we should clarify the fact that the survey findings are reported with recommendations for remedies, and one commenter said that our proposed paragraph (b)(1) appears to exclude the possibility of imposing remedies based on HCFA's paper review of State survey agency findings. Two commenters suggested a new paragraph (b)(1) to read substantially as follows: (b) Requirement for State enforcement plan. (1) The State and HCFA shall develop a plan for imposing intermediate remedies. The plan shall_ (i) Vary remedies with the scope and severity so that more substantial remedies are imposed for more serious deficiencies; (ii) Assure that the State and HCFA minimize the time between identification of violations and final imposition of remedies; (iii) Assure that remedies serve goals of requiring immediate correction of deficiencies, protecting residents, correcting deficiencies for specific residents who are harmed, punishing violations and deterring violations; (iv) Include rules and policies about when and how various sanctions are imposed and when remedies are imposed singly or in combination; and (v) Develop procedures to solicit the active participation of residents in the enforcement process, including permitting residents to participate in any formal proceedings the State offers to providers to contest imposition of an intermediate remedy. The two commenters who made this suggestion also said that enforcement under the reform law is not a collection of free-standing remedies that States and the Secretary apply on an ad hoc basis; enforcement under the law requires enforcement agencies to have a systematic way of making decisions to apply sanctions. They cite the Institute of Medicine (IoM) report, issued in March 1986, that says that guidelines on when to initiate sanctions are necessary for effective State enforcement. The commenters also cite the October 9, 1992 final settlement of Valdivia v. California Department of Health Services which reads in part: The enforcement system shall: A. Define the purposes of the system and of the remedies;
