FR940203-0-00039 FR940203-0-00009 ยง207.94 Protection of privileged information during panel and committee proceedings. When and if a panel or extraordinary challenge committee decides that the Commission is required, pursuant to the United States law, to grant access pursuant to protective order to information for which the Commission has claimed a privilege, any individual to whom a panel or extraordinary challenge committee has directed the Commission release information and who is otherwise within the category of individuals eligible to receive proprietary information pursuant to 19 CFR 207.93(b), may file an application for a protective order with the Commission. Upon receipt of such application, the Commission Secretary shall certify to the Commission that a panel or extraordinary challenge committee has required the Commission to release such information to specified persons, pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1677f(f)(1). Twenty-four hours following such certification, the Commission Secretary shall issue a protective order releasing such information to any authorized applicant subject to terms and conditions equivalent to those described in 19 CFR 207.93(c)(2). Procedures for Imposing Sanctions for Violation of the Provisions of a Protective Order Issued During Panel and Committee Proceedings ยง207.100 Sanctions. (a) A person, other than a person exempted from this regulation by the provisions of 19 U.S.C. 1677f(f)(4), who is determined under this subpart to have committed a prohibited act, may be subject to one or more of the following sanctions: (1) A civil penalty not to exceed $100,000 for each violation, each day of a continuing violation constituting a separate violation; (2) Debarment from practice in any capacity before the Commission, which disbarment may, in appropriate circumstances, include such person's partners, associates, employers and employees, for a designated time period following publication of a determination that the protective order has been breached; (3) Denial of further access to proprietary or privileged information covered by the breached protective order or to proprietary information in future Commission proceedings; (4) An official reprimand by the Commission; (5) In the case of an attorney, accountant, or other professional, referral of the facts underlying the prohibited act to the ethics panel or other disciplinary body of the appropriate professional association or licensing authority; (6) When appropriate, referral of the facts underlying the violation to the United States Trade Representative or his or her designees, or to another government agency; and (7) Any other administrative sanctions as the Commission determines to be appropriate. (b) Each partner, associate, employer, and employee described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is entitled to all the administrative rights set forth in this subpart. (c) For the purposes of this subpart, the knowing receipt of information the receipt of which constitutes a violation of a protective order includes, but is not limited to, the reading or unauthorized dissemination of the information covered by a protective order by a person who knows or should reasonably believe that he or she is not authorized to read or disseminate such information. 207.101 Reporting of prohibited act and commencement of investigation. (a) Any person who has information indicating that a prohibited act has been committed shall immediately report all pertinent facts relating thereto to the Commission Secretary. (b) Upon receipt, the Commission Secretary shall record the information, assign an investigation number, and forward all information he or she received to the Office of Unfair Import Investigations. (c) As expeditiously as possible, the Office of Unfair Import Investigations shall conduct an inquiry to determine whether there is reasonable cause to believe that a person or persons have committed a prohibited act. At any time, the Office of Unfair Import Investigations may request that the Commission assign an administrative law judge to oversee the inquiry. (d) At the conclusion of the inquiry, the Office of Unfair Import Investigations shall assess whether the available information is sufficient to provide reasonable cause to believe that a person or persons have committed a prohibited act. 207.102 Initiation of proceedings. (a) Upon completion of the inquiry, (1) If the Office of Unfair Import Investigations concludes that there is not reasonable cause to believe that a person or persons have committed a prohibited act, the Office of Unfair Import Investigations shall:
