FR940928-2-00114 FR940928-2-00067 (3) Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The radiological analysis performed for this proposed change, as discussed above, shows that there would be no impact on the doses reported in FSAR Table 15.6&hyph;8. There will be no change to the DNBR Correlation Limit, the design DNBR limits, or the safety analysis DNBR limits discussed in Bases Section 2.1.1. There will be no effect on the manner in which safety limits or limiting safety system settings are determined nor will there be any effect on those plant systems necessary to assure the accomplishment of protection functions. There will be no impact on DNBR limits, F Q , F&hyph;delta&hyph;H, LOCA PCT, peak local power density, or any other margin of safety. Based upon the preceding information, it has been determined that the proposed changes to the Technical Specifications do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated, create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated, or involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Therefore, it is concluded that the proposed changes meet the requirements of 10 CFR 50.92(c) and do not involve a significant hazards consideration. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location : Callaway County Public Library, 710 Court Street, Fulton, Missouri 65251. Attorney for licensee : Gerald Charnoff, Esq., Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge, 2300 N Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director : John N. Hannon. Washington Public Power Supply System, Docket No. 50&hyph;397, Nuclear Project No. 2, Benton County, Washington Date of amendment request : January 6, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise the Technical Specifications (TS) to (1) modify a table notation which would allow reactor protection channels to be placed in an inoperable status for a defined period of time to allow conduct of surveillance testing without requiring entry into the associated limiting condition for operation (LCO) action requirements, and (2) delete the channel check requirements for the ``Reactor Steam Dome_High'' TS surveillance. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis against the standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c). The NRC staff's review is presented below: Regarding the proposed modifications to the Instrumentation Section table notations: 1. Does the proposed change involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated? The proposed revised notations to the TS Instrumentation Section tables clarify the current intent of the table notations by allowing the conduct of surveillance testing without declaring the affected channels inoperable for a limited period of time. In addition, the proposed changes make the wording of the table notations consistent with the Improved Technical Specifications (ITS). The proposed changes do not affect the time that the current notations allow a channel to be placed in an inoperable status, and thus do not affect the probability of an accident previously evaluated. In addition, the proposed changes do not affect the current requirement that redundant instrumentation be operable to accomplish the required function for the channel placed in an inoperable status. Thus, the proposed changes do not affect the consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. Does the amendment create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated? The proposed changes do not affect the operation or availability of equipment from the current TS, and therefore do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. Does the amendment involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety? The margin of safety affected by the proposed changes is the time that instrumentation required for plant protection is unavailable to perform its required function(s). The proposed changes do not affect the time that the instrumentation is allowed to be in an inoperable status during surveillance testing, and thus does not affect the availability of required instrumentation. In addition, the proposed changes do not affect the current requirement that redundant instrumentation remains operable, ensuring the required safety function remains operable during surveillance testing. Thus, the margin of safety is not affected by the proposed changes. Regarding the proposed removal of the channel check requirement for the ``Reactor Vessel Steam Dome Pressure_High'' instrumentation: 1. Does the proposed change involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated?
