FR940223-0-00042 FR940223-0-00019 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 52 [FL&hyph;53&hyph;5923; FRL&hyph;4836&hyph;8] Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plans Florida: Title V, Section 507, Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: EPA is approving revisions to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) submitted by the State of Florida through the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation (FDER) for the purpose of establishing a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program (PROGRAM), which will be fully implemented by November 1994. This implementation plan was submitted by FDER on February 24, 1993, to satisfy the federal mandate, found in section 507 of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 (CAA), to ensure that small businesses have access to the technical assistance and regulatory information necessary to comply with the CAA. EFFECTIVE DATES: This action will be effective April 25, 1994, unless notice is received by March 25, 1994, that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments. If the effective date is delayed, timely notice will be published in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Ms. Carol L. Kemker at the EPA Region IV address listed. Copies of the material submitted by FDER may be examined during normal business hours at the following locations: Environmental Protection Agency, Attn: Jerry Kurtzweg, ANR 443, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. Environmental Protection Agency, Region IV Air Programs Branch, 345 Courtland Street, Atlanta, Georgia 30365. Air Resources Management Division, Florida Department of Environmental Regulation, Twin Towers Office Building, 2600 Blair Stone Road, Tallahassee, Florida 32399&hyph;2400. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Carol L. Kemker of the EPA Region IV Air Programs Branch at 404&hyph;347&hyph;2864 or at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Implementation of the CAA will require small businesses to comply with specific regulations in order for areas to attain and maintain the national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) and reduce the emission of air toxics. In anticipation of the impact of these requirements on small businesses, the CAA requires that states adopt a PROGRAM, and submit this PROGRAM as a revision to the federally approved SIP. In addition, the CAA directs the EPA to oversee the small business assistance program and report to Congress on their implementation. The requirements for establishing a PROGRAM are set out in section 507 of Ttitle V of the CAA and the EPA guidance document Guidelines for the Implementation of section 507 of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. In order to gain full approval, the state submittal must provide for each of the following PROGRAM elements: (1) The establishment of a Small Business Assistance Program (SBAP) to provide technical and compliance assistance to small businesses; (2) The establishment of a state Small Business Ombudsman to represent the interests of small businesses in the regulatory process; and (3) The creation of a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP) to determine and report on the overall effectiveness of the SBAP. FDER has met the following requirements of section 507 of Title V of the CAA by submitting a SIP revision that implements the following required PROGRAM elements and implementation schedules. The PROGRAM will be fully implemented by November 15, 1994. 1. Small Business Assistance Program FDER has established a Small Business Section (SBS) which will incorporate the following six requirements set forth in section 507 of Title V of the CAA: A. The establishment of adequate mechanisms for developing, collecting and coordinating information concerning compliance methods and technologies for small business stationary sources, and programs to encourage lawful cooperation among such sources and other persons to further comply with the CAA; B. The establishment of adequate mechanisms for assisting small business stationary sources with pollution prevention and accidental release detection and prevention, including providing information concerning alternative technologies, process changes, products and methods of operation that help reduce air pollution; C. The development of a compliance and technical assistance program for small business stationary sources which assists small businesses in determining applicable permit requirements under the CAA in a timely and efficient manner; D. The development of adequate mechanisms to assure that small business stationary sources receive notice of their rights under the CAA in such manner and form as to assure reasonably adequate time for such sources to evaluate compliance methods and any relevant or applicable proposed or final regulation or standards issued under the CAA;
