FR941116-0-00074 FR941116-0-00012 The Commission concludes that it is appropriate to include origin markets in the geographic market information. At this time, the Commission is still concerned about the possibility of monopsony power. The Commission agrees with the Farmers that the ultimate burden of proof is on the oil pipeline to establish the relevant geographic market. However, a proponent of corridor geographic markets must come forward with an adequate presentation to warrant rebuttal by the oil pipeline. B. Statement B_Product Markets In Statement B, the Commission is requiring the oil pipeline to identify the product market or markets for which it seeks to establish that it lacks significant market power. The oil pipeline must explain why the particular product definition is appropriate. Under the ICA, the Commission regulates the transportation of oil by pipeline. 45 In a market power analysis, the Commission must determine the oil pipeline's ability to exercise market power over this transportation service. However, a market power analysis in general cannot be made solely in the context of transportation rates. Where competitive alternatives constrain the applicant's ability to raise transport prices, the effect of such constraints are ultimately reflected in the price of the commodity transported. Hence, the delivered commodity price (relevant product price plus transportation charges) generally will be the relevant price to be analyzed for making a comparison of the alternatives to a pipeline's services. However, in some instances such as for origin markets or crude oil pipelines, it may be appropriate to make a case based only on transportation rates. A pipeline may elect to file such a case and a protestant may argue that such a case is appropriate. In either event, the burden of establishing the relevant product market remains on the oil pipeline. 45 49 U.S.C. 1(1)(b). The Commission is not requiring a specific way to define the product markets. The relevant product market first would be distinguished between the transportation of crude oil and the transportation of refined products. Crude oil transportation could further be divided to include transportation of natural gas liquids while products transportation could be delineated by type, such as motor gasoline, distillates, or jet fuel. The oil pipeline should, in the first instance, select its product market and the burden is on the oil pipeline to justify its choice. The AOPL argues that the Commission is unjustifiably retreating from the standard of Buckeye and Williams _``delivered pipelineable petroleum products.'' It maintains that this standard should be the generally applicable method for identifying relevant product markets, with participants free to argue for exceptions as appropriate. Total maintains that the Commission has correctly recognized that crude and product markets can and should be divided further into differentiated products. It argues that, in order to minimize the need for discovery, the Commission should require that the delivery data be submitted by crude and product type and that capacity relied upon in HHI calculations should be segregated by crude types and product types. It further submits that oil pipelines should be further required to identify all alternatives of the same crude type or products which are being transported by the pipeline seeking a market-power demonstration. The Commission reiterates that it is up to the oil pipeline to identify the product market or markets for which it seeks to establish that it lacks significant market power. As stated above, the Commission is not establishing at this time any presumptions as suggested by the AOPL. Nor will the Commission require the oil pipeline to submit information by crude and product type as proposed by Total. This would be too onerous at the outset. However, in identifying competition, as suggested by Total, the type identification should match that of the oil pipeline's commodity type used to determine the product market. The AOPL also contends that the Commission's discussion of transportation in the product context is ``problematic.'' It argues that if it ``is intended to address relevant price for the purpose of comparing competitive alternatives to all pipeline transportation, it simply is misplaced and should be shifted to a discussion of how to define market power,'' but if the Commission intends to require relevant product markets to be defined to include transportation, or the transportation of particular products, the discussion would represent a significant break with Buckeye and Williams which recognized that relevant product market could include non-transportation alternatives, such as refiners. 46 It asks the Commission at a minimum to clarify that ``no such narrowing of the definition of `relevant product markets' was intended.'' 47 46 Comments at 44. 47 Id. The Commission is not narrowing the definition of relevant product market by defining it in terms of the transportation of the commodity. That definition of relevant product market simply recognizes that the Commission regulates the transportation rate. As the AOPL maintains, non-transportation factors, such as competition from refiners, are an element in an analysis of an oil pipeline's market power with respect to the pertinent product. Sinclair is concerned about the NOPR's statement that ``the delivered commodity price (relevant product price plus transportation charges) generally will be the relevant price.'' 48 It assumes, and seeks clarification, that the term ``product'' applies to both petroleum products and crude oil. It further urges that the Commission ``state that the use of any delivered price concept in a market power analysis is directed to the market power which a pipeline exercises with respect to shippers_not with respect to the price ultimate consumers pay for refined petroleum products.'' It maintains that the Commission should do this because shippers, and not end users, are the protected class under the ICA. 49 Sinclair further urges the Commission to reflect on the particular situations in which the delivered price concept is useful in market power analysis, such as in developing the geographic contours of the market. It further contends that it must be recognized that it is a pipeline's ability to increase its transportation rates, and not the delivered price, that must be the ultimate focus of the analysis. It specifically refers to crude oil origin markets, where the net-back price is pertinent, and to captive refiners in the origin market of a product pipeline, which refiner could be adversely affected by a rate increase by an inability to raise prices in the retail market. Sinclair suggests that protestants should always be given the opportunity to conduct discovery and present evidence with respect to a pipeline's ability to unilaterally raise its transportation rates and that there should not be any narrow bounds on the relationship between the commodity price and a pipeline's market power. 48 IV FERC Stats. & Regs. Proposed Regulations ¶32,508 at p. 32,890. 49 Citing Williams Pipeline Co., 21 FERC ¶61,260 at p. 61,584 (1982). Sinclair is right that the product referred to in the NOPR was both petroleum products and crude oil. Sinclair is also correct that the Commission's analysis reflects market power vis a vis shippers and not consumers. This is because, whether or not the ICA is intended to protect consumers, it is the rate paid by shippers that must be just and reasonable. 50 Sinclair's other arguments should be presented in a particular case when the Commission must consider the appropriate determination of the geographic and product market. The Commission will consider requests for discovery when it determines what future proceedings are appropriate after protests are filed. 50 Farmers Union Central Exchange, Inc. v. FERC, 734 F.2d 1486, 1507 (D.C. Cir. 1984).
