FR940825-2-00177 FR940825-2-00108 Prospectuses that address issues concerned with regional economic growth and development and that envision a community of Asia Pacific economies are desired. Priority will be given to prospectuses with a regional emphasis that focus on one or more of these academic disciplines: economics (with emphasis on international economics or trade and investment flows), business administration (with an emphasis on marketing and international business) and the environment (with emphasis on sustained growth and the environment). Step I_Application Requirements for Prospectuses Each prospectus must be signed by a Dean, Department Chair, International Programs Director, or other institutional official of similar rank. Such signatures will indicate an understanding of the following requirement for comprehensive proposals to be invited at the conclusion of the prospectus review: invited comprehensive proposals will be required to include documentation of institutional support for the proposed linkage including signed letters of endorsement from the U.S. and foreign institutions' presidents, chancellors, or directors committing the institution to maintaining exchange participants on salary and benefits. Propsectuses must not exceed five, double-spaced pages and must include the following information in the order given: (1) Project title; (2) U.S. institution, department, and project director with complete contact information (address and phone and fax numbers); (3) Partner institution, department, and brief description of institution; (4) Academic discipline(s)/subject matter/sub-topics/foci; (5) Project summary; (6) Project objectives, statement of need; (7) Outline of proposed activities (some combination of research, faculty and staff exchange, curriculum development, community outreach, etc.); (8) Contacts between partner institutions made to date; (9) Proposed project faculty and staff participants for all partner institutions; (10) Anticipated results/benefits to partner institutions; (11) Long term impact. In addition, the prospectus must have as an attachment the U.S. Project Director's curriculum vitae which must not exceed two pages. Review Process: USIA will acknowledge receipt of all prospectuses and will review them for technical eligibility. Prospectuses will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein. Eligible prospectuses will be forwarded to a panel of USIA officers for advisory review. This review will include the Office of Academic Programs, the USIA geographic area offices, and USIA posts overseas. Review Criteria: An Agency panel will review each technically eligible prospectus by the following criteria: (1) Quality of program idea; (2) Potential to advance scholarship, teaching, and mutual understanding in partner institutions; (3) Feasibility; (4) Adequacy of resources;
