FR940324-2-00012 FR940324-2-00004 Therefore, in accordance with sections 751(b)(1) and (c) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.25(d) and 353.22(f), based on an affirmative statement of no interest in the proceeding by Smith Corona, the Department is initiating this changed circumstances administrative review. Further, based upon the facts of this case and the representations made by Smith Corona that other U.S. producers of this merchandise (Canon Business Machines and Brother Industries (USA), Inc.) consent to revocation of the order, we have determined that expedited action is warranted, and we have preliminarily determined that the order no longer is of interest to domestic interested parties. Because the Department concludes that expedited action is warranted, the Department is combining these notices of initiation and preliminary results. The Department determines that there is a reasonable basis to believe that the requirement for revocation based on the changed circumstance that the order no longer is of interest to domestic interested parties has been met. Therefore, we are hereby notifying the public of our intent to revoke the antidumping duty order on personal word processors from Japan. We hereby notify the public that if this revocation becomes final we will also publish notice of the termination of the ongoing anticircumvention inquiry of the order on PWPs from Japan. If these preliminary results are made final, they will apply to all shipments of the merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after August 1, 1993 (the day after the last administrative review period for which automatic liquidation instructions were sent to the U.S. Customs Service). In that event, we intend to instruct the U.S. Customs Service to liquidate all entries of the subject merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after August 1, 1993, without regard to antidumping duties. We will instruct the U.S. Customs Service to refund with interest any estimated antidumping duties collected with respect to those entries. The current requirement for a cash deposit of estimated antidumping duties will continue until publication of the final results of this changed circumstances review. Public Comment Any interested party may request a hearing within 10 days from the date of publication of this notice. Any hearing, if requested, will be held no later than 28 days after the date of publication of this notice, or the first workday thereafter. Case briefs and/or written comments from interested parties may be submitted not later than 14 days after the date of publication of this notice. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttals to written comments, limited to the issues raised in those comments, may be filed not later than 21 days after the date of publication of this notice. All written comments shall be submitted in accordance with 19 CFR 353.31 and shall be served on all interested parties on the Department's service list. Persons interested in attending the hearing should contact the Department for the date and time of the hearing. The Department will publish the final results of this changed circumstances review, including the results of its analysis of issues raised in any written comments. This initiation, preliminary results of review, intent to revoke, and this notice are in accordance with §§751(b)(1) and (c) of the Act and §§353.22(f) and 353.25(d)(1993) of the Department's regulations. Dated: March 16, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6972 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
