FR940627-0-00193 FR940627-0-00019 (vii) The degree to which the test procedures conform to the testing guidelines set forth in §§79.60 through 79.68 and/or furnish information comparable to that provided by such testing. (3) The test animals shall be rodents, preferably a strain of rat, and testing shall include all of the endpoints covered in §§79.62 through 79.68. All studies shall be properly executed, with appropriate documentation, and in accord with the individual health testing guidelines (§§79.60 through 79.68) of this part, e.g., 90-day, 6-hour per day exposure, minimum. (4) In general, the data in a manufacturer's registration submittal shall be adequate if the duration of a test's exposure period is at least as long, in days and hours, as the inhalation exposure specified in the related health test guideline(s). Data from tests with shorter exposure durations than those specified in the guidelines may be acceptable if the test results are positive ( i.e. , exhibit adverse effects) and/or include a demonstrable concentration-response relationship. (5) Data in support of a manufacturer's registration submittal shall directly address the effects of inhalation exposure to the whole evaporative and exhaust emissions of the respective fuel or additive or to the whole evaporative and exhaust emissions of other fuels or additives which satisfy the criteria in §79.56 for classification into the same group as the subject fuel or fuel additive. Data obtained in the testing of a raw liquid fuel or additive/base fuel mixture or a raw, aerosolized fuel or additive/base fuel mixture shall not be adequate to support a manufacturer's registration submittal. Data from testing of evaporative emissions cannot substitute for test data on combustion emissions. Data from testing of combustion emissions cannot substitute for test data on evaporative emissions. §79.54 Tier 3. (a) General Criteria for Requiring Tier 3 Testing. (1) Tier 3 testing shall be required of a manufacturer or group of manufacturers at EPA's discretion when remaining uncertainties as to the significance of observed health effects, welfare effects, and/or emissions exposures from a fuel or fuel/additive mixture interfere with EPA's ability to make reasonable estimates of the potential risks posed by emissions from the fuel or additive products. Tier 3 testing may be conducted either on an individual basis or a group basis. If performed on a group basis, EPA may require either the same representative to be used in Tier 3 testing as was used in Tier 2 testing or may select a different member or members of the group to represent the group in the Tier 3 tests. (2) In addition to the criteria specific to particular tests as summarized and detailed in the testing guidelines (§§79.62 through 79.68), EPA may consider a number of factors (including, but not limited to): (i) The number of positive and negative outcomes related to each endpoint; (ii) The identification of concentration-effect relationships; (iii) The statistical sensitivity and significance of such studies; (iv) The severity of the observed effects (e.g., whether the effects would be likely to lead to incapacitating or irreversible conditions); (v) The type and number of species included in the reported tests; (vi) The consistency and clarity of apparent mechanisms, target organs, and outcomes; (vii) The presence or absence of effective health test control data for base-fuel-only versus additive/base fuel mixture comparisons; (viii) The nature and amount of known toxic agents in the emissions stream; and (ix) The observation of lesions which specifically implicate inhalation as an important exposure route.
