FR940617-1-00034 FR940617-1-00012 In addition, some products will have to be reformulated to comply with the monograph. Reformulation often involves the need to do stability testing on the new product. An accelerated aging process may be used to test a new formulation; however, if the stability testing is not successful, and if further reformulation is required, there could be a further delay in having a new product available for manufacture. The agency wishes to establish a reasonable period of time for relabeling and reformulation in order to avoid an unnecessary disruption of the marketplace that could not only result in economic loss, but also interfere with consumers' access to safe and effective drug products. Therefore, the agency is proposing that the final monograph be effective 12 months after the date of its publication in the Federal Register . The agency believes that within 12 months after the date of publication most manufacturers can order new labeling and reformulate their products and have them in compliance in the marketplace. If the agency determines that any labeling for a condition included in the final monograph should be implemented sooner than the 12-month effective date, a shorter deadline may be established. Similarly, if a safety problem is identified for a particular nonmonograph condition, a shorter deadline may be set for removal of that condition from OTC drug products. All ``OTC Volumes'' cited throughout this document refer to the submissions made by interested persons pursuant to the call-for-data notice published in the Federal Register of January 7, 1972 (37 FR 235) or to additional information that has come to the agency's attention since publication of the advance notice of proposed rulemaking. The volumes are on public display in the Dockets Management Branch (address above). I. The Agency's Tentative Conclusions on the Comments and Reply Comments A. General Comments 1. Two comments contended that OTC drug monographs are interpretive, as opposed to substantive, regulations. One comment referred to statements on this issue submitted earlier to other OTC drug rulemaking proceedings. The agency addressed this issue in paragraphs 85 through 91 of the preamble to the procedures for classification of OTC drug products, published in the Federal Register of May 11, 1972 (37 FR 9464 at 9471 to 9472), and in paragraph 3 of the preamble to the tentative final monograph for OTC antacid drug products, published in the Federal Register of November 12, 1973 (38 FR 31260). FDA reaffirms the conclusions stated in those documents. Court decisions have confirmed the agency's authority to issue substantive regulations by rulemaking. (See, e.g., National Nutritional Foods Association v. Weinberger, 512 F.2d 688, 696 to 698 (2d Cir. 1975) and National Association of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers v. FDA, 487 F. Supp. 412 (S.D.N.Y. 1980), aff'd, 637 F.2d 887 (2d Cir. 1981).) 2. One comment pointed out that under ``Subpart B_Active Ingredients'' of the tentative final monograph, no CFR part number was assigned to the category ``skin antiseptic.'' However, part numbers were assigned to other categories without any Category I ingredients, with the term ``reserved'' in parentheses. The comment requested that this omission be corrected in the amended tentative final monograph. The omission pointed out by the comment was an oversight. However, it is no longer necessary to assign a CFR part number to the category ``skin antiseptic,'' because skin antiseptics have been included in broader categories identified as first aid antiseptics in the amended tentative final monograph for first aid antiseptics (56 FR 33644) and as health-care antiseptics in this tentative final monograph. (See section I.B., comment 3.) All Category I first aid antiseptic and health-care antiseptic active ingredients have been listed in the amended tentative final monograph under subpart A and subpart E, respectively. B. General Comments on Antimicrobials 3. A number of comments objected to the Panel's recommendation for separate statements of identity in the labeling of products containing the same antimicrobial active ingredient. As an example, several comments noted that povidone-iodine has several professional uses (health-care personnel handwash, skin antiseptic, and surgical hand scrub) and marketing a product in conformance with two or more product categories becomes difficult because there are different labeling requirements for each drug product category. Some comments requested FDA to combine the drug product category designations or to add a new multipurpose product category that allows the combining of labeling indications now included in several product categories. One comment specifically recommended that the agency consider changing product class designations and/or adding a new product class ``Multi Purpose Skin Prep'' or ``Skin Prep,'' with the indications for use including those listed under ยง333.85 (health-care personnel hand wash), ยง333.87 (patient preoperative skin preparation), ยง333.90 (skin antiseptic), and ยง333.97 (surgical hand scrub). Another comment stated that the word ``skin'' was superfluous because all OTC antiseptics are intended only for use on the skin; still another comment contended that the statement of identity ``antiseptic'' is preferable to ``skin antiseptic'' because these products are used on cuts, scratches, and mucous membranes as well as skin.
