FR940725-0-00094 FR940725-0-00013 Response: In virtually all cases, we determine the cost-neutrality of a waiver request by comparing the average costs for all recipients under the waiver to the estimated average costs absent the waiver. The only time we would review a single recipient's cost under a home and community-based services waiver would be when a waiver serves only one person. If the recipient's costs exceeded the appropriate institutional costs, the waiver would not be cost-neutral. However, section 1915(c)(4)(A) of the Act authorizes a State, at its option, to limit home and community-based services waivers to those recipients for whom the State has a reasonable expectation that the cost of medical assistance under the waiver for those individuals will not exceed the cost of medical assistance for those same recipients absent the waiver. Thus, this section of the Act permits States to include (1) only recipients whose costs under a waiver are reasonably expected to be less than or the same as the appropriate institutional costs under medical assistance and (2) individual recipients whose waiver costs are reasonably expected to exceed institutional costs under medical assistance (if the waiver did not apply), as long as the estimated average per capita cost with the waiver does not exceed the estimated average per capita cost absent the waiver. Comment: Two commenters asserted that a State should not be required to submit an amendment to its waiver proposal if the State exceeds its approved cost and utilization estimates. Response: Section 1915(c)(2)(D) of the Act requires that we assess the reasonableness of a State's estimates of the cost-neutrality of its program. The amendment must be submitted prior to the expiration of the waiver year in question and must include cost and utilization changes for the current waiver year and all waiver years that follow through the term of the approved waiver request. If a State anticipates substantive changes in its cost and utilization estimates, we believe that the State should be required to submit amendments to explain the basis and extent of the changes. The State's recomputed cost-effectiveness formula, based on the revised cost and utilization, must substantiate continued cost-neutrality. Comment: One commenter requested that we simplify the waiver application process which includes estimations of expenditures based on an equation specified in the regulations. Response: We agree with the commenter's request. We are making a significant change in the formula values proposed at §441.303(f)(1) to simplify the waiver cost-neutrality formula and thus reduce the overall complexity of the waiver application procedure. We are reducing the formula by retaining only those formula values which are critical in assessing the cost-neutrality of the program: D, D ’, G, and G ’. Section 1915(c)(2)(D) requires that States make assurances, satisfactory to the Secretary, that waiver programs will be cost-neutral to the Medicaid program. Cost-neutrality is defined in terms which require that the average per capita annual Medicaid expenditure with the waiver in place not exceed the average per capita annual Medicaid expenditure without the waiver. The waiver formula is intended to provide a uniform method of providing data to the Secretary, sufficient to allow a determination of whether the State's estimate of per capita cost-neutrality is reasonable. We believe that, based on many years of program experience, the formula can be simplified to its key elements. Specifically, we would retain the two factors which represent average per-capita costs for waiver and other Medicaid services under the waiver (D and D ’). These would be compared to the average per capita cost for alternative institutional care and other related Medicaid expenditures without the waiver (G and G ’). To ensure these factors are inclusive of all relevant Medicaid expenditures, we have redefined D ’ and G ’ to include all other medical assistance expenditures and expanded services not under a State plan for early and periodic screening, diagnostic and treatment (EPSDT) services recipients. The meanings of D and G remain unchanged, but the definitions have been revised for clarity. We are also deleting the requirement at proposed §441.303(f)(3) that States must submit data on the estimated number of beneficiaries and expenditures for those who would receive hospital, NF, or ICF/MR services. With our simplification and redefinition of formula values, there is no longer a need for these data. We are renumbering the remaining paragraphs in section (f) accordingly. The following are our new definitions: D = the estimated annual average per capita Medicaid cost for home and community-based services for individuals in the waiver program. D ’ = the estimated annual average per capita Medicaid cost for all other services provided to individuals in the waiver program. G = the estimated annual average per capita Medicaid cost for hospital, NF, or ICF/MR care that would be incurred for individuals served in the waiver, were the waiver not granted.
