FR940317-2-00076 FR940317-2-00051 National Park Service Notice and Public Comment on Sample Prospectus and Related Guidelines AGENCY: National Park Service, Interior. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that Chapters 6, 7, 8 and 11 of NPS&hyph;48 (``The Concessions Guideline'') have been rescinded effective as of the date of this publication. In addition, any portions of NPS&hyph;48 or other NPS policies which are inconsistent with recently amended National Park Service regulations for concession contracting and its new standard language concession contract are hereby rescinded. Matters previously addressed by Chapters 6, 7, 8 and 11 of NPS&hyph;48 are now addressed to the extent necessary by a new National Park Service internal staff manual entitled ``Sample Prospectus and Related Guidelines'' effective as of the date of this publication. The Sample Prospectus and Related Guidelines is incorporated by reference in this public notice. The document includes, among other matters, a sample prospectus for solicitation of offers for National Park Service concession contracts and permits, related evaluation guidelines, and application information and criteria. It is noted, however, that notwithstanding these actions, any solicitations for concession contracts and permits issued before the date of this publication will continue to be processed in accordance with applicable provisions of NPS&hyph;48. As an internal staff manual, notice of the Sample Prospectus and Related Guidelines is not required to be published in the Federal Register nor is public comment on it required to be sought. However, in order to assure that the views of all interested parties are considered, the National Park Service is seeking public comment on its Sample Prospectus and Related Guidelines document and will consider all comments received and amend the document appropriately if public comments so warrant. Delaying the effective date of this document until after consideration of public comments is not in the public interest as there exists a large backlog of NPS concession contract renewals which are necessary to complete to allow the commencement of major renovation and construction programs in areas of the national park system, including improvements necessary to protect the health and safety of park visitors and NPS and concessioner employees. In addition, many concessioners are now operating under the terms of expired contracts and are, accordingly, in need of contract renewal actions as soon as possible to permit business planning, actions and investments which require the existence of a new contract for implementation. It is also noted that the Sample Prospectus and Related Guidelines document is intended to provide guidance to NPS personnel concerning possible means to implement new policies and procedures adopted in the new NPS concession contracting regulations and new standard language concession contract, both of which were adopted after extensive public comment periods and consideration by NPS of all comments received. Further public comment in advance of implementation of this internal staff manual is therefore not considered necessary and is impracticable if the contract renewal process is to commence in a timely manner. The Sample Prospectus and Related Guidelines document is intended to be only a sample document. It is not meant to be a document which must be used as written in every instance. It may be modified as appropriate to fit the needs of individual situations. Further, this document is expected to be modified and refined over time as experience indicates that changes are needed and to meet the changing needs of the concession contracting program. DATES: Comments on the Sample Prospectus and Related Guidelines must be submitted on or before the sixtieth day following publication of this notice. ADDRESSES: Copies of the Sample Prospectus and Related Guidelines may be obtained by writing the Director, National Park Service, Washington, DC 20240 and written comments should be sent to this same address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wendy Mann of the National Park Service Concessions Division at the address given above; telephone (202) 343&hyph;1561. Dated: March 1, 1994. Don H. Castleberry, Acting Associate Director, Operations, National Park Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6272 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;M
