FR940803-1-00047 FR940803-1-00010 Demonstrated successful performance on a test means achievement of at least the minimum acceptable grade level that demonstrates the knowledge and skills required to competently perform the function tested. Personnel means persons performing covered functions or supervisory persons directly overseeing persons performing covered functions. The persons may be the operator or employed by the operator, be a contractor engaged by the operator, or be employed by such contractor. Qualification training and testing schedule means a written or computerized schedule, prepared by the operator, that sets out the following minimum details: names and titles of personnel, dates of training and testing, elements of general and specific training to be taught or tested, and names of instructors. Qualified means meeting the training, testing, and recordkeeping requirements of this subpart for a covered function. Qualified administratively means meeting the training, testing, and recordkeeping requirements of this subpart for covered functions, except those involving the demonstration of competent ``hands-on'' skills, such as required for welding. Refresher training schedule means a written or computerized schedule, prepared by the operator, that sets out the details of the qualification training and testing schedule, except that information relating to testing is not required. Small gas distribution systems means, as characterized in this subpart, gas distribution systems serving fewer than 10,000 customers. They include petroleum gas systems (covered by §192.11) and master meter systems (defined in §191.3), both of which usually serve mobile home parks or housing complexes; and private or municipal systems. Supervisory persons means persons such as operators, managers, supervisors, foremen, co-workers and other personnel. §192.805 Personnel to be qualified. (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, persons performing covered functions and supervisory persons directly overseeing persons performing covered functions must be qualified under this subpart. Personnel requiring such qualification may be the operator or employed by the operator, be a contractor engaged by the operator, or be employed by such contractor. (b) Except for the covered functions of welding and nondestructive testing under subpart E of this part and of plastic pipe joining under subpart F of this part, personnel requiring qualification under paragraph (a) of this section may perform a covered function without qualification if, while performing the function, those persons are accompanied and directed by a supervisory person qualified under this subpart. (c) Supervisory persons directly overseeing qualified persons performing covered functions must, themselves, be qualified or be qualified administratively for those functions. §192.807 Instructors. (a) To implement the evaluating, training, and testing requirements of this subpart, an instructor (the operator or others selected by the operator) must have demonstrable proficiency in the functions to be taught and tested commensurate with the level of knowledge and skills required for the operator's unique pipeline system. (b) Whenever an instructor selected by the operator is a person or entity other than the operator or operator personnel, the operator remains responsible for ensuring that the requirements of this subpart are complied with. §192.809 Evaluation and scheduling. (a) The instructor shall evaluate any prior experience and training of personnel requiring qualification under §192.805. Previous experience or training equivalent to any of the general or specific training elements of §192.811 would not require qualification training in those elements, but would require testing under §192.813. (b) To ensure completion of the evaluation under paragraph (a) of this section and the scheduling necessary for implementation of training and testing under §§192.811 and 192.813, the operator shall prepare a written or computerized qualification training and testing schedule. The schedule shall contain names and titles of affected persons, dates and locations for training and testing, elements of general and specific training to be taught or tested, and names of instructors. (c) To ensure completion of the scheduling necessary for implementation of the refresher training under §192.815, the operator shall prepare a written or computerized refresher training schedule. The schedule shall contain details, with the exception of testing, similar to those required in paragraph (b) of this section. §192.811 Qualification training. (a) Except for any prior experience or training evaluated as equivalent under §192.809(a), to be qualified under this subpart, personnel must satisfactorily complete general and specific training appropriate to the operator's unique pipeline system. Supervisory persons are required to be similarly qualified or, under §192.805(c), are permitted to be qualified administratively. (b) General and specific training may be acquired through one or any combination of classroom education, operator-sponsored training, on-the-job training, or apprenticeship. (c) Minimum general training required by all persons includes knowledge of the following elements: (1) Characteristics and hazardous properties of gas transported, such as explosive range, temperature, and corrosive effects on pipeline systems, as well as toxicity, olfactory, asphyxiatory, and temperature effects on persons, property, and the environment; (2) Potential ignition sources of escaping gas;
