FR940323-0-00073 FR940323-0-00020 (ii) Demonstrate that the program has received a substantial number of applications for placement from persons who are individuals with a disability and who require a reasonable accommodation (as defined in section 101(9) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990), or auxiliary aids and services (as defined in section 3(1) of such Act) in order to perform national service; and (iii) Demonstrate that additional funding would assist the program in placing a substantial number of such individuals with a disability as participants in projects carried out through the program. (2) Outreach. Corporation grantees and any public or private nonprofit organization may apply for funds to conduct outreach to individuals with disabilities to recruit them for participation in AmeriCorps programs. Outreach funds can also be used by any organization to assist AmeriCorps programs in adapting their programs to encourage greater participation by individuals with disabilities. (c) Application procedures. Eligible applicants must comply with the requirements specified in the Corporation's application materials. §2524.50 What are the guidelines for assistance with disaster relief? (a) Purpose. Disaster relief funds are intended to provide emergency assistance not otherwise available to enable national and community service programs to respond quickly and effectively to a Presidentially-declared disaster. (b) Eligibility. Any AmeriCorps program (including youth corps, the National Civilian Community Corps, VISTA, and other programs authorized under the Domestic Volunteer Services Act) or grant making entity (such as a State or Federal agency) that is supported by the Corporation may apply for disaster relief grants. (c) Application process. Eligible applicants must comply with the requirements specified in the Corporation's application materials. (d) Waivers. In appropriate cases, due to the limited nature of disaster activities, the Corporation may waive specific program requirements such as matching requirements and the provision of AmeriCorps educational awards for participants supported with disaster relief funds. PART 2530_PURPOSES AND AVAILABILITY OF GRANTS FOR INVESTMENT FOR QUALITY AND INNOVATION ACTIVITIES Sec. §2530.10␣What are the purposes of the Investment for Quality and Innovation activities? 2530.20␣Funding priorities. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. 2530.10 What are the purposes of the Investment for Quality and Innovation activities? Investment for Quality and Innovation activities are designed to develop service infrastructure and improve the overall quality of national and community service efforts. Specifically, the Corporation will support innovative and model programs that otherwise may not be eligible for funding; and support other activities, such as training and technical assistance, summer programs, leadership training, research, promotion and recruitment, and special fellowships and awards. The Corporation may conduct these activities either directly or through grants to or contracts with qualified organizations. §2530.20 Funding priorities. The Corporation may choose to set priorities (and to periodically revise such priorities) that limit the types of innovative and model programs and support activities it will undertake or fund in a given fiscal year. In setting these priorities, the Corporation will seek to concentrate funds on those activities that will be most effective and efficient in fulfilling the purposes of this part.
