FR941125-2-00185 FR941125-2-00124 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY [Treasury Directive Number 11&hyph;01] Delegation of Authority With Respect to Synthetic Fuels Projects November 18, 1994. 1. Purpose. This Directive states the structure and functions of the Office of Synthetic Fuels Projects within the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Government Financial Policy), defines responsibilities relating to synthetic fuels projects, and delegates certain authority relating to synthetic fuels projects. 2. Definitions. a. Contract Amendment. An amendment to those financial assistance agreements entered into by the United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation and the Project sponsors for synthetic fuels projects. b. Director. The Director, Office of Synthetic Fuels Projects. c. Projects. These are synthetic fuels projects for which the United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation made legal, valid and binding financial assistance awards prior to December 19, 1985. d. SFC. The United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation. 3. Delegation. Each official named in the paragraph 4. is delegated the authority necessary to perform that official's functions as described. 4. Responsibilities. a. The Under Secretary (Domestic Finance) is responsible for making the final determination, upon receipt of a written recommendation of the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Government Financial Policy) and the Assistant General Counsel (Banking and Finance), on all Contract Amendments which have potential impact on either the obligational authority of the United States or the Project's finances. b. The Deputy Assistant Secretary (Government Financial Policy) shall: (1) Upon the receipt of a written recommendation of the Director and the Assistant General Counsel (Banking and Finance), make the final determination on: (a) All Contract Amendments not involving changes of obligational authority or not having potential impact on a Project's finances; (b) All environmental monitoring plans (and revisions thereto) required for each Project receiving financial assistance; (c) Material Project design amendments; and (2) Approve, with the cosignature of the Director: (a) Written instructions authorizing guaranteed lenders to make loan disbursements in connection with loan guarantees entered into by the SFC, pursuant to Section 133 of the Energy Security Act; and (b) Payments required to be made in connection with those financial assistance agreements entered into by the SFC, pursuant to Section 134 of the Energy Security Act. c. The Director, Office of Synthetic Fuels Projects, is responsible for the operational and construction monitoring of Projects and other duties as assigned, and shall: (1) Review and, if appropriate, provide a written recommendation of approval to the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Government Financial Policy) for all: (a) Contract Amendments; and (b) Environmental monitoring plans (and revisions thereto) required for each Project receiving financial assistance, taking into consideration the comments of the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency in their capacity as members of the Monitoring Review Committee established pursuant to each Financial Assistance Agreement and the Environmental Monitoring Plan Guidelines (48 Federal Register 46676&hyph;46685, dated October 13, 1983); (2) Approve, upon the recommendation of the contract administrator and with the concurrence of the Assistant General Counsel (Banking and Finance): (a) Changes to Project control documents, as contemplated by the financial assistance agreements entered into between the SFC and the Project sponsors; and (b) Ad hoc waivers to contractual procedures provided for in the financial assistance agreements entered into between the SFC and the Project sponsors; and (3) Approve, with the cosignature of the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Government Financial Policy): (a) Written instructions authorizing guaranteed lenders to make loan disbursements in connection with loan guarantees entered into by the SFC pursuant to Section 133 of the Energy Security Act; and (b) Payments required to be made in connection with those financial assistance agreements entered into by the SFC pursuant to Section 134 of the Energy Security Act. 5. Redelegation. The Director, Office of Synthetic Fuels Projects, may redelegate to the contract managers the following functions: (a) the approval of reports required by contract; and (b) the approval of routine procedures specified by contract. 6. Administrative Support. Administrative support for the activities of the Office of Synthetic Fuels Projects shall be provided by the appropriate offices within the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Management). a. The Director, Personnel Resources Division, shall execute any necessary documents pertaining to personnel formerly employed by the SFC. b. The Director, Administrative Operations Division, shall execute any necessary documents pertaining to other administrative aspects of the SFC. 7. Cancellation. Treasury Directive 11&hyph;01, ``Office of Synthetic Fuels Projects,'' dated August 6, 1986, is superseded. 8. Authorities. a. Subtitle J of the Energy Security Act, Pub. L. 96&hyph;294; Pub. L. 99&hyph;190; and Pub. L. 99&hyph;272. b. Treasury Order 100&hyph;04, ``Delegation of Authority to Terminate the United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation,'' dated February 25, 1986. 9. Reference. Financial Assistance Agreement and the Environmental Monitoring Plan Guidelines (48 Federal Register 46676&hyph;46685, dated October 13, 1983). 10. Expiration Date. This Directive expires three years from the date of issuance unless canceled or superseded by that date. 11. Office of Primary Interest. Office of Synthetic Fuels Projects, Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Government Financial Policy), Office of the Under Secretary (Domestic Finance). Frank N. Newman, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29066 Filed 11&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;25&hyph;P
