FR941202-0-00091 FR941202-0-00010 SAI i = solvent/air interface area of solvent cleaning machine i (square meters). Section 63.461 defines the solvent/air interface area for those machines that have a solvent/air interface. Cleaning machines that do not have a solvent/air interface shall calculate a solvent/air interface area using the procedure in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. (2) Cleaning machines that do not have a solvent/air interface shall calculate a solvent/air interface area using equation 7. SAI=2.20 * (Vol) 0.6 ␣␣(7) Where: SAI=the solvent/air interface area (square meters). Vol=the cleaning capacity of the solvent cleaning machine (cubic meters). (3) Sum the PTE i for all solvent cleaning operations to obtain the total potential to emit for solvent cleaning operations at the facility. §63.466 Monitoring procedures. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment standards in §63.463 (b)(1)(i), (b)(2)(i), (c)(1)(i), or (c)(2)(i) shall conduct monitoring and record the results on a weekly basis for the control devices, as appropriate, specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. (1) If a freeboard refrigeration device is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall use a thermometer or thermocouple to measure the temperature at the center of the air blanket during the idling mode. (2) If a superheated vapor system is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall use a thermometer or thermocouple to measure the temperature at the center of the superheated solvent vapor zone while the solvent cleaning machine is in the idling mode. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment standards of §63.463 (b)(1)(i), (b)(2)(i), (c)(1)(i), or (c)(2)(i) shall conduct monitoring and record the results on a monthly basis for the control devices, as appropriate, specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. (1) If a cover (working-mode, downtime-mode, and/or idling-mode cover) is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall conduct a visual inspection to determine if the cover is opening and closing properly, completely covers the cleaning machine openings when closed, and is free of cracks, holes, and other defects. (2) If a dwell is used, the owner or operator shall determine the actual dwell time by measuring the period of time that parts are held within the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine after cleaning. (c) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment or idling standards in §63.463 shall monitor the hoist speed as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. (1) The owner or operator shall determine the hoist speed by measuring the time it takes for the hoist to travel a measured distance. The speed is equal to the distance in meters divided by the time in minutes (meters per minute). (2) The monitoring shall be conducted monthly. If after the first year, no exceedances of the hoist speed are measured, the owner or operator may begin monitoring the hoist speed quarterly. (3) If an exceedance of the hoist speed occurs during quarterly monitoring, the monitoring frequency returns to monthly until another year of compliance without an exceedance is demonstrated. (4) If an owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction in the initial compliance report that the hoist cannot exceed a speed of 3.4 meters per minute (11 feet per minute), the required monitoring frequency is quarterly, including during the first year of compliance. (d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the equipment standards in §63.463 (b)(1)(i), (b)(2)(i), (c)(1)(i), or (c)(2)(i) using a reduced room draft shall conduct monitoring and record the results as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section. (1) If the reduced room draft is maintained by controlling room parameters (i.e., redirecting fans, closing doors and windows, etc.), the owner or operator shall conduct an initial monitoring test of the windspeed and of room parameters, quarterly monitoring of windspeed, and weekly monitoring of room parameters as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this section. (i) Measure the windspeed within 6 inches above the top of the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (d)(1)(i)(D) of this section. (A) Determine the direction of the wind current by slowly rotating a velometer or similar device until the maximum speed is located.
