FR940404-2-00002 FR940404-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Rocky Mountain Region Crested Butte Ski Area Expansion, Grand Mesa, Uncompahgre and Gunnison National Forest, Gunnison County, CO AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to upgrade and expand the Crested Butte Ski Area. The proposal includes constructing new North Face and Third Bowl lifts and runs, constructing a restaurant at the top of the Silver Queen lift, and the development of Crested Butte North on Snodgrass Mountain. All proposed developments on National Forest System lands have been allocated to ski area use in the Forest Plan. That decision will not be reconsidered in the EIS, unless an effect on some significant resource which cannot be mitigated is discovered through this analysis. The ski area operates under a special-use permit granted to the Crested Butte Ski Area, Inc. The proposal would increase the Crested Butte Mountain capacity by approximately 20%. The Crested Butte North ski area expansion may lead to the development of North Village on private land at the Base of Snodgrass Mountain. The expansion proposal will help maintain Crested Butte's standing as a world class resort by enhancing skier capacity and the quality of the Crested Butte skiing experience. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received in writing by June 1, 1994. The draft EIS is scheduled for publication in September 1995 and the final EIS and Record of Decision (ROD) in March 1996. A general information meeting will be held at Emerald Ballroom at Crested Mountain Village in the Town of Crested Butte at 7 p.m. on March 29, 1993. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Crested Butte Ski Area Analysis, USDA Forest Service, 2250 Highway 50, Delta, Colorado 81416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeff Burch, Forest Planner, (303) 874&hyph;7691 or Craig Magwire, (303) 641&hyph;0471. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposal for expansion at Crested Butte will cover improvements planned to take place over the next decade. The EIS will provide information and analysis to support three different Forest Service decisions on the Crested Butte expansion proposal. 1. Part of the proposal includes improvements on the main mountain previously analyzed in an environmental assessment and approved in 1982. The 1982 decisions are more than five years old and need to be reviewed to ensure all important environmental factors have been considered and analyzed to the latest standards before major construction begins. 2. Other proposals are new developments located on the main mountain within the area currently served by lifts and will be reviewed to minimize or avoid environmental effects. 3. The most significant part of Crested Butte Ski Corporation's proposal is the development of Crested Butte North, which is off the main mountain outside the area currently served by lifts, but within the existing permitted ski area boundary. The Crested Butte North proposals have been previously examined and approved in a 1982 environmental assessment, but never built. The decision to be made regarding Crested Butte North is whether, based on updated environmental analysis, any significant resource concerns not considered in previous studies would alter previous authorizations, and under what specific conditions proposed development might be authorized.
