FR941110-0-00302 FR941110-0-00018 There are no State laws or existing regulatory mechanisms at the present time to protect or prevent further decline of these plants on private or State land. However, Federal listing would automatically invoke listing and associated protection under Hawaii State law. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Their Continued Existence Eleven of the 12 species are threatened by competition with one or more alien plant species. (See Table 2). The most significant of these appear to be Schinus terebinthifolius (Christmasberry), Psidium cattleianum (strawberry guava), Melinus minutiflora (molasses grass), Pennisetum setaceum (fountain grass), Clidemia hirta (Koster's curse), Lantana camara (lantana), Leucaena leucocephala (koa haole), Prosopis pallida (kiawe), Toona ciliata (Australian red cedar), Cenchrus ciliaris (buffelgrass), Rubus argutus (prickly Florida blackberry), Passiflora mollissima (banana poka), and Rubus ellipticus (Himalayan raspberry). Many noxious alien plants such as Christmasberry have invaded the dry to mesic lowland regions of the Hawaiian Islands. Introduced to Hawaii before 1911, Christmasberry forms dense thickets that shade out and displace other plants (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). This fast-growing species is found in lowland areas of the major Hawaiian Islands (Smith 1985) and is currently expanding its range. Christmasberry is a major component of the mesic forests of the Waianae and Koolau Mountains of Oahu. For example, over half of the populations of Bonamia menziesii , 2 of the populations of Plantago princeps var. princeps , and all 15 populations of Flueggea neowawraea that occur on Oahu are negatively affected by this invasive plant (HHP 1992b18, 1992b22, 1992b31, 1992d3, 1992d15, 1992d16; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). In addition, one population of Diellia erecta at Halawa Valley on Molokai and one population of Bonamia menziesii on Lanai are also affected (J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). On Maui, Christmasberry is spreading in Iao Valley and on the south slope of East Maui (Haleakala Volcano) and is one of the primary alien plant threats to one or more populations of Bonamia menziesii, Diellia erecta, and Plantago princeps var. laxiflora that exist there (J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). On the island of Hawaii, Christmasberry continues to threaten at least two populations of Diellia erecta and Flueggea neowawraea in the regions of Manuka and Honomalino in the South Kona District (HHP 1992d34; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). Strawberry guava, an invasive shrub or small tree native to tropical America, has become naturalized on all of the main Hawaiian islands. Like Christmasberry, strawberry guava is capable of forming dense stands that exclude other plant species (Cuddihy and Stone 1990) and is dispersed mainly by feral pigs and fruit-eating birds (Smith 1985). This alien plant grows primarily in mesic and wet habitats and provides food for several alien animal species, including feral pigs and game birds, which disperse the plant's seeds through the forest (Smith 1985, Wagner et al. 1985). Strawberry guava is considered one of the greatest alien plant threats to Hawaii's rain forests and is known to pose a direct threat to at least one population of Adenophorus periens and Bonamia menziesii on the island of Kauai (HHP 1992a16; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). Strawberry guava is a major invader of forests in the Waianae and Koolau Mountains of Oahu, where it often forms single-species stands. It poses an immediate threat to 6 populations of Bonamia menziesii , 10 populations of Flueggea neowawraea , and 1 population of Plantago princeps var. princeps on that island (HHP 1992b5, 1992b14, 1992b18, 1992b21; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). On Molokai, the habitat of the Halawa Valley population of Diellia erecta is currently being invaded by strawberry guava (HHP 1992c12). On Maui, strawberry guava is beginning to invade the habitat of one population each of Bonamia menziesii and Plantago princeps var. laxiflora on West Maui and at least one population each of Diellia erecta and Plantago princeps var. laxiflora on East Maui (J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). It is also a major threat to the habitat of Adenophorus periens in Kahaualea NAR on the island of Hawaii (HHP 1992a8). First introduced to the Hawaiian Islands as cattle fodder, molasses grass was later planted for erosion control (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). This alien grass quickly spread to dry and mesic forests previously disturbed by ungulates. Molasses grass produces a dense mat capable of smothering plants (Smith 1985), essentially preventing seedling growth and native plant reproduction (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). Because it burns readily and often grows at the border of forests, molasses grass tends to carry fire into areas with woody native plants (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Smith 1985). It is able to spread prolifically after a fire and effectively compete with less fire-adapted native plant species, ultimately creating a stand of alien grass where forest once stood. Molasses grass is becoming a major threat to seven of the species on four islands. In the Waianae Mountains of Oahu, three populations of Bonamia menziesii and one population of Plantago princeps var. princeps are immediately threatened by this grass. On Molokai, at least one population each of Diellia erecta, Plantago princeps var. laxiflora , and Neraudia sericea and all populations of Vigna o-wahuensis on the island are also negatively affected. Molasses grass is quickly spreading throughout the dry regions of West Maui, threatening two populations of Diellia erecta there. On Hawaii Island, a population of Sesbania tomentosa in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park is located in an area invaded by molasses grass (J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). Like molasses grass, fountain grass has greatly increased fire risk in some regions, especially on the dry slopes of Hualalai, Kilauea, and Mauna Loa volcanoes on the island of Hawaii. The effects of fountain grass invasion are similar to those discussed above for molasses grass. Fountain grass threatens the native vegetation on the leeward slopes of Hualalai in a region where at least one population of Hibiscus brackenridgei ssp. brackenridgei and the only known Hawaii Island populations of Bonamia menziesii and Vigna o-wahuensis exist (HHP 1992m12; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992).
