FR940204-1-00022 FR940204-1-00002 Proposed §630.20(d) would also require the report to contain a description of applicable statutory and regulatory restrictions that affect a bank's ability to incur debt. In addition, any agreements among banks and the Funding Corporation that affect a bank's ability to incur debt and any agreements among System institutions on matters relating to financial assistance or loss sharing must be disclosed pursuant to proposed paragraphs (d) (2) and (3) of this section. Proposed §630.20(e) sets forth the requirement for a description of the System's capital structure. With respect to permanent capital compliance and statutory or regulatory prohibitions for stock retirement or earnings distribution by System institutions, proposed paragraph (e) of this section would require that the report provide the number of institutions, categorized by banks and associations, that do not comply with permanent capital standards or are under prohibitions, as well as a summary of the causes of such noncompliance or prohibitions. The 5-year selected financial data required by proposed §630.20(f) generally track the current System disclosure to investors and are also very similar to the requirements of §620.5(f) of this chapter. However, the list provided under the caption ``selected financial data'' in proposed §630.20(f) excludes ``protected borrower capital'' and related capital ratios. System institutions can no longer issue protected borrower stock. Because the outstanding balance of protected borrower capital is immaterial to the financial position of the System on a Systemwide basis and is being retired at a steady rate, the regulations would not require presentation of ``protected borrower capital'' and related capital ratios as an element of ``selected financial data.'' However, ``protected borrower capital'' must be reported separately from at-risk capital stock in the comparative financial statements or elsewhere in the report. Proposed §630.20(g) would require a discussion and analysis (D&A) on material financial aspects of the System. Generally, the D&A must cover 3 comparative years. Overall, the D&A requirements under proposed §630.20(g) are less extensive than those required by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in its Industry Guide 3 for bank holding companies. To help determine the extent of the D&A needed, proposed §630.20(g)(6) includes general guidance for preparation of the D&A and clarifies that the purpose of the D&A is to provide useful information to investors for making business decisions. Proposed §630.20(g)(1) would require that the D&A include a description of the System loan portfolio by major category, the risk exposure of the loan portfolio, and secondary market activities. It would also require that the amount of loans outstanding that were used to finance the purchases of stock and other equities of System institutions be disclosed. With respect to discussions of results of operations, proposed §630.20(g)(2)(vi) would require that the report explain how changes to Insurance Fund assets and related restricted capital affected reported income. The discussion must describe major components of the changes on a comparative basis. All other requirements regarding results of operations of proposed §630.20(g)(2) are similar to those required by §620.5(g)(2) of this chapter. Proposed §630.20(g)(3) would require a list of outstanding debt securities by type and a discussion of other sources of System funding. Proposed paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section specifies that insured obligations must be reported separately from uninsured obligations and prescribes the minimum reporting requirement for each type of security listed. The D&A must also address a number of liquidity-related matters, such as any FCA regulations or System policies regarding liquidity and liquidity reserves; material changes in liquidity and management thereof; any regulatory limitations or System policies or objectives regarding investments; System investment portfolio; and asset/liability management practices and related measurements of interest rate risk of the System, including the use of derivatives and other off-balance-sheet transactions. The FCA notes the heightened interest of other bank regulators and the Congress in the institutional and systemic risk of the rapidly growing and relatively unregulated market for derivative financial products. It is likely that derivative product transactions by the banking industry and others will receive increased regulatory scrutiny in the future. Accordingly, while proposed §630.20(g)(3)(iv) would require a brief discussion of derivative transactions, the FCA requests specific comment on whether disclosure requirements regarding derivative transactions should be more detailed. Proposed §630.20(g)(4) would require a discussion of capital resources similar to that required under §620.5(g)(4) of this chapter. Proposed §630.20(g)(5) specifies the requirements for disclosure regarding the Insurance Fund. It would require that the report provide: (1) A description of the purposes for which expenditures from the Insurance Fund may be made and the statutory requirements for making such expenditures; (2) a schedule itemizing the amount of Insurance Fund assets that have been specifically identified by the FCSIC for payment of estimated obligations of the FCSIC and the amount of the fund assets for which no specific use has been identified or designated by the FCSIC; and (3) an explanation of how FCSIC expenditures or designations of Insurance Fund assets for payment of future obligations affect the combined assets and capital of the System.
