FR940429-0-00207 FR940429-0-00015 However, the Secretary was persuaded by the commenters who asserted that need for or length of training programs is not directly linked to the ability of institutions to administer the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary believes that this provision is more appropriate as a requirement for participation in the Title IV, HEA programs under an institution's program participation agreement. Changes: This provision has been moved to §668.14(b)(26). Further, the requirements of this provision have been amended to require an institution to demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of the program and occupational entry level requirements established by any Federal agency. Comments: Almost half the commenters supported the proposals for requiring that information on job availability and the relevance of courses to any specific State licensing standards be made available to students. All of these commenters suggested new ideas to clarify and expand the proposed requirements. Most of the other commenters asserted that the proposed requirements did not pertain to the proper administration of the Title IV, HEA programs and noted that accrediting agency and SPRE standards will address these areas. These commenters recommended that these proposed requirements be removed. Discussion: The Secretary continues to believe that providing adequate and accurate information to students and prospective students, so they can make informed decisions, is a function of proper administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. However, this requirement is covered in the section on the Program Participation Agreement, §668.14, and therefore is being removed from the administrative capability standards section. Changes: Proposed paragraph 668.16(l) is removed from these final regulations. Comments: Some commenters stated that the proposed requirement on advertising and recruitment practices was an extremely important one and recommended that it be strengthened by adding reference to oral as well as written statements. The majority of commenters asserted that the proposed requirements did not pertain to the proper administration of the Title IV, HEA programs and noted that accrediting agency and SPRE standards will address these areas. These commenters recommended that these proposed requirements be removed. Discussion: While the Secretary continues to believe that advertising, promotion and recruitment practices that reflect the content and objectives of educational programs accurately is a critical aspect of the proper administration of the Title IV, HEA programs, the Secretary also recognizes that accrediting agencies and SPREs will address these practices and agrees with those commenters that recommended that these proposed requirements not be included in the final regulations. Changes: Proposed paragraph 668.16(m) is removed from these final regulations. Comments: One commenter suggested that there might be a timing problem for an institution that is in the process of responding to an audit report in which liabilities have been identified. The commenter recommended that the Secretary expand the proposed language that would require that an institution have no outstanding liabilities, unless it has made satisfactory arrangements to repay them, to allow for liabilities the institution is currently in the process of making provisions to repay. Another commenter stated that this provision duplicates the financial responsibility requirements proposed in §668.15(b) (3) and (4) and recommended that it be removed from the administrative capability requirements. Discussion: The one commenter apparently believes that liabilities are established at the time an audit report is issued. Contrary to the commenter's perception, institutions are provided with the opportunity to respond to an issued audit report before liabilities are established. However, once the audit report and institutional response have been reviewed and a final program determination letter establishing liabilities has been issued, an institution must either repay the liabilities or make satisfactory arrangements to repay. Responding to audit reports, making any necessary corrections to institutional procedures, and making satisfactory arrangements for the repayment of any liabilities established are all fundamental responsibilities of participating institutions. However, the Secretary agrees that these responsibilities are adequately enumerated in the general standards of financial responsibility in §668.15(b). Changes: Proposed §668.16(o) is removed from these regulations. Comments: The majority of commenters asserted that the proposed requirement that an institution show no evidence of significant problems identified in reviews of the institution was overly broad and imprecise, giving the Secretary unlimited authority to deny certification because of evidence of problems in a wide variety of areas. They recommended that the proposed regulation be rewritten to limit the scope. Many of these commenters were concerned that institutions would be penalized even if there were a problem unrelated to Title IV, HEA programs matters. One example given was that of a university hospital that was found in violation of Medicare reimbursement rules. Some commenters were concerned that the Secretary would deny certification based on an audit finding or other citation that had not yet been reviewed and upheld in a final audit determination or similar action. They urged that only serious findings upheld in final audit or program review determinations or legal proceedings be considered. Many commenters expressed concern that the Secretary would deny certification to an institution on the basis of a SPRE review, even if the SPRE itself thought the institution should still receive student aid. Two commenters argued that the regulation, as proposed, would affect the institutions involved in the Department of Justice investigation of the Overlap Group, though they have signed a consent decree. One commenter recommended that the provision be removed.
