FR940727-0-00162 FR940727-0-00028 (i) A disclosure of the nature of the possible conflict, accompanied by an assurance that there has been public disclosure of the conflict and a description of how the public disclosure was made; and (ii) An opinion of the recipient's attorney that the interest for which the exception is sought would not violate Tribal laws on conflict of interest, or applicable State laws. (2) Factors to be considered for exceptions: In determining whether to grant a requested exception after the recipient has satisfactorily met the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, HUD shall consider the cumulative effect of the following factors, where applicable: (i) Whether the exception would provide a significant cost benefit or essential expert knowledge to the program or project which would otherwise not be available; (ii) Whether an opportunity was provided for open competitive bidding or negotiation; (iii) Whether the affected person has withdrawn from his or her functions or responsibilities, or from the decision-making process, with reference to the specific assisted activity in question; (iv) Whether the interest or benefit was present before the affected person was in a position as described in paragraph (b) of this section; (v) Whether undue hardship will result, either to the recipient or to the person affected, when weighed against the public interest served by avoiding the prohibited conflict; (vi) Any other relevant considerations. (e) Circumstances under which the conflict prohibition does not apply. (1) In instances where a person who might otherwise be deemed to be included under the conflict prohibition is a member of a group or class of beneficiaries of the assisted activity and receives generally the same interest or benefits as are being made available or provided to the group or class, the prohibition does not apply, except that if, by not applying the prohibition against conflict of interest, a violation of Tribal or State laws on conflict of interest would result, the prohibition does apply. However, if the assistance to be provided is housing rehabilitation (or repair) or new housing, a public disclosure of the nature of the assistance to be provided and the specific basis for the selection of the proposed beneficiaries must be made prior to the submission of an application to HUD. Evidence of this disclosure must be provided as a component of the application. (2) All records pertaining to the recipient's decision under this section shall be maintained for HUD review upon request. Subpart H_Program Performance ยง953.700 Reports to be submitted by grantee. Grant recipients shall submit an annual status report of progress made on previously funded open grants at a time determined by the field office. The status report shall be in narrative form addressing three areas: (a) Progress. The progress made in completing approved activities should be described including a listing of work remaining together with a revised implementation schedule, if necessary. (b) Expenditure of funds. A breakdown of funds spent on each major project activity or category should be provided. (c) Grantee assessment. If the project(s) has been completed, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the project in meeting the grantee's community development needs. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control No. 2506&hyph;0043.) ยง953.701 Review of recipient's performance. (a) Objective. HUD will review each recipient's performance to determine whether the recipient has: (1) Complied with the requirements of the Act, this part, and other applicable laws and regulations; (2) Carried out its activities substantially as described in its application; (3) Made substantial progress in carrying out its approved program; (4) A continuing capacity to carry out the approved activities in a timely manner; and
