FR940105-0-00072 FR940105-0-00015 Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. It has been determined that this rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under the terms of Executive Order 12866 and is therefore not subject to OMB review. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification This rule does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq .). Paperwork Reduction Act No additional information and record keeping requirements are imposed by this rule. National Environmental Policy Act Promulgation of this rule does not represent a major Federal action with significant environmental impact. Therefore, preparation of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq .) is not required. Public Comments Pursuant to an agreement between the IRS, the Financial Management Service, and EPA regarding EPA's participation in the Tax Refund Offset Program for 1994, EPA is required to have promulgated regulations regarding referral of debts to IRS for tax refund offset prior to EPA's participation in the program. EPA is issuing interim final regulations to take effect today in order to fulfill that requirement. Although EPA will respond to written comments on today's notice, EPA is not holding a hearing, providing an opportunity for prior comments, or delaying the effective date because this regulation is mostly procedural and because there are no significant issues of law or fact or relevant substantial impacts on the Nation or large numbers of persons of which EPA could take account consistent with law. Moreover, issuance of immediately effective interim final regulations does not prejudice the due process rights of debtors and is essential in order for EPA to participate in the 1994 program. Written comments are solicited for 60 days after publication of this document in the Federal Register . A final document discussing any comments received and revisions required will be published in the Federal Register as soon as possible after the close of the comment period. Other Matters These procedures are being codified in the Agency's regulations pursuant to statutory requirements regarding publication of rules of procedure in the Federal Register , 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1)(C). However, the procedures described in the rule will be utilized before it becomes effective with respect to persons who are provided actual notice of the procedures through the notices required under the procedures. See 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 13 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Claims, Government employees, Income taxes, Wages. Dated: December 28, 1993. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. In consideration of the foregoing, the Environmental Protection Agency hereby amends part 13 of title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations as set forth below. PART 13_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 13 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a, 5512, and 5514; 31 U.S.C. 3711 et seq . and 3720A; 4 CFR parts 101&hyph;10.
