FR940930-1-00071 FR940930-1-00020 (4) The credit has not been previously remitted to the Government by any source. (b) Reclamation by non-Government Originators. The Government will not accept or be liable for reclamation entries received from non-Government Originators. ยง210.9 Knowledge of death or legal incapacity of Receiver or death of beneficiary. (a) Knowledge of death or legal incapacity by an RDFI. When an RDFI first learns of the death or incapacity of a customer who is a Receiver of Government ACH benefit payments or the death of a customer who is a beneficiary, it shall take the actions required under this part. Knowledge of the death or incapacity may occur by, but is not limited to, any communication with an executor of the deceased Receiver's or beneficiary's estate, family member, or other third party; or any form of notification from the Government. RDFIs are not obligated to undertake extraordinary efforts that fall outside normal business practices to learn of a death or legal incapacity. Extraordinary measures include, but are not limited to, reviewing newspaper obituary notices. (b) Actions required when RDFIs are notified of a death or legal incapacity. When notified of the death or legal incapacity of a Receiver, or the death of a beneficiary, a RDFI shall either return or refuse any ACH entries subsequently received from Government Originators. If an RDFI returns either full or partial payments by check, the Service may assess an administrative fee to cover the expense of processing. Failure to return credits in accordance with these rules shall result in forfeiture of the RDFI's right to limit its liability under the provisions of this part. (c) Recovery involving multiple credits that are subject to reclamation. If the Government erroneously originates a number of credits after the death or legal incapacity of a Receiver or the death of a beneficiary, the sequence of effective recovery of credits does not affect the RDFI's liability. ยง210.10 Liabilities/limitations. (a) Rules pertaining to type of account. There is no exemption from liability for recovery of payments issued erroneously after the Receiver's death or legal incapacity or the beneficiary's death based on the type of account to which the Government credits are made. (b) RDFI liability and right to limit liability. An RDFI shall be liable to the Government for the total amount of each credit received after the death or legal incapacity of the Receiver or the death of the beneficiary, except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. An RDFI may limit its liability if: (1) The RDFI did not have knowledge of the death or legal incapacity on the effective settlement date of the entry in question, or at the time of withdrawal of credits made after the death or legal incapacity; and (2) The RDFI fulfills the requirements of this subpart and any relevant procedures published by the Service. (c) Determination of the amount of an RDFI's liability. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, if limitation of liability is available to an RDFI, the amount of its liability for erroneous Government credits received shall be as follows: (1) The RDFI is liable for the amount of any Federal Government entries settled within 45 days of the Receiver's death or legal incapacity, or the beneficiary's death, minus any amount recovered by the Government Originator;
