FR940805-0-00024 FR940805-0-00009 DEPARTMENT OF STATE Bureau of Consular Affairs 22 CFR Part 42 [Public Notice 2045] Visas: Documentation of Immigrants Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, As Amended AGENCY: Bureau of Consular Affairs, State. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule amends immigrant visa regulations to make clear that the Department has the authority to determine where an alien's immigrant visa application shall be processed and to revise the text thereof for clarity and consistency of usage. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Cornelius D. Scully, III, Director, Office of Legislation, Regulations, and Advisory Assistance, Visa Office, (202) 663&hyph;1184. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On April 28, 1994, the Department published a proposed rule (59 FR 21948) to amend 22 CFR 42.61(a) to make explicit that the Department has the authority to make exceptions, for policy or operational reasons, to the general rules concerning where an application for an immigrant visa shall be made. The period for comment on the proposal ended on May 31, 1994. The Department received one comment during the period. The commenter opposed promulgation of the proposed revision on several bases, one of which appears to derive from a misreading of the legislative history of the 1952 Act. Accordingly, it appears that a bit of the history of this provision may be appropriate. The Immigration Act of 1924 did not contain a specific provision regarding place of application for an immigration visa. Instead, it simply authorized the Secretary of State to make regulations regarding the ``form'' in which such applications were to be made. For many years the Department's instructions on the subject of place of application were included in Visa Supplement A, which contained a series of Notes for the guidance of consular officers in processing visa applications. As of November 1, 1940, Note 87 read as follows: ``Aliens will ordinarily make their applications for immigration visas to the consul in whose district they reside. ``The applications of nonquota immigrants may be accepted outside their home districts provided they present satisfactory evidence to the consul of their nonquota status under section 4 of the Act and of their admissibility to the United States under the immigration laws. If such satisfactory evidence is not produced the consul to whom the alien applies may request the assistance of the consul in the alien's home district in investigating the case or refer the applicant to that consul. ``The application of quota immigrants may be accepted outside their home districts provided_ ``(1) A quota number is available or can be obtained for the issuance of the visa. ``(2) The consul is satisfied that in issuing the visa the alien will not be accorded undue priority over other applicants awaiting their turns in the alien's home district. ``(3) The alien presents satisfactory evidence to the consul of his admissibility into the United States under the immigration laws. If such satisfactory evidence is not produced the consul may request the assistance of the consul in the alien's home district in investigating the case, or refer the applicant to that consul.'' In 1946 the Department promulgated formal regulations governing the visa process. After a redesignation of the regulations in 1948, the regulation concerning place of immigrant visa application read as follows: ``42.317 Where immigration visa application may be made. (a) An application for an immigration visa may be made at any American consular office, or other office specifically designated, which has been authorized to issue immigration visas. No consular agency may issue immigration visas. ``(b) An alien ordinarily should make his application for an immigration visa at the American consular office in his foreign home district. An alien who deliberately leaves his foreign home district for the purpose of making an application for an immigration visa elsewhere will be referred back to the American consular office in his home district. However, an alien may apply for an immigration visa at a consular office outside his foreign home district if the consular officer to whom he applies is satisfied: ``(1) That the alien has a bona-fide reason for applying outside of his foreign home district; ``(2) Of the alien's true identity; ``(3) That the alien has no adverse record in his foreign home district which would preclude the issuance of an immigration visa to him; and ``(4) That the alien is in possession of all the `available' documents which can be obtained from his home district.
