FR940930-2-00156 FR940930-2-00051 Macfarlane Ausley Ferguson & McMullen Attorneys and Counselors At Law September 21, 1994 in reply refer to: Clearwater ALSO SENT VIA FAX 1&hyph;202&hyph;514&hyph;1517 Anthony E. Harris, Esq. Trial Counsel U.S. Department of Justice Antitrust Division 555&hyph;4th Street, N.W., Room 9901 Washington, DC 20001 Re: USA v. Morton Plant and Mease Dear Tony: It is my understanding that you requested written assurances in reference to one of the comments received in relation to the Consent Decree. In that regard, please accept this correspondence as my clients' written assurance that they do not intend to violate the tax laws in relation to implementation of this Consent Decree, nor do they intend to claim any exemption to which they are not entitled, nor did they intend, nor do they interpret the Consent Decree to give them any additional exemptions not provided for in the tax codes, federal or state. This matter has been reviewed by appropriate tax counsel who are advising the entities accordingly. If you have additional questions, please do not hesitate to call. Sincerely, James A. Martin, Jr. JAM:knk cc: Mr. Frank V. Murphy Mr. Phil Beauchamp John P. Frazer, Esq. Emil C. Marquardt, Jr., Esq. Steve Kiess, Esq. H:/DATA/ATY/JAM/MPH/MEASE/HARRIS LTR Law Offices Ann Elaine Castro P.A. September 12, 1994 Ms. Gail Kursh Chief, Professions and Intellectual Property Section U.S. Department of Justice Antitrust Division 555 4th Street, N.W. Room 9903 Washington D.C. 20001 In Re: United States and State of Florida v. Morton Plant Health System, Inc. and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc. No. 94&hyph;748&hyph;CIV&hyph;T&hyph;23E (M.D., Fla., Filed May 5, 1994) On behalf of my client, a nursing contractor doing business in Pinellas County Florida, this public comment is being submitted as there is considerable concern that the combination of Morton Plant and Mease may substantially lessen competition in the provision of health care services in North Pinellas County in violation of Section 7 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 18. Specifically, the gravamen of my client's concern lies in the suspicion that should the merger go forward, staff relief nurses and other health care professionals will be injured. At 59 Fed. Reg. 357555 (July 13, 1994), Part VI (B) Independent Activities, the Final Consent Judgment reads as follows: Morton Plant and Mease shall each price and sell its services, both those owned and operated and operated separately and those purchased from the Partnership, in active competition with each other. Morton Plant and Mease shall each exercise its own independent judgment on how to market and price its patient care services and shall not discuss, communicate, or exchange with each other or any other hospital information relating to the marketing, pricing, negotiating, or contracting of any patient care services, including those purchased from the Partnership. On information and belief Morton Plant has participated in predatory pricing. Morton Plant together with nineteen of twenty-three major hospitals in the Tampa Bay area previously engaged in activities which set forth a federal anti-trust investigation. This investigation was conducted in 1988&hyph;9 to look into alleged abuses by the hospitals. An organization by the name of SASSA alleged that the nineteen hospitals were acting in concert to attempt to eliminate competition in the staff relief nurse industry throughout the Tampa Bay area, and to drive prices below community standards for the relief nurses. Although the federal investigation of the anti-trust activities ended when the hospitals dropped their plan, the hospitals have continued to act in concert to try to eliminate competition in the staff relief nurse industry and to drive prices below community standards for the relief nurses. A new alliance was formed after the 1988&hyph;9 investigation called the Bay Area Hospital Council. (BAHC). BAHC has actively recruited foreign nurses to supply area hospitals with cheaper temporary nurses, and this collective activity has further damaged the nursing contractor that this firm represents, as the foreign relief nurses have been working for wages well below community standards for temporary nurses. Although Morton Plant has engaged in utilizing relief nurses on H&hyph;1A nurses, Mease has not. The nursing contractor this firm represents has been doing business with Mease, but had been doing no business at all with Morton Plant, until the contractor would agree to do business with Morton Plant at rates below community standards for relief workers. This demand for cheaper rates commanded by Morton Plant has still not translated into significant return of business to the contractor who had historically provided Morton Plant with a large portion of its staff relief nurses. Should the merger go forward, there will certainly be an adverse affect on staff relief nurses desiring to work in north Pinellas County, in that their ability to work at Mease Hospital will be uncertain, should Mease be influenced by the practices that Morton Plant has adopted. Further information has been supplied to Jerome Hoffman of the Florida Attorney General's Office in Tallahassee, Florida. Sincerely, Ann Elaine Castro P.A.
