FR941005-2-00028 FR941005-2-00021 IV. Effective Date This Acquisition Letter is effective upon the date of issue shown above. V. Expiration Date The Department is seeking public comment on these policies. The Acquisition Letter will remain in effect on an interim basis until the Department takes further action after reviewing any public comments on these policies. Award, Renewal and Extension of Management and Operating Contracts I. Policy (a) It is the policy of the Department of Energy to use full and open competition in the award of performance-based management contracts, except in exceptional circumstances where it is determined that the use of competitive procedures is incompatible with the effective and efficient discharge of Departmental programs or is otherwise incompatible with the paramount interest of the United States, and the Head of the Agency authorizes the use of noncompetitive procedures to extend the term of an existing contract. Such authorizations shall be supported by a written justification which shall be certified by the Head of the Contracting Activity and the cognizant Assistant Secretary(s). (b) Performance-based management contracts shall normally be competed at inception and upon expiration of their contract term as set forth below. II. Contract Term and Options to Extend (a) Effective work performance under performance-based management contracts is facilitated by the use of relatively long contract terms of up to 10 years. Accordingly, competitively awarded performance-based management contracts shall provide for a basic contract term not to exceed 5 years and may include an option to extend the term for a period not to exceed 5 years. (b) Contracts awarded prior to the effective date of this Acquisition Letter using competitive procedures may be modified to incorporate an option to extend the term of the contract for a period not to exceed 5 years where: (1) the total period of performance, including the continuation, will not exceed 10 years; (2) the contractor's past performance under the contract has been determined to be of high quality; and (3) the contractor has also agreed to a contract modification necessary to implement other performance-based management contract provisions. (c) Exercise of Options. As part of the review required by FAR 17.605(b), the contracting officer shall assess whether competing the contract will produce a more advantageous offer than the option. The incumbent contractor's past performance under the contract, the extent to which performance-based management contract provisions are present, or can be negotiated into, the contract, and the impact of a change in a contractor on the Department's discharge of its programs are considerations that shall be addressed in the contracting officer's decision that the exercise of the option is in the Government's best interest. The contracting officer's decision shall be approved by the Head of the Contracting Activity and the cognizant Assistant Secretary(s). In instances where a contract has been modified, pursuant to paragraph (b) above, to incorporate an option to extend, a justification for other than full and open competition shall be prepared and approved in accordance with FAR Part 6 and DOE Order 4200.1C prior to the exercise of the option. III. Procedures for Noncompetitive Extension Exceptional circumstances, as defined in I.(a) above, may exist that warrant the noncompetitive extension of a performance-based management contract beyond the basic and option periods. In such cases, a performance-based management contract may be extended for an additional period not to exceed 5 years when authorized by the Head of the Agency. Requests for extension shall be subject to the following procedures:
