FR940706-2-00131 FR940706-2-00078 OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET Office of Federal Procurement Policy Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Rewrite AGENCY: Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget. ACTION: Notice of public meeting and request for public comments. SUMMARY: In response to the report of the National Performance Review (NPR) recommendation to convert the FAR from rigid rules to guiding principles, the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy has established a Board of Directors (hereinafter the Board), comprised of senior level individuals from the Executive Branch, to develop a plan for the FAR rewrite. This notice solicits public comment on two approaches for the rewrite, including drafting principles, the Board is considering. Both approaches delineate mandatory and nonmandatory provisions. The first approach would provide for (1) a FAR that is limited to mandatory governmentwide regulations, and (2) an acquisition manual that would reprint the FAR and also include nonmandatory governmentwide policies, procedures, etc. In addition, agency supplements, including both mandatory and nonmandatory provisions, would be authorized to implement agency-unique statutes, policies, etc. The second approach would consist of (1) the FAR which would include all mandatory Governmentwide provisions, and (2) separate acquisition manuals developed by an agency or a group of agencies. The manuals would include mandatory provisions necessary to implement statutes unique to the agency or group of agencies, a minimal number of mandatory policies and procedures not required by statute, and nonmandatory guidance. Both approaches would result in a FAR containing only mandatory provisions. However, the first approach would promulgate governmentwide nonregulation guidance, while the second approach would permit an agency to promulgate in agency manuals whatever nonregulation guidance the agency deems appropriate. Additionally, the first approach would retain agency FAR supplements, while the second approach would replace agency supplements with agency acquisition manuals. The Board has prepared a model rewrite of FAR Part 9 to illustrate the first approach. It is drafted as a governmentwide manual containing both the new FAR (which will also be codified in the Code of Federal Regulations); and policies, procedures, provisions, forms, and clauses that do not constitute regulations. An actual FAR rewrite would likely include a wider variety of options and illustrations than appear in the nonregulation component of the model. This notice solicits comments only on the proposed approach for the FAR rewrite, and not on the content of the model rewrite of Part 9. The Board intends to provide for a mutual exchange of ideas and information with affected parties both in the government and the private sector by publishing this notice, soliciting public comments, and holding a public meeting. DATES: Written comments must be received in the Office of Federal Procurement Policy on or before August 5, 1994. A public meeting will be held at 9:30 on August 17, 1994. Persons or organizations wishing to present ideas or suggestions will be allowed five minutes each to present their views, provided they notify Ms. Rebecca Hardy at 202&hyph;395&hyph;3501 by August 10, 1994. Persons or organizations with similar positions are encouraged to select a common spokesperson for presentation of their views. ADDRESSES: Written comments and statements for presentation should be submitted to Susan E. Alesi, Special Assistant for Regulations, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, 725 17th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20503.
