FR940620-0-00163 FR940620-0-00029 Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the publication of a rule requires the preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis if such rule could have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. These guidelines will have such an impact. Section 605(A) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act permits an agency to satisfy the flexibility analysis requirement by addressing the impacts of the rule on small entities in the agency's RA. The Board has chosen to exercise that option and has addressed the impact of the guidelines on small entities as part of the RA. The economic impacts imposed upon the small entities subject to the guidelines are the necessary result of the ADA statute itself. Every effort has been made by the Board to lessen the economic impact of this rule on small entities, but little discretion was reserved to the Board in this area. Federalism Statement These guidelines will have some Federalism impacts. The impacts imposed upon State and local government entities are the necessary result of the ADA statute itself. Every effort has been made by the Board to lessen the impact of these guidelines on State and local government entities, but little discretion was reserved to the Board in this area. The RA discusses the impact of these guidelines on public entities. This discussion serves the purposes of a Federalism Statement under Executive Order 12612 for purposes of this rule. Enhancing the Intergovernmental Partnership As discussed in the supplementary information above, on December 21, 1992, the Board published an NPRM in the Federal Register which proposed to amend the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines (36 CFR part 1191) by adding four special application sections and miscellaneous provisions specifically applicable to buildings and facilities covered by title II of the ADA. Executive Order 12875, Enhancing the Intergovernmental Partnership, encourages Federal agencies to consult with State and local governments affected by the implementation of legislation. It has been determined that these guidelines will have an economic impact on such entities. Accordingly, following the issuance of the NPRM, the Board held five public hearings in major cities across the country. Notices of the hearings and invitations to attend were sent to major state and local government entities in those areas. In addition, copies of the NPRM were mailed directly to major associations of state and local governmental entities across the country and various responsible agencies in individual states. In response to the NPRM and the public hearings, a total of 148 people presented testimony on the proposed guidelines, 447 written comments were submitted to the Board by the end of the comment period, and an additional 127 comments were received after the close of the comment period. Although the latter comments were not timely, the Board considered them to the extent practicable. Two hundred and five of the comments and testimony received were from affected State and local governments. Those comments were carefully analyzed and the major issues are discussed in the Section by Section Analysis, which also indicates the Board's position on each issue. Additionally, cost concerns raised by those entities are further addressed in the Regulatory Assessment. A copy of the NPRMs published by the Departments of Justice and Transportation, as well as the Access Board's Interim Final Rule and the Regulatory Assessment prepared in connection with the rule will be forwarded to major State and local government associations and agencies for their review and comment. Additional copies of the Regulatory Assessment are available on request. List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 1191 Buildings and facilities, Civil rights, Individuals with disabilities. Authorized by vote of the Board on November 10, 1993. Judith E. Heumann, Chairperson, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board. Editorial note: This document was received at the Office of the Federal Register on June 8, 1994. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, Part 1191 of title 36 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 1191_AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES 1. The authority citation for 36 CFR Part 1191 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12204.
