FR941012-2-00187 FR941012-2-00117 G. Statewide Operating Assistance Limitations 49 U.S.C. 5307(a)(2) (formerly section 9(m)(1) of the FT Act) specifies that in any case in which a statewide agency or instrumentality is responsible under State laws for the financing, construction and operation, directly, by lease, contract or otherwise, of public transportation services, and when such statewide agency or instrumentality is the designated recipient of FTA funds, and when the statewide agency or instrumentality provides service among two or more urbanized areas, the statewide agency or instrumentality shall be allowed to apply for operating assistance up to the combined total permissible amount of all urbanized areas in which it provides service, regardless of whether the amount for any particular urbanized area is exceeded. H. Designated Transportation Management Areas All urbanized areas over 200,000 in population have been designated as transportation management areas (TMAs), in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5305 (formerly section 8(i)(1) of the FT Act). These designations were formally made in a Federal Register Notice dated May 18, 1992 (57 FR 21160), signed by the Federal Highway Administrator and the Federal Transit Administrator. Additional areas may be designated as TMAs upon the request of the Governor and the MPO designated for such area or the affected local officials. As of October 1, 1994, two additional TMAs have been formally designated: Petersburg, Virginia, comprised solely of the Petersburg, Virginia, urbanized area; and Santa Barbara, Santa Maria, and Lompoc, California, which were designated as one TMA. Guidance for setting the boundaries of TMAs is contained in the joint transportation planning regulations published in the Federal Register on October 28, 1993 (58 FR 58040). In some cases, the TMA boundaries which have been established by the MPO for the designated TMA also include one or more urbanized areas under 200,000 in population. Where this situation exists, the discretion of the Governor to allocate urbanized area formula program ``Governor's Apportionment'' funds for urbanized areas under 200,000 in population is restricted. 49 U.S.C. 5307(a)(2) was modified by the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA) to require that a recipient(s) be designated to dispense the Urbanized Area Formula funds attributable to TMAs. Those areas that do not already have a designated recipient must name one and notify the appropriate FTA regional office of the designation. This would include those urbanized areas under 200,000 in population that may receive TMA designation independently, or those under 200,000 in population which are currently included within the boundaries of a larger designated TMA. In both cases, the Governor would only have discretion to allocate Governor's Apportionment funds attributable to areas which are outside of designated TMA boundaries. In order for the FTA and Governors to know which urbanized areas under 200,000 in population are included within the boundaries of an existing TMA, and so that they can be identified in future Federal Register notices, each MPO whose TMA planning boundaries include these smaller urbanized areas is asked to identify such areas to the FTA. This notification should be made in writing to the Associate Administrator for Grants Management, Federal Transit Administration, 400 7th Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590, no later than July 1 of each fiscal year. In fiscal year 1994, MPOs notified FTA that the following urbanized areas under 200,000 in population are included within the planning boundary of a designated TMA: ␣ 1Designated TMA 1Small urbanized area included in TWA boundaries Baltimore, Maryland Annapolis, Maryland. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Pottstown, Pennsylvania. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Monessen, Pennsylvania, Steubenville-Weirton, OH&hyph;WV&hyph;PA (PA portion). Seattle, Washington Bremerton, Washington. Washington, DC&hyph;MD&hyph;VA Frederick, Maryland (MD portion). I. Urbanized Area Formula Funds Used for Highway Purposes Urbanized Area Formula funds apportioned to a TMA which cannot be used for the payment of operating expenses (i.e., capital funds) are also available for highway projects if the following three conditions are met: (1) Such use must be approved by the MPO after appropriate notice and opportunity for comment and appeal are provided to affected transit providers; (2) in the determination of the Secretary, such funds are not needed for investments required by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and (3) funds may be available for highway projects under title 23, U.S.C., only if funds used for the State or local share of such highway projects are eligible to fund either highway or transit projects. Urbanized Area Formula funds which are designated for highway projects will be transferred to and administered by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). The MPO should notify FTA of their intent to program FTA funds for highway purposes. V. Nonurbanized Area Formula Program (Formerly Section 18) and Rural Transit Assistance (RTAP) Program A. Nonurbanized Area Formula Program The fiscal year 1995 Nonurbanized Area Formula apportionments total $132,752,946. The State apportionments are displayed on Table 3. A total of $132,926,631 is appropriated for the Nonurbanized Area Formula Program. After the one-half percent set-aside ($664,633), the fiscal year 1995 apportionment also includes $490,948 in prior year deobligated funds which have become available for reapportionment under this program. These funds provide capital, operating and administrative assistance for areas less than 50,000 in population. Each State must spend no less than 15 percent of its fiscal year 1995 Nonurbanized Area Formula apportionment for the development and support of intercity bus transportation, unless the Governor certifies to the Secretary that the intercity bus service needs of the State are being adequately met. Fiscal year 1995 Nonurbanized Area Formula grant applications must reflect this level of programming for intercity bus or include a certification from the Governor. The population figures used in calculating these apportionments are from the 1990 Census.
