FR940926-1-00034 FR940926-1-00011 R&hyph;403B, which consists of HCFC&hyph;22, R&hyph;218, and propane, is proposed unacceptable as a substitute for R&hyph;502 in the following new and retrofitted end-uses: •industrial process refrigeration; •cold storage warehouses; •refrigerated transport; •retail food refrigeration; •commercial ice machines; and •household freezers. R&hyph;218, perfluoropropane, has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Although this substitute may offer energy efficiency gains, its lifetime and direct GWP pose additional risk beyond that of other substitutes for these end-uses. In particular, the lifetime of R&hyph;218 is over 2000 years, which means that global warming and other effects would be essentially irreversible. EPA believes that while other substitutes may have high GWPs, they do not exhibit such long lifetimes. (2) R&hyph;405A R&hyph;405A, which is composed of HCFC&hyph;22, HFC&hyph;152a, HCFC&hyph;142b, and R&hyph;c318, is proposed unacceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;12, R&hyph;500, and R&hyph;502 in the following new and retrofitted end-uses: •commercial comfort air conditioning; •industrial process refrigeration; •ice skating rinks; •cold storage warehouses; •refrigerated transport; •retail food refrigeration; •vending machines; •water coolers; •commercial ice machines; •household refrigerators; •household freezers; •residential dehumidifiers; and •motor vehicle air conditioning. R&hyph;405A was listed as HCFC/HFC/fluoroalkane Blend A in previous notices. R&hyph;405A contains a high proportion of R&hyph;c318, cycloperfluorobutane, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Although this substitute may offer energy efficiency gains, its lifetime and direct GWP pose additional risk beyond that of other substitutes for these end-uses. In particular, the lifetime of R&hyph;c318 is over 3000 years, which means that global warming and other effects would be essentially irreversible. EPA believes that while other substitutes may have high GWPs, they do not exhibit such long lifetimes. (3) Hydrocarbon Blend B Hydrocarbon Blend B is proposed unacceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;12 in the following new and retrofitted end-uses: •commercial comfort air conditioning; •ice skating rinks; •cold storage warehouses; •refrigerated transport; •retail food refrigeration; •vending machines; •water coolers; •commercial ice machines; •household refrigerators; •household freezers; •residential dehumidifiers; and •motor vehicle air conditioning. Flammability is the primary concern. EPA believes the use of this substitute in very leaky uses like motor vehicle air conditioning may pose a high risk of fire. EPA requires a risk assessment be conducted to demonstrate this blend may be safely used in any CFC&hyph;12 end-uses. The manufacturer of this blend has not submitted such a risk assessment, and EPA therefore finds it unacceptable. (4) Flammable Substitutes Flammable substitutes, defined as having flammability limits as measured according to ASTM E&hyph;681 with modifications included in Society of Automotive Engineers Recommended Practice J1657, including blends which become flammable during fractionation, are proposed unacceptable as substitutes for CFC&hyph;12 in retrofitted motor vehicle air conditioning systems. Flammable refrigerants differ from traditional substances in several ways: potential gains in energy efficiency, reductions in direct contribution to global warming, and additional risks from fire. Flammable refrigerants may be good substitutes in systems designed with fire risks in mind. In addition, in certain circumstances, they may serve well as substitutes in retrofit uses. EPA encourages research efforts into the use of flammable refrigerants, but remains concerned about the dangers. Because of these concerns, EPA has established the requirement that manufacturers of flammable refrigerants conduct detailed risk assessments in all end-uses. The risks from flammability are extremely sensitive to the size of charge and end-use.
