FR940128-2-00130 FR940128-2-00087 A. Services for Youth in Rural Areas Because of geographic distances, low population density and, in some cases, cultural differences, it is difficult to provide effective services to runaway and homeless youth in rural areas. In many such areas, scarcity of funds and other resources precludes the funding of separate, autonomous Basic Center programs. There is a need for innovative and effective models for the provision of runaway and homeless youth services in rural areas, including Indian reservations. These models would make services accessible to youth without setting up inordinately expensive service agencies in low populated areas. In FY 1993, first-year funding was awarded to eight grantees to develop such models. These grants are expected to produce written descriptions of the proposed service models, identify issues related to model implementation, and generate information on youth and program outcomes. The models will also incorporate formal collaboration with other major youth-serving agencies in the areas served. It is anticipated that continuation funding of these eight grants will be provided in FY 1994. B. Analysis, Synthesis, and Interpretation of Information Concerning Runaway and Homeless Youth Programs Over the past few years, systems for the accumulation of new knowledge have been developed regarding the delivery of services to runaway and homeless youth and their families through programs administered by FYSB. These systems currently provide, or during FY 1994 will provide, new data of considerable interest. The four main sources of this new information are: 1. The Management Information System (MIS) The information now being collected by the MIS includes descriptions of FYSB's grantee agencies and detailed data on the youth and families served, including demographic profiles, presenting problems, services provided, and service outcomes. 2. The Monitoring System Data now being collected through the monitoring system will identify program strengths and weaknesses in such areas as outreach and intake; provision of appropriate shelter, food, clothing, and counseling; making of referrals, as needed, for health care, employment, and educational services; family reunification and aftercare; and program administration. 3. Evaluation Studies of FYSB Programs Current studies nearing completion include: •``Evaluation of Runaway and Homeless Youth Programs_A Follow-Up Study'' (FY 1991&hyph;present); •``Incidence and Prevalence of Drug Abuse Among Runaway and Homeless Youth'' (FY 1990&hyph;present); •``Evaluation of the Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth'' (FY 1991&hyph;present); •``Study of the Underlying Causes of Youth Homelessness'' (1989&hyph;present); and •``National Evaluation of Home-Based Services Programs'' (FY 1992&hyph;present). 4. Research and Demonstration (R&D) Studies Supported by FYSB Priority areas in which FYSB has recently sponsored Research and Demonstration Studies include:
