FR940228-2-00132 FR940228-2-00082 (c) The prevailing rate of pay for persons employed in similar public occupations by the same employer. (5) Treatment of Income. (a) 1937 Act. As provided in section 22(i) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (1937 Act), no service provided to a HA resident under this program may be treated as income for the purpose of any other program or provision of State, Tribal, or Federal law. Program participation shall begin on the first day the resident enters training or begins to receive services. Furthermore, the earnings of and benefits to any HA resident resulting from participation in the FIC program shall not be considered as income in computing the tenant's total annual income that is used to determine the tenant rental payment during: (i) The period that the resident participates in the program; and (ii) The period that begins with the commencement of employment of the resident in the first job acquired by the resident after completion of the program that is not funded by assistance under the 1937 Act, and ends on the earlier of: ( A ) The date the resident ceases to continue employment without good cause; or ( B ) The expiration of the 18-month period beginning on the date of commencement of employment in the first job not funded by assistance under this program. (b) NAHA. In addition, as provided in section 957 of NAHA, the rent charged to a family whose monthly adjusted income increases as a result of the employment of a member of the family who was previously unemployed may not be increased as a result of the increased monthly adjusted income due to such employment by more than 10 percent in each 12-month period during the 36-month period beginning upon such employment. (6) Reports. Each HA receiving a grant shall submit to HUD an annual progress report, participant evaluation and assessment data and other information, as needed, regarding the effectiveness of FIC in achieving self-sufficiency. G. Ranking Factors Each application for grant award will be evaluated if it is submitted as required under Section II.B of this NOFA and meets the eligibility requirements in Section I.E of this NOFA. Applications submitted for funds that include renovation, conversion, or combination of dwelling unit activities will be competitively selected based on the highest scores out of a possible 135 points. Applications submitted for funds solely to implement supportive services will be competitively selected based on the highest scores out of a possible 140 points. Initially, HUD will distribute funds geographically in order to seek diversity through an appropriate mix of public and Indian housing authorities. Grants will be awarded to the two highest ranked eligible applicants in each funding category per HUD region. In addition, grants will be awarded to the two highest ranked eligible IHA applications in each funding category on a nationwide basis. All of the remaining applications will then be placed in overall nationwide ranking order, with the remaining funds granted in order of rank until all funds are awarded. HUD will review and evaluate the application as follows, according to whether the application seeks funds for supportive services only or for other activities. (1) Conversion/Renovation/Supportive Services Activities (Maximum 135 points). Applications for funds for these activities will be scored on the following factors: (a) Evidence of the need for supportive services by eligible residents [10 points];
