FR940204-1-00025 FR940204-1-00002 (d) Farm Credit System means, collectively, the banks, associations, and such other institutions that are or may be made a part of the System under the Act, all of which are chartered by and subject to regulation by the Farm Credit Administration (FCA). For purposes of this part, the System does not include the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (Farmer Mac). (e) FCS debt obligation means, collectively, notes, bonds, debentures, and other debt securities issued by banks pursuant to section 4.2(c) (consolidated bank debt securities) and section 4.2(d) (Systemwide debt securities) of the Act. (f) Material, when used to qualify a requirement to furnish information as to any subject, limits the information required to those matters to which there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable person would attach importance in determining the financial condition of an entity. (g) Systemwide combined financial statements means the combined financial statements required by this part that are prepared to provide investors and potential investors in FCS debt obligations with the most meaningful presentation pertaining to the financial condition and results of operations of the System. ยง630.3 Publishing and filing the report to investors. For purposes of this subpart, unless otherwise specified, the term report to investors or report refers, collectively, to the annual and quarterly reports to investors required by this part. (a) The disclosure entities shall jointly publish the following reports in order to provide meaningful information pertaining to the financial condition and results of operations of the System to investors and potential investors in FCS debt obligations and other users of the report: (1) An annual report to investors within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year. (2) A quarterly report to investors within 60 days after the end of each quarter, except for the quarter that coincides with the end of the fiscal year. (b) Each report to investors shall present the Systemwide combined financial statements and related footnotes deemed appropriate for the purpose of the report to provide investors with the most meaningful presentation pertaining to the financial condition and results of operations of the System. (c) All items of essentially the same character as items required to be reported in the reports of condition and performance pursuant to part 621 of this chapter shall be prepared in accordance with the rules set forth in part 621 of this chapter. (d) Each report to investors shall contain the information required by subparts B and C of this part, as applicable, and such other information as is necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.
