FR940216-0-00236 FR940216-0-00010 (b) RVP averaging reports. (1) Any refiner or importer that produced or imported any reformulated gasoline or RBOB under the simple model that was to meet RVP standards on average (``averaged reformulated gasoline'') shall submit to the Administrator, with the third quarterly report, a report for each refinery or importer for such averaged reformulated gasoline or RBOB produced or imported during the previous RVP averaging period. This information shall be reported separately for the following categories: (i) Gasoline or RBOB which is designated as VOC-controlled intended for areas in VOC-Control Region 1; and (ii) Gasoline or RBOB which is designated as VOC-controlled intended for VOC-Control Region 2. (2) The following information shall be reported: (i) The total volume of averaged reformulated gasoline or RBOB in gallons; (ii) The compliance total value for RVP; and (iii) The actual total value for RVP. (c) VOC emissions performance averaging reports. (1) Any refiner or importer that produced or imported any reformulated gasoline or RBOB under the complex model that was to meet the VOC emissions performance standards on average (``averaged reformulated gasoline'') shall submit to the Administrator, with the third quarterly report, a report for each refinery or importer for such averaged reformulated gasoline produced or imported during the previous VOC averaging period. This information shall be reported separately for the following categories: (i) Gasoline or RBOB which is designated as VOC-controlled intended for areas in VOC-Control Region 1; and (ii) Gasoline or RBOB which is designated as VOC-controlled intended for VOC-Control Region 2. (2) The following information shall be reported: (i) The total volume of averaged reformulated gasoline or RBOB in gallons; (ii) The compliance total value for VOC emissions performance; and (iii) The actual total value for VOC emissions performance. (d) Benzene content averaging reports. (1) Any refiner or importer that produced or imported any reformulated gasoline or RBOB that was to meet the benzene content standards on average (``averaged reformulated gasoline'') shall submit to the Administrator, with the fourth quarterly report, a report for each refinery or importer for such averaged reformulated gasoline that was produced or imported during the previous toxics averaging period. (2) The following information shall be reported: (i) The volume of averaged reformulated gasoline or RBOB in gallons; (ii) The compliance total content of benzene; (iii) The actual total content of benzene; (iv) The number of benzene credits generated as a result of actual total benzene being less than compliance total benzene; (v) The number of benzene credits required as a result of actual total benzene being greater than compliance total benzene; (vi) The number of benzene credits transferred to another refinery or importer; and (vii) The number of benzene credits obtained from another refinery or importer. (e) Toxics emissions performance averaging reports. (1) Any refiner or importer that produced or imported any reformulated gasoline or RBOB that was to meet the toxics emissions performance standards on average (``averaged reformulated gasoline'') shall submit to the Administrator, with the fourth quarterly report, a report for each refinery or importer for such averaged reformulated gasoline that was produced or imported during the previous toxics averaging period. (2) The following information shall be reported: (i) The volume of averaged reformulated gasoline or RBOB in gallons; (ii) The compliance value for toxics emissions performance; and (iii) The actual value for toxics emissions performance. (f) Oxygen averaging reports. (1) Any refiner, importer, or oxygenate blender that produced or imported any reformulated gasoline that was to meet the oxygen standards on average (``averaged reformulated gasoline'') shall submit to the Administrator, with the fourth quarterly report, a report for each refinery and oxygenate blending facility at which such averaged reformulated gasoline was produced and for all such averaged reformulated gasoline imported by each importer during the previous oxygen averaging period. (2)(i) The following information shall be included in each report required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section: (A) The total volume of averaged RBOB in gallons; (B) The total volume of averaged reformulated gasoline in gallons; (C) The compliance total content for oxygen; (D) The actual total content for oxygen; (E) The number of oxygen credits generated as a result of actual total oxygen being greater than compliance total oxygen;
