FR940627-2-00031 FR940627-2-00026 This announcement is soliciting applications for project periods up to five years. Awards, on a competitive basis, will be for a one-year budget period, although project periods may be five years. Applications for continuation grants funded under these awards beyond the one-year budget period but within the five year project period will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis, subject to availability of funds, timely and successful completion of the project, and determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the Government. The Children's Bureau plans to make this determination, in part, by convening a panel of experts, including customers, to review the progress of the five National Resource Centers for Child Welfare Services Programs and the National Resource Center for Programs Serving Abandoned Infants and Infants at Risk of Abandonment and Their Families during the third budget period and to make recommendations regarding continued funding on a non-competitive basis. Successful completion of the review during the third budget period will result in the five National Resource Centers for Child Welfare Services Programs being able to submit non-competitive applications for two additional budget periods and the National Resource Center for Programs Serving Abandoned Infants and Infants at Risk of Abandonment and Their Families being able to submit a non-competitive application for one additional budget period subject to the availability of funds. Part II_Programmatic Priorities for Funding The priority areas identified in this announcement are derived from legislative mandates as well as Departmental goals and initiatives. The priorities reflect the state of current knowledge as well as emerging issues which have come to ACYF's attention by several means including consultation with advocates, policymakers, and practitioners in the field. The priorities seek to focus attention on and to encourage efforts to obtain new knowledge and improvements in service delivery for the solution of particular problems and to promote the dissemination and utilization of the knowledge and model practices developed under these priorities. A. Structure of Priority Area Descriptions This section presents the basic set of issues that must be addressed in the application. Typically, they relate to project design, evaluation, and community involvement. This section also asks for specific information on the proposed project. Inclusion and discussion of these items in the applicant's application is important since they will be used by the reviewers in evaluating the application against the evaluation criteria. Project products, continuation of the project effort after the Federal support ceases, and dissemination/utilization activities, if appropriate, should also be addressed. • Eligible Applicants: This section specifies the type of organization which is eligible to apply under the particular priority area. Specific restrictions are also noted, where applicable. Each priority area description contains information about the types of agencies and organizations which are eligible to apply under that priority area. Since eligibility varies among priority areas depending on statutory provisions, it is critical that the ``Eligible Applicants'' section under each specific priority area be read carefully. • Purpose: This section presents the basic focus and/or broad goal(s) of the priority area. The priority areas identified in this announcement are derived from legislative mandates as well as Departmental goals and initiatives. As noted above, the priorities reflect the state of current knowledge and emerging issues which come to ACYF's attention by several means including consultation with advocates, policymakers, and practitioners in the field. The priorities seek to focus attention on and promote the identification, development, dissemination and utilization of knowledge and model programs, resources, and practices, as well as to encourage efforts to obtain new knowledge and develop and deliver resources responding to particular problems faced by child welfare agencies. • Background: This section briefly discusses the current state-of-the-art and/or current state-of-practice that supports the need for the particular priority area activity. Relevant information on projects previously funded by ACYF and/or other innovations or exemplary activity is included, where applicable.
