FR940228-0-00012 FR940228-0-00002 Comment: One comment recommended revising language concerning wheat replant payments to specify that damage must be due to an insurable cause of loss in order for a replay payment to be made. Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has revised the language accordingly. Comment: The provisions require that wheat be damaged to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the unit to qualify for a replant payment. One comment stated that these provisions conflict with the winter coverage options because the options indicate a replant payment can be made on a portion of a unit. The comment recommended changing the language to allow a replant payment if the remaining stand will not produce at least 90 percent of the production guarantee for the acreage as opposed to the unit. Comment: FCIC agrees that changing the language as recommended makes replanting payment provisions consistent between the Basic Policy and Winter Wheat Coverage Endorsement. Changes have been made accordingly. Comment: The provisions do not include any limitation regarding the date an insured can replant and be eligible for a replanting payment. One comment recommended adding a provision requiring that acreage be replanted within 25 days after the spring final planting date to remain eligible for a replant payment. The comment also recommended clarifying if ``sweetening'' is considered replanting. Response: FCIC agrees that replanting should take place within 25 days after the spring final planting date and has added appropriate language. The provision has been changed to indicate that planting new seed into an existing damaged stand at a reduced seeding rate will not be considered replanting. Comment: One comment stated that the replant payment provisions do not indicate the consequences when wheat is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable for an original planting. The comment recommended the following language be added to clearly indicate what happens in such a situation: ``When wheat is replanted using a practice that is uninsurable for an original planting, the liability for the unit will be reduced by the amount of the replanting payment. The premium amount will be based on the original liability.'' Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has added the language as recommended. Comment: One comment recommended that replant payments apply onto wheat. In addition, the comment recommended clarification that no replant payment for barley, oats, rye or flax will be provided. Response: The provisions already clearly state that a replant payment is allowed only for wheat. Further clarification is not necessary. After loss experience with wheat replanting payments is analyzed, replanting payment coverage may be extended to barley, oats, rye and flax. Comment: One comment inquired why the number of days a representative sample must be left unharvested has been changed from 15 to 30. Response: The provisions have been revised to require that representative samples be left until the earlier time the insurer gives consent to destroy the samples or 15 days after harvest. Comment: One comment stated that the proposed provisions do not link the time notice is given with the requirement to leave representative samples of the insured crop. In addition, the provisions do not clearly indicate that a sample is required for each field in the unit. The comment recommended that there be some indication that the requirements in this provision are in addition to the insured's duties contained in the Common Crop Insurance Policy. The comment also recommended that the following language be used: ``In addition to your duties contained under section 14 of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), if you initially discover damage to any insured crop within 15 days of, or during harvest, you must leave representative samples of the unharvested crop for our inspection. The samples must be at least 10 feet wide and the entire length of each field in the unit, and must not be harvested or destroyed until the earlier of our inspection or 30 days after harvest is completed on the unit.'' Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has changed the provisions as recommended with the exception of the 30 day requirement. Comment: One comment inquired about the intent of the provisions under the heading, ``Duties in the Event of Damage or loss.'' Response: This provision requires that representative samples be left when notice of damage is given within 15 days of, or during harvest. It does not apply only when the producer is going to destroy the acreage. The intent of this provision is to enable the loss adjustor to have a reasonable amount of time to inspect a portion of the undisturbed crop and determine the extent of insurable damage. After the crop is harvested it can be extremely difficult to accurately determine the extent of insurable damage.
