FR940203-0-00063 FR940203-0-00017 Response: NMFS used the best scientific information available in making its assessments and determinations (see previous response). As stated in the EA, the evidence indicates that some marine mammal species may not be observed by aerial surveillance during pre-test overflights (because they are submerged at the time). Since detonation of the explosive charge will not take place if even a single marine mammal (or sea turtle, fish school or seabird flock) is observed within the safety zone, it is the possibility that some marine mammals would be missed during pre-test surveys which makes a small take authorization necessary. The scientific basis for assessing the likelihood of marine mammals being taken was fully discussed and documented in both the EA and the Navy application. For a response on the Navy's ability to detect marine mammals, refer to the responses related to ``Monitoring'' below. Comment: One commenter was concerned because the information used by NMFS in making its finding of negligible impact was based on theoretical calculations and not on actual tests. Response: NMFS shares the concern of the commenter, but obviously, conducting tests on the effects of explosives on live marine mammals would be controversial and an authorization may be difficult for a scientific research applicant to obtain under the MMPA. For that reason, the Navy bases its impact assessments on theoretical calculations, supported by test data using small charges on alternative test animals. NMFS will closely monitor ship shock tests and review the reports required under these regulations and the LOA to determine whether the basis for the finding of negligible impact continues to exist. If a negligible finding can no longer be made, NMFS is required under sections 101(a)(5) (B) and (C) of the MMPA to withdraw or suspend the authorization to take marine mammals. Surveys Comment: Several commenters criticized the survey effort claiming that some experts consider 800 ft (266 m) to be too high for aerial surveys to observe marine mammals and that vessel surveys are potentially an unnecessary use of funds. One commenter wants to see the survey effort placed in context with the surrounding area. Response: The aerial and vessel surveys were conducted by NMFS as part of its marine mammal assessment program under section 114 of the MMPA. Since these surveys were for the entire California coast and not restricted to the SCB, they were ``in context.'' The data from these surveys were used by the Navy in its application. The survey design methodology uses an aircraft height of 700 to 800 ft (233 to 266 m) which is the height commonly used for marine mammal surveys. 4 Without evidence to the contrary, NMFS continues to believe that a height of 700 to 800 ft (233 to 266 m) is appropriate, as lower altitudes may result in missed animals due to the reduced time for observation from being closer to the water (higher ground speed). Surveys to determine areas of low marine mammal abundance and pre- and post-detonation surveys do not need to extend beyond the OSTR. To survey greater distances than necessary would reduce the amount of time available to survey the impact area. Population Assessment Methodology Comment: One commenter considered NMFS' determination of impacts upon affected species to be ``arbitrary and capricious'' because NMFS ``admitted'' that the density of many species is unknown. Another believed the impact of the action is unknown because the density of the species in the area is unknown. The first commenter also stated that density studies are necessary before NMFS may proceed. Response: It is unclear how these commenters arrived at this conclusion, as Table 14 in the EA gives the calculated density for each species in the SCB. Population estimates for the SCB were made from aerial and vessel surveys of the California coast in 1991 and 1992. Additional surveys were conducted in 1993 in the SCB and are currently being analyzed. However, marine mammal density is not static, it can vary due to school size, environmental conditions, migratory patterns and food source distribution, making it difficult to predict where in space or time an individual or a group of animals will occur. For those reasons, when calculating the number of animals expected in the test range, an assumption is made that distribution is uniform, which it is not. This has been discussed previously in a related comment under ``Incidental Take'' above. (Also, refer to similar comment under ``National Environmental Policy Act Concerns'' below). The assumptions specific to each marine mammal group is given in the EA. Comment: One commenter was concerned that 1992/93 was an anomalous year due to El Niño and its effects upon the distribution and abundance of marine mammal species. Response: Aerial and ship marine mammal surveys, upon which incidental take estimates are based, were conducted in 1991 and 1992. Additional survey work to determine areas of low marine mammal abundance for the ship shock tests were conducted during 1993. Distribution and abundance estimates from these studies, in general, agree with previous studies, with some exceptions, which were noted and fully discussed in the EA.
