FR941116-2-00100 FR941116-2-00076 The PSE believes that the proposal is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and with Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to facilitate transactions in securities and to promote just and equitable principles of trade. As noted above, the Commission received one comment letter concerning the proposal. 8 In his September 12 Letter, the commenter argues that the proposal violates certain provisions of the Exchange's Certificate of Incorporation. Specifically, the commenter states that floor brokers in the trading crowd have no opportunity to participate in trades that are eligible for automatic execution through Auto-Ex unless they ``book'' their orders. Notwithstanding this, because certain types of orders, such as contingent orders and spreads, cannot be placed on the book, book orders represented in the crowd are not eligible for execution against orders entered through Auto-Ex. Therefore, the commenter believes that as a member of the Exchange, he should have an equal opportunity to participate in trades that occur on the Exchange floor. Finally, the commenter questions why the semi-Auto-Ex function, which would solve his concerns, has not been utilized on the PSE. 8 See September 12 Letter, supra note 3. On October 31, 1994, the PSE submitted a letter responding to the comment letter. 9 In its October 31 Letter, the PSE states that the Commission has approved automatic execution systems on other options exchanges and, in approving POETS, has concluded that POETS provides substantial benefits to public customers. In addition, the Exchange argues that providing floor brokers with the opportunity to participate in all trades on the Exchange floor would require the elimination of Auto-Ex, which would be inconsistent with the Commission's determination to give priority to small public customer orders and would place the PSE at a competitive disadvantage with the other options exchanges. In response to the commenter's statement about semi-Auto-Ex, the PSE notes that the semi-Auto-Ex feature of POETS has never been implemented and that the Exchange continues to study the software and precise mechanism necessary to implement semi-Auto-Ex. Finally, the PSE argues that POETS and Auto-Ex has been approved previously by the Commission, and therefore that the arguments raised by the commenter are untimely. 9 See October 31 Letter, supra note 4. The Commission has considered carefully the opinions of the commenter and the PSE and finds, for the following reasons, that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange. Specifically, the Commission finds that the proposal is consistent with Section 6 and Section 11A of the Act. 10 The Commission continues to believe that the development and implementation of Auto-Ex provides for more efficient handling and reporting of orders in PSE equity options through the use of new data processing and communications techniques, thereby improving order processing and turnaround time. The Commission believes that Auto-Ex has benefitted public customers by ensuring that a POETS order will be executed at the current disseminated quotation, and by allowing small public customer orders to receive immediate executions and nearly instantaneous confirmations of orders. 11 Accordingly, the Commission believes that expanding the eligibility of Auto-Ex to public customer orders of up to 20 contracts for all PSE-traded equity options is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) in that it will extend the benefits of automatic execution in equity options to a greater number of public customer orders while continuing to ensure adequate limit order protection. 10 15 U.S.C. 78f and 78k&hyph;1 (1988). 11 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32703 (July 30, 1993), 58 FR 42117 (August 6, 1993) (order approving File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;92&hyph;37) (``POETS Approval Order''). The Commission believes that the rationale in the POETS Approval Order supporting approval of Auto-Ex applies equally to the current proposal, and incorporates that rationale into the current discussion. In regard to the commenter's specific concern, the Commission previously has approved small order execution systems for option exchanges. For all of these systems, the Commission has found that interaction with the limit order book was sufficient to provide limit order protection. Merely increasing the size of Auto-Ex eligible orders to 20 contracts does not change the character of Auto-Ex orders sufficiently to warrant a reexamination of whether Auto-Ex orders should interact with trading crowd orders. Orders of 20 contracts or less are still small sized orders, and truly large orders will continue to interact with the trading crowd.
