FR940324-1-00021 FR940324-1-00007 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION 36 CFR Part 1234 RIN 3095&hyph;AA58 Electronic Mail Systems AGENCY: National Archives and Records Administration. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) is developing standards for management of Federal records created or received on electronic mail (E-mail) systems. These standards will be published as an appendix to regulations on electronic records in 36 CFR part 1234 and will supplement the NARA instructional guide, Managing Electronic Records. The standards would affect all Federal agencies. DATES: Comments must be submitted by June 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments to Director, Records Appraisal and Disposition Division, National Archives at College Park, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740&hyph;6001. Comments may be faxed to (301) 713&hyph;6852 or (301) 713&hyph;6850. Comments also may be sent to the following Internet address: ooa@cu.nih.gov FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James J. Hastings, Director, Records Appraisal and Disposition Division, (301) 713&hyph;7096. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background NARA has been working with components of the Executive Office of the President to develop specific records management policies and procedures for their E-mail records, pursuant to court rulings in Armstrong v. Executive Office of the President, 1 F.3d 1274 (D.C. Cir. 1993). Because nearly all Federal agencies now use E-mail, NARA recognizes that there also is the need for Government-wide standards on managing E-mail records. Consequently, NARA has drafted the following standards for all Federal government agencies on the proper means of identifying, maintaining, and disposing of Federal records created or received on an E-mail system. These standards reflect the legal definition of records in the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C. 3301) and supplement NARA records management guidance previously issued under the law (44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2905; 36 CFR Chapter XII Subchapter B). When finalized, these general standards will be used by Federal agencies to develop specific recordkeeping policies, procedures, and requirements to fulfill their obligations under the statute and regulations. Agencies that already have specific E-mail recordkeeping policies, procedures, and requirements in place should review them to ensure that they are consistent with these general NARA standards. In addition, agencies are encouraged to submit their directives implementing these standards to NARA for review and comment. NARA has already issued regulations on electronic recordkeeping (36 CFR part 1234), and an instructional guide, Managing Electronic Records. In addition, General Records Schedules 20, Electronic Records, and 23, ``Records Common to Most Offices,'' provide disposition authority for some types of records created or received in electronic form. These proposed new E-mail standards will expand this general guidance on managing electronic records. In developing these standards NARA has recognized that agency E-mail systems have different characteristics and agencies have differing recordkeeping requirements. Some agencies may find that currently it is only feasible to maintain E-mail records on paper. Other agencies may find that currently it is possible and desirable to maintain E-mail records electronically. While NARA recognizes the practical considerations that may preclude electronic maintenance of E-mail records at this time, agencies are encouraged to consider the benefits for future use of electronically maintaining those records that are likely to be permanently valuable. These benefits include the ease of searching and manipulating electronic records, the availability of electronic records to many users simultaneously, and efficient storage. Agencies that are not now technologically able to maintain E-mail records electronically should consider electronic maintenance when updating or designing systems. This is particularly important for E-mail records that are likely to be appraised as permanent by NARA, such as records of cabinet members or other high level officials. The recent decision of the Office of Administration of the Executive Office of the President to begin maintaining its E-mail records in an electronic recordkeeping system is an example of an agency updating a system that contains permanently valuable records. NARA encourages other agencies to consider the value of electronic maintenance of E-mail records, and it will assist agencies in evaluating the desirability of an electronic format. Agencies must also determine how to manage under the Federal Records Act the transmission and receipt information in the E-mail system. The agency should decide how to maintain the transmission and receipt information either as part of the E-mail communication or as a separate record linked to the communication. Because printouts may not contain necessary transmission and receipt information, the Court of Appeals in Armstrong held that to comply with the Federal Records Act, certain transmission and receipt information must be preserved along with all E-mail messages that are Federal records. NARA will work closely with the agencies in the implementation of the final standards and will review, upon request, agency directives concerning E-mail records. In addition, NARA records management evaluations of agencies will include review and analysis of the management of E-mail records. Comments In soliciting comments from Federal agencies and the public, NARA particularly requests that agencies address the practical effects of compliance with these standards. Specifically, NARA is interested in how agencies manage documents with transmission and receipt information and handle the other types of documents, such as calendars, that are frequently part of electronic communications systems. In addition, NARA would like to learn from agencies if they intend to maintain E-mail records electronically now or in the future, and how they would monitor the E-mail system for compliance with recordkeeping obligations. Agencies are also encouraged to comment on any other aspect of this guidance, or to request further information or clarification. NARA encourages those submitting comments to include examples of solutions to electronic recordkeeping problems that may be of assistance to other agencies in developing recordkeeping requirements and programs for these systems. List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 1234 Archives and records; Computer technology. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, NARA proposes to amend part 1234 of chapter XII of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 1234_ELECTRONIC RECORDS MANAGEMENT 1. The authority citation for part 1234 continues to read as follows: Authority: 44 U.S.C. 2904, 3101, 3102, and 3105. 2. Appendix A is added to part 1234 as follows: Appendix A to Part 1234_Managing Federal Records on Electronic Mail Systems 1. Introduction
