FR941205-2-00147 FR941205-2-00073 (vii) Scoring. Individual projects often vary in the extent to which they meet the criteria outlined above. It is, therefore, difficult to precisely define those combinations of characteristics which constitute, for example, ``maximum'' versus ``substantial'' impact. Not all applications receiving a ``maximum'' rating will match all the criteria, point by point, in the same manner. The following standards will be applied: Maximum␣(400 Points) 1. The analysis of market and other risk data provides reasonable assurance that the project will be successful. 2. The project will have a direct and positive impact on employment opportunities for persons from low- and moderate-income households, and the extent of that impact compares favorably with that of other applicants. 3. All appropriate feasibility issues have been addressed (including the submission of firm private financing commitments) and there is reasonable assurance that the project will be completed in a timely manner. 4. The Public Benefits (e.g., loan repayments, increases to the tax base including property, sales and income taxes to the area, other development likely to be stimulated by the activity) to be derived from the project are considerable relative to other proposals. 5. The infusion of CDBG funds will leverage a substantial investment of private and other dollars. 6. The project costs are reasonable (i.e. not inflated). 7. CDBG funds will not replace private financing, CDBG assistance will be limited to the amount necessary to fund the project without replacing CDBG funds for private funds, and equity funds will bear the greatest risk in the project. 8. Project significantly supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Substantial␣(300 Points) The criteria for Maximum (400 Points) is met, with either of the following exceptions: 1. While the project will have a direct and positive impact on employment opportunities for persons from low- and moderate-income households, the extent of that impact is less than that demonstrated by applicants receiving the maximum rating. 2. While there are no major feasibility problems, there are feasibility issues which have not been fully addressed and/or may have a negative effect on timely implementation of the project. However, overall success of the project appears achievable. In addition: 3. The Public Benefits derived from this project will be greater than that received by the majority of applicants. 4. CDBG funds will leverage more private and/or other public dollars than the majority of projects in the competition. 5. The project costs are reasonable (i.e. not inflated). 6. CDBG funds will not replace private financing, CDBG assistance will be limited to the amount necessary to fund the project without replacing CDBG funds for private funds, and equity funds will bear as great a risk as other project funds. 7. Project significantly supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Moderate␣(200 Points) The project presents at least one of the following deficiencies which would affect the appropriateness of CDBG funding: 1. An analysis of the project indicates that the likelihood of the availability of other required financing is questionable. 2. There is a major feasibility issue which is likely to affect completion of the project. 3. The analysis of market and other risk data indicates a likelihood that the project will not create a significant employment impact. 4. The number of employment positions to be created is significantly low and/or the CDBG cost per employment position is significantly high in relation to other applications. In addition: 5. There will be some Public Benefits resulting from this project. 6. CDBG dollars will leverage a moderate amount of private and/or other public funds relative to other projects. 7. The project costs are reasonable (i.e. not inflated). 8. Project moderately supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Minimal␣(100 Points) The project presents at least one of the following serious deficiencies which would affect the appropriateness of CDBG funding: 1. An analysis of the project indicates that other required financing is unlikely to be available. 2. There will be few, if any, Public Benefits resulting from this project. 3. CDBG dollars will leverage little private and/or other public investment in the project. 4. Project minimally supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Insignificant␣(0 Points) The activity presents at least one of the following serious deficiencies which indicates the inappropriateness of CDBG funding: 1. It is clear that the activity cannot be accomplished based on any combination of the following factors: (1) Major feasibility issues. (2) Inordinate risk. (3) Unavailability of required financing.
