FR940722-1-00044 FR940722-1-00012 A new §23.1303(f) is proposed because attitude instruments are available that provide a means accessible to the flightcrew members, for adjusting the reference symbol through ranges that could result in unsafe pitch angles in small airplanes. These instruments were developed for airplanes that use high pitch angles for approved climb or descent gradients. By permitting these airplanes to use instruments that can be adjusted for these higher pitch angles, pilots are able to maintain the design gradients using an instrument that provides a normal indication at that pitch. If such attitude instruments are installed in small airplanes, pilots could adjust the reference symbol to ranges that could result in unsafe pitch angles. The recommendation showed that some instruments can be adjusted to result in pitch angles that are nearly the same as the pitch angle that many small airplanes achieve before stalling. To preclude potential cases of unwanted pitch adjustments of attitude instruments installed in small airplanes, §23.1303(f) proposes to limit the adjustment range to that limit that is needed for parallax correction. Proposed new §23.1303(g) would identify specific instruments, and limits of those instruments, required for commuter category airplanes. When the JAA initiated their consideration of commuter category airplanes, one of the proposals they received recommended adding the instrument requirements of §25.1303 to part 23 for commuter category airplanes. In considering this recommendation, a review of the requirements showed that many instruments required under §25.1303 are presently required by the operating rules. In addition, §23.1583(h) requires a list of the equipment that must be installed for the kinds of operation for which the airplane is approved. Based on the review, it was determined that many of the requirements in §25.1303 would be redundant, and the recommendation was not accepted. In considering a portion of the recommendation to require a third attitude instrument, the FAA noted that §91.531(a)(3) requires a commuter category airplane of ten or more passengers to be operated with a second-in-command and that §23.1321 requires flight and navigation instruments for each required pilot. Accordingly, two attitude instruments are required for a ten passenger, IFR approved commuter category airplane. Service experience has shown that failures of an attitude instrument system can occur where there will be a time period in which the indicator appears to be working but is providing incorrect information. During such a failure of one instrument in an airplane equipped with only two instruments, the pilots may have difficulty determining which instrument to follow, and hazardous flight attitudes may result. A third attitude instrument would allow the crew to retain reliable attitude information at all times, and thus the proposed rule would require a third attitude instrument for commuter airplanes operated by two pilots. Section 23.1307␣Miscellaneous Equipment This proposal would remove the requirement of §23.1307(a) which is being added to §23.785. The discussion of §23.785 covers this change.
