FR941004-1-00063 FR941004-1-00016 Change in fire frequency threatens Arctostaphylos imbricata. Fire suppression policies have altered natural processes occurring on San Bruno Mountain. If a fire were to break out on San Bruno Mountain, attempts would be made by the County to extinguish the fire (Doug Heisinger, San Mateo County Park Department, pers. comm., 1993), to protect the surrounding homes and commercial buildings. A. imbricata is a fire-adapted plant that regenerates from seed rather than resprouting from a basal burl. After a fire, seeds that have accumulated in the soil (i.e. seed bank) sprout, which reestablishes the population. Between fires A. imbricata spreads vegetatively. Reproduction by seed is important to maintain the genetic diversity within the species. No significant seedling establishment occurs until fire eliminates competing vegetation, as with a recent fire at Kamchatka Point that killed the mature plants yet subsequently induced regeneration from seed (Roman Gankin, pers. comm., 1993). Fire replenishes soil nutrients and facilitates seed germination and seedling reestablishment by eliminating competition and shading. If the time between fires is too long, A. imbricata has little opportunity to reproduce sexually and individuals may become senescent. Conversely, fire occurring too frequently also poses a threat. If consecutive fires occurred within a short period (5 years), a non-sprouting species could be eliminated (Paul Zedler, San Diego State University, pers. comm., 1993; Michael Vasey, San Francisco State University, pers. comm., 1993). The plants either would not reach flowering age or not retain enough seed in the soil during the interval between fires to ensure the persistence of the species. As discussed in Factor A, habitat fragmentation may adversely alter the physical environment. In addition, habitat fragmentation increases the risks of extinction by leaving the species vulnerable to chance events such as pest or disease outbreaks, reproductive failure (which can be devastating to annual plants), or other natural or human-caused disasters. The small isolated nature of the remaining populations and restricted distribution of both Lessingia germanorum and Arctostaphylos imbricata make extinction due to stochastic events more likely. A local catastrophe, such as a flood, disease outbreak, extended drought, landslide, or combination of several such events, could destroy part of a single population or entire populations. A local catastrophe also could decrease a population to so few individuals that the risk of extirpation due to genetic problems associated with small populations would increase. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by these species in determining to propose this rule. Lessingia germanorum has been reduced to five small populations on the Presidio in San Francisco County and one site on San Bruno Mountain in San Mateo County; collectively, the populations inhabit less than 0.8 hectares (2 acres). This taxon has been adversely affected and is endangered by competition with invasive alien vegetation, sand quarrying, increased traffic and recreational activities, inadequate regulatory mechanisms, shading by alien and native vegetation, incidental use of fertilizers, bulldozing, residential and commercial development, other anthropogenic activities, and stochastic events. Lessingia germanorum is in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant part of its range, and the preferred action is, therefore, to list it as endangered. Arctostaphylos imbricata has always been rare, and is restricted to five small populations on San Bruno Mountain in San Mateo County. This species is vulnerable to alterations of the natural fire regime and stochastic events. Because the threats facing Arctostaphylos imbricata are long-term rather than imminent, the species is not now in immediate danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range. However, with continued alteration of the natural fire cycle, the plant is likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future. As a result, the preferred action is to list A. imbricata as threatened. Critical Habitat Critical habitat, as defined by section 3 of the Act and 50 CFR 424.02 (d) is: (i) the specific areas within the geographical area occupied by a species, at the time it is listed in accordance with the Act, on which are found those physical or biological features (I) essential to the conservation of the species and (II) that may require special management considerations or protection and; (ii) specific areas outside the geographical area occupied by a species at the time it is listed, upon a determination that such areas are essential for the conservation of the species. Designations of critical habitat must be based on the best scientific data available and must take into consideration the economic and other relevant impacts of specifying any particular area as critical habitat at the time the species is listed as endangered or threatened.
