FR940826-1-00057 FR940826-1-00008 (2) A facility must request and obtain a final agency decision prior to seeking judicial review of a dispute regarding the amount of allowable Medicare bad debts. (b) Other appeals. (1) A facility that has requested higher payment per treatment in accordance with §413.180 may request review from the intermediary or the PRRB if HCFA has denied the request in whole or in part. In such a case, the procedure in subpart R of part 405 of this chapter is followed to the extent that it is applicable. (2) The PRRB, subject to review by the Administrator under §405.1875 of this chapter, has the authority to review the action taken by HCFA on the facility's requests. (3) A facility must request and obtain a final agency decision prior to seeking judicial review of the denial, in whole or in part, of the exception request. (c) Procedure. (1) The facility must request review within 180 days of the date of the decision on which review is sought. (2) The facility may not submit to the reviewing entity, whether it be the intermediary or the PRRB, any additional information or cost data that had not been submitted to HCFA at the time HCFA evaluated the exception request. (d) Determining amount in controversy. For purposes of determining PRRB jurisdiction under subpart R of part 405 of this chapter for the appeals described in paragraph (b) of this section_ (1) The amount in controversy per treatment is determined by subtracting the amount of program payment from the amount the facility requested under §413.180; and (2) The total amount in controversy is calculated by multiplying the amount in controversy per treatment by the projected number of treatments for the exception request period (as specified in §413.180(g) and (h)). 19. A new §413.196 is added to read as follows: §413.196 Notification of changes in rate-setting methodologies and payment rates. (a) HCFA or the facility's intermediary notifies each facility of changes in its payment rate. This notice includes changes in individual facility payment rates resulting from corrections or revisions of particular geographic labor cost adjustment factors. (b) Changes in payment rates resulting from incorporation of updated cost data or general revisions of geographic labor cost adjustment factors are announced by notice published in the Federal Register without opportunity for prior public comment. Revisions of the rate-setting methodology are published in the Federal Register in accordance with the Department's established rulemaking procedures. 20. Newly redesignated §413.200 is amended by revising the heading and paragraph (b) to read as follows: §413.200 Payment of independent organ procurement organizations and histocompatibility laboratories. * * * * * (b) Definitions. For purposes of this section: Freestanding _An OPO or a histocompatibility laboratory is freestanding unless it_ (1) Is subject to the control of the hospital in regard to the hiring, firing, training and paying of employees; and (2) Is considered as a department of the hospital for insurance purposes (including malpractice insurance, general liability insurance, worker's compensation insurance, and employee retirement insurance). Histocompatibility laboratory means a laboratory meeting the standards and providing the services for kidneys or other organs set forth in §405.2171(d) of this chapter. OPO means an organization that meets the definition in §485.302 of this chapter. * * * * *
