FR941025-2-00065 FR941025-2-00045 However, there are not enough attorneys who chose to provide free representation to children, especially since some proceedings are complicated and cases may last for 21 years. The Court-Appointed Special Advocate (CASA) movement developed in the 1980's and has spread throughout the nation to address these unmet needs. These well-trained volunteers help meet the need for representation of child clients. The impact on the outcomes for children of the GAL and CASA services is not known (NRC, p. 273). In 1988, the Research, Demonstration and Evaluation Branch, Division of Program Evaluation, Administration on Children, Youth and Families conducted a study of the Guardian ad litem system. The report indicated that no single GAL model studied (Private Attorney, Staff Attorney, and CASA) was consistently superior to the others across five GAL roles (fact-finding and investigation, legal representation, negotiation/mediation, monitoring, and resource brokering). The findings also suggest that an optimal approach may be a ``mixed model'' and involve having a GAL who possesses, or has access to, the expertise and resources of attorneys, lay volunteers, and caseworkers to perform the broad range of functions and services contained in the definition of the child advocate (Final Report on the Validation and Effectiveness Study of Legal Representation through Guardian ad Litem, # 105&hyph;89&hyph;1727). The ``mixed model'' uses a combination of attorneys, volunteers, and/or trained staff members to perform the broad range of functions and services, resources and expertise, for child advocacy. The intent of this priority is for a demonstration project of this ``mixed model'' to explore, in greater detail, service delivery with this approach. If this ``mixed model'' is not currently in place, resources might be added on to an existing GAL representation model for this demonstration. Based on four broad recommendations made in the report, the demonstration should design, justify, implement, and evaluate: •A prototype for a formal, national system of GAL training, standards, and certification employed with a ``mixed model'' design; •Recommendations for court-implemented formal terms of appointment, descriptions, and supervision of the GAL role with a ``mixed model'' design; •Standards for caseload size that maximize effective and ethical representation within a ``mixed model'' design; and
