FR940304-1-00175 FR940304-1-00014 The DOE has established a comment period of 75 days following publication of this notice for persons to comment on this proposal. All public comments received and the transcript of the public hearing will be available for review in the DOE Freedom of Information Reading Room. b. Written Comment Procedures Interested persons are invited to participate in this proceeding by submitting written data, views or arguments with respect to the subjects set forth in this notice. Instructions for submitting written comments are set forth at the beginning of this notice and below. Comments (with 10 copies) should be labeled both on the envelope and on the documents, ``Eight Products Rulemaking (Docket No. EE&hyph;RM&hyph;90&hyph;201),'' and must be received by the date specified at the beginning of this notice. 10 copies are requested to be submitted. Additionally, the Department would appreciate an electronic copy of the comments to the extent possible. The Department is currently using WordPerfect TM 5.1. All comments received by the date specified at the beginning of this notice and other relevant information will be considered by DOE before final action is taken on the proposed regulation. All written comments received on the proposed rule will be available for public inspection at the DOE Freedom of Information Reading Room, as provided at the beginning of this notice. Pursuant to the provisions of 10 CFR 1004.11, any person submitting information or data that is believed to be confidential and exempt by law from public disclosure should submit one complete copy of the document and 10 copies, if possible, from which the information believed to be confidential has been deleted. The Department will make its own determination with regard to the confidential status of the information or data and treat it according to its determination. Factors of interest to DOE, when evaluating requests to treat information as confidential, include: (1) A description of the item; (2) an indication as to whether and why such items of information have been treated by the submitting party as confidential, and whether and why such items are customarily treated as confidential within the industry; (3) whether the information is generally known or available from other sources; (4) whether the information has previously been available to others without obligation concerning its confidentiality; (5) an explanation of the competitive injury to the submitting person that would result from public disclosure; (6) an indication as to when such information might lose its confidential character due to the passage of time; and (7) whether disclosure of the information would be in the public interest. c. Public Hearing 1. Procedure for Submitting Requests to Speak The time and place of the public hearing are indicated at the beginning of this notice. The Department invites any person who has an interest in these proceedings, or who is a representative of a group or class of persons having an interest, to make a written request for an opportunity to make an oral presentation at the public hearing. Such requests should be labeled both on the letter and the envelope, ``Eight Products Rulemaking (Docket No. EE&hyph;RM&hyph;90&hyph;201),'' and should be sent to the address, and must be received by the time specified, at the beginning of this notice. Requests may be hand-delivered or telephoned in to such address between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The person making the request should briefly describe the interest concerned and, if appropriate, state why he or she is a proper representative of the group or class of persons that has such an interest, and give a telephone number where he or she may be contacted. Each person selected to be heard will be so notified by DOE as to the approximate time they will be speaking. Each person selected to be heard is requested to submit an advance copy of his or her statement prior to the hearing as indicated at the beginning of this notice. In the event any persons wishing to testify cannot meet this requirement, that person may make alternative arrangements in advance by so indicating in the letter requesting to make an oral presentation.
