FR941020-2-00061 FR941020-2-00038 Section S3J.10␣The Office of Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy_(Organization) The Office of Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy, under the leadership of the Associate Commissioner for Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy includes: A. The Associate Commissioner for Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy (S3J). B. The Deputy Associate Commissioner(s) for Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy (S3J). C. The Immediate Office of the Associate Commissioner for Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy (S3J). Section S3J.20␣The Office of Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy_(Functions) A. The Associate Commissioner for Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy (S3J) is directly responsible to the Deputy Commissioner, Programs for carrying out ORSISSIP's mission and provides general supervision to the major components of ORSISSIP. B. The Deputy Associate Commissioner(s) for Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy (S3J) assists the Associate Commissioner in carrying out his/her responsibilities and performs other duties as the Associate Commissioner may prescribe. C. The Immediate Office of the Associate Commissioner for Retirement and Survivors Insurance and Supplemental Security Income Policy (S3J) provides the Associate Commissioner and Deputy Associate Commissioner with staff assistance on the full range of their responsibilities and helps coordinate the activities of ORSISSIP components. Statement of Organization, Functions and Delegation of Authority Part S of the Statement of Organization, Functions and Delegations of Authority for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) covers the Social Security Administration (SSA). Notice is being given that Chapter S5, the Office of the Deputy Commissioner for Policy and External Affairs (DCPEA). is being amended to reflect the establishment of the Information Technology Systems Staff (S5J), Office of Public Inquiries (S5J) and the Office of Disclosure Policy S5K). The Management Staff (S5A&hyph;1) is being abolished. The new material and changes are as follows. Chapter 5 Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Policy and External Affairs S5.00␣Mission S5.10␣Organization S5.20␣Functions Section S5.10␣The Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Policy and External Affairs_(Organization) Delete F. The Management Staff (S5A&hyph;1).
