FR940725-0-00062 FR940725-0-00008 C. Individualized Education Program (IEP) 1. Section 6 School Arrangements shall ensure that an IEP is developed and implemented for each preschool child or child with a disability enrolled in a Section 6 School Arrangement or placed on another institution by a Section 6 School Arrangement CSC under this part. 2. Each IEP shall include: a. A statement of the preschool child's or child's present levels of educational performance. b. A statement of annual goals, including short-term instructional objectives. c. A statement of the specific special educational services and related services to be provided to the preschool child or child (including the frequency, number of times per week/month and intensity, amount of times each day) and the extent to which the preschool child or child may be able to participate in regular educational programs. d. The projected anticipated date for the initiation and the anticipated length of such activities and services. e. Appropriate objective criteria and evaluation procedures and schedules for determining, on an annual basis, whether educational goals and objectives are being achieved. f. A statement of the needed transition services for the child beginning no later than age 16 and annually thereafter (and when determined appropriate for the child, beginning at age 14 or younger) including, when appropriate, a statement of DoD Component responsibilities before the child leaves the school setting. 3. Each preschool child or child with a disability shall be provided the opportunity to participate, with adaptations when appropriate, in the regular physical education program available to students without disabilities unless: a. The preschool child or child with a disability is enrolled full-time in a separate facility; or b. The preschool child or child with a disability needs specially designed physical education, as prescribed in his or her IEP. 4. If specially designed physical education services are prescribed in the IEP of a preschool child or child with a disability, the Section 6 School Arrangement shall provide such education directly, or shall make arrangements for the services to be provided through a non-Section 6 School Arrangement or another facility. 5. Section 6 School Arrangements shall ensure that a preschool child or child with a disability, enrolled by a CSC in a separate facility, receives appropriate, physical education in compliance with this part. 6. The IEP for each preschool child or child with a disability shall be developed and reviewed at least annually in meetings that include the following participants: a. The designated representative of the Section 6 School Arrangement, who is qualified to supervise the provision of special education. Such representative may not be the preschool child's or child's special education teacher. b. One, or more, of the preschool child's or child's regular education teachers, if appropriate. c. The preschool child's or child's special education teacher or teachers. d. One, or both, of the preschool child's or child's parents.
