FR940902-0-00128 FR940902-0-00010 (b) Revisions to the reported expenditures for a program year of funds may be made until 90 days after the time limitation for expenditure of JTPA funds, as set forth in section 161(b) of the Act, has expired. The Grant Officer may extend this deadline if the recipient submits a written request with justification. After that time, the Grant Officer shall consider all reports received as final and no additional revisions may be made. (c) When closing out a JTPA grant, the Grant Officer shall notify the recipient, by certified mail, that, since the time limitation for expenditure of funds covered by the grant award has expired, it is the Department of Labor's intent to close the annual grant as follows: (1) Cost adjustment. Based on receipt of reports in paragraph (b) of this section, the Grant Officer shall make upward or downward adjustments to the allowable costs; and (2) Cash adjustment. DOL shall make prompt payment to the recipient for allowable reimbursable costs; the recipient shall promptly refund to DOL any balance of cash advanced that is in excess of allowable costs for the grant award being closed. (d) The recipient shall have an additional 60 days after the date of the notice described in paragraph (c) of this section in which to provide the Grant Officer with information as to the reason(s) why closeout should not occur. (e) At the end of the 60-day period described in paragraph (d) of this section, the Grant Officer shall notify the recipient that closeout has occurred, unless information provided by the recipient, pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, indicates otherwise. §627.490 Later disallowances and adjustments after closeout. The closeout of a grant does not affect: (a) The Grant Officer's right to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review; (b) The recipient's obligation to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, subrecipient audit disallowances, or other transactions; (c) Records retention requirements in §627.460 of this part, Requirements for records, and §627.463 of this part, Public access to records; (d) Property management requirements in §627.465 of this part, Property management standards; and (e) Audit and audit resolution requirements in §627.480 of this part, Audits and §627.481 of this part, Audit resolution. §627.495 Collection of amounts due. (a) Any funds paid to a recipient in excess of the amount to which the recipient is finally determined to be entitled under the terms of the grant constitute a debt to the Federal Government. If not paid within a reasonable period after demand, the Secretary may take any actions permitted by law to recover the funds. (b) The Secretary shall charge interest on an overdue debt in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR ch. II). Subpart E_Grievances Procedures at the State and Local Level §627.500 Scope and purpose. (a) General. This subpart establishes the procedures which apply to the handling of noncriminal complaints under the Act at the Governor, the SDA, and the SSG levels. Nothing contained in this subpart shall be deemed to prejudice the separate exercise of other legal rights in pursuit of remedies and sanctions available outside the Act. (b) Handling of discrimination complaints. Complaints of discrimination pursuant to section 167(a) of the Act shall be handled under 29 CFR part 34. (c) Complaints and reports of criminal fraud, waste, and abuse. Information and complaints involving criminal fraud, waste, abuse or other criminal activity shall be reported through the Department's Incident Reporting System, directly and immediately to the DOL Office of Inspector General, Office of Investigations, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Room S5514, Washington, DC 20210, or to the corresponding Regional Inspector General for Investigations, with a copy simultaneously provided to the Employment and Training Administration. The Hotline number is 1&hyph;800&hyph;347&hyph;3756. Other complaints of a noncriminal nature will continue to be handled under the procedures set forth in this part, subparts E and F, and through the Department's Incident Reporting System. (d) Non-JTPA remedies. Whenever any person, organization, or agency believes that a recipient, an SDA, an SSG, or other subrecipient has engaged in conduct that violates the Act and that such conduct also violates a Federal statute other than JTPA, or a State or local law, that person, organization, or agency may, with respect to the non-JTPA cause of action, institute a civil action or pursue other remedies authorized under such other Federal, State, or local law against the recipient, the SDA, the SSG, or other subrecipient, without first exhausting the remedies in this subpart. Nothing in the Act or this chapter shall: (1) Allow any person or organization to file a suit which alleges a violation of JTPA or regulations promulgated thereunder without first exhausting the administrative remedies described in this subpart; or
