FR940513-2-00173 FR940513-2-00085 [Investment Company Act Rel. No. 20283; 812&hyph;8946] Select Advisors Trust, et al.; Application May 6, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``Act''). APPLICANTS: Select Advisors Trust (``Trust I'') and Select Advisors Trust II (``Trust II''), on behalf of themselves and any registered open-end investment companies that are part of the same group of investment companies and: (a) Whose principal underwriter is the Distributor (as defined below), or a principal underwriter that is under common control with the Distributor, and (b) which hold themselves out to investors as being related for purposes of investment and investor services (the ``Trusts'') 1 and Interactive Financial Solutions, Inc. (the ``Distributor''). 1 A registered open-end investment company of the same group of investment companies as Trust I and Trust II includes companies organized in the future and existing companies whose board of directors or board of trustees in the future determines to establish a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') as described below. Applicants undertake that any such company will be subject to each of the conditions contained in the application. RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) for exemptions from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 22(c), and 22(d) and rule 22c-1. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to permit the Trusts to assess a CDSC on certain redemptions of shares, and to waive the CDSC in certain cases. FILING DATE: The application was filed on April 22, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on May 31, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request such notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 318 Broadway, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James E. Anderson, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0573, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. The Trusts are diversified, open-end management investment companies. Trust I currently has eight series: Emerging Growth Fund, International Equity Fund, Growth & Income Fund, Balanced Fund, Income Opportunity Fund, Bond Fund, Municipal Bond Fund, and Standby Reserve Fund. Trust II currently has seven series: Emerging Growth Fund, International Equity Fund, Growth & Income Fund, Balanced Fund, Income Opportunity Fund, Bond Fund, and Municipal Bond Fund. The series of Trust I and Trust II are referred to collectively as the ``Series.'' 2. The Trusts invest the assets of each of their Series (with the exception of the Standby Reserve Fund) in a corresponding portfolio that is a series of the Select Advisors Portfolios (the ``Portfolio Trust''), an open-end management investment company which currently offers seven series. Investments in the Portfolio Trust are made through the Signature Financial Group, Inc. (``Signature'') Hub and Spoke ® financial service method. The Portfolio Trust on behalf of each portfolio, and Trust I on behalf of the Standby Reserve Fund, have entered into an investment advisory agreement with Touchstone Investment Advisors, Inc. (the ``Adviser'') and an administrative services and fund accounting agreement with Signature. The Trusts have entered into an agreement for administrative services and fund accounting services with Signature and a distribution agreement with the Distributor.
