FR941013-1-00038 FR941013-1-00005 §1310.05 Reports. (a) *␣*␣* (2) Any regulated transaction with a person not registered with DEA who is obtaining within a calendar month and quantity of 375 dosage units or more of a drug product containing ephedrine, which is regulated pursuant to §1310.01(f)(1)(iv). The requirement to make such reports is waived if a pharmacist employed by the regulated person consults with the purchaser regarding the appropriate uses and dosing of the product for legitimate medical purposes and includes documentation of the consultation in the record of the transaction. * * * * * (b) Each report submitted pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5) of this section shall, whenever possible, be made orally to the DEA Divisional Office for the area in which the regulated person making the report is located at the earliest practicable opportunity after the regulated person becomes aware of the circumstances involved and as much in advance of the conclusion of the transaction as possible. Written reports of transactions listed in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section will subsequently be filed as set forth in §1310.06 within 15 days after the regulated person becomes aware of the circumstances of the event. Written reports of transactions listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be submitted to the DEA Divisional Office for the area in which the regulated person making the report is located within 5 days following the end of the calendar month in which the transaction took place. A transaction may not be completed with a person who description or identifying characteristic has previously been furnished to the regulated person by the Administration unless the transaction is approved by the Administration. * * * * * (d) Each regulated bulk manufacturer of a listed chemical shall submit manufacturing, inventory, transaction and use data on an annual basis as set forth in §1310.06 (h). For purposes of this paragraph only, the term bulk manufacturer means a person who produces a listed chemical by means of chemical synthesis or by extraction from other substances. The term bulk manufacturer does not include persons whose sole activity consists of the repackaging or relabeling of listed chemical products or the manufacture of drug products containing listed chemicals. This data shall be submitted annually to the Drug and Chemical Evaluation Section, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Washington DC 20537, on or before the 31st day of January of the year immediately following the period for which submitted. This reporting requirement does not apply to drug products which are exempted under 21 U.S.c. 802 (39)(A)(iv) except as set forth in §1310.06 (h)(5). Each report shall be submitted on company letterhead and signed by an appropriate, responsible official. 7. Section 1310.06 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), introducing text, (a)(1), (c), and (d) and by adding a new paragraph (h) to read as follows: §1310.06 Content of records and reports. (a) Each record required by §1310.03 shall include the following: (1) The name, address, and, if required, DEA registration number of each party to the regulated transaction. * * * * * (c) Each report required by §1310.05(a) shall include the information as specified by §1310.06(a) and, where obtainable, the registration number of the other party, if such party is registered. A report submitted pursuant to §1310.059a)(1) or (a)(4) must also include a description of the circumstances leading the regulated person to make the report, such as the reason that the method of payment was uncommon or the loss unusual. If the report is for a loss or disappearance under §1310.05(a)(4), the circumstances of such loss must be provided (in-transit, theft from premise, etc.) (d) A suggested format for the reports is provided below: Supplier: Registration Number Name Business Address City State Zip Business Phone Purchaser: Registration Number Name Business Address City State Zip Business Phone Identification Shipping Address (If different than purchaser Address): Street City State Zip Date of Shipment Name of Listed Chemical(s) Quantity and Form of Packaging Description of Machine: Make Model Serial # Method of Transfer If Loss or Disappearance: Date of Loss Type of Loss Description of Circumstances * * * * * (h) Each annual report required by §1310.05 (d) shall provide the following information for each listed chemical manufactured: (1) The name and address of the listed chemical manufacturer and person to contact for information. (2) The name and total quantity of the listed chemical manufactured during the preceding calendar year.
