FR940318-1-00019 FR940318-1-00004 (1) The operator's name; (2) A statement verifying that all known cases/indicates of leakage or failed leak tests are included in the submitted material; (3) The type of valve (make, model, manufacturer, vendor part number, and serial number); (4) The period of time covered by the data; (5) The current FAA leak check interval; (6) Whether or not seals have been replaced between the seal replacement intervals required by this AD; (7) Whether or not leakage has been detected between leak check intervals required by this AD, and the reason for leakage (i.e., worn seals, foreign materials on sealing surface, scratched or damaged sealing surface or valve, etc.); (8) Whether or not any leak check was conducted without first inspecting or cleaning the sealing surfaces, changing the seals, or repairing the valve. [If such activities have been accomplished prior to conducting the periodic leak check, that leak check shall be recorded as a ``failure'' for purposes of the data required for this request submission. The exception to this is the normally scheduled seal change in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this AD. Performing this scheduled seal change prior to a leak check will not cause that leak check to be recorded as a failure.] Note 1: Requests for approval of revised leak check intervals may be submitted in any format, provided the data give the same level of assurance specified in this paragraph. Note 2: For the purposes of expediting resolution of requests for revisions to the leak check intervals, the FAA suggests that the requestor summarize the raw data; group the data gathered from different airplanes (of the same model) and drain systems with the same kind of valve; and provide a recommendation from pertinent industry group(s) and/or the manufacturer specifying an appropriate revised leak check interval. (d) For all airplanes: Within 5,000 flight hours after the effective date of this AD, install a cap on the flush/fill lines for forward, aft, and executive lavatories in accordance with Boeing Service Bulletin 727&hyph;38&hyph;0021, dated July 30, 1992. (e) For any affected airplane acquired after the effective date of this AD: Before any operator places into service any airplane subject to the requirements of this AD, a schedule for the accomplishment of the leak checks required by this AD shall be established in accordance with either paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this AD, as applicable. After each leak check has been performed once, each subsequent leak check must be performed in accordance with the new operator's schedule, in accordance with either paragraph (a) or (b) of this AD as applicable. (1) For airplanes previously maintained in accordance with this AD, the first leak check to be performed by the new operator must be accomplished in accordance with the previous operator's schedule or with the new operator's schedule, whichever would result in the earlier accomplishment date for that leak check. (2) For airplanes that have not been previously maintained in accordance with this AD, the first leak check to be performed by the new operator must be accomplished prior to further flight, or in accordance with a schedule approved by the FAA PMI, but within a period not to exceed 200 flight hours. (f) An alternative method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance time that provides an acceptable level of safety may be used if approved by the Manager, Seattle ACO, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate. Operators shall submit their requests through an appropriate FAA PMI, who may add comments and then send it to the Manager, Seattle ACO. Note 3: Information concerning the existence of approved alternative methods of compliance with this AD, if any, may be obtained from the Seattle ACO. Note 4: For any valve that is not eligible for the extended leak check intervals of this AD: To be eligible for the leak check interval specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2)(i), and (b)(2)(ii), the service history data of the valve must be submitted to the Manager, Seattle ACO, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, with a request for an alternative method of compliance. One of the factors that the FAA will consider in approving alternative valve designs is whether the valve meets Boeing Specification S417T105 or 10&hyph;62213. (g) Special flight permits may be issued in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) 21.197 and 21.199 to operate the airplane to a location where the requirements of this AD can be accomplished. Issued in Renton, Washington, on March 14, 1994. Darrell M. Pederson, Acting Manager, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6340 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;U
