FR940429-0-00106 FR940429-0-00012 (2) Submit revised review standards that address the reasons for the Secretary's disapproval. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;3) §667.23 SPRE reviews of referred institutions. (a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if the Secretary refers an institution to a SPRE for review under §667.5 or the SPRE selects an institution for review under §667.6, the SPRE reviews, or arranges for the review of that institution, to determine whether the institution is in compliance with the State review standards described in §667.21. (2) The Secretary may determine that a SPRE need not review an institution that is referred only because it meets the conditions of §667.5(b)(10) if the SPRE previously conducted a review of that institution and found no violations of the State's standards. (b)(1) The SPRE shall provide written notice to all institutions in the State that participate in a title IV, HEA program of the review standards approved by the Secretary under §667.22 before it may conduct reviews of referred institutions. (2) Each year the SPRE shall make available information regarding its review priority system after its plan is approved by the Secretary under §667.13 and before conducting reviews of referred institutions under that plan and priority system. (c) After a SPRE completes its review of a referred institution, the SPRE must issue an initial report of the SPRE's findings and provide it to the institution no later than 45 days after the SPRE completes its review. If the SPRE finds that the institution is in violation of a standard, for each finding, the SPRE must_ (1)(i) Cite the standard violated and the nature of the violation; and (ii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, prescribe a course of action the institution must follow to correct the violation. The SPRE has sole discretion to determine an appropriate period for the institution to correct the violation and bring itself into compliance with the State's review standards; or (2) Initiate a proceeding under §667.25 to affect the termination of the institution's participation in the title IV, HEA programs. (d)(1) The SPRE must give the institution an opportunity to respond to its findings and required actions; and (2) The SPRE may determine, based on compelling evidence provided by the institution, that the institution's failure to satisfy a State standard does not warrant any further action by the SPRE. (e) If the institution chooses to respond to the SPRE's report within the time permitted by the SPRE, the SPRE must evaluate the institution's response and issue a final report to the institution that includes its findings and required action. (f)(1)(i) The SPRE must provide to the Secretary a copy of its final report to an institution within 30 days of its issuance to the institution; or (ii) If the institution did not respond to the SPRE's initial report by the date permitted by the SPRE, the SPRE must provide to the Secretary a copy of its initial report. The SPRE's initial report becomes its final report on the day after the date provided to the institution for responding to that report; and (2) If the SPRE did not prescribe a course of action the institution must follow to correct a violation of the State's standards under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the SPRE must include in its report to the Secretary an explanation of why no action was prescribed. (g) In addition to the reasons for initiating a proceeding to effect the termination an institution's participation in a title IV, HEA program under paragraph (c) of this section, the SPRE may determine that the institution should no longer participate in that title IV, HEA program if that institution_ (1) Does not respond to the SPRE's findings or comply with the SPRE's required actions within the time permitted by the SPRE, and the SPRE's findings show violations of the State's standards; (2) Does not allow SPRE personnel at the institution; or (3) Fails to provide SPRE officials with prompt access to its documents and records.
