FR941227-2-00048 FR941227-2-00040 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The National Estuary Program (NEP) was established under section 320 of the Clean Water Act (CWA), as amended by the Water Quality Act of 1987. The purpose of the NEP is to promote long-term planning and management in nationally significant estuaries threatened by pollution, development, or overuse. This goal is achieved through the preparation of a Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan (CCMP) which documents the problems and recommends approaches for correcting and preventing problems for each estuary. The NEP seeks to protect and improve water and sediment quality and to enhance living resources by helping to: Establish working partnerships among federal, state, tribal, and local governments; Fully utilize scientific and management experience in development of CCMPs; Increase public awareness of pollution problems and ensure public participation in consensus building; Promote basinwide planning to control pollution and manage living resources; and Oversee development and implementation of pollution abatement and control programs. Under CWA section 320(a), the Governor of any State may nominate an estuary located wholly or partly within the State and request that the Administrator of EPA convene a management conference to develop a CCMP for the estuary. Where Tribal lands are located within estuary boundaries, the nomination should also include a letter of agreement from the Tribal Governor or equivalent. Nominations must document the national significance of the estuary, the need for a management conference, its likelihood of success, its ability to streamline, commitment to implement actions and its organizational ability to oversee implementation. In response to a Governor's nomination or on his own initiative, the Administrator is authorized to determine whether the attainment or maintenance of a desired level of water quality in an estuary requires additional pollution abatement and control programs to supplement existing controls. Based on this determination, the Administrator is authorized to convene management conferences for such estuaries. EPA has determined that the addition of new estuaries to the NEP beyond the existing 21 will foster environmental management efforts in coastal areas. Based on this determination, the Administrator will convene additional management conferences in Fiscal Year 1995. Preparation of Nominations Many of the elements of estuarine management employed in the NEP are being applied by public and private parties in estuaries that are not currently part of the National Estuary Program. Substantial progress towards meeting some NEP objectives has been realized in some of these estuaries. Based on these factors, and experience gained from the existing 21 management conferences, EPA believes it will be possible to more quickly and economically develop CCMPs for estuaries to be designated in the future. Therefore, when considering management conferences to be convened in Fiscal Year 1995, EPA will give preference to nominations that describe actions underway to identify and characterize environmental problems and their causes, established partnerships among governmental and private groups with natural resource management and protection missions, public involvement in developing and executing action strategies, and the state's ability to support CCMP implementation. The information kit provides further details on the information which should be presented in the nomination to allow the Administrator to determine whether a candidate estuary should be selected for the NEP. Nominations should be prepared based on EPA's instruction kit entitled The Streamlined National Estuary Program: Instructions on the Preparation of a Governor's Nomination. The EPA will provide an instruction kit upon request to assist interested States in preparing their nominations. This instruction kit includes background information, a copy of section 320 of the CWA, and nomination content checklist. Requests for this instruction kit should be made to the US EPA Regional office that serves the interested state. Contact names, phone numbers and addresses are provided in the `` FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT'' section of this Federal Register notice. Dated: December 17, 1994. Robert Perciasepe, Assistant Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31816 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
