FR940111-1-00028 FR940111-1-00008 Additional Topics As the working group's objective was not only to create a risk disclosure statement that categorized existing disclosure requirements in most jurisdictions but also to incorporate new matters deemed relevant in an evolving marketplace, the generic statement also contains the following additional topics. 1. Supporting Systems The current draft generic disclosure statement would briefly disclose the fact that most open-outcry and electronic trading facilities are supported by computer-based component systems, which are vulnerable to temporary disruption or failure. 2. Electronic Trading Differences in electronic trading systems are such that a common disclosure appropriate to the specifics of each such system may not be feasible and, in the case of domestic contract market electronic systems, the draft generic disclosure statement would not substitute for disclosure requirements that currently are required by individual contract markets for such systems. However, as the purpose of the draft generic disclosure statement is to articulate general risks common to futures and options trading, it is possible in the case of electronic systems to identify the risks common to any such system, such as the possibility of system failure and that the liability of the system provider may be limited. No attempt has been made to describe in detail the specifics of any one system. On the contrary, the proposed disclosure text encourages the customer to ask the firm with which it is dealing for details in this respect. 3. Off-Exchange Trading The draft generic disclosure statement also contains a reference to the risks of off-exchange trading. The international working group drafting the consolidated disclosure statement concluded that such a provision, if worded appropriately, would not mislead or confuse customers in those jurisdictions which, for example, do not permit retail customers to participate in off-exchange markets. Request For Comment The Commission is inviting public comment and suggestions generally on the draft text of the generic risk disclosure statement so that any material public concerns can be considered by the Commission. The Commission also requests public comment on whether the use of a generic disclosure statement to substitute for current disclosures contained in rules 1.55, 33.7, 190.10 and Commission orders and Advisories regarding disclosures related to futures-style margining of option premiums allowed by certain foreign exchanges would be most useful if made mandatory for certain categories of registrants, and if so, which categories should be included, and whether use should be limited to firms doing cross-border business or more broadly available.
