FR940916-1-00112 FR940916-1-00016 FRA's general rule of thumb as to whether a trip constitutes a ``train movement'' requires five or more cars traveling a distance of at least one mile without a stop to set off or pick up a car and not moving for the purpose of assembling or disassembling a train. However, FRA may consider movements of less than one mile ``train movements'' if various circumstances exist. In determining whether a particular movement constitutes a ``train movement,'' FRA conducts a multi-factor analysis based upon the discussions contained in various court decisions on the subject. See e.g., United States v. Seaboard Air Line Railroad Co. , 361 U.S. 78 (1959); Louisville & Jeffersonville Bridge Co. v. United States , 249 U.S. 543 (1919). The following factors are taken into consideration by FRA: the purpose of the movement; the distance travelled without a stop to set out or pick up cars; the number of cars hauled; and the hazards associated with the particular route travelled (e.g., the existence of public or private crossings with or without crossing protection, the steepness of the grade, the existence of curves, any other conditions that minimize the locomotive engineer's sight distance, and any other conditions that may create a greater need for power brakes during the movement). The existence of any of these hazards would tend to weigh towards the finding of a ``train movement,'' since these are the types of hazards against which the power brake provisions of the Safety Appliance Acts were designed to give protection. Section 232.319. This section involves the performance of running tests on trains equipped with dynamic brakes. As discussed earlier, although FRA does not feel that dynamic brakes should be required, FRA does feel that if the devices are present the engineer should be informed of their status. In addition, every commenter stated that in order to completely test dynamic brakes the train must be moving. Consequently, in order to provide the engineer with as much information as possible on the performance of dynamic brakes, FRA proposes to require that a running test of the dynamic brake be made when the speed of the train permits on those trains equipped with dynamic brakes. FRA is aware that train handling considerations may make this difficult or even impossible at certain locations and solicits comments on fashioning a fully practicable requirement. Section 232.321. This section contains the requirements for performing the ``freight single car test'' and the ``periodic freight brake test'', which cite to the current AAR manual covering single car tests on freight cars. The ``periodic freight brake test'' is basically what the industry currently refers to as a ``repair track test.'' FRA has changed the terminology in order to avoid confusion over where and when this type of test is to be performed. See the analysis of subpart G for a further discussion of these tests.
