FR940325-2-00009 FR940325-2-00004 On November 15 and 24, 1993, respectively, Lafarge and Lehigh requested a public hearing. On December 14, 1993, the Department issued a second set of supplemental questionnaires for sales of both classes or kinds of merchandise. Respondent submitted home market sales data for flux and responses to the Department's second set of supplemental questionnaires on December 23 and 29, 1993, respectively. On January 3, 1994, respondent submitted certain corrections to the cost and sales data reported in its previous questionnaire responses. The Department conducted verification of the cost and sales responses of LFI and LCA from January 10 through January 20, 1994, in Paris, France and Chesapeake, Virginia. Petitioner and respondent filed case and rebuttal briefs on February 14 and 18, 1994, respectively. On February 16, 1994, the parties withdrew their requests for a public hearing which was scheduled to take place on February 18, 1994. Such or Similar Comparisons Regarding the CA cement and cement clinker class or kind of merchandise, we have determined that the products covered by this investigation constitute two ``such or similar'' categories of merchandise: CA cement and CA cement clinker. We made fair value comparisons on this basis. Since this investigation was initiated during a period in which certain simplification procedures were in effect (see the preliminary determination), we conducted the home market viability test based on the class or kind of merchandise, rather than on the such or similar category. In order to determine whether there was a sufficient volume of sales in the home market to serve as a viable basis for calculating foreign market value (FMV), we compared the volume of home market sales of CA cement and cement clinker to the volume of third country sales of CA cement and cement clinker, in accordance with section 773(a)(1)(B) of the Act, and determined that the home market was viable for the CA cement and cement clinker class or kind. During the POI, CA cement clinker was the only product within the cement class or kind which was imported into the United States from France. Because there were no sales of such or similar merchandise (i.e., clinker) in the home market during the POI to compare to U.S. sales, we made comparisons on the basis of CV (see the ``Fair Value Comparisons'' section of this notice), in accordance with section 773(a)(2) of the Act. Regarding the CA flux class or kind of merchandise, we determined that the products covered by this investigation comprise a single ``such or similar'' category of merchandise and that the home market was viable. Where there were no sales of identical merchandise in the home market during the POI to compare to U.S. sales, we made similar merchandise comparisons on the basis of size (i.e., degree of crushing/screening), in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act (see the ``Fair Value Comparisons'' section of this notice). We made adjustments for differences in the physical characteristics of the merchandise, in accordance with section 773(a)(4)(C) of the Act.
