FR940106-1-00040 FR940106-1-00008 Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Stop calibration, substitute proper calibrating equipment, and restart calibration. Abatement Period: Prior to completion of calibration. 5. Documentation of the certification/recertification of the calibrating equipment shall be available to the authorized officer at the time of calibration. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Provide documentation. Abatement Period: 20 days. 6. The accuracy of the recording device(s) shall be tested following initial meter installation and following repairs. Meters measuring more than 100 Mcf per day on a monthly basis shall be tested at least quarterly. Meters measuring 100 Mcf per day or less on a monthly basis shall be tested at least semi-annually. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Test meter for accuracy. Abatement Period: a. 24 hours for initial meter installation or following repairs. b. 30 days to conduct the quarterly or semi-annual meter test, as applicable. 7. The authorized officer shall be notified in writing of all meter calibrations. Calibration schedules covering monthly, quarterly, semiannual, or annual periods shall be submitted at least 10 days prior to the date of the first calibration on the schedule. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Submit the calibration schedule, as required. Abatement Period: Prior to next calibration. 8. If the inaccuracy in the recording device(s) results in a volume calculation more than 1 percent in error, the volume measured since the last calibration shall be corrected. However, if the magnitude of the volume error is less than 200 Mcf per month, it will not be pursued unless it occurs on a continuing basis. In that case, the meter shall be adjusted in accordance with Sections III.D.2. and III.D.3. Also, the operator shall submit a report adjusting the volumes of gas measured, and showing or discussing all calculations made in correcting the volumes. The volumes shall be corrected back to the time the inaccuracy occurred, if known. If this time is unknown, volumes shall be corrected for the last half of the period elapsed since the date of last calibration. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Submit report with adjusted volumes. Abatement Period: 60 days. 9. All meter calibration report forms shall include the following information, if applicable, and shall be submitted to the authorized officer upon request. a. Name of producer or seller; b. Name of purchaser; c. Federal or Indian lease number, communitization agreement number, or unit name or number and participating area identification; d. Station or meter number; e. Meter data (make, differential, and static and temperature range, recording period); f. Type of connections (flange or pipe, upstream or downstream static connections); g. Orifice data (plate size and ID of meter tube); h. Time and date of test; i. Instrument error(s) found and certification of corrections, and ``as found'' and ``as left'' data for all instruments;
