FR940627-0-00113 FR940627-0-00019 III. Overview of Program Requirements A. Overall Scope and Approach The requirements of this rule apply to all types of F/FAs which have been designated to be registered by EPA (see Section III.A.3). Based on the provisions of CAA section 211(e), the requirements must be satisfied both by manufacturers of F/FA products registered at the time of promulgation as well as manufacturers of F/FA products seeking registration after promulgation. Considering the large number of F/FA products to be evaluated and the potential burden of the program on the regulated industry, this final rule maintains the grouping system and the tiered approach proposed in the NPRM. The grouping system allows manufacturers of similar products to share the costs of testing. Rather than mandating comprehensive testing as a routine registration requirement for every registered fuel and fuel additive, the grouping system permits the testing of one product as a representative of all relatively similar products (see Section IV of this preamble). In addition, the testing program is designed to address testing needs on a tiered basis, with allowance for more rigorous, resource-intensive requirements contained in each successive tier. A detailed description of the scope and requirements of each individual tier is provided in Sections VII, VIII, and IX of this preamble, and procedures for generating the emissions to be tested are explained in Section VI. Additional special provisions to reduce the burden on the regulated industry are discussed in Section X. EPA believes that the program required by this final rule is consistent with the CAA and reflects a reasonable and cost-conscious approach to a very complex regulatory area. The following sections present a general overview of the main provisions of the rule. 1. Tiered Approach As depicted in Figure 1, the registration program's requirements are organized within a three-tier structure. In part, each tier is intended to function as a screen for determining the need for more rigorous requirements in subsequent tiers. Consistent with CAA section 211(e)(3), which authorizes EPA to avoid duplication of effort, the tiered approach permits F/FA manufacturers to use test results and other information which may already be available about their products. BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSER27JN94.000 BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;C
