FR941028-2-00188 FR941028-2-00109 All persons placed on preventive therapy should be educated regarding the possible adverse reactions associated with INH use, and they should be questioned carefully at monthly intervals by qualified personnel for signs or symptoms consistent with liver damage or other adverse effects ( 81&hyph;84,88,90,91 ). Because INH-associated hepatitis occurs more frequently among persons >35 years of age, a transaminase measurement should be obtained from persons in this age group before initiation of INH therapy and then obtained monthly until treatment has been completed. Other factors associated with an increased risk for hepatitis include daily alcohol use, chronic liver disease, and injecting-drug use. In addition, postpubertal black and Hispanic women may be at greater risk for hepatitis or drug interactions ( 92 ). More careful clinical monitoring of persons with these risk factors and possibly more frequent laboratory monitoring should be considered. If any of these tests exceeds three to five times the upper limit of normal, discontinuation of INH should be strongly considered. Liver function tests are not a substitute for monthly clinical evaluations or for the prompt assessment of signs or symptoms of adverse reactions that could occur between the regularly scheduled evaluations ( 33 ). Persons who have latent TB infection should be advised that they can be reinfected with another strain of M. tuberculosis ( 93 ). B. Treatment of Patients Who Have Active TB Drug-susceptibility testing should be performed on all initial isolates from patients with TB. However, test results may not be available for several weeks, making selection of an initial regimen difficult, especially in areas where drug-resistant TB has been documented. Current recommendations for therapy and dosage schedules for the treatment of drug-susceptible TB should be followed (Table S2&hyph;2; Table S2&hyph;3) ( 43 ). Streptomycin is contraindicated in the treatment of pregnant women because of the risk for ototoxicity to the fetus. In geographic areas or facilities in which drug-resistant TB is highly prevalent, the initial treatment regimen used while results of drug-susceptibility tests are pending may need to be expanded. This decision should be based on analysis of surveillance data. When results from drug-susceptibility tests become available, the regimen should be adjusted appropriately ( 94&hyph;97 ). If drug resistance is present, clinicians unfamiliar with the management of patients with drug-resistant TB should seek expert consultation. For any regimen to be effective, adherence to the regimen must be ensured. The most effective method of ensuring adherence is the use of DOT after the patient has been discharged from the hospital ( 43,91 ). This practice should be coordinated with the public health department.
