FR940722-0-00067 FR940722-0-00017 A status review was first initiated for the southern Rocky Mountain population of B. b. boreas by a notice of review published January 6, 1989 (54 FR 554). At that time the population was designated as a category 2 candidate, meaning that more information was needed before a decision could be made as to whether this population should be listed. Boreal toads were once common throughout much of the higher elevations in Colorado (Burger and Bragg 1946, Smith et al. 1965, Hammerson 1989) and in the Snowy and Sierra Madre Ranges of southeastern Wyoming (Baxter and Stone 1985). Boreal toads were found at only three localities at the southern periphery of their range in the San Juan Mountains of New Mexico; Lagunitas, Canjilon, and Trout Lakes (Campbell and Degenhardt 1971, Jones 1978, New Mexico Department of Game and Fish 1988). Declines in isolated demes were first documented in New Mexico in the mid-1980's (Woodward and Mitchell 1985, Carey 1987) and in Colorado and southern Wyoming from 1986 through 1988 (Corn et al. 1989). Boreal toads are listed as endangered by the State of New Mexico and are thought to be extirpated (New Mexico Department of Game and Fish 1988). Surveys conducted in 1989 and 1993 revealed no populations at the three previously known San Juan Mountain locations in Rio Arriba County, New Mexico (Charlie Painter, New Mexico Department of Game and Fish, pers. comm., 1993). Carey (1993) also documented the extirpation of 11 demes in the Elk and West Elk Mountains of west-central Colorado. Corn et al. (1989) found that boreal toads were absent from 83 percent of locations in Colorado previously known to contain toads. Subsequent surveys conducted by the Service and others in Colorado indicate that boreal toads continue to disappear from traditional localities or are absent from locations that contain suitable habitat (Steve Corn, National Biological Survey, unpubl. data, 1993; Hammerson 1989). No toad demes have been confirmed in Wyoming since 1987 (S. Corn, pers. comm., 1993). No single factor known to cause direct loss of boreal toads in the southern Rocky Mountain population appears to be producing range-wide declines. Those factors that appear capable of affecting a population throughout all or most of its range cannot currently be linked to the decline of the southern Rocky Mountain population of the boreal toad. Low impact recreational activities such as hiking, camping, wildlife viewing, nonmotorized boating, and fishing may occasionally disrupt breeding pairs or trample recently metamorphosed juveniles along shorelines (Campbell 1970). High impact resource management strategies such as timber and grazing may alter or cause the destruction of boreal toad habitat. Other factors that may directly impact boreal toads are water retention projects, changes in water availability, competition and predation by native and nonnative species, and fishery management activities. State agencies have regulations to protect the southern Rocky Mountain population of the boreal toad from ``take,'' but these measures in general do nothing to protect the toad's habitat from degradation or to protect the toads from other threats. Factors that may cause indirect loss of toads include acid rain, pollution, and ultraviolet radiation. The potential effects of acid rain, pollution, ultraviolet radiation, and natural population fluctuations remain unknown and may be working synergistically with other environmental or anthropogenic factors to cause declines in toad populations. Carey (1987, 1993) indicated that the proximate cause of the widespread decline of boreal toads in northern New Mexico and west-central Colorado was a result of infection by Aeromonas hydrophila bacteria (red-leg disease). However, A. hydrophila is common in the microfauna carried by amphibians, and it does not cause infection or death in healthy individuals. As a result, toads likely were stressed by other adverse environmental factors, such as those mentioned above, and later succumbed to A. hydrophila infection (Carey 1987). A species may be determined to be an endangered or threatened species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1) of the Act. The five factors are: A. The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range; B. Overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes; C. Diseases or predation;
