FR940425-1-00011 FR940425-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;63&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Airbus Model A320 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking; reopening of comment period. SUMMARY: This document revises an earlier proposed airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Airbus Model A320 series airplanes, that would have required revising the Limitations Section of the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to prohibit the airplane from extended overwater operations. That proposal was prompted by a report that, during an emergency evacuation demonstration, the lanyard connecting the survival kit to the slide/raft became entangled on the girt bar indicator mechanism, and subsequently prevented an exit door from opening fully to a locked position. This action revises the proposed rule by deleting the previously proposed AFM limitation; and requiring either the removal of the girt bar visual indicator brackets on passenger exit doors or modification of the lanyard. The actions specified by this proposed AD are intended to prevent the lanyard from becoming entangled and interfering with proper opening of the exit door, a situation which could impede the successful evacuation of passengers through the door during an overwater operation where ditching is required. DATES: Comments must be received by May 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;63&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen Slotte, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2797; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 93&hyph;NM&hyph;63&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter.
