FR940303-2-00084 FR940303-2-00055 In rendering this opinion we [I] have, with your approval, relied as to certain matters of fact set forth in the Owner's Opinion Certificate, the Certificate of Good Standing [and certain other specified Documents,] as set forth herein. After reasonable inquiry of the Owner as to the accuracy and completeness of the Owner's Opinion Certificate, the Certificate of Good Standing, [and such other Documents], and we [I] have no knowledge of any facts or information that would lead us [me] to believe that such reliance is not justified. Based on the foregoing and subject to the assumptions and qualifications set forth in this letter, it is our [my] opinion that: [To be used in cases where organizational documents were prepared by owner's attorney] 1. The Owner is a XXXXXX [Insert Type of Entity] [for 202, Private Non-Profit Corporation and For 811, Institution or Foundation], duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the Organizational Jurisdiction. The Owner is duly qualified to do business and, based solely on the Certificate(s) of Good Standing, copy attached hereto as Exhibit XXX , is in good standing under the laws of the Organizational Jurisdiction and is qualified to do business as a foreign entity in the Property Jurisdiction. 2. The Owner has the power and authority and possesses all necessary governmental certificates, permits, licenses, qualifications, tax exempt status and approvals to own (including the authority to borrow the proceeds of the Capital Advance, to encumber the Property with the Security Instrument, to execute the Capital Advance Documents) and operate the Property and such other assets as is necessary to carry on its business and to carry out all of the transactions contemplated by the Capital Advance Documents and Collateral Documents as of the date of this opinion and to comply with all applicable statutes and regulations of the Federal Housing Commissioner in effect on the date of the Firm Commitment. 3. The execution and delivery of the Capital Advance Documents and Collateral Documents (where applicable) by or on behalf of the Owner, and the consummation by the Owner of the transactions contemplated thereby, and the performance by the Owner of its obligations thereunder, have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary action by, or on behalf of, the Owner. 4. No authorization, consent, approval, or other action by, or filing with, any Organizational and Property Jurisdictions or federal court or governmental authority other than those that have been obtained, as disclosed on Exhibit XXXX , attached hereto, and those listed at Paragraphs XXXX of this opinion [i.e., good standing certificate] are required in connection with the execution and delivery by the Owner of the Capital Advance Documents or Collateral Documents (where applicable) or the ownership [and operation] of the Property. 5. Each of the Capital Advance Documents and Collateral Documents (where applicable) has been duly executed and delivered by the Owner and constitutes the valid and legally binding promises or obligations of the Owner, enforceable against the Owner in accordance with its terms, subject to the following qualifications: (i) the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally; and (ii) the effect of the exercise of judicial discretion in accordance with general principles of equity (whether applied by a court of law or of equity). 6. The execution and delivery of, and the performance of the obligations under, the Capital Advance Documents and Collateral Documents (where applicable), will not violate the Organizational Documents of the Owner or the applicable statutes and regulations of HUD in effect on the date of the Firm Commitment.
