FR941230-0-00087 FR941230-0-00017 Response: NMFS disapproved the proposed red snapper bag limit of zero for operators and crews of vessels operating as a headboat or charter vessel. Review of the administrative record indicated little justification or rationale for the measure and insufficient analysis supporting its implementation. NMFS determined that the record does not provide specific and sufficient information to support the conclusion that this measure is consistent with national standard 4 of the Magnuson Act that requires management measures with allocation effects to be fair and equitable to all fishermen. Moreover, a report by the Southeast Fisheries Science Center indicated that any conservation benefits from the zero bag limit, in addition to those benefits provided by the approved measures, would be sufficiently small to be unmeasurable. Should the Council consider proposing this measure again for subsequent fishing years, NMFS has recommended that the Council evaluate the equity of allocation issues associated with the zero bag limit that were either not discussed in or unresolved by the regulatory amendment. Additional Issues Comment: The minority report opposing the regulatory amendment noted that the Council was provided, at recent meetings, new information indicating the possibility of a 50- to 60-percent reduction in shrimp trawl bycatch of juvenile red snapper. However, the rebuilding schedule is based on a shrimp trawl bycatch reduction goal of 50 percent, and the benefits of a 60-percent reduction were not analyzed. A letter from a charter vessel and headboat association indicated that reduced shrimping effort already has decreased shrimp trawl bycatch of red snapper. Response: The red snapper stock assessment indicates that recovery of the overfished resource is dependent on reducing shrimp trawl bycatch of juvenile red snapper by 50 percent. A prior amendment to the Magnuson Act prohibited mandatory reductions of shrimp trawl bycatch before the year 1994. NMFS and the Council are working cooperatively with universities, states, and the fishing industry to develop satisfactory methods of reducing the red snapper bycatch to this level, which has not yet been achieved. The new data indicating the possibility of a 60 percent reduction are considered preliminary at this time. The Center commented that currently no scientific evidence indicates that the estimates achieving a higher bycatch reduction than 50 percent are the best available data. Once this new scientific information is accepted as the best available, it will be considered in the management decision process. Comment: One public comment suggested that the current regulations should be enforced properly, instead of NMFS implementing more restrictive catch limits. Response: NMFS agrees with the need for effective enforcement. However, NMFS disagrees with the suggestion of not implementing more conservative red snapper limit. As discussed in this rule, such action is necessary to prevent overfishing of red snapper. Comment: A public comment stated that the 1993 commercial season was closed once the quota for that year was met, then was reopened for 2 additional weeks. Response: Review of the administrative record indicated that the commercial red snapper season was not reopened in 1993, as indicated in this comment. Comment: The minority report objecting to continuing with the seven-fish bag limit stated that the FMP's provisions are inequitable by requiring closure of the annual commercial fishery for the rest of the fishing year once the annual quota is projected to be met, while allowing recreational fishermen to exceed their allocation. Response: The reef fish regulations require closure of the commercial sector for the remainder of the fishing season once the quota is met. In contrast, recreational anglers are regulated year-round by reef fish bag limits designed to approximate the overall recreational allocation based on harvest projections available at that time. Should either the commercial or recreational sector exceed their respective annual allocation, the FMP provides for compensatory adjustments in subsequent fishing years to comply with the rebuilding schedule. The FMP does not provide for an automatic closure of the recreational fishery for the remainder of the fishing year, once the recreational allocation is harvested. Such a change would have to be accomplished by an amendment to the FMP.
