FR940323-1-00056 FR940323-1-00007 Wednesday March 23, 1994 Part IV Environmental Protection Agency 40 CFR Parts 123, 124, et al. Indian Tribes: Eligibility of Indian Tribes for Program Authorization; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 56␣/␣Wednesday, March 23, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Parts 123, 124, 131, 142, 144, 145, 233, and 501 [FRL&hyph;4852&hyph;1] Indian Tribes: Eligibility of Indian Tribes for Program Authorization AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed amendments. SUMMARY: The Clean Water and Safe Drinking Water Acts contain provisions which authorize EPA to treat Indian tribes in substantially the same manner in which it treats states for purposes of various types of financial assistance and program authorization. This action proposes amendments to regulations addressing the role of Indian tribes under both Acts. The purpose of these proposed amendments is to make it easier for tribes to obtain EPA approval to assume the role Congress envisioned for them under these statutes. DATES: EPA will accept comments on the proposed amendments in this package until May 23, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments must be mailed (in duplicate, if possible) to C. Marshall Cain, Office of Federal Activities (A&hyph;104), Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. The docket for this rule and copies of the public documents submitted will be available for public inspection and copying at a reasonable fee at EPA Headquarters Library, Public Information Reference Unit, room 2904, 401 M Street, telephone (202) 260&hyph;5926. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: C. Marshall Cain, Office of Federal Activities, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington DC 20460 at (202) 260&hyph;8792. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This preamble is organized according to the following outline: I. Introduction. II. Regulations Governing Eligibility of Indian Tribes. A. The Existing Process. 1. Recognition and a Government. 2. Jurisdiction and Capability. 3. Comment Process. 4. Subsequent Tribal Applications. B. Workgroup Examination of Process. III. Revisions to the Process in Light of Statutory Requirements. A. Simplified Determination as To Recognition and Government. B. Case by Case Review of Jurisdiction and Capability. 1. Simplified Jurisdictional Analysis. 2. Capability. IV. Summary of Revised Process. V. Executive Order 12866. VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act. VII. Paperwork Reduction Act. I. Introduction: Statutory and Regulatory Background Under its American Indian Policy, EPA works directly with tribal governments as ``sovereign entities with primary authority and responsibility for the reservation populace.'' At the time the Policy was adopted in 1984, the environmental statutes which EPA administers generally did not explicitly address the role of tribes in environmental management, but provided for a joint state and federal role in environmental management. Subsequently, three EPA regulatory statutes have been amended to address the tribal role specifically by authorizing EPA to treat tribes in a manner similar to that in which it treats states: the Clean Water Act (CWA), the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), and the Clean Air Act (CAA). 1 1 In addition, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA or ``Superfund''), which is primarily a response, rather than a regulatory statute, has also been amended to authorize EPA to treat tribal governments in substantially the same way it treats states with respect to selected provisions of the statute. EPA recognizes that tribes are sovereign nations with a unique legal status and a relationship to the federal government that is significantly different than that of states. EPA believes that Congress did not intend to alter this when it authorized treatment of tribes ``as States;'' rather, the purpose of the statutory amendments was to reflect an intent that, insofar as possible, tribes should assume a role in implementing the environmental statutes on tribal land comparable to the role states play on state land. All three regulatory statutes specify that, in order to receive such treatment, a tribe must be federally recognized and possess a governing body carrying out substantial duties and powers. 33 U.S.C. 1377 (e), (h) (CWA); 42 U.S.C. 300j&hyph;11 (SDWA); 42 U.S.C. 7601(d) (CAA). In addition, although there are some variations in language among the three statutes, each requires that a tribe possess civil regulatory jurisdiction to carry out the functions it seeks to exercise. 2 Finally, all three require that a tribe be reasonably expected to be capable of carrying out those functions. 2 Under the Clean Water Act, the tribe must propose to carry out functions that ``pertain to the management and protection of water resources which are held by an Indian tribe, held by the United States in trust for Indians, held by a member of an Indian tribe if such property interest is subject to a trust restriction on alienation, or otherwise within the borders of an Indian reservation.'' 33␣U.S.C. 1377(e)(2). Under the Clean Air Act, ``the functions to be exercised by the Indian tribe (must) pertain to the management and protection of air resources within the exterior boundaries of the reservation or other areas within the tribe's jurisdiction.'' 42 U.S.C. 7601(d)(2)(B). Under the SDWA, the tribe must propose to exercise functions ``within the area of the Tribal Government's jurisdiction.'' 42 U.S.C. 300j&hyph;11 (b)(1)(B). The Agency initially chose to implement provisions of the Clean Water and Safe Drinking Water Acts regarding Indian tribes by establishing a formal prequalification process under which tribes can seek eligibility under these statutes. This prequalification process has in the past been referred to as approval for ``treatment as a state'' (``TAS''). Tribes that obtain such approval then become eligible to apply for certain grants and program approvals available to states. 3 3 By contrast, the provision of CERCLA authorizing EPA to afford a tribal government ``substantially the same treatment as a State'' does not establish any specific criteria a tribe must meet to qualify for such treatment. 42 U.S.C. 9626. EPA has established, by regulation, the criteria of recognition, a government, and jurisdiction, but has not adopted a formal prequalification process under CERCLA. See 40 CFR 300.515(b). The Agency is developing regulations pertaining to the treatment of American Indian tribes under the Clean Air Act.
