FR940902-0-00060 FR940902-0-00010 A few commenters expressed concern with the PIC responsibility for oversight as it relates to the Governor and the chief elected official. The commenters suggested that the PIC should be allowed flexibility to determine the type and amount of PIC oversight. Section 103(a) of the Act states that it shall be the responsibility of the PIC to provide policy guidance for, and exercise oversight with respect to, activities under the job training plan for its SDA in partnership with the unit or units of local government within its SDA. The Department agrees that it is primarily the responsibility of the PIC to determine its monitoring and oversight role. While the regulations give the Governor a role in PIC oversight in an overall context, the Department does not expect any guidelines issued by the Governor to be overly prescriptive. Therefore, the PIC should have a great deal of flexibility in setting its monitoring role. No change is made to the final regulation. Governor's Authority to Remedy Violations In reviewing the interim final regulations, the Department realized that it had not fully implemented section 164(b) of the Act in the regulations. Sections 627.477 and 627.607 are added to complete the regulatory implementation of section 164(b) regarding the Governor's actions where there are substantial violations of the Act or the regulations and corrective actions have not been taken. Conforming changes have been made in §§627.601(b), 627.471(a) and 627.702. These added provisions and changes are not intended to modify or expand on the plain meaning of the statute. Audits and Audit Resolution Because there are both non-profit and commercial organizations which are direct recipients of JTPA Title III program funds, the language at §627.480(a)(2) and (3) is modified by the addition of the term ``recipients'', as well as by substituting the term ``organizations'' for ``subrecipient'' in paragraph (a)(2). The interim final regulations implied that non-profit and commercial organizations can only be subrecipients. Audits of Commercial Organizations Several commenters raised questions concerning the audit requirement for ``commercial organizations''. A few commenters wanted clarification concerning whether or not the audits of proprietary schools, which are required by the U.S. Department of Education because of their involvement with Pell grants and other subsidies, would satisfy the JTPA audit requirement. One commenter was concerned that the regulation did not provide a timeframe within which these audits were to be completed, and another expressed concern that the requirement for an annual audit was more frequent than that for non-profit institutions. The regulation, at §627.480(a)(3), is amended to provide for audit timeframes and frequencies that are consistent with the OMB Circular A&hyph;133 requirements for non-profit organizations. This provision also provides the option of either a Federal funds audit or an organization-wide audit as long as the audit includes financial and compliance coverage of the JTPA program within its scope. The option of a Federal funds audit should be satisfied by the audit required by the U.S. Department of Education so long as it includes financial and compliance coverage of the JTPA program within its scope. A few commenters requested clarification concerning the audit requirement for OJT employers, commercial off-the-shelf training packages, tuition-based individual referral contracts, and other ``vendor'' type arrangements. The regulation imposes an audit requirement only on organizations that are ``subrecipients'' and not on those that are ``vendors''. A few commenters asked if the regulation prohibited a Governor (this would also apply to any awarding agency) from procuring a program specific audit for commercial organizations and directing them to exclude JTPA from their organization-wide audit. The regulation only talks to the requirement to have an audit done, not to who will procure and/or conduct the audit. If the awarding agency and its subrecipient agree that the awarding agency will procure and/or conduct the audit, the requirement of the regulation would be satisfied. Responsibility for Subrecipient Audits A few commenters had difficulty with the language at §627.480(d). One of these commenters thought that the regulation went beyond OMB Circular A&hyph;128 and required that debt collection be completed within the 6-month resolution period. This is not the case. When costs are disallowed and debt collection is the appropriate sanction, those efforts should be initiated or started within the 6 month period. This often is accomplished by including appropriate language in a final determination. However, the actual repayment most often occurs after the 6-month resolution period. Also, debt collection efforts are often put on hold when a final determination is appealed. To address these concerns, the parenthetical reference in paragraph (d)(2) is moved to the end, and the phrase ``where appropriate,'' is inserted. Paragraph (d)(3) is divided into two sentences. Waivers of Liability One commenter pointed out a conflict between §627.480(f) and §627.704(a). Paragraph (f) is removed from this section and added to §627.704. The remaining paragraphs of §627.480 are redesignated.
