FR940803-0-00124 FR940803-0-00040 Subpart C_[Amended] 16. A new §600.201&hyph;93 is added to subpart C to read as follows: §600.201&hyph;93 General applicability. The provisions of this subpart are applicable to 1993 and later model year gasoline-fueled, diesel-fueled, alcohol-fueled, natural gas-fueled, alcohol dual fuel, and natural gas dual fuel automobiles. 17. A new §600.206&hyph;93 is added to subpart C to read as follows: §600.206&hyph;93 Calculation and use of fuel economy values for gasoline-fueled, diesel-fueled, electric, alcohol-fueled, natural gas-fueled, alcohol dual fuel, and natural gas dual fuel vehicle configurations. (a) Fuel economy values determined for each vehicle, and as approved in §600.008 (b) or (f), are used to determine city, highway, and combined fuel economy values for each vehicle configuration (as determined by the Administrator) for which data are available. (1) If only one set of city and highway fuel economy values is accepted for a vehicle configuration, these values, rounded to the nearest tenth of a mile per gallon, comprise the city and highway fuel economy values for that configuration. (2) If more than one city or highway fuel economy value is accepted for a vehicle configuration: (i) All data shall be grouped according to the subconfiguration for which the data were generated using sales projections supplied in accordance with §600.207(a)(3). (ii) Within each group of data, all values are harmonically averaged and rounded to the nearest 0.0001 of a mile per gallon in order to determine city and highway fuel economy values for each subconfiguration at which the vehicle configuration was tested. (iii) All city fuel economy values and all highway fuel economy values calculated in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section are (separately for city and highway) averaged in proportion to the sales fraction (rounded to the nearest 0.0001) within the vehicle configuration (as provided to the Administrator by the manufacturer) of vehicles of each tested subconfiguration. The resultant values, rounded to the nearest 0.0001 mile per gallon, are the city and highway fuel economy values for the vehicle configuration. (3) The combined fuel economy value for a vehicle configuration is calculated by harmonically averaging the city and highway fuel economy values, as determined in §600.206(a) (1) or (2), weighted 0.55 and 0.45 respectively, and rounded to the nearest 0.0001 mile per gallon. A sample of this calculation appears in Appendix II to this part. (4) For alcohol dual fuel automobiles and natural gas dual fuel automobiles the procedures of paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section shall be used to calculate two separate sets of city, highway, and combined fuel economy values for each configuration. (i) Calculate the city, highway, and combined fuel economy values from the tests performed using gasoline or diesel test fuel. (ii) Calculate the city, highway, and combined fuel economy values from the tests performed using alcohol or natural gas test fuel. (b) If only one equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy value exists for an electric configuration, that value, rounded to the nearest tenth of a mile per gallon, will compose the petroleum-based fuel economy for that configuration. (c) If more than one equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy value exists for an electric vehicle configuration, all values for that vehicle configuration are harmonically averaged and rounded to the nearest 0.0001 mile per gallon for that configuration. 18. A new §600.207&hyph;93 is added to subpart C to read as follows: §600.207&hyph;93 Calculation of fuel economy values for a model type. (a) Fuel economy values for a base level are calculated from vehicle configuration fuel economy values as determined in §600.206(a) for low-altitude tests. (1) If the Administrator determines that automobiles intended for sale in the State of California are likely to exhibit significant differences in fuel economy from those intended for sale in other states, he will calculate fuel economy values for each base level for vehicles intended for sale in California and for each base level for vehicles intended for sale in the rest of the states. (2) In order to highlight the fuel efficiency of certain designs otherwise included within a model type, a manufacturer may wish to subdivide a model type into one or more additional model types. This is accomplished by separating subconfigurations from an existing base level and placing them into a new base level. The new base level is identical to the existing base level except that it shall be considered, for the purposes of this paragraph, as containing a new basic engine. The manufacturer will be permitted to designate such new basic engines and base level(s) if: (i) Each additional model type resulting from division of another model type has a unique car line name and that name appears on the label and on the vehicle bearing that label; (ii) The subconfigurations included in the new base levels are not included in any other base level which differs only by basic engine (i.e., they are not included in the calculation of the original base level fuel economy values); and (iii) All subconfigurations within the new base level are represented by test data in accordance with §600.010(c)(ii). (3) The manufacturer shall supply total model year sales projections for each car line/vehicle subconfiguration combination. (i) Sales projections must be supplied separately for each car line-vehicle subconfiguration intended for sale in California and each car line/vehicle subconfiguration intended for sale in the rest of the states if required by the Administrator under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (ii) Manufacturers shall update sales projections at the time any model type value is calculated for a label value. (iii) The requirements of this paragraph may be satisfied by providing an amended application for certification, as described in §86.084&hyph;21 of this chapter. (4) Vehicle configuration fuel economy values, as determined in §600.206(a), are grouped according to base level. (i) If only one vehicle configuration within a base level has been tested, the fuel economy value from that vehicle configuration constitutes the fuel economy for that base level. (ii) If more than one vehicle configuration within a base level has been tested, the vehicle configuration fuel economy values are harmonically averaged in proportion to the respective sales fraction (rounded to the nearest 0.0001) of each vehicle configuration and the resultant fuel economy value rounded to the nearest 0.0001 mile per gallon. (5) The procedure specified in §600.207(a) will be repeated for each base level, thus establishing city, highway, and combined fuel economy values for each base level.
