FR941028-1-00021 FR941028-1-00004 Pursuant to proposed paragraphs (d) and (e) of Rule 36.3, section 4(c) contract market trading rules must be submitted to the Commission for review prior to being put into effect. 41 Such submitted rules may become effective ten days after receipt by the Commission unless the Commission, within that ten-day period, notifies the submitter that the proposal does not meet the conditions of this section. In the event the trading rules are not permitted to go into effect, they shall be subject to the usual rule approval procedures under Section 5a(a)(12)(A) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 7a(12), and Regulation 1.41(b), 17 CFR 1.41(b) (1994). In accordance with paragraph (f) of Rule 36.3, any subsequent proposed modifications of such rules shall be subject to the same Commission review procedures. 41 Section 4(c) contract market trading rules may be submitted prior to trading of section 4(c) contract market transactions or at any time after the transactions begin trading under Commission regulations. E. Listing of Section 4(c) Contract Market Transactions Proposed ยง36.4 provides that a board of trade which meets other requirements of the Act seeking an exemption for section 4(c) contract market transactions shall furnish to the Commission the terms and conditions of the transaction at least ten days prior to the proposed effective date. 42 Section 4(c) contract market transactions meeting the requirements of ยง36.2 may be traded or executed ten days after receipt of the submission unless, within the ten-day period, the Commission notifies the board of trade in writing that the submission does not meet the conditions of this section. 43 In that event, the terms and conditions of the transaction shall be subject to the usual rule approval procedures under Section 5a(a)(12)(A) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 7a(12), and Regulation 1.41(b), 17 CFR 1.41(b) (1994). The proposed rule further provides that any modification to the terms and conditions of a section 4(c) contract market transaction shall be submitted to the Commission. Such modification shall be subject to the same procedures applicable to the initial listing of section 4(c) contract market transactions. 42 As noted above, a board of trade which is not currently an exchange must first get initial designation as a contract market pursuant to Sections 5 and 5a of the Act (other than Section 5a(a)(12), which sets forth the procedures for Commission approval of terms and conditions of contracts and contract market rules). An initial designation generally requires the Commission to review and approve the applicant's core rules regarding, among other things, clearing, governance, and discipline. 43 Section 2(a)(8)(B)(ii) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 4a(g), allows forty-five days for the Department of the Treasury and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to comment on any application by a board of trade for designation as a contract market involving transactions for the future delivery of any security issued or guaranteed by the United States or any agency thereof. In light of the ten-day time frame for new filings and amendments, the Commission intends to waive Section 2(a)(8)(B)(ii) for section 4(c) contract market transactions. The Commission requests comment on waiving this provision. This limited, ten-day advance notice period for new filings and for amendments to existing terms and conditions is designed to remove potential impediments to the development of new products which are eligible for the proposed section 4(c) contract market transactions. The Commission believes that a streamlined approach will not only give the exchanges flexibility but also will permit them to launch new products rapidly to meet the competitive demands of the marketplace and to take advantage of opportunities in a fast-changing market. This procedure is limited to certain cash-settled contracts in order to avoid issues related to delivery. Although the proposed ten-day notification requirement for section 4(c) contract market transactions does not contemplate the same level of prior Commission review and approval of terms and conditions as is required by Commission Rule 1.41(b), 17 CFR 1.41(b) (1994), for contracts traded on traditional contract markets, the Commission has continuing authority to ensure that section 4(c) contract market transactions remain consistent with the public interest and the purposes of the Act. In this regard, proposed ยง36.8 provides that the Commission can suspend or revoke an exemption if it fails to meet these requirements. 44 44 Furthermore, under Rule 1.50, 17 CFR 1.50 (1994), at any time the Commission can request from a contract market demonstration of continued compliance with the requirements of contract market designation. In addition, the Commission retains its authority under Section 8a(7) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 12a(7), to alter or supplement contract market rules. The Commission requests comment on the ten-day advance notification period for the terms and conditions of section 4(c) contract market transactions. F. Reporting Requirements The Commission is proposing that contract markets, FCMs, and large traders who conduct section 4(c) contract market transactions comply with certain reporting requirements similar to those currently in effect for persons trading in non-exempt commodity futures and/or options. These requirements are being proposed in lieu of the requirements set forth in Parts 16, 17, 18, and 19 of the Commission regulations, 17 CFR Parts 16, 17, 18, and 19 (1994).
