FR941003-1-00072 FR941003-1-00006 ยง800.2 Definitions. (a) Act means the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470&hyph;470w&hyph;6. (b) Agency means agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551. (c) Agency Official means the Federal agency head or a designee with legal authority over a specific undertaking, including any State, local, or tribal government official who has been delegated legal responsibility for compliance with Section 106 in accordance with law. (d) Anticipatory Demolition means an action of an applicant who, with intent to avoid the requirements of Section 106, has intentionally significantly adversely affected a historic property to which an agency grant of a loan, loan guarantee, permit, license, or other assistance relates, or an inaction of an applicant who, having the legal power to prevent it, allowed such a significant adverse effect to occur. (e) Approval of the expenditure of funds means any final agency decision approving the eligibility of an undertaking for Federal funds or financial assistance, including any agency decision that may be subject to an administrative appeal or rehearing procedure and conditional decisions subject to reevaluation by the agency. (f) Area of potential effects means the geographic area or areas within which an undertaking may directly or indirectly cause changes, whether beneficial or adverse, to the character or use of historic properties, if any such properties exist. The area of potential effects is not limited to land under Federal jurisdiction or control or land within a Federal construction, right-of-way, or permit area. (See Appendix A of this part for further discussion). (g) Comment means the findings and recommendations of the Council membership formally provided in writing to the head of a Federal agency under Section 106. (h) Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement means an agreement between an Agency Official and a State Historic Preservation Officer that an undertaking will have no adverse effect, because the undertaking is being conducted in accordance with specified conditions. (i) Consultation means the good faith process of seeking, discussing, and considering the views of other participants in the Section 106 process as set forth in ยง800.1(b). (j) Council means the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation or a Council member or employee designated to act for the Council.
