FR940429-0-00077 FR940429-0-00010 Finally, with regard to the concern about extending the requirement to have a standard assessing student achievement to institutions whose accreditation does not serve Title IV, HEA program purposes, the Secretary wishes to note that the overriding concern of the statute, as expressed in section 496(a) of the HEA, is that accrediting agency standards must contain a measure or measures of student achievement. Therefore, it is the Secretary's belief that extending the requirement to all agencies, not just those whose accreditation serves Title IV, HEA purposes, is warranted. Changes: Paragraph 602.26(b) contains only the statutory language for the 12 required standards. Other changes to ยง602.26 are discussed below. Section 602.26(b)(13) The Institution's Practice of Making Refunds to Students Comments: Many commenters objected to the inclusion of this requirement in the regulations on the grounds that section 496(g) of the HEA explicitly states that the Secretary may not establish standards for accrediting agencies that are not required by section 496. This point was argued by non-Federal negotiators during negotiated rulemaking as well. Discussion: The Secretary has carefully reviewed the statutory provision on which this requirement was based and has also reexamined the requirement in light of refund policies established in the Student Assistance General Provisions, 34 CFR part 668. It is the Secretary's belief that the regulatory language contained in 34 CFR part 668 is sufficient by itself to ensure that an institution's refund policy meets the requirements of the statute. Thus, there is no need for a requirement that accrediting agencies must have a standard that assesses institutions' refund policies. Changes: The section has been deleted. Section 602.26(c) Time Limit on Correcting Deficiencies Comments: Many commenters expressed concern about the proposed 18-month time limit for institutions to come into compliance with an accrediting agency's standards. Some argued that in many instances, such as when an institution's financial situation is cause for concern, it takes considerably longer for an institution to come into compliance. Others argued that, for some programs, 18 months was too long. Many commenters expressed concern about the requirement under consideration that accrediting agencies would have to take adverse action if they determined that an institution was unlikely to continue to be able to meet agency standards for the foreseeable future. This requirement, they argued, was totally unrealistic because agencies would have no objective basis on which to make such a determination. According to these commenters, the requirement would result in a determination that was pure conjecture on the part of accrediting agencies and would leave agencies vulnerable to lawsuits. Several commenters expressed an opposing view about this requirement, however, stating it was necessary to protect students who attended institutions whose ability to continue to provide a quality education was clearly questionable. Discussion: The Secretary believes that some definitive time frame is necessary to ensure that institutions and programs make serious efforts to improve the quality of their offerings and to ensure that accrediting agencies take adverse actions when institutions fail to make those efforts. However, the Secretary also recognizes that, because of differing lengths of programs, the 18-month time frame is unrealistic for all types of institutions.
