FR940328-1-00040 FR940328-1-00018 (4) Format of lists. Lists furnished by the Contractor shall state the type of list and shall include all information from subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause, unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer. All lists will be grouped by retention code as prescribed in subdivision (h)(1)(viii) of this clause and further listed in tool identification number sequence. (5) Distribution of lists. The Contractor shall submit the lists to each of the following recipients unless otherwise directed: (i) The Contracting Officer. (ii) The Administrative Contracting Officer. (iii) The inventory control point designated by the contracting office. (i) Disposition instructions. The Contracting Officer shall provide the Contractor with written disposition instructions within 180 days of receipt of the list as prescribed by subparagraph (h)(2) of this clause and within 90 days of receipt of excess special tooling lists reported in accordance with subparagraph (h)(3) of this clause. The Contracting Officer may direct disposition by any of the methods listed in subparagraphs (i)(1) through (i)(3) of this clause, or a combination of such methods. The Contractor shall comply with such disposition instructions. (1) The Contracting Officer may identify specific items of special tooling to be retained or give the Contractor a list specifying the products, parts, or services including follow-on requirements for which the Government may require special tooling and request the Contractor to identify all usable items of special tooling on hand that were designed for or used in the production or performance of such products, parts, or services. Once items of usable special tooling required by the Government are identified, the Contracting Officer may_ (i) Direct the Contractor, in writing, to transfer specified items of special tooling to follow-on contracts requiring their use. The notification shall specify whether the Government is taking title to the special tooling or reserving the right to take title. Those items specified by the Contracting Officer shall be subject to the provisions of the gaining contract(s); or (ii) Request the Contractor to enter into an appropriate storage contract for special tooling specified to be retained by the Contractor for the Government. Tooling to be stored shall be stored pursuant to a storage contract between the Government and the Contractor; or (iii) Direct the Contractor to transfer title to the Government (to the extent not previously transferred) and deliver to the Government those items of special tooling which are specified for removal from the Contractor's plant. (2) The Contracting Officer may direct the Contractor to sell, or dispose of as scrap, for the account of the Government, any special tooling not specified by the Government pursuant to subparagraph (i)(1) of this clause. To the extent that the Contractor incurs any costs occasioned by compliance with such direction, for which it is not otherwise compensated, the contract price shall be equitably adjusted in accordance with the procedures of the changes clause of this contract. The net proceeds of all sales shall either be credited to the cost of contract performance or otherwise paid to the Government as directed by the Contracting Officer. Sale of the special tooling to the prime contractor or any of its subcontractors is subject to the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer. (3) The Contracting Officer may furnish the Contractor with a statement disclaiming further Government interest or right in specified tooling. (4) If the Contracting Officer fails to give disposition instructions as required by subparagraphs (i)(1), (2), or (3) of this clause, the Contractor may, at Government risk and expense_ (i) Retain the special tooling in place; or (ii) Remove and store the special tooling at the Contractor's plant or in a public warehouse consistent with sound industrial practice and the item's security classification. The Contractor will notify the Contracting Officer by certified mail, at least 30 days in advance, before taking any action under this subparagraph. Except as provided in this subparagraph, the Government shall not be liable to the Contractor for failure to give written notice required by subparagraphs (i) (1), (2) or (3) of this clause. (5) Restoration of the Contractor's premises. Unless otherwise provided in the contract, the Government has no obligation to restore or rehabilitate the Contractor's premises under any circumstances (e.g., abandonment, disposition upon completion of need, or upon contract completion). (j) Access to special tooling. The Contractor shall provide access to special tooling subject to this clause at all reasonable times to all individuals designated by the Contracting Officer. (k) Storage or shipment. The Contractor shall promptly arrange for either the shipment or the storage of special tooling specified in accordance with the final disposition instructions of this clause. Tooling to be shipped shall be properly packaged, packed and marked in accordance with the directions of the Contracting Officer. All operation sheets or other appropriate data necessary to show the manufacturing operations or processes for which the items were used or designed shall accompany special tooling to be shipped or stored or shall otherwise be provided to the Government as directed by the Contracting Officer. To the extent that the Contractor incurs costs for storage, shipment, packing, crating, or handling under this paragraph and is not otherwise compensated for, the contract price shall be equitably adjusted in accordance with the procedures of the changes clause of this contract. (l) Subcontract provisions. To perform this contract, the Contractor may place subcontracts (including purchase orders) involving the use of special tooling. If the full cost of the tooling is charged to those subcontracts, the Contractor agrees to include in the subcontract appropriate provisions to obtain Government rights and data comparable to the rights of the Government under this clause (unless the Contractor and Contracting Officer agree, in writing, that such rights are not of interest to the Government). The Contractor agrees to exercise such rights for the benefit of the Government as directed by the Contracting Officer. (End of Clause) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6895 Filed 3&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;34&hyph;M
