FR940712-2-00055 FR940712-2-00041 Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this agreement, the recipients shall be responsible for the activities under A., below, and CDC shall be responsible for conducting activities under B., below: A. Recipient Activities 1. Prepare and evaluate bulk cultures of specific T lymphocytes and T cell clones from humans and/or non-human primates. Include evaluation of functional capabilities, phenotype, major histocompatibility complex restriction, and epitope specificity. Focus on understanding the role of T cells in protection against HPS. 2. Investigate the relative roles of cellular and humoral immunity in recovery from hantaviral disease in general and HPS in particular. Investigate the ongoing antibody response, T cell infiltrates in the alveolar septae of the lung in deceased patients, and the non-cytopathic replication of HPS viruses in causing disease. 3. In accordance with current hantavirus biosafety procedures, perform studies in appropriate BSL&hyph;3 and BSL&hyph;4 containment facilities. 4. Analyze all results in collaboration with CDC. Present/publish all significant findings. B. CDC Activities 1. Until commercially available, provide inactivated antigens, expression vectors containing viral genes, and sera from HPS patients. 2. Provide access to CDC's BSL&hyph;4 laboratory facilities and BSL&hyph;3 laboratory as necessary (CDC has one of only two BSL&hyph;4 laboratories in the United States). 3. Provide fresh or appropriately frozen lymphocytes from immune humans or nonhuman primates, as available. 4. Provide technical support as necessary. Evaluation Criteria All applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: A. Background and Need Extent to which applicant demonstrates a clear understanding of the purpose and objectives of this proposed cooperative agreement. Extent to which applicant demonstrates a clear understanding of the requirements, responsibilities, interactions, problems, constraints, complexities, etc., that may be encountered in conducting the project and performing the studies. (30 points) B. Capacity Extent to which applicant describes adequate resources and facilities (both technical and administrative) for conducting the project. Extent to which applicant documents that professional personnel involved in the project are qualified and have past experience and achievements in research related to that proposed in this cooperative agreement as evidenced by curriculum vitae, publications, etc. (35 points) C. Objectives and Technical Approach Extent to which applicant describes objectives of the proposed project which are consistent with the purpose and program requirements of this cooperative agreement and which are measurable and time-phased. Extent to which applicant presents a detailed plan for initiating and conducting the project. Extent to which the plan clearly describes applicant's technical approach/methods for conducting the proposed studies. Extent to which applicant describes specific study protocols or plans for the development of study protocols that are appropriate for achieving project objectives. Extent to which applicant describes adequate collaboration with CDC during various phases of the project. Extent to which applicant provides a detailed plan for evaluating study results and for evaluating progress towards achieving project objectives. (35 points) D. Budget Extent to which the proposed budget is reasonable, clearly justifiable, and consistent with the intended use of cooperative agreement funds. (Not Weighted) Executive Order 12372 Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should send them to Edwin L. Dixon, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Room 314, Mailstop E&hyph;18, Atlanta, GA 30305. The due date for State process recommendations is 30 days after the application deadline date for new and competing continuation awards. (A waiver for the 60 day requirement has been requested.) The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' for State process recommendations it receives after that date. Indian tribes are strongly encouraged to request tribal government review of the proposed application. If tribal governments have any tribal process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should forward them to Edwin L. Dixon, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Room 314, Mailstop E&hyph;18, Atlanta, GA 30305. This should be done no later than 30 days after the application deadline date for new and competing continuation awards. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' for tribal process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number is 93.283. Application Submission and Deadline The original and two copies of the application, Form PHS&hyph;5161&hyph;1 (Revised 7/92), must be submitted to Edwin L. Dixon, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Room 314, Mailstop E&hyph;18, Atlanta, GA 30305, on or before August 22, 1994. 1. Deadline: Applications shall be considered as meeting the deadline if they are either: a. Received on or before the deadline date; or b. Sent on or before the deadline date and received in time for submission to the independent review group. (Applicants should request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks shall not be acceptable proof of timely mailing.)
