FR940202-2-00151 FR940202-2-00072 (ii) Describe the resources and approaches that will assure continuation of the program activity. Programs that will accomplish their objectives by the end of the summer or those that have no need to sustain activity because impact will occur in the long-term as a result of the summer effort need not respond to this section of the Notice. (e) Workplan/Timeline Successful applicants will receive notice of tentative selection by April 1 (see Section 6, Selection and Approval Process). Accordingly, proposals must include a timeline that: (i) Identifies specific steps and milestones in a program development, implementation and management process that begins April 1 and extends through the end of the summer program; (ii) Incorporates a required national-scope training and technical assistance workshop for Summer of Safety program leadership (program director and two key supervisory staff) in later April; and (iii) Absent compelling reason to do otherwise, establishes the week of June 13 for participant orientation and training, uses June 21 as the official date to ``launch'' their efforts, and sets the program's end at August 24. (f) Applicant Capacity The capacity of the applicant to implement and manage the program successfully and the quality of program leadership are of critical importance in the selection process. Accordingly, proposals must: (i) Describe the applicant's institutional capacity to develop and administer the program, including payment of living allowances of at least $147.00 per week of full-time (40 hours) service to participants and management of the partnership (described below). (ii) Include brief resumes or other descriptions of experience and background of proposed program director and key supervisory personnel. (iii) Describe the working relationships that exist with appropriate community organizations and public agencies. (iv) Describe and document the nature and quality of the relationship with the local law enforcement agency(s) (if the applicant is not a law enforcement agency). (v) Review the applicant's experience in conducting public safety and/or community service/volunteer programs. (vi) Certify the applicant's willingness to promote a national identity for the Summer of Safety program, as part of AmeriCorps, through the use of logos and other materials, and participate in activities such as common opening or closing ceremonies and other events. (g) Partnership Summer of Safety programs will build and strengthen new partnerships and collaborations for safety that capitalize on all of the community's resources. Given the range of needs that must be met and the variety of possible service activities that may help meet these needs, there are many organizations, institutions and individuals within the community that can meaningfully contribute. Such entities include law enforcement, schools and other public agencies, private non-profit organizations including victim assistance and youth-serving organizations, community and neighborhood groups, health and welfare programs, senior centers, civic organizations, youth groups, institutions of higher education, and the business sector. Individuals who represent segments of the community not otherwise represented in the partnership should also be included. To ensure that a program establishes service activities that strengthen the capacity of the community to respond to problems of crime, violence and fear, Summer of Safety programs must be carried out by collaborative partnerships of such organizations. Accordingly, proposals must: (i) Identify the organizations and agencies (and, as appropriate, individuals) who have committed to participating in the Partnership effort, and identify the leader of the Partnership; (ii) Describe the commitment each partner has made to carry out specific roles and contribute specific resources (training, expertise, space, supplies, funds, publicity, etc.) to support the Summer of Safety program. (iii) Identify the number of service participants and type(s) of service activity individual partners propose to carry out as components of the program.
