FR941006-1-00042 FR941006-1-00008 (b) Interest rate . (1) Each security shall bear a variable rate of interest based on an adjustment of the average yield for three-month Treasury bills at the most recent auction. A new rate will be effective on the first business day following the regular auction of three-month Treasury bills and will be shown in the table (Form PD 4262), available to the public on such business day. Interest will be accrued and added to the principal daily. Interest will be computed on the balance of the principal, plus interest accrued through the immediately preceding day. (2)(i) The annualized effective demand deposit rate in decimals, designated ``I'' in Equation 1 is calculated as: I =[(100/P) Y/DTM &hyph;1] (1&hyph;MTR)&hyph;TAC (Equation 1) where P=The average auction price for the Treasury bill, per hundred, to three decimal places. Y=365 if the year following issue date does not contain a leap year day and 366 if it does contain a leap year day. DTM=The number of days from date of issue to maturity for the auctioned Treasury bill. MTR=Estimated average marginal tax rate, in decimals, of purchasers of short-term tax exempt bonds. TAC=Treasury administrative costs, in decimals. (ii) The daily factor for the demand deposit rate is then calculated as: DDR=(1+I) 1/Y &hyph;1 (Equation 2) (3) Information as to the estimated average marginal tax rate and costs for administering the demand deposit State and Local Government Series securities program, both to be determined by Treasury from time to time, will be published in the Federal Register . (c) Payment . Interest earned on the securities will be added to the principal and will be reinvested daily until redemption. At any time the Secretary determines that issuance of obligations sufficient to conduct the orderly financing operations of the United States cannot be made without exceeding the statutory debt limit, the Department will invest any unredeemed demand deposit securities in special 90-day certificates of indebtedness. These 90-day certificates will be payable at maturity, but redeemable before maturity, provided funds are available for redemption, or reinvested in demand deposit securities when regular Treasury borrowing operations resume, both at the owner's option. Funds invested in the 90-day certificates of indebtedness will earn simple interest equal to the daily factor in effect at the time demand deposit security issuance is suspended, multiplied by the number of days outstanding.
