FR940930-1-00022 FR940930-1-00009 Ethane: 2.68×10 ^13 cc/molecule/sec. Acetone: 2.26×10 ^13 cc/molecule/sec. Thus, if the k OH reactivities alone are considered, acetone is less reactive than ethane. Unlike ethane, however, acetone undergoes photodecomposition, or photolysis, in the atmosphere to form radicals, which tend to cause increased rates of ozone formation. Total reactivity of acetone, considering both k OH reactivity and photolysis, was the subject of a special study reported recently (Carter, W. P. L. et al., ``An Experimental and Modeling Study of the Photochemical Ozone Reactivity of Acetone,'' University of California/Riverside, December 10, 1993). The Carter report describes a series of environmental chamber experiments and computer model simulations carried out to assess the tendency of acetone to promote ozone formation under atmospheric conditions, relative to that of ethane. This was done by calculating and comparing the ``incremental reactivities'' of acetone and ethane for a variety of atmospheric conditions representing ozone episodes in 39 urban areas throughout the United States. ``Incremental reactivity'' is the most recently proposed quantitative measure of the degree to which a VOC contributes to ozone formation in a photochemical air pollution episode. It is defined as the amount of additional ozone formation resulting from the addition of a small amount of VOC to the urban emissions, divided by the amount of compound added. This measure of reactivity takes into account all of the factors by which a VOC affects ozone formation, including the effect of the environment where the VOC reacts. The latter is important because the amount of ozone formation caused by the reactions of a VOC depends significantly on the conditions within the polluted atmosphere, such as VOC to nitrogen oxide (NO X ) ratio, VOC composition, and sunlight intensity. Figure 1 shows distribution plots of the reactivity of acetone relative to that of ethane for the 39 urban scenarios used, where reactivity is defined in terms of grams of ozone formed per gram of VOC emitted. (Use of the unit grams of ozone formed per gram of VOC emitted is significant. Another way of defining reactivity is in terms of grams of ozone formed per mole of VOC emitted, which would give different results. For practicality, the EPA has elected to adopt the grams ozone per gram VOC basis, since grams (or tons), rather than moles, is the mass unit used in regulations dealing with VOC emissions.) In Figure 1, acetone/ethane reactivity ratios less than 1.0 indicate scenarios where acetone is less reactive than ethane. The acetone/ethane reactivity ratio, as reported by Carter, appears to have widely varying values among the 39 urban scenarios and to reflect, with a few exceptions, slightly lower reactivity for acetone. For one scenario, which represents unusually high NO X conditions, acetone was calculated to be over two times more reactive than ethane. This is due to the unusually low reactivity of ethane for that particular scenario, rather than to higher acetone reactivity. Figure 2 shows the variability of ethane reactivity relative to that of a ``typical'' urban VOC mix. Figure 2 also shows that the reactivity range of acetone falls entirely within the range for ethane. BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEP30SE94.002 E:GRAPHICSEP30SE94.003 BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;C
