FR940208-2-00002 FR940208-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Twelve Lakes Stabilization Project, Wasatch-Cache National Forest, Summit County, UT AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement on a proposal to stabilize Big Elk, Crystal, Duck, Fire, Island, Long, Marjorie, Pot, Star, Teapot, Wall, and Weir Lake reservoirs located in non-motorized backcountry adjacent to the Mirror Lake Highway. These lakes will no longer be used for water storage purposes. Restoration of watershed resources, fishery and wildlife habitat, and previous recreation impacts will occur. This project is mitigation for lost fishery and recreational opportunities related to the construction of Jordanelle Reservoir (Central Utah Project). DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received in writing by March 8, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to POB 68, Kamas, Utah 84036. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mead Hargis, Kamas Ranger District, 801&hyph;783&hyph;4338. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Wasatach-Cache National Forest is the lead agency. The Kamas Ranger District invites comments on the proposed action and alternatives. Scoping will include written, phone or personal comments. No meetings are scheduled. District employees will meet with any person who requests a meeting. The decisions to be made include whether or not to stabilize these lakes and if so at what lake surface elevation and what, if any, recreation and natural resource restoration will be necessary. Preliminary issues include cost, fishery benefits, roadless character, wetlands, cultural resources, potential impacts of stablization attracting more recreational use to these lakes. Preliminary alternatives include No Action, stabilization at natural lake levels, low hazard dam levels, and levels above low hazard dam elevations. A 404 Dredge and Fill permit from the Army Corps of Engineers and Utah State Stream Alternation permits will be necessary. The Responsible Official is Melissa Blackwell, District Ranger, Kamas Ranger District. Estimated dates of availability: Draft EIS August 1994, final EIS November 1994. The comment period on the draft environmental impact statement will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency's notice of availability appears in the Federal Register . It is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate at that time. To be the most helpful, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible and may address the adequacy of the statement or the merits of the alternatives discussed (see The Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3). In addition, Federal court decisions have established that reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewers' position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Environmental objections that could have been raised at the draft stage may be waived if not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement. City of Angoon v. Hodel, (9th Circuit, 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 S. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). The reason for this is to ensure that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final. Dated: February 1, 1994. Melissa Blackwell, District Ranger. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2837 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
