FR940620-1-00044 FR940620-1-00009 (c) Offerors shall not be required, either as a condition of being responsive to a solicitation or as a condition for award, to sell or otherwise relinquish to the Government any rights in technical data related to items, components or processes developed at private expense except for the data identified at 227.403&hyph;5(a) (2) and (a)(4) through (9). (d) Offerors and contractors shall not be prohibited or discouraged from furnishing or offering to furnish items, components, or processes developed at private expense solely because the Government's rights to use, release, or disclose technical data pertaining to those items may be restricted. (e) As provided in 10 U.S.C. 2305, solicitations for major systems development contracts shall not require offerors to submit proposals that would permit the Government to acquire competitively items identical to items developed at private expense unless a determination is made at a level above the contracting officer that: (1) The offeror will not be able to satisfy program schedule or delivery requirements; or, (2) The offeror's proposal to meet mobilization requirements does not satisfy mobilization needs. 227.403&hyph;2 Acquisition of technical data. (a) Procedures for acquiring technical data are contained in DoD 5010.12, DoD Data Management Program. Contracting officers shall work closely with data managers and requirements personnel to assure that data requirements included in solicitations are consistent with the policy expressed in 227.403&hyph;1. (b)(1) Data managers or other requirements personnel are responsible for identifying the Government's minimum needs for technical data. Data needs must be established giving consideration to the contractor's economic interests in data pertaining to items, components, or processes that have been developed at private expense; the Government's costs to acquire, maintain, store, retrieve, and protect the data; reprocurement needs; repair, maintenance and overhaul philosophies; spare and repair part considerations; and, whether procurement of the items, components, or processes can be accomplished on a form, fit, or function basis. Reprocurement needs may not be a sufficient reason to acquire detailed manufacturing or process data when replacement items or spare parts can be acquired using performance specifications, form, fit and function data, or when there are a sufficient number of alternate sources which can reasonably be expected to provide such items on a performance specification or form, fit, or function basis. (2) When reviewing offers received in response to a solicitation or other request for data, data managers must balance the original assessment of the Government's data needs with data prices contained in the offer. (c) Contracting officers are responsible for assuring that, to the maximum extent practicable, solicitations and contracts_ (1) Identify the type and quantity of the technical data to be delivered under the contract and the format and media in which the data will be delivered; (2) As required by 10 U.S.C. 2320, establish each deliverable data item as a separate contract line item (this requirement may be satisfied by listing each deliverable data item on an Exhibit to the contract); (3) Identify the prices established for each separately priced deliverable data item under a fixed price type contract; (4) Include delivery schedules and acceptance criteria for each deliverable data item; and, (5) Specifically identify the place of delivery for each deliverable item of technical data. 227.403&hyph;3 Early identification of technical data to be furnished to the Government with restrictions on use, reproduction or disclosure. (a) 10 U.S.C. 2320 requires, to the maximum extent practicable, an identification prior to delivery of any technical data to be delivered to the Government with restrictions on use. (b) Use the provision at 252.227&hyph;7017, ``Identification and Assertion of Use, Release, or Disclosure Restrictions'' in all solicitations that include the clause at 252.227&hyph;7013, ``Rights in Technical Data_Noncommercial Items.'' The provision requires offerors to identify any technical data for which restrictions, other than copyright, on use, release, or disclosure are asserted and to attach the identification and assertions to the offer.
