FR941207-0-00089 FR941207-0-00015 Copyright Owners believe that a portion of the costs of a rate adjustment could be deducted from a royalty pool, but submit that it is difficult to identify exactly what is the ``relevant'' royalty pool. Copyright Owners, reply comments at 1&hyph;2. Rate adjustment proceedings involve the setting of rates for future, not-yet-collected royalty funds. The ``relevant'' pools would therefore be the future funds affected by the rate change, rather than past funds. Copyright Owners submit that the Office should therefore seek the comments of the owners as to what is the proper meaning of the word ``relevant.'' Id. at 5. Furthermore, Copyright Owners argue that it is completely unfair for owners to bear all of the Office's expenses for rate adjustments, since users clearly benefit as well from the adjustments. They ask that the Office reinstate the deduction rule proposed in the NPRM which simply provides that rate adjustment costs will be assessed ``directly to the parties participating in the proceedings.'' Id. at 6 (citing 59 FR at 2565 (1994)). We agree that RIAA/AARC and Copyright Owners raise valid points with respect to §251.65. As we stated in the Interim Regulations, we believe that the burden of the Library and Office's costs in a rate adjustment proceeding should be shared by both owners and users. We did not intend to place the burden solely on copyright owners, although it is arguable that §251.65 appears to do that very thing. We also agree with Copyright Owners' assessment that the ``relevant'' royalty pool is not clear; it would seem that it may be necessary to amortize the costs over a number of royalty pools. In an attempt to solve these problems, we are therefore accepting Copyright Owners' suggestion of reinstating §251.65 as proposed in the NPRM. The section therefore now reads: In accordance with 17 U.S.C. 802(h)(1), the Librarian of Congress and the Register of Copyrights may assess the reasonable costs incurred by the Library of Congress and the Copyright Office as a result of the rate adjustment proceedings directly to the parties participating in the proceedings. C. Frivolous Claims Both RIAA/AARC and Copyright Owners are concerned with the costs that may be generated by frivolous claimants to royalty distributions. Section 251.54(a)(2) provides that CARPs may assess their costs in direct proportion to each party's share of the distribution. Thus, a party who received 0% of the distribution would bear 0% of the costs, even though the claim of that party may have contributed greatly to the costs of the other claimants. RIAA/AARC believes that every party participating in a distribution proceeding should be prepared to bear some portion of the procedural costs, regardless of whether or not it receives any portion of the royalty fund. RIAA/AARC, reply comments at 3. They recommend that the Office adopt some type of participation fee for distribution proceedings, similar to that used by other government agencies conducting proceedings. Id. at 4. In lieu of a participation fee, RIAA/AARC recommends that the CARPs be granted the discretion to allocate a share of expenses of the proceeding to bad faith or frivolous claimants who receive little or no share of the distribution. Id. at 4&hyph;5. Copyright Owners echo RIAA/AARC's concerns regarding frivolous claims and the added costs associated with those claimants. Copyright Owners, however, would resolve the problem by an amendment to the statute which they propose the Copyright Office seek. Such an amendment would provide that ``upon a finding of bad faith or other frivolous or vexatious conduct, the Librarian may allow a different allocation of costs of the proceedings as necessary to respond to such conduct.'' Copyright Owners, comments at 38. With regard to costs in distribution proceedings, section 802(c) is quite clear in providing that ``the parties shall bear the cost in direct proportion to their share of the distribution.'' 17 U.S.C. 802(c). No provision is made to charge parties fees for participating in distribution proceedings, or assessing costs against parties for frivolous behavior or claims. We cannot imply or interpret the statute to provide for such measures, nor are we prepared to seek an amendment of the statute to allow the Librarian to make an assessment of a claimant's conduct or behavior and impose an additional share of the cost of the proceedings against that party. Since the Librarian is only charged with handling matters preliminary to the arbitration and reviewing the CARP's decision, the Librarian is not in a proper position to evaluate the conduct of participants to a proceeding. There is no authority in the statute for the CARPs to change 17 U.S.C. 802(c)'s direction to assess costs in direct proportion to each party's share of the distribution, nor is there authority for the CARPs to sanction parties or individuals to a proceeding. The CARPs are, however, in the best position to assess the conduct of the participants to a distribution proceeding. Deliberate misrepresentation to a CARP by a party or individual to a proceeding will be referred by the Copyright Office to the Justice Department for possible prosecution under the applicable provisions of title 18 of the United States Code. D. Arbitrator Costs Section 251.54(a) provides that a CARP may ``assess its ordinary and necessary costs'' to the participants to a proceeding. NMPA/HFA urges the Office to adopt a mechanism for appealing the reasonableness of fees and expenses assessed. They recommend creation of a procedure, although they do not describe what kind of procedure or when and how it could be invoked, whereby the Librarian would be available in instances where the parties question the fees and expenses charged. NMPA/HFA, comments at 4. We are declining to adopt a fee review procedure at this time because we believe that the rules already contain adequate safeguards. Section 251.38 governs billing and provides that ``[a]rbitrators are bound by the hourly or daily fee they proposed to the Librarian of Congress when their names were submitted to be listed under §251.3, and shall not bill in excess of their proposed charges.'' 59 FR 23986 (1994). Subsection (b) further provides that ``[a]rbitrators shall not charge the parties any expenses in addition to their hourly or daily charge.'' The safeguards in these rules are reinforced by the agreement the arbitrators must sign stating they will abide by the terms of these Final Regulations including ``the billing restrictions specified in this subpart.'' §251.38(e). The regulations already contain substantial provisions to assure that arbitrators not charge excessive rates or expenses. Although our regulations do not specifically address the number of hours for which an arbitrator can charge, we expect that the arbitrators will be fair and charge for the actual amount of time they devoted to the proceedings. In some cases, the amount spent may be more or less for one arbitrator than it is for another. Should an arbitrator charge for an unreasonable number of hours that could not possibly bear any relationship to the amount of work performed, we believe that such action would amount to an ethical violation subject to the remedies of §251.39. We do not, however, intend to judge or measure the amount of time it should take an arbitrator to perform a specific task, and we therefore decline to create a billing review procedure.
