FR940616-2-00119 FR940616-2-00089 Priority for Category B For FY 1995 priority will be given to applications from community colleges, two-year colleges, non-profit organizations working specifically with community colleges and/or two-year colleges, and institutions that have not received funding under this program in previous competitions. Category C: Samantha Smith Memorial Exchange With Central and Eastern Europe Grant funding under this category is intended to enhance and expand the scope of academic exchanges with Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Macedonia, Poland, the Republic of Slovakia, Romania, and Slovenia for undergraduate students under the age of 26. Participants must be citizens either of the U.S. or of the partner country. Programs designed specifically for foreign participants to teach their native language or area of studies in American institutions are ineligible for support. (1) Language Qualification It is desirable, but not required, that exchange students have sufficient fluency in the language of the country to be visited for the pursuit of university study in the language and to converse with citizens of the country without the aid of interpreters. Generally, the equivalent of two years of college-level language study is considered the minimum. The two-year language minimum will be waived for community colleges, two-year colleges, and non-profit organizations working specifically with community colleges and/or two-year colleges in order to encourage their participation. (2) Duration Applications will be accepted for projects with duration of at least eight weeks including programs lasting one academic quarter, trimester, semester or a full year. Projects of less than eight weeks duration will be considered technically ineligible. Grants generally will be made for exchanges occurring within a 12-month period, but requests for two-year programs will be considered. Proposals for two-year programs should submit one budget that covers the entire two-year period. The total award (one-or two-year) may not exceed $80,000. (3) Reciprocity It is desirable, but not required, that programs are reciprocal and the number of U.S. and foreign participants be nearly equal. The proposal should provide detailed information on the activities in both the U.S. and the partner country. (4) Awards Project awards will be made in a wide range of amounts up to $80,000. The Agency reserves the right to reduce, revise or increase proposal budgets in accordance with the needs of the program. For organizations with less than four years of experience in international exchange activities, grants will be limited to a maximum of $60,000 and proposed budgets should not exceed this amount. All organizations must submit a comprehensive line item budget, the details and format of which are contained in the application packet. (5) Preference Factors a. Preference will be given to programs in which U.S. participants will have had a minimum of two years of relevant language study. b. Preference will be given to proposals in which incoming students study in the U.S. for a full academic year. c. Preference will be given to reciprocal exchanges. Review Process (All Categories) USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Please note: Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the Application Package, including the Guidelines for Preparing Proposals.
