FR941221-2-00127 FR941221-2-00081 Wednesday December 21, 1994 Part VII Department of Health and Human Services Public Health Service Grant and Cooperative Agreement Awards; Notices Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 244␣/␣Wednesday, December 21, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Public Health Service Cooperative Agreements With the Asian & Pacific Islander American Health Forum (APIAHF) and the Association of Asian and Pacific Community Health Organizations (AAPCHO) The Office of Minority Health (OMH), Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, PHS, announces that it will enter into two cooperative agreements: One with the Asian & Pacific Islander American Health Forum, Incorporated (APIAHF) and the other with the Association of Asian and Pacific Community Health Organizations (AAPCHO). These cooperative agreements will establish broad programmatic frameworks within which specific projects can be funded as they are identified during the project period. The purpose of these cooperative agreements is to assist the organizations in expanding and enhancing health promotion, disease prevention, health advocacy, and health services research opportunities, with the ultimate goal of improving the health status of minorities and disadvantaged people. The OMH will provide consultation, administrative, and technical assistance as needed for the execution and evaluation of all aspects of these cooperative agreements. The OMH will also participate and collaborate with the awardees in any workshop or symposia and exchange current information, opinions, and research findings. Authorizing Legislation These cooperative agreements are authorized under the grant-making authorities of the Office of Minority Health, section 1707(d)(1) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by Public Law 101&hyph;527. Background Assistance will be provided to APIAHF and AAPCHO only. No other applications are solicited. The APIAHF and AAPCHO are the only organizations capable of administering these cooperative agreements because they are the only organizations that have: 1. Developed and expanded an infrastructure to coordinate and advocate for various medical intervention programs and health promotion programs within local communities and service delivery organizations that deal extensively with Asian/Pacific Islander health issues. The APIAHF has established a network among preeminent health care providers and health researchers to provide a foundation upon which to advocate for, develop, promote, and implement health intervention, education, and cultural training programs which are aimed at preventing and reducing unnecessary morbidity and mortality rates among Asian and Pacific Islander subpopulations.
