FR940323-2-00180 FR940323-2-00124 B. Postdeadline Adjustments to Federal Pell Grant Accounts In accordance with ยง690.83(a) and ยง690.83(c), the Secretary permits a post-September 30, 1994 adjustment to the Federal Pell Grant account of an institution for the 1993&hyph;94 award year or any prior award year in the following circumstances: (1) Underpayment of previously reported awards . An institution may receive a payment or credit for the full amount of an award made to a student if_(i) The institution submitted in a timely manner an SAR Payment Voucher or its equivalent for a student in accordance with the requirements of this notice and ยง690.83(a); (ii) The institution did not submit in a timely manner or in an acceptable form an SAR Payment Voucher necessary to document the full amount of the award for which that student was eligible; (iii) The underpayment for that award is or would be at least $100; and (iv) A program review or an audit report produced in accordance with the standards prescribed in 34 CFR 668.23(c) demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the student was eligible to receive an amount greater than that reported on the SAR Payment Voucher submitted in a timely fashion to, and accepted by, the Department. (2) Decreasing previously reported awards . An institution must report a reduction in a student's Federal Pell Grant award (1) if the institution determines that the student's Federal Pell Grant award amount, as reported on either the Student Payment Summary that the Department provides to the institution or any subsequent adjustment to the student's award amount on file with the Department, is greater than the amount the student actually received; or (2) if the institution determines that a student was not qualified for the amount reported on either the Student Payment Summary or any subsequent adjustment to the student's award amount on file with the Department. The institution should not make such a report, however, for an overaward for which it is not liable under ยง690.79(a) unless the student never received the funds or has repaid all or a portion of the overaward. If a student is repaying an overaward for which the institution is not liable on an installment plan, the institution may report periodically the amount repaid. The institution does NOT submit such postdeadline award reduction data through SAR Payment Voucher (or its equivalents). The institution reports postdeadline reductions through a letter or report sent to the address stated in part IV.B. (3) The Secretary, in addition, makes adjustments where the institution satisfactorily demonstrates that its failure to submit Payment Vouchers on a timely basis and have them accepted by the Department was caused by a processing or administrative error made by the Department or one of its contractors, or was due to unusual circumstances beyond the control of the institution. Except as provided under section 487(c)(7) of the HEA, and any implementing regulations, the Secretary adjusts an institution's Federal Pell Grant account on the basis of student award data submissions made after September 30 following the award year only in these specified circumstances. Thus, if an institution submits SAR Payment Vouchers (or its equivalents) for the 1993&hyph;94 award year to the Department after the September 30, 1994 deadline, the institution will not receive additional Federal Pell Grant funds from the Department unless the institution can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary that one of the prescribed conditions exists. The institution also will be liable for Federal Pell Grant funds that were used to pay grants that were not reported in a timely manner.
