FR940913-2-00096 FR940913-2-00069 Under NASD Rules, Article III, Section 48, sales of NM securities may be designated as bid test exempt if they qualify for one or more of the exemptions from the bid test included in the rule. One of these exemptions applies to short sales effected by ``qualified options market makers'' 15 (``market maker exemption'') to hedge offsetting options positions. This exemption recognizes the need for options market makers to hedge their options positions by buying or selling (including selling short) shares of underlying stocks or underlying component stocks contained in stock indexes. 15 A ``qualified options market maker'' is an options market maker who has received an appointment as a ``qualified options market maker'' for certain classes of stock options on Nasdaq National Market securities and index options on qualified stock indexes pursuant to the rules of a ``qualified options exchange.'' See NASD Rules, Article III, Section 48(h)(2)(b). For a definition of a ``qualified options exchange,'' see infra note 16 and accompanying text. To benefit from the bid test exemption afforded to qualified options market makers, a market maker must be designated as a qualified options market maker by a ``qualified options exchange.'' 16 The NASD Rules define a ``qualified options exchange'' as a national securities exchange with Commission approved rules and procedures governing the designation of qualified options makers. In addition, to be deemed a ``qualified options exchange,'' the NASD Rules require an exchange to implement procedures governing the surveillance of its market makers' use of the exemption, as well as to require the exchange to authorize the NASD to limit the designation of a qualified options market maker where the options exchange finds substantial, willful, or continuing violations of its rule governing qualified options market makers. 17 16 See NASD Rules, Article III, Section 48(h)(2)(c). 17 Id. The Exchanges' rules governing qualified options market makers will be implemented as an eighteen month pilot and will be effective concurrently with the NASD's bid test rule pilot program. The proposals are subject to modification or termination at the end of the pilot period. Additionally, the exchanges will require market makers to designate the NM securities to which the NASD market maker exemption will apply. If an Exchange determines that a qualified options market maker has failed to comply with the terms of the market maker exemption, that Exchange may withdraw, suspend, or modify the designation of a qualified options market maker based upon that Exchange's determination that such action is warranted in light of the substantial, willful, or continuing nature of the violation. Each Exchange also will notify the NASD of such a determination so that the NASD may take steps to ensure that Nasdaq NM sales are executed in compliance with all applicable NASD rules. Moreover, the Exchanges have designed surveillance procedures to ensure compliance with the proposed rule change. Specifically, these procedures must be implemented to allow the Exchanges to be deemed qualified options exchanges as that term is defined by the NASD pursuant to the options market maker exemption. 18 18 Id. B. The CBOE's Proposal The CBOE proposes to adopt Rule 15.10 to require members to designate sales of Nasdaq NM securities as long sales, short sales, or bid-test exempt sales. 19 The CBOE proposal allows a short sale to be designated as bid-test exempt if the sale qualifies for one of the NASD's bid-test exemptions, or, as further provided in the NASD's rule, if the short sale is an exempt hedge transaction in a ``designated NM security'' 20 underlying a class of stock options, or included in an index underlying a class of index options for which the market maker holds an appointment under the CBOE's rules. 21 19 See CBOE Proposed Rule 15.10(a). 20 ``Designated NM security'' is defined as an NM security which the market maker has designated as qualifying for the bid-test exemption. See Proposed CBOE Rule 15.10(c)(2)(B). 21 See CBOE Proposed Rule 15.10(c). Under the CBOE's proposal, a registered market maker will be considered a qualified options market maker in options on properly designated NM securities. Such a market maker is entitled to engage in ``exempt hedge transactions'' with respect to those NM securities. 22 The CBOE's proposed rule will remain effective for the eighteen month pilot period of the NASD's short sale rule, or for whatever period the market maker short sale exemption remains effective. 23 22 The CBOE defines an ``exempt hedge transaction,'' consistent with the definition in the NASD's short sale rule, as a short sale in an NM security effected to hedge, and which in fact serves to hedge, an existing offsetting options position or an offsetting options position that was created in one or more transactions contemporaneous with the short sale. With respect to index options, the CBOE will require that the NM security sold short be a component security of the index underlying such index option, that at least 10 percent of the value of the index underlying such index option be represented by one or more NM securities, and that the current aggregate value of the NM securities sold short not exceed the aggregate current index value of the index options position being hedged. Once an underlying index satisfies the 10 percent test, the continued qualification of the index shall be reviewed as of the end of each quarter, and the index shall cease to qualify if the value of the index represented by one or more NM securities is less than 8 percent at the end of any subsequent year. See CBOE Proposed Rule 15.10(c)(2)(ii)(A). See also NASD Rules, Article III, Section 48(h)(2)(d) (defining ``qualified stock index''). A transaction unrelated to normal options market making activity, such as index arbitrage or risk arbitrage, that is independent of a market maker's market making functions, will not be considered an exempt hedge transaction. See CBOE Proposed Interpretation and Policy .01, CBOE Proposed Rule 15.10. 23 See CBOE Proposed Rule 15.10(d).
