FR940920-2-00019 FR940920-2-00007 Period of Investigation The Department initiated this investigation using our standard six-month POI from September 1, 1993, to February 28, 1994. On April 5, 1994, petitioner submitted comments on the POI. On April 11, 1994, respondents also submitted comments on the POI. On April 14, 1994, the Department altered the POI to calendar year 1993 because of the seasonal nature of sales and production in the rose industry ( See the April 14, 1994, memorandum from the team to Richard W. Moreland). In addition, for purposes of price-to-price comparisons, we are basing FMV on two six month periods: January 1, 1993, through June 30, 1993, and July 1, 1993, through December 31, 1993. For further discussion of these periods, see the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum. Best Information Available We have determined, in accordance with section 776(c) of the Act, that the use of best information available (BIA) is appropriate for sales of the subject merchandise by Florinsa. In assigning BIA, the Department applies a two-tier methodology based on the degree of respondent's cooperation. In the first tier, the Department normally assigns higher margins ( i.e., margins based on more adverse assumptions) for those respondents which did not cooperate in an investigation or which otherwise impede the proceeding. If a respondent is deemed as non-cooperative, the Department bases the preliminary margin for the relevant class or kind of merchandise on the higher of: (1) the highest margin in the petition or (2) the highest calculated margin of any respondent within the country that supplied adequate responses for the relevant class or kind of merchandise. In the second tier, the Department assigns lower margins to those respondents who substantially cooperate in an investigation. These margins are based on the higher of: (1) The highest calculated margin for any respondent within that country that supplied adequate information for the relevant class or kind of merchandise or (2) the average margin of the margins in the petition ( See, e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less than Fair Value: Antifriction Bearings (Other than Tapered Roller Bearings) and Parts Thereof from the Federal Republic of Germany, 54 FR 18992 (May 3, 1989)). The Department's two-tiered methodology for assigning BIA has been upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( See Allied-Signal Aerospace Co. v. United States , 996 F.2d 1185 (Fed. Cir. 1993); See also Krupp Stahl AG v. United States , 822 F. Supp. 789 (CIT 1993)). We have determined that Florinsa's original and deficiency questionnaire responses were unusable for the preliminary determination because they contain significant deficiencies ( See the September 12, 1994, memorandum from David L. Binder to Barbara R. Stafford). However, because Florinsa responded to our requests for information, we find that it has been substantially cooperative for purposes of this preliminary determination. Accordingly, we used as second-tier BIA for this respondent the average of the margins contained in the petition, which is 84.72 percent. This margin is higher than the highest margin calculated for any respondent in this investigation. Furthermore, we have issued a supplemental deficiency letter to Florinsa. If this respondent submits an adequate and timely response to this letter, we will conduct verification for Florinsa and will consider its information for purposes of the final determination. Such or Similar Comparisons We have determined that all roses covered by this investigation comprise two categories of ``such or similar'' merchandise: culls and export-quality roses. None of the respondents reported sales of culls in the United States. Therefore, no comparisons in this such or similar category were made. Regarding export quality roses, where possible, we made comparisons of identical merchandise. Where there were no sales of identical merchandise in the home market or third country market to compare to U.S. sales, we made similar merchandise comparisons on the basis of: (1) form ( e.g., as part of a bouquet, an individual stem, etc.), (2) type ( e.g., hybrid tea, sweetheart, etc.), (3) color, (4) stem length, and (5) variety. We did not make any adjustments for differences in the physical characteristics of the merchandise because respondents reported no cost differences between the varieties. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales of roses from Ecuador to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the FMV for all non-BIA respondents, as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price For sales by Arbusta and Guaisa, we based USP on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, when the subject merchandise was sold to unrelated purchasers in the United States prior to importation and when exporter's sales price (ESP) methodology was not otherwise indicated. In addition, for Arbusta, Guaisa, and Floricola, where sales to the first unrelated purchaser took place after importation into the United States, we also based USP on ESP, in accordance with section 772(c) of the Act. During the POI, each of the respondents paid commissions to related parties in the United States. We determined that these commissions were directly related to the sales under consideration. We also tested these commissions for these respondents to determine whether they were paid at arm's length using the criteria set forth in the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Coated Groundwood Paper from Belgium (56 FR 56359, November 4, 1991). Where we found that they were paid at arm's length, we deducted them from USP. However, we found that respondents used these commissions as a mechanism for reimbursing their related parties for their actual expenses. Accordingly, in order to avoid double-counting, where the actual expenses of the related party were less than the commissions, we deducted only the commissions. Where the commissions were less than the actual expenses, we also deducted the amount by which the actual expenses exceeded the commissions ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum). In addition, each of the respondents classified credits related to quality problems with the merchandise as warranty expenses. However, because these quality-related credits functioned as price reductions, we reclassified them as such. Finally, none of the respondents reported inventory carrying costs on their ESP sales. Accordingly, we calculated these costs using an inventory carrying period of seven days, which, due to the perishable nature of the product, is the maximum amount of time that can transpire between the time a rose is cut and when it must be sold to the ultimate customer, according to a public report by Harry K. Tayama, Ph.D., submitted in the companion investigation on fresh cut roses from Colombia and placed, as well, on the public record for this investigation. For all U.S. prices, we used monthly USPs, because we determined that monthly prices are representative of the transactions under investigation ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum). We made company-specific adjustments, as follows:
