FR940118-1-00054 FR940118-1-00008 Section 160.077&hyph;31␣Statement of Minimum Uniflated Bouyancy (k) This paragraph is revised in accordance with the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 to include metric as well as English measurements. Section 160.077&hyph;33␣Approval Procedures (b) and (c)(1) These paragraphs are revised to delete the text ``(G&hyph;MVI&hyph;3)'' in response to the change in definition of ``Commandant,'' discussed in §160.077&hyph;3(a) above. Section 160.077&hyph;35␣Procedure for Approval of Design or Material Revision (a) and (b) These paragraphs are revised to delete the text ``(G&hyph;MVI&hyph;3)'' in response to the change in definition of ``Commandant,'' discussed in §160.077&hyph;3(a) above. Section 160.077&hyph;37␣Independence Laboratories This paragraph is revised to delete the text ``(G&hyph;MVI&hyph;3)'' in response to the change in definition of ``Commandant,'' discussed in §160.077&hyph;3(a) above. 46 CFR 25.25&hyph;5␣Life Preservers and Other Lifesaving Equipment Required (f) This paragraph is amended to correct a typographical error by changing PED to PFD. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866 and is nonsignificant under Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11040, February 26, 1979). A Regulatory Evaluation was originally placed in the rulemaking docket in 1985, reviewed in May 1991 with regard to inflatable lifejackets, and reconsidered in April 1993, concerning hybrid PFD's in association with this SNPRM. The Regulatory Evaluation, in spite of its age, was found still viable. The information obtained from the original study of inflatable lifejackets has not changed significantly in light of a comparable two and a half year investigation conducted by the Boat/U.S. Foundation for Boating Safety completed in March 1993. The annual number of casualties and drownings involving recreational boating accidents has not changed significantly since these figures were gathered. Further, the Coast Guard is proposing to improve the limited performance of devices already approved under the current regulations by requiring new Type I, II, or III hybrid devices to have increased inherent buoyancy. This Regulatory Evaluation is available in the docket for inspection or copying at the location indicated under addresses. The evaluation provides an explanation of the estimated costs of these proposed regulations. There will no increase in costs to any sector under these proposed changes since hybrid PFD's are only being approved as an option to existing approved devices. The total approval costs per design are expected to be approximately $12,000 for hybrid inflatable PFD's. Costs to approve other types of PFD's are approximately $6,000. The additional cost to approve hybrid PFD's could easily be absorbed in the cost of the units produced. The cost increase per device would be small considering the number of devices produced under authorization of each approval certificate. The Coast Guard anticipates that, within the first year after issuing the final rules, one or two designs will be approved. Production inspection costs imposed by these regulations will be approximately $1,000 for the largest size lot of inflatable lifejackets permitted. This cost is similar to that incurred for other types of approved PFD's. The retail cost, per device, is expected to be $80&hyph;$200 for hybrid PFD's. Currently approved PFD's range in price from $7&hyph;$200. Type I devices that could be replaced by hybrid PFD's have an average cost of about $40. These regulations provide an alternative to users for whom limited stowage space or other operational considerations make the carriage of conventional inherently buoyant PFD's impractical or inadvisable. For these users, the optional carriage of hybrid PFD's will meet their specific operational needs and will therefore justify the higher cost relative to inherently buoyant PFD's. These regulations will have little or no effect on federal, state, or local governments except in their capacities as consumers of PFD's. Coast Guard steps to implement these proposed changes will be done within the scope of ongoing marine safety activities, and there will be no need for additional federal budget commitments. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). Based upon the information in the evaluation this proposal, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. If you feel that your business qualifies as a small entity and would suffer significant, negative economic impact, please submit a comment explaining why your business qualifies as a small entity and to what degree the proposed regulations would economically affect your business. Cost data submitted will be thoroughly evaluated before publication of the final rule. Collection of Information Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) reviews each proposed rule which contains a collection of information requirement to determine whether the practical value of the information is worth the burden imposed by its collection. Collection of information requirements include reporting, recordkeeping, notification, and other similar requirements.
