FR941110-0-00223 FR941110-0-00016 This dispute resolution system does not introduce additional requirements into the survey process; rather, it reinforces instructions that already exist but which have been applied inconsistently up to this point. Because we are formalizing this element of the appeals process, we are amending the appeals procedures at 42 CFR parts 431 and 498 to eliminate the reconsideration process for SNFs and NFs, respectively. Informal dispute resolution will duplicate, in every pertinent way, this element of the process since it will provide the opportunity for providers to contest survey findings informally just as reconsiderations currently are designed to do. Accordingly, we have concluded that retaining the reconsideration process for SNFs and NFs would create redundant procedures and are amending it so that it applies only to other provider and supplier types. Regarding the comment to use dispute resolution as a means to measure surveyor consistency, accuracy, and decision-making, section 1819(g)(2)(D) of the Act requires the Secretary and the States, and section 1919(g)(2)(D) of the Act requires that States, implement programs to measure and reduce inconsistency in the application of survey results among surveyors. HCFA and the States will develop their own mechanisms to satisfy this requirement and may choose to use the dispute resolution process as a means to evaluate surveyor performance in this area. We do not agree with some commenters' characterization of dispute resolution as negotiation between providers and the survey agency, nor do we agree that a process should be established to notify residents and their families when surveyors require additional information in identifying deficiencies. First, dispute resolution as required in this final rule does not contemplate bargaining between providers and the survey agency; rather, it is a preliminary opportunity for providers to refute survey findings that they believe are inaccurate and to present evidence to support their belief. The purpose of this informal process is to clarify, if not eliminate, the issues that might otherwise lead to needless litigation and to sharpen the issues for an administrative law judge or State hearing official so that litigation, should it occur, may be less burdensome and costly. This may work in two ways. It may convince the State or HCFA officials that erroneous deficiencies have been cited, or it may convince providers that, because the State and HCFA have ample support for their conclusions, it would be unwise for providers to pursue litigation. Second, States enter into an agreement with the Secretary (HCFA), in accordance with section 1864 of the Act, to act as HCFA's agent for the purpose, (among others), of determining if a facility meets participation requirements. After following the survey protocol, which includes interviews with residents, and family members or legal representatives, surveyors may find that they do not have sufficient information to cite a deficiency. However, we note that whenever nursing home residents or their families believe that a deficient or otherwise inappropriate practice exists in the facility, regardless of whether a survey is in process, they should contact the State ombudsman, request a complaint investigation, or both. Some commenters believe that a dispute resolution mechanism may impact on how surveyors recognize deficiencies as well as how they assign scope and severity scale levels to cited deficiencies. First, it is important that commenters be absolutely clear that neither the enforcement scheme presented in the proposed rule nor the modified model in this final rule was developed for the purpose of identifying deficiencies. Rather, the assessment factors discussed under ``Factors to be Considered in Selecting Remedies'' of this preamble and codified at ยง488.404 of this final rule will be used (as the former scope and severity scale was to be used) to evaluate the seriousness of deficiencies already identified in order to determine what, if any, enforcement action is appropriate. Second, in response to public comment, this final rule has incorporated the concept of substantial compliance. This concept, which is discussed in detail under ``Certification of Compliance'' of this preamble, provides that not all deficiencies will result in enforcement action and should, therefore, eliminate resistance or hesitation of surveyors to cite deficiencies that they have identified for fear of provider disputes of lower-level assessment determinations. As we have stated elsewhere in this preamble, the survey process provides several opportunities for deficient practices or otherwise inadequate performance on the part of the State to be identified and sanctioned. Therefore, if the situation described by the commenters should occur, there are adequate statutory and regulatory mechanisms to respond to it.
