FR940325-2-00003 FR940325-2-00001 The Forest Service will consider a range of alternatives. One of these will be the ``no action'' alternative, in which none of the proposed activities would be implemented. Another alternative will be one which proposes no activities in the McKay Creek Roadless area. Additional alternatives will be developed to address comments and suggestions raised by the public. The alternatives will examine varying levels and locations for the proposed activities to achieve the proposal's purposes, as well as to respond to the issues and other resource values. The EIS will analyze the direct, indirect, and cumulative environmental effects of the alternatives. Past, present, and projected activities on both private and National Forest lands will be considered. The EIS will disclose the analysis of site-specific mitigation measures and their effectiveness. Public participation is an important part of the analysis, commencing with the initial scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7), which will occur March 1994 to April 1994. In addition, the public is encouraged to visit with Forest Service officials at any time during the analysis and prior to the decision. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. No public meetings are scheduled at this time. Comments from the public and other agencies will be used in preparation of the Draft EIS. The scoping process will be used to: 1. Identify potential issues. 2. Identify major issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Eliminate minor issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis, such as the Kootenai Forest Plan EIS. 4. Identify alternatives to the proposed action. 5. Identify potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e., direct, indirect, and cumulative effects). 6. Determine potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. Some public comments have already been received in conjunction with Cabinet District Open House meetings in January 1994. The following preliminary issues have been identified so far: a. What are the effects of sediment from logging activities on the fisheries within Rock Creek? b. What effect would the proposal have on wildlife habitat and security? c. What effect would the proposal have on the roadless character of McKay Creek Roadless Area # 676 and the Cabinet Wilderness? d. What would be the effects on the visual quality of the area as viewed from Highway 200 and the Clark Fork River? e. Are there any sensitive, threatened, or endangered plant or animal species in the area? How would this project affect them if they are present? f. How will this project, in conjunction with the proposed Asarco Rock Creek mine, affect grizzly bear security? Other issues commonly associated with timber harvesting and road construction include: Effects on cultural resources, soils, and old growth. This list may be verified, expanded, or modified based on public and internal scoping for this proposal.
