FR940412-1-00051 FR940412-1-00008 (b) A separate ratemaking calculation is made for each of the following U.S. pilotage areas: Area 1_the St. Lawrence River; Area 2_Lake Ontario; Area 4_Lake Erie; Area 5_the navigable waters from South East Shoal to Port Huron, MI; Area 6_Lakes Huron and Michigan; Area 7_the St. Mary's River; and Area 8_Lake Superior. Appendix A to Part 404_Ratemaking Methodology Step 1: Projection of Operating Expenses (1) The first Step in the Great Lakes pilotage ratemaking methodology is to project the amount of fair and reasonable operating expenses that basic pilotage rates should recover, as determined by the Director. This step consists of the following phases: (a) Submission of financial information from each Association; (b) determination of recognizable expenses; (c) adjustment for ancillary revenues; (d) adjustment for inflation or deflation; and (e) final projection of operating expenses. Each of these phases is detailed below. Step 1.A._Submission of Financial Information (1) Each Association is responsible for providing detailed financial information to the Director, in accordance with Part 403 of this chapter. Step 1.B._Determination of Recognizable Expenses (1) The Director determines which Association expenses will be recognized for ratemaking purposes, using the guidelines for the recognition of expenses contained in ยง404.05 of this chapter. Each Association is responsible for providing sufficient data for the Director to make this determination. Step 1.C._Adjustment for Ancillary Revenues (1) Several charges have traditionally been levied for pilotage services which are additional to basic pilotage service. These charges are termed ``ancillary charges,'' and are defined as charges for docking, undocking, moveage, delay, cancellation, and lock transit. Revenues received from these ancillary charges will be offset against the operational expenses of the Associations. Rates for ancillary services will be set separately from basic pilotage rates. The method for setting ancillary rates is discussed in Step 7.D., below. Step 1.D._Adjustment for Inflation or Deflation (1) In making projections of future expenses, expenses that are subject to inflationary or deflationary pressures are adjusted. Costs not subject to inflation or deflation (e.g., depreciation, long-term leases, pilot compensation, etc.) are not adjusted. The inclusion of an inflation or deflation adjustment does not imply that pilotage rates will be automatically adjusted each shipping season, without a pilotage rate review. The inflation or deflation adjustment is only made during the expense projection phase of a full-scale pilotage rate review. Annual cost inflation or deflation rates will be projected to the succeeding navigation season, reflecting the gradual increase or decrease in cost throughout the year. For ratemaking calculations begun after January 1, 1996, the actual annual experienced change in the average cost in non-pilot operational costs per pilot assignment for each pilotage area will be used to project the inflation or deflation adjustment. For ratemaking calculations begun prior to January 1, 1996, the inflation or deflation adjustment will be based on the preceding year's change in the North Central Region's Consumer Price Index as calculated by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Step 1.E._Projection of Operating Expenses (1) Once all adjustments are made to the recognized operating expenses, the Director projects these expenses for each pilotage district. In doing so, the Director takes into account foreseeable circumstances which could affect the accuracy of the projection. The Director will determine, as accurately as reasonably practicable, the ``projection of operating expenses.'' Step 2: Projection of Target Pilot Compensation (1) The second Step in the Great Lakes pilotage ratemaking methodology is to project the amount of target pilot compensation that pilotage rates should provide in each area. This Step consists of the following phases: (a) Determination of target rate of compensation; (b) determination of number of pilots needed in each pilotage area; and (c) multiplication of the target compensation by the number of pilots needed to project target pilot compensation needed in each area. Each of these proposed phases is detailed below.
