FR940317-1-00016 FR940317-1-00006 Batch sizes of methamphetamine produced at clandestine labs can vary greatly. Recent information indicates that methamphetamine is also produced in small batches via a procedure known as the ``cold process.'' This procedure has utilized quantities of 40 grams or less of ephedrine. The smuggling of bulk ephedrine and the purchase of OTC ephedrine tablets are the primary sources of ephedrine utilized at these clandestine laboratories. Ephedrine tablets make up a significant portion of the more than 10 metric tons of ephedrine reportedly seized at clandestine laboratories between 1990 and 1992. This material may be purchased from several different sources at below threshold quantities. The purchase of regulated chemicals from several suppliers in quantities below established thresholds is a common method of diversion and continues to occur with ephedrine. A comparison of U.S. hospital/pharmacy purchase data with the quantities of ephedrine seized at clandestine laboratories indicates that the use of ephedrine for clandestine laboratories is much greater than amounts purchased by these types of distribution outlets. Drug products containing ephedrine are used legitimately to treat asthma and other conditions. They are available as OTC products from pharmacies, hospitals and other distribution outlets. Ephedrine products, which are lawfully marketed and distributed under the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act and contain other active medicinal ingredients in therapeutically significant concentrations, are currently exempt from the reporting and recordkeeping requirements imposed under the CDTA. Of the oral OTC products available for medicinal treatment of chronic asthma, these ephedrine combination products are the products more frequently dispensed by pharmacies and hospitals. The elimination of a threshold for ephedrine does not impose any additional requirements on pharmacies, hospitals or points of distribution which distribute only those ephedrine products which are exempted. The Acting Administrator, Drug Enforcement Administration, hereby certifies that this proposed rulemaking will have no significant impact upon entities whose interests must be considered under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. This proposed rule only eliminates the existing threshold for which ephedrine transactions must be reported and records maintained. It only impacts firms involved with small bulk transfers of ephedrine or distribution of single entity ephedrine tablets/capsules. This proposed rule is not a significant regulatory action and therefore need not be reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to Executive Order 12866. This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria in E.O. 12612, and it has been determined that the proposed rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects in 21 CFR 1310 Drug Enforcement Administration, Drug traffic control, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For reasons as set out above, 21 CFR part 1310 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 1310_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 1310 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 802, 830, 871(b). 2. Section 1310.04 is proposed to be amended by revising the introductory text to paragraph (f); removing paragraph (f)(1)(iii); redesignating paragraphs (f)(1)(iv) through (f)(1)(xxiv) as (f)(1)(iii) through (f)(1)(xxiii) respectively; and adding a new paragraph (g) to read as follows: ยง1310.04 Maintenance of records. * * * * * (f) For those listed chemicals for which thresholds have been established, the quantitative threshold or the cumulative amount for multiple transactions within a calendar month, to be utilized in determining whether a receipt, sale, importation or exportation is a regulated transaction is as follows: * * * * * (g) For listed chemicals for which no thresholds have been established, the size of the transaction is not a factor in determining whether the transaction meets the definition of a regulated transaction as set forth in ยง1310.01(f). All such transactions, regardless of size, are subject to recordkeeping and reporting requirements as set forth in part 1310. (1) Listed Chemicals For Which No Thresholds Have Been Established: (i) Ephedrine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of optical isomers (ii) [Reserved] (2) [Reserved] Dated: February 28, 1994. Stephen H. Greene, Acting Administrator of Drug Enforcement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6234 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;09&hyph;M
