FR941216-1-00155 FR941216-1-00012 ยง184.206 Casting and curing. (a) Local attendance during cast operations is permitted provided a thorough safety review of the operation is conducted. (b) Multiple or production line type casting is permissible provided provision is made to prevent propagation of an incident between individual cast bells or pits. (c) All cast piping and tooling in contact with propellant shall be smooth for ease of cleaning and be free of cracks, pits, crevices, and weld slag. Threaded joints should be avoided as much as possible. Joints requiring disassembly as a process operation or for cleaning should not be threaded type. (d) Cast tooling and mandrel designs shall permit no metal-to-metal friction or impact sites. (e) Valves through which propellant flows shall be designed to prevent propellant from being pinched or compressed between two metal surfaces. (f) Pressurized casting vessels shall be capable of withstanding at least twice the maximum allowable working pressure. (g) Lids shall be secured to pressurized casting vessels in such a manner that they shall withstand the rated pressures of the vessels. (h) Line pressure for pressurizing the casting vessel shall not exceed the working pressure of the vessel. Pressure lines shall have a relief valve downstream of the regulator. (i) Equip each vessel with a blowout disk (burst diaphragm) designed to blow out at less than 120 percent of the vessel's maximum allowable working pressure. The design shall allow for the release of the potential rapid rise of pressure in the vessel should the propellant ignite. (j) Pressure relief is to be provided when propellant is cured or cast under pressure. (k) Pressurization and depressurization for propellant cure shall be done remotely. (l) Casting vessels should be physically or electrically disconnected from lifting devices during cast operations. ยง184.207 Extrusion processes. (a) Extrusion presses and compression molding equipment should be designed to remove air from the propellant before compaction and extrusion begin. Assure that procedures provide for checking operation of the vacuum system and cleaning it of propellant residue and condensed vapors such as those generated from nitroglycerin volatization. (b) Ramheads should be checked for alignment with the press bore to preclude metal-to-metal contact. Flashing removal should be included in the process procedures. (c) Interlocks shall be provided to preclude press operation during loading or other attendant operations. ยง184.208 Propellant loaded items. (a) When operations are performed on cured propellant contained in pressure vessels or rocket motor cases and there is a significant risk of ignition due to energy inputs (such as electrical check of pyrotechnic devices), the unit should be secured in a fixture capable of withstanding the rated thrust of the assembly times a factor 2.5, minimum. (b) When mechanically applied force is required to ``breakaway'' the mandrel or other tooling embedded in propellant, it should be applied by remote control. However, see Appendix A to this subpart for exceptions. (c) Moving loaded motors with cores in place is, generally, not recommended. If loaded motors containing cores shall be moved, however, the core and motor case shall be supported by or suspended from a common source or in some manner locked or tied together to prevent independent movement of either. (d) Hazard characteristics of individual propellants to be cut, machined, or contoured, shall be evaluated and considered in determining the safest method to use. (e) Propellant machining equipment shall be designed: (1) To prevent contact of cutting tools or blades with motor cases and other metal objects. (2) To minimize generation of heat. (3) To facilitate removal of dust and chips, and to afford personnel protection. The motor or grain should be X-rayed prior to trim if there is a possibility that metal or other foreign objects may be in the propellant. (f) Propellant dust, chips and shavings shall be removed frequently from the work area during machining and contouring. (g) Rocket motors in final assembly process should be positioned to permit ready access to all sides of the motor. Aisles and exit doors are to be kept clear and unobstructed. All exit doors shall have quick-release hardware. (h) The number of items in the final assembly building shall be the minimum consistent with a safe and efficient operation. (i) Grounding of propellant loaded assemblies in storage is optional and is to be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. (j) If the process requires removing an igniter shorting clip, the igniter shall remain shorted until immediately before insertion. Igniter shall remain nonshorted for only the minimum time required for the operation.
