FR940228-1-00125 FR940228-1-00010 (e) Revocation of provisional certification. (1) If, before the expiration of a provisionally certified institution's period of participation in a Title IV, HEA program, the Secretary determines that the institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its program participation agreement, the Secretary may revoke the institution's provisional certification for participation in that program. (2)(i) If the Secretary revokes the provisional certification of an institution under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Secretary sends the institution a notice by registered mail, return receipt requested. The Secretary also may transmit the notice by other, more expeditious means, if practical. (ii) The revocation takes effect on the date that the Secretary mails the notice to the institution. (iii) The notice states the basis for the revocation, the consequences of the revocation to the institution, and that the institution may request the Secretary to reconsider the revocation. The consequences of a revocation are described in ยง668.26. (3)(i) An institution may request reconsideration of a revocation under this section by submitting to the Secretary, within 20 days of the institution's receipt of the Secretary's notice, written evidence that the revocation is unwarranted. The institution must file the request with the Secretary by hand-delivery, mail, or facsimile transmission. (ii) The filing date of the request is the date on which the request is_ (A) Hand-delivered; (B) Mailed; or (C) Sent by facsimile transmission. (iii) Documents filed by facsimile transmission must be transmitted to the Secretary in accordance with instructions provided by the Secretary in the notice of revocation. An institution filing by facsimile transmission is responsible for confirming that a complete and legible copy of the document was received by the Secretary. (iv) The Secretary discourages the use of facsimile transmission for documents longer than five pages. (4)(i) The Secretary promptly considers an institution's request for reconsideration of a revocation and notifies the institution, by registered mail, return receipt requested, of the Secretary's final decision. The Secretary also may transmit the notice by other, more expeditious means, if practical. (ii) If the Secretary determines that the revocation is warranted, the Secretary's notice informs the institution that the institution may apply for reinstatement of participation only after the later of the expiration of_ (A) Eighteen months after the effective date of the revocation; or (B) A debarment or suspension of the institution under Executive Order 12549 or the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4. (iii) If the Secretary determines that the revocation of the institution's provisional certification is unwarranted, the Secretary's notice informs the institution that the institution's provisional certification is reinstated, effective on the date that the Secretary's original revocation notice was mailed, for a specified period of time. (5)(i) The mailing date of a notice of revocation or a request for reconsideration of a revocation is the date evidenced on the original receipt of mailing from the U.S. Postal Service. (ii) The date on which a request for reconsideration of a revocation is submitted is_ (A) If the request was sent by a delivery service other than the U.S. Postal Service, the date evidenced on the original receipt by that service; and (B) If the request was sent by facsimile transmission, the date that the document is recorded as received by facsimile equipment that receives the transmission. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099c and E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189) and 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 comp., p.235) 8. Newly designated ยง668.14 is revised to read as follows:
