FR940527-1-00098 FR940527-1-00014 VII. ProPAC Recommendations We have reviewed the March 1, 1994 report submitted by ProPAC to Congress and have given its recommendations careful consideration in conjunction with the proposals set forth in this document. Recommendations 1 through 6 focus on specific features of the President's Health Security Act and other health care reform activities and will be resolved through the legislative process. Therefore, we are not addressing these recommendations in this document. Recommendations 9, 12, and 13 concerning the update factors for inpatient operating costs are discussed in Appendix D of this proposed rule. Recommendations 10 and 11 concerning the update factors for inpatient capital costs are also discussed in Appendix E. Recommendations 15 and 16 concerning hospital wage data and the hospital wage index are discussed in section III of this preamble. The remaining recommendations are discussed below. A. Controlling Medicare Spending Across All Sites of Care (Recommendation 7) Recommendation: Medicare should continue to develop policies to monitor and control total expenditure growth across all sites of care. Payment methods should not unduly favor the choice of one site over another. They should also provide consistent incentives to constrain increases in volume and service intensity across physicians and other providers. Response: In response to a similar ProPAC recommendation last year, we stated in the proposed rule for FY 1994 that controlling the overall growth of Medicare spending is of critical importance. We believe the hospital inpatient prospective payment system has been effective in slowing the growth in Medicare spending compared with estimates of growth in spending under reasonable cost reimbursement. Also, during the first 2 years of the physician fee schedule, the growth in spending for physician services under Medicare has been reduced. In addition, we are developing a prospective payment system for outpatient hospital services that will provide the appropriate economic incentives to help control the growth of Medicare spending for outpatient services. While prospective payment has shown promise for controlling Medicare spending growth, we remain concerned about growth in the volume and intensity of Medicare services. Currently, we are using the Medicare volume performance standard to provide physicians with incentives to control volume and intensity. There are no similar volume control systems for other services. We are continuing to study other mechanisms for controlling expenditures growth, such as bundling payments for multiple services into a single payment. B. Strengthening Medicare's Risk Contracting Program (Recommendation 8) Recommendation: The Commission recommends that the Secretary improve Medicare's risk-based managed care program to give more Medicare beneficiaries the option of enrolling in managed care plans. To increase plan participation, deficiencies related to the risk adjustment formula and local differences in payments need to be corrected. Response: We support giving more Medicare beneficiaries the option of enrolling in managed care plans. We are aware of the need to institute new methodologies for payment to risk plans. Currently, we are sponsoring research on risk adjustment methods, including diagnostic cost groups (DCGs) and ambulatory care groups (ACGs). In addition, our recent grants announcement (Health Care Financing Research and Demonstration Cooperative Agreements and Grants for Fiscal Years 1994 Through 1996) (59 FR 1951) calls for work on risk adjustors, both for the Medicare and the under 65 populations. We have also initiated a demonstration that is expected to test alternative payment methods that may incorporate adjustments for enrollee health status. With regard to correcting local differences in payment to Medicare risk plans, we note that section 1876 of the Act requires payment to Medicare risk plans to be based on projected Medicare per capita costs for beneficiaries who are not enrolled in managed care plans. Given that there are local differences in Medicare's per capita costs for these beneficiaries, local differences in Medicare's risk plan payment rates are a logical result. C. Update to the Composite Rate for Dialysis Services (Recommendation 14) Recommendation: The FY 1995 update recommendation for the composite rate for dialysis services accounts for the following: •The projected increase in the market basket for dialysis services in FY 1995, estimated at 4.3 percent; •A positive adjustment of 0.7 percentage points to reflect the additional costs associated with scientific and technological advances; •A negative adjustment of 1.0 percentage points to encourage productivity improvements; and •A negative discretionary adjustment of 4.0 percentage points to reflect the relationship between payments and estimated FY 1994 costs.
