FR940616-2-00017 FR940616-2-00009 To value electricity, we used PAPI from the Asian Development Bank. To value coal and natural gas, we used Indian Import Statistics for 1992 and the Monthly Statistics of Mineral Production, Indian Bureau of Mines dated November 1992, respectively. To value water, we used a public cable from the U.S. consulate in Pakistan which was originally provided in the investigation of Sulfanilic Acid From the PRC because we could not locate a value for water in any Indian or Pakistani publication. For all material and energy prices that were for a period prior to the POI, we adjusted the factor values to account for inflation between the time period in question and the POI using wholesale price indices published in International Financial Statistics (IFS) by the International Monetary Fund. To value labor amounts, we used the International Labor Office's 1993 Yearbook of Labor Statistics. To determine the number of hours in an Indian workday, we used the Country Reports: Human Rights Practices for 1990. We adjusted the factor values to account for inflation between the time period in question and the POI using the consumer price indices published in IFS. To value factory overhead, we calculated percentages based on elements of industry group income statements from The Reserve Bank of India Bulletin (RBI), December 1992. We based our overhead percentage calculations on the RBI data, adjusted to reflect an energy-exclusive overhead percentage. For selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, we calculated percentages based on the RBI data. We used the calculated SG&A percentages because they were greater than the ten percent statutory minimum. We also used the calculated profit percentage because it was greater than the statutory minimum of eight percent of materials, labor, factory overhead, and SG&A expenses. We made no adjustments for selling expenses. We added surrogate freight costs for the delivery of packing materials to the factories producing pencils. Best Information Available Because information has not been presented to the Department to prove otherwise, any PRC companies not participating in this investigation are not entitled to separate dumping margins. Potential exporters identified by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC) have failed to respond to our questionnaire. In the absence of responses from these and other PRC exporters during the POI, we are basing the PRC country-wide rate on BIA. As discussed above, we are also applying BIA to SFTC. In determining what to use as BIA, the Department follows a two-tiered methodology, whereby the Department normally assigns lower margins to those respondents that cooperated in an investigation and more adverse margins for those respondents which did not cooperate in an investigation. As outlined in the Preliminary Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products From Argentina (``Argentina Steel''), 58 FR 7066, 7069, 7070 (February 4, 1993), when a company refuses to provide the information requested in the form required, or otherwise significantly impedes the Department's investigation, it is appropriate for the Department to assign to that company the higher of (a) the highest margin alleged in the petition, or (b) the highest calculated rate of any respondent in the investigation. Here, since some PRC exporters failed to respond to our questionnaire, we are assigning to them the highest margin in the petition, as recalculated by the Department for the initiation and for this determination using petitioner's updated information submitted May 1994. This rate applies to all exporters other than those responding exporters which have shown their independence from central government control. Since SFTC has been cooperative in this proceeding, and since we have preliminarily determined it is eligible for a separate rate, we are assigning a margin based on the highest calculated rate for any respondent in the investigation (see Argentina Steel ). Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify all information determined to be acceptable for use in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of pencils from the PRC that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated amount by which the FMV exceeds the USP as shown below. These suspension of liquidation instructions will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows: ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Weighted-average margin percentage Guangdong 58.34 SFTC 100.98 Shanghai Lansheng 100.98 PRC country-wide rate* 107.63 *Including China first. ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. If our final determination is affirmative, the ITC will determine before the later of 120 days after the date of this preliminary determination or 45 days after our final determination whether these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, the U.S. industry. Public Comment In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38, case briefs or other written comments in at least ten copies must be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration no later than August 8, 1994, and rebuttal briefs, no later than August 12, 1994. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38(b), we will hold a public hearing, if requested, to afford interested parties an opportunity to comment on arguments raised in case or rebuttal briefs. Tentatively, the hearing will be held at 10 a.m. on August 15, 1994, at the U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 3708, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20230. Parties should confirm by telephone the time, date, and place of the hearing 48 hours before the scheduled time. Interested parties who wish to request a hearing, or to participate if one is requested, must submit a written request to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room B&hyph;099, within ten days of the publication of this notice. Requests should contain: (1) The party's name, address, and telephone number; (2) the number of participants; and (3) a list of the issues to be discussed. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38(b), oral presentations will be limited to issues raised in the briefs. If this investigation proceeds normally, we will make our final determination by August 22, 1994. This determination is published pursuant to section 733(f) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.15(a)(4). Dated: June 8, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14624 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
