FR940713-1-00037 FR940713-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 165 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;064] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone; Widmann Wedding Fireworks Display, Sheffield Island, CT AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to establish a safety zone in Sheffield Harbor, around the fireworks barge C&hyph;33 located approximately 1200 feet northwest of the abandoned lighthouse on Sheffield Island, Norwalk, CT from 9:15 p.m. through 10 p.m. on September 17, 1994. This safety zone is needed to protect the maritime community from possible navigation hazards associated with a fireworks display. Entry into this zone will be prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port, Long Island Sound. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to the Captain of the Port, 120 Woodward Avenue, New Haven, CT 06512 or may be delivered to the Port Operations office at the above address between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. The telephone number is (203) 468&hyph;4464. The Captain of the Port maintains the public docket for this rulemaking. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection or copying at the Port Operations office at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant Commander T.V. Skuby, Chief of Port Operations, Captain of the Port, Long Island Sound at (203) 468&hyph;4464. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Requests for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Due to the limited amount of time available prior to the event, only a 30 day comment period can be provided. Persons submitting comments should include their name and address, identify this rulemaking [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;064] and the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give a reason for each comment. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Project Officer at the address under ADDRESSES . If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are LCDR T.V. Skuby, Project Officer, Captain of the Port, Long Island Sound, and LCDR J. Stieb, Project Attorney, First Coast Guard District, Legal Office. Background and Purpose The sponsor, Jim Widmann, President of CT Pyro Display Company, South Norwalk, CT has requested that a fireworks display be permitted in the port of Norwalk in the vicinity of Sheffield Island, Norwalk, CT, from 9:15 p.m. through 10 p.m. on September 17, 1994. The fireworks display is scheduled to celebrate the sponsor's wedding. The safety zone will cover all waters of Sheffield Harbor within a 1200 foot radius of the fireworks barge C&hyph;33, which will be located approximately 1200 feet northwest of the abandoned lighthouse on Sheffield Island, Norwalk, CT. This zone is required to protect the maritime community from the dangers and potential hazards to navigation associated with the fireworks display. Entry into or movement within this zone will be prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port or his on scene representative. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. The Coast Guard expects the economic impact to be minimal due to the limited duration of the fireworks display, the small size of the safety zone, the low level or non existent commercial vessel traffic expected in the area during the effective time of the zone, and the broadcast of marine safety advisories the day of the event. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). For the reasons addressed in the Regulatory Evaluation above, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This proposal contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism
