FR940406-0-00036 FR940406-0-00002 (c) Acceptance or dismissal. (1) Within 30 days of the Board's receipt of a class complaint, the Board shall designate a representative who shall monitor the class complaint on behalf of the Board and who shall be one of the individuals referenced in §268.202(e)(3) of this part, and forward the class complaint, along with a copy of the EEO Counselor's report and any other information pertaining to timeliness or other relevant circumstances related to the class complaint, to the Commission's Office of Federal Operations. The Commission shall assign the class complaint to an administrative judge or complaints examiner who shall, if required, have a proper security clearance. The administrative judge may require the agent of the class or the Board to submit additional information relevant to the complaint. (2) The administrative judge may recommend that the Board dismiss the class complaint, or any portion, for any of the reasons listed in §268.206 of this part, or because it does not meet the prerequisites of a class complaint under §268.102(g) of this part. (3) If an allegation of discrimination in the class complaint is not included in the EEO Counselor's report, the administrative judge shall afford the agent of the class 15 calendar days to state whether the matter was discussed with the EEO Counselor and, if not, explain why it was not discussed. If the explanation is not satisfactory, the administrative judge shall recommend that the Board dismiss the allegation under §268.206 of this part. If the explanation is satisfactory, the administrative judge shall refer the allegation to the Board for further counseling by an EEO Counselor with the agent of the class. After counseling, the allegation shall be consolidated with the class complaint. (4) If an allegation of discrimination in the class complaint lacks specificity and detail, the administrative judge shall afford the agent of the class 15 calendar days to provide specific and detailed information. The administrative judge shall recommend that the Board dismiss the class complaint if the agent of the class fails to provide such information within the specified time period. If the information provided contains new allegations outside the scope of the complaint, the administrative judge shall advise the agent of the class how to proceed on an individual or class basis concerning these allegations. (5) The administrative judge shall recommend that the Board extend the time limits for filing a class complaint and for consulting with an EEO Counselor in accordance with the time limit extension provisions contained in §§268.204(a)(2) and 268.604 of this part. (6) When appropriate, the administrative judge may recommend that a class be divided into subclasses and that each subclass be treated as a class, and the provisions of this section shall then be construed and applied accordingly. (7) The administrative judge's written recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or dismiss a class complaint and the complaint file shall be transmitted to the Board, and notification of that transmittal shall be sent to the agent of the class. The administrative judge's recommendation to accept or dismiss shall become the Board's decision unless the Board accepts, rejects or modifies the recommended decision within 30 days of the receipt of the recommended decision and complaint file pursuant to §268.209 of this part. The Board shall notify the agent of the class by certified mail, return receipt requested, and the administrative judge of its decision to accept or dismiss a class complaint. At the same time, the Board shall forward to the agent of the class copies of the administrative judge's recommendation and the complaint file. The dismissal of a class complaint shall inform the agent of the class either that the class complaint is being filed on that date as an individual complaint of discrimination and will be processed under subpart B of this part, or that the class complaint is also dismissed as an individual complaint in accordance with §268.206 of this part. In addition, it shall inform the agent of the class of the right to file a request for review of the dismissal of the class complaint with the Commission pursuant to §268.401 of this part, or to file a civil action. A copy of EEOC Form 573, notice of Appeal/Petition, shall be attached to the Board's decision to dismiss a class complaint pursuant to §268.209(b)(4) of this part. (d) Notification. (1) Within 15 calendar days of accepting a class complaint, the Board shall use reasonable means, such as delivery, mailing to last known address or distribution, to notify all class members of the acceptance of the class complaint.
