FR941107-2-00055 FR941107-2-00020 CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION Product Identification; Notice of Inquiry; Request for Comments and Information AGENCY: Consumer Product Safety Commission. ACTION: Notice of inquiry. SUMMARY: The Commission frequently warns the public about unsafe products or works with industry to conduct recalls or other corrective actions on such products that are in the hands of consumers. However, these products can be difficult for the Commission and consumers to identify because they often lack markings that specify the name and address of the manufacturer or importer. To address this problem, the Commission is considering requiring firms to put identifying information on their products. The Commission will also consider alternative ways to address the problem. Therefore, the Commission is issuing this notice of inquiry to solicit comments from industry, consumers and all other interested parties. The Commission is particularly interested in receiving specific information on the expected economic effects of this proposal. After evaluating all comments received and all information available, the Commission will decide whether to propose for additional public comment a product identification rule. DATES: Written comments in response to this notice of inquiry must be received by the Commission no later than January 6, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments, preferably in five (5) copies, should be mailed to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207&hyph;0001 or delivered to room 502, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Alan Shakin, Office of the General Counsel, Room 700, at the above address; telephone 301&hyph;504&hyph;0980. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background The Commission has the authority to order firms to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of unsafe consumer products, see 15 U.S.C. 1274(b) and 2064(d), and to give public notice of the hazards. 15 U.S.C. 1274(a) and 2064(c). In addition, the Commission frequently reaches agreements with firms to give public notice and take corrective actions voluntarily to remove unsafe products from the marketplace. In this notice we will refer to the corrective actions of notice and repair, replacement and refund generally as ``recalls.'' The Commission consistently works to improve the effectiveness of recalls of unsafe consumer products by making more consumers aware of recalls and by encouraging more consumers to respond when they have a recalled product. The most effective recalls occur when consumers can be told that a recall applies to a particular brand and model of a product that was manufactured at a particular time, and when all of this information is displayed on the product. Sometimes, however, the Commission cannot even seek a recall of an unsafe product because the Commission does not know what firm manufactured, imported or distributed the product to consumers. For example, since 1984 the Commission knows of more than 20 children who choked to death on toys that could not be identified. These toys had no identifying information on them_except perhaps the country of manufacture_and the place of purchase was unknown. In other cases, the Commission is able to identify the firm that made or imported the product and is able to negotiate a recall. However, the absence of identifying information on the product makes it extremely difficult for consumers to know whether they have the recalled product.
