FR940617-1-00106 FR940617-1-00012 ( 4 ) Rubber policeman. These can be fashioned in the laboratory or purchased from most laboratory supply houses. ( 5 ) Test formulation. Directions used to demonstrate the effectiveness of the test formulation are to be the same as those proposed for the use of the product. ( 6 ) Positive control formulation. Any patient preoperative skin preparation formulation approved by the Food and Drug Administration is acceptable. ( 7 ) Sterile Drape or dressing. A sterile drape or dressing should be used to cover treated skin sites. ( 8 ) Sampling solution. Dissolve 0.4 gram potassium phosphate, monobasic, 0.1 gram sodium phosphate, dibasic and 1 gram Triton X&hyph;100 in 1 liter distilled water. Include in this formulation an inactivator specific for the antimicrobial in the test formulation. Adjust to pH 7.8 with 0.1 Normal hydrochloric acid or 0.1 Normal sodium hydroxide. Dispense 50 to 100-milliliter volumes into water dilution bottles, or other suitable containers, and sterilize for 20 minutes at 121 ○C. ( 9 ) Dilution fluid. Butterfield's phosphate buffered water adjusted to pH 7.2 and containing an antimicrobial inactivator specific for the test formulation. Adjust pH with 0.1 Normal hydrochloric acid or 0.1 Normal sodium hydroxide. ( 10 ) Plating medium. Soybean-casein digest agar plus a suitable inactivator. (C) Test and control skin sites. (1 ) The skin sites selected for use in evaluating the effectiveness of the pre-operative skin preparation are to represent body areas that are common surgical sites and are to include both dry and moist skin areas. The sites are to possess bacterial populations large enough to allow demonstrations of bacterial reduction of up to 2 log 10 per square centimeter on dry skin sites and up to 3 log 10 per square centimeter on moist sites. A suitable dry skin area is the abdomen and a suitable moist area is the groin. For the effectiveness testing of patient preoperative skin preparation antiseptic drug products labeled according to §333.460(b)(2), a dry skin site such as the arm, from the shoulder to the elbow, or the posterior surface of the hand below the wrist is to be selected. The sites to be tested are to have a bacterial population of 3 log 10 organisms per square centimeter of skin. ( 2 ) Treatment and control sites are to be located contralateral to each other. Each site is to be 5 by 5 centimeters. (D) Test panelists. Recruit healthy adult male and female human volunteers who have no clinical evidence of dermatosis, open wounds, or other skin disorders that may affect the integrity of the study, and in sufficient numbers per formulation being tested to satisfy the statistical criteria of the clinical trial design.
