FR941128-1-00028 FR941128-1-00005 To make the stability classification comparisons for the SRDT evaluation, a surrogate for the preferred Turner classification scheme 24 was devised. This surrogate method utilized ``off-site'' National Weather Service (NWS) observations in lieu of those otherwise made ``on-site''. To ensure the integrity of this surrogate method, it was necessary that candidate sites be sufficiently near a representative NWS station from which cloud cover and ceiling height observations could be obtained. Of ten on-site data bases considered for supporting the evaluation, three were ultimately selected because they had the requisite attributes. The data bases thus selected were: Kincaid, IL (21 weeks in 1980), Longview, WA (CY 1991), and a site near Bloomington, IN (7/91&hyph;7/92). Proximity of these sites to NWS stations ranged from 17 to 45 miles. 24 This method requires on-site measurements of wind speed coupled with observations of cloud cover and ceiling height. Turner, D.B., 1964. A Diffusion Model for an Urban Area. Journal of Applied Meteorology, 3(1): 83&hyph;91. For theoretical reasons, as well as for consistency with the approach originally proposed, the SRDT method was initially evaluated using D T data from 2&hyph;10m; such data were available for all three sites. At two of the sites, D T data from 10&hyph;50m were also available. These data were of interest in trying to accommodate D T measurements from alternative height intervals. As substantial site-to-site variability was seen in initial analyses using the 2&hyph;10m D T data, it was decided to pool the data from all three sites and then determine optimum SRDT ``cutpoints'' (i.e., meteorological criteria for discriminating stability category). Thus, optimum cutpoints were derived in an empirical, iterative fashion from a data base of 19,540 valid hours. Use of these optimum cutpoints resulted in a SRDT system that estimated the same P-G stability as the preferred Turner scheme for 62% of the hours; the categories were within one class for 89% of the hours. A randomization procedure in which the composite data were split into two complementary sets was done to ascertain robustness (insensitivity to random variations in the data) of the method. The optimum cutpoints from the composite data were then applied to the three sites individually to document site-specific residuals. For the two sites with 10&hyph;50m D T data, the SRDT system using the optimum (for pooled data) cutpoints was applied in the same way as with the 2&hyph;10m D T data, with reasonably accurate and consistent results. Stability categories were duplicated by the SRDT method at least 56% of the hours, and were within one class for about 90% of the hours. Overall, the analyses show that the SRDT system works adequately for either D T interval: the system does not appear to be unduly sensitive to the actual D T height interval. Based on these analyses, EPA does not feel it should be overly prescriptive regarding the use of particular D T intervals. Rather, in guidance for implementation of the method, actual placement of temperature probes is related to fundamental site- specific phenomena, e.g., surface roughness. While the method was evaluated using only 2&hyph;10m and 10&hyph;50m D T data, it is considered to be robust enough to accommodate other D T height intervals as well, so long as section 6.4.4.2 of the on-site guidance cited above is followed. Finally, consequence analyses were performed using a Gaussian dispersion model (i.e., ISC2) to document the effect of the SRDT method on design concentration ratios. 25 These analyses were performed for the 2&hyph;10m D T comparisons at all three sites and for the 10&hyph;50m D T comparisons at two sites. For all such analyses, scenarios included single 35m, 100m and 200m stacks and 180 receptors configured radially in 5 concentric rings. Averaging times included 1-hour, 3-hour, 24-hour, and period. Modeled concentrations of interest were the high, and high 2nd high value. Using stability categories derived from the 2&hyph;10m D T data for the three sites, the concentration ratios averaged 1.06&hyph;1.24 across three source types, four averaging times and two concentration types. Likewise, using those categories derived from the 10&hyph;50m D T data, the same concentration ratios also averaged 1.06&hyph;1.24. 25 RATIO=X SRDT /X Turner In the supplement B revisions to the Guideline, EPA referenced ``On-Site Meteorological Program Guidance for Regulatory Modeling Applications'' in section 9.3.3. This document continues to serve as the primary source of supplementary technical guidance on the collection and use of on-site meteorological data. EPA is proposing an addendum 26 to accommodate the technical details of the SRDT system. Once finalized, the hierarchy of stability classification schemes in that document will also be changed to reflect the preference for those derived via SRDT. The use of other techniques prior to a year following promulgation will be exempt from this provision, after which they will not be considered the primary method for estimating stability. Finally, the module designed to implement the SRDT system in Version 1.3 of the Meteorological Processor for Regulatory Models (MPRM), EPA&hyph;600/3&hyph;88&hyph;043, will be activated and configured with the optimum cutpoints derived in the evaluation. 26 ADDENDUM: On-Site Meteorological Program Guidance for Regulatory Modeling Applications. Draft for Public Comment (September 1993). (Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;65; II&hyph;A&hyph;7) 3. Screening Approaches for Assessing Annual NO 2 Impact EPA is proposing a revision to simplify the screening approaches for assessing annual NO 2 concentration impact in Guideline section 6.2.3. These revisions respond to public comments contending that the initial screening level (which assumed total conversion of NO to NO 2 ) was overly conservative, and that the ozone limiting approach described in the second and third screening levels was sometimes inapplicable or impracticable. Thus, a second level screening approach that embodies use of an empirically derived NO 2 /NO X ratio is proposed. This method replaces the multi-tiered ozone limiting method now recommended in the Guideline. As described in Chu and Meyer (1991), 27 the new approach reflects a review of 10 years of ambient NO 2 and NO X concentration data collected at a variety of monitoring sites throughout the United States. 27 Chu, S.&hyph;H. and E.L. Meyer, 1991. Use of Ambient Ratios to Estimate Impact of NO X Sources on Annual NO 2 Concentrations. Proceedings, 84th Annual Meeting & Exhibition of the Air & Waste Management Association, Vancouver, B.C.; 16&hyph;21 June 1991 (16pp.). (Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;65; II&hyph;A&hyph;8) The underlying basis for the ambient ratio method (ARM) is that, for a well mixed plume, the photochemical conversion of NO to NO 2 is essentially controlled by the characteristics of the ambient air. This, in turn, is reflected in the annual NO 2 /NO X ratio monitored downwind. Since the photochemistry involved in converting NO to NO 2 is implicitly accounted for by the annual NO 2 /NO X ratio monitored downwind, no long-term complex photochemical calculation is needed. Thus, it makes the modeling exercise much simpler, yet still provides results consistent with available plume observational studies. The method is conservative since, in many cases, maximum estimated ground level NO X concentration may occur prior to thorough mixing of the plume. A second, less important, source of conservatism is that the existing NO 2 and NO X data may overestimate the actual NO 2 and NO X concentrations due to interference of PAN and nitric acid in the measurement. However, since the same amount is added to both the numerator and denominator of the NO 2 NO X ratio, it only makes the conversion ratio slightly more conservative. As shown by Chu and Meyer (1991), the ARM, while likely to be conservative, is somewhat less so than existing screening methods (such as the total conversion and the ozone limiting method) for estimating annual NO 2 concentrations and PSD NO 2 increments for NO X sources. Serving as a second level screening method, ARM has the quality of simplicity, is easy to apply and is likely to be somewhat conservative. It relies only on the standard regulatory Gaussian models and data from nationwide NO X monitoring networks. EPA has therefore selected this method to propose as a revision to the Guideline in supplement C. 4. Modeling Techniques for Toxic Air Pollutants
