FR940802-2-00100 FR940802-2-00056 Nominations for Performance Review Boards Fiscal Year 1994 Performance Appraisal Cycle Office of the Secretary Donald R. Trilling, Director, Office of Environment, Energy and Safety, Office of the Secretary Nancy K. MacRae, Deputy Director, Office of International Transportation and Trade, Office of the Secretary Roberta D. Gabel, Assistant General Counsel for Environmental, Civil Rights and General Law, Office of the Secretary Paul M. Geier, Assistant General Counsel for Litigation, Office of the Secretary Samuel Podberesky, Assistant General Counsel for Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings, Office of the Secretary Eileen T. Powell, Deputy Director, Office of Financial Management, Office of the Secretary Richard B. Chapman, Deputy Director, Office of Information Resource Management, Office of the Secretary John C. Horsley, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs, Office of the Secretary Eugene A. Conti, Jr., Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs, Office of the Secretary Leon C. Watkins, Assistant Administrator for Civil Rights, Federal Aviation Administration Jerry A. Hawkins, Director, Office of Personnel and Training, Federal Highway Administration United States Coast Guard RADM William C. Donnell, Chief, Office of Personnel & Training, United States Coast Guard RADM David E. Ciancaglini, Chief, Office of Command, Control and Communications, United States Coast Guard RADM Norman T. Saunders, Chief, Office of Law Enforcement and Defense Operations, United States Coast Guard RADM Edward J. Barrett, Chief, Office of Engineering Logistics and Development, United States Coast Guard Sandra J. Allen, Assistant Administrator for Public Affairs, Federal Aviation Administration Linda M. Higgins, Director, Office of Acquisition and Grants Management, Office of the Secretary Jerry A. Hawkins, Director, Office of Personnel and Training, Federal Highway Administration Diana L. Zeidel, Deputy Associate Administrator for Administration, Federal Highway Administration Federal Aviation Administration Thomas C. Accardi, Director, Flight Standards Service, Federal Aviation Administration Sandra Allen, Assistant Administrator for Public Affairs, Federal Aviation Administration Joaquin Archilla, Associate Administrator for Airway Facilities, Federal Aviation Administration Joan W. Bauerlein, Director, Office of International Aviation, Federal Aviation Administration Carolyn C. Blum, Associate Administrator for Contracting and Quality Assurance, Federal Aviation Administration Rodman D. Bourne, Manager, Automation Software Policy and Planning Division, Federal Aviation Administration Anthony J. Broderick, Jr., Associate Administrator for Regulation and Certification, Federal Aviation Administration John H. Cassady, III, Deputy Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration Marcos Costilla, Jr., Manager, Airway Facilities Division, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration Lawrence Covington, Deputy Director, Office of Budget, Federal Aviation Administration Loni Czekalski, Deputy Director, FAA Technical Center, Federal Aviation Administration Clyde M. DeHart, Jr., Regional Administrator, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration James S. Dillman, Assistant Chief Counsel Litigation Division, Federal Aviation Administration
