FR940426-2-00005 FR940426-2-00002 A. Pure Magnesium The products covered by these investigations are imports of pure primary magnesium regardless of chemistry, form or size, unless expressly excluded from the scope of these investigations. Primary magnesium is a metal or alloy containing by weight primarily the element magnesium and produced by decomposing raw materials into magnesium metal. Pure primary magnesium encompasses all products that contain at least 99.95% primary magnesium, by weight (generally referred to as ``ultra-pure'' magnesium), as well as products containing less than 99.95% but not less than 99.8% primary magnesium, by weight (generally referred to as ``pure'' magnesium). Products that have the aforementioned primary magnesium content, but that do not conform to ASTM Specifications or other industry or customer-specific specifications, are included in the scope of these investigations. Pure primary magnesium is cast and sold in various physical forms and sizes, including ingots, slabs, rounds, billets and other shapes. Excluded from the scope of these investigations are primary magnesium anodes, granular primary magnesium (including turnings and powder), and secondary magnesium. Granular magnesium, turnings, and powder are classifiable under Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading 8104.30.00. Magnesium granules and turnings (also referred to as chips) are produced by grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and thus have the same chemistry as primary magnesium. Although not susceptible to precise measurement because of their irregular shapes, turnings or chips are typically produced in course shapes and have maximum length of less than 1 inch. Although sometimes produced in larger sizes, granules are more regularly shaped than turnings or chips, and have a typical size of 2mm in diameter or smaller. Powders are also produced from grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and have the same chemistry as primary magnesium, but are even smaller than granules or turnings. Powders are defined by the Section Notes to Section XV, the section of the HTSUS in which subheading 8104.30.00 appears, as products of which 90 percent or more by weight will pass through a sieve having a mesh aperture of 1mm. (See HTSUS, Section XV, Base Metals and Articles of Base Metals, Note 6(b).) Accordingly, the exclusion of magnesium turnings, granules and powder from the scope include products having a maximum physical dimension ( i.e. , length or diameter) of 1 inch or less. The products subject to these investigations are classifiable under subheadings 8104.11.00 and 8104.20.00 of the HTSUS. Although the HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope is dispositive. B. Alloy Magnesium The products covered by these investigations are imports of alloy primary magnesium regardless of chemistry, form or size, unless expressly excluded from the scope of these investigations. Primary magnesium is a metal or alloy containing by weight primarily the element magnesium and produced by decomposing raw materials into magnesium metal. These investigations cover alloy primary magnesium products which contain 50% or greater, but less than 99.8%, primary magnesium, by weight. Products with the aforementioned primary magnesium content that do not conform to ASTM Specifications or other industry or customer-specific specifications are included in the scope of this investigation. In addition to primary magnesium, ``alloy'' magnesium generally contains one or more of the following items in amounts less than the primary magnesium itself: (1) Other elements deliberately added to the primary magnesium; (2) magnesium scrap or secondary magnesium; (3) oxidized magnesium; and (4) other elements present as impurities. Alloy primary magnesium is cast and sold in various physical forms and sizes, including ingots, slabs, rounds, billets and other shapes. Excluded from the scope of these investigations are primary magnesium anodes, granular primary magnesium (including turnings and powder), and secondary magnesium. Granular magnesium, turnings, and powder are classifiable under Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading 8104.30.00. Magnesium granules and turnings (also referred to as chips) are produced by grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and thus have the same chemistry as primary magnesium. Although not susceptible to precise measurement because of their irregular shapes, turnings or chips are typically produced in coarse shapes and have maximum length of less than 1 inch. Although sometimes produced in larger sizes, granules are more regularly shaped then turnings or chips, and have a typical size of 2mm in diameter or smaller. Powders are also produced from grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and have the same chemistry as primary magnesium, but are even smaller than granules or turnings. Powders are defined by the Section Notes to Section XV, the section of the HTSUS in which subheading 8104.30.00 appears, as products of which 90 percent or more by weight will pass through a sieve having a mesh aperture of 1mm. ( See HTSUS, Section XV, Base Metals and Articles of Base Metals, Note 6(b).) Accordingly, the exclusion of magnesium turnings, granules and powder from the scope include products having a maximum physical dimension ( i.e. , length or diameter) of 1 inch or less. The products subject to these investigations are classifiable under subheadings 8104.19.00 and 8104.20.00 of the HTSUS. Although the HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope is dispositive. United States Price and Foreign Market Value A. Non-Market Economy Determination The PRC, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine have all been determined to be non-market economy (NME) countries within the meaning of sections 771(18)(A) and (C) of the Act in previous investigations and the presumption of NME status continues for the initiation of these investigations. See, e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Compact Ductile Iron Waterworks Fittings and Accessories Thereof from the PRC , 58 FR 37908 (July 14, 1993); Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Ferrosilicon from the Russian Federation , 58 FR 29192 (May 19, 1993); Preliminary Determinations of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Ferrosilicon from Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine , 57 FR 61876 (December 29, 1992). In accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, foreign market value (FMV) in NME cases is based on NME producers' factors of production, valued in a market economy country. Absent evidence that a particular NME country government determines which of its factories shall produce for export to the United States, we intend, for purposes of this investigation, to base FMV only on those factories that produced pure and/or alloy magnesium sold to the United States during the period of investigations (POI). In the course of these investigations, parties will have the opportunity to address these NME determinations and provide relevant information and argument on these issues. In addition, parties will have the opportunity in these investigations to submit comments on whether FMV should be based on prices or costs in the respective NME.
