FR941019-2-00093 FR941019-2-00062 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of the Secretary Designating a Segment of the Klamath River a Component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System AGENCY: Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Pursuant to the authority granted the Secretary of the Interior by section 2 of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (82 Stat. 906, 16 U.S.C. 1273), and upon proper application of the Governor of the State of Oregon, an 11-mile segment of the Klamath River is hereby designated as a State-administered component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. This action is based on the designation of the river by the State of Oregon and the protection offered this river and its immediate environment by and pursuant to applicable State laws and regulations. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dan Haas, National Park Service, Pacific Northwest Regional Office, 909 First Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104&hyph;1060, telephone (206) 220&hyph;4120. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On April 22, 1993, Oregon Governor Barbara Roberts petitioned the Secretary of the Interior to add a segment of the Klamath River to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. (See Federal Register of March 4, 1994, page 10423.) Section 2(a)(ii) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act allows a governor to request that rivers already protected in a State System be included in the National System. In her application, Governor Roberts requested that the 11-mile reach of the Klamath River from the J.C. Boyle Powerhouse (river mile 220.3) downstream to the Oregon-California border (river mile 209.3) be protected as a wild and scenic river. Pursuant to section 2(a)(ii), the river will be managed by the State of Oregon at no cost to the Federal Government except for those lands currently managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). For a State-managed river to be eligible for the National System, three conditions must be met: (1) The river must be free-flowing and possess at least one ``outstandingly remarkable'' natural, cultural or recreational value, (2) the river must be part of a State system; and (3) the State must have effective mechanisms in place to protect the outstandingly remarkable values. The responsibility for making determinations of eligibility has been delegated to the National Park Service (NPS). The NPS Pacific Northwest Region conducted a study and environmental assessment with the BLM acting as a cooperating agency. In February of 1994, the NPS released the Draft Klamath Wild & Scenic River Eligibility Report and Environmental Assessment for public review and comment. A period for public comment on the report was provided from March 4, 1994, to April 28, 1994. The draft report was finalized based on comments received. On August 12 the NPS published in the Federal Register a notice that it had found that designation would not result in impacts significantly affecting the quality of the environment and invited public comment through September 9. The notice also announced that the river under consideration had been found eligible for the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System and the State of Oregon had met the criteria for designation. This action is taken following public involvement and consultation with the Departments of Agriculture, Army, Energy and Transportation; the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; all Department of the Interior agencies; the National Marine Fisheries Service; the States of Oregon and California; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; and all other Federal agencies that might have an interest. Based on the recommendations of the NPS and a review of all relevant documents, I have determined that the 11-mile stretch of the Klamath River should be designated as a State-administered component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, as provided for in section 2(a)(ii) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. Notice is hereby given that effective upon this date, the segment of the Klamath River from the J.C. Boyle Powerhouse to the Oregon-California border is approved for inclusion in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System as a National Scenic River. Dated: September 22, 1994. Bruce Babbitt, Secretary of the Interior. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25917 Filed 10&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;P
