FR940902-2-00145 FR940902-2-00060 Secondly, the Subcommittee will review whether the specialist has provided the Phlx with adequate market share in options which are multiply traded. In this respect, the Subcommittee will determine whether the Phlx has transacted at least 10% of the aggregate customer volume in an issue that is traded by all five options exchanges, at least 15% where four exchanges trade the issue, at least 20% where three exchanges trade the issue, and at least 25% where only one other exchange trades the issue. Although this is a measure of the total customer volume executed on the Exchange rather than solely by the specialist, in the competition for multiply traded issues, the Exchange believes the specialist is a key party responsible for marketing the issue to upstairs firms, updating markets, and maintaining the limit order book. A specialist who performs these functions will, the Exchange believes, assist the Exchange in increasing order flow. Third, options specialist units must receive a score of at least five on the Exchange's quarterly specialist evaluation. Rule 515 currently requires specialists to obtain this score for its activities regarding the options classes assigned to the specialist unit. A specialist who receives a score below five on the quarterly evaluation is monitored by the Exchange for continued substandard performance and may ultimately have one or more options classes removed and reallocated to another specialist. For purposes of the Enhanced Parity Split, the failure by a specialist to achieve a score of at least five on this quarterly review will cause the Enhanced Parity Split to be revoked even if the Exchange determines not to strip a specialist of assigned options classes. Fourth, the Subcommittee will consider whether a pattern of weakness has been demonstrated by such things as frequent floor official rulings with respect to any particular options class or crowd and/or by written customer complaints being received by the Exchange or Subcommittee regarding the specialist in any particular options class. 8 8 Id. If the Subcommittee determines that a specialist has failed to meet one or more of these four conditions for any issue eligible for the Enhanced Parity Split, the Subcommittee must make a preliminary finding that the specialist should lose the Enhanced Parity Split in that issue. The specialist will be notified of this finding and will be required to appear before the Subcommittee within five business days after receipt by the specialist of the notice. 9 At such meeting, the specialist bears the burden of overcoming the presumption of substandard performance. 10 9 Id. 10 For example, a specialist might be able to overcome this presumption in the case where he has transacted less contracts than one ROT in his trading crowd during the review period. In this case, if the specialist can demonstrate that one large block trade occurred during the review period but for which that specialist would have been the lead market maker, the Subcommittee may determine that the specialist does not deserve to lose the Enhanced Parity Split privilege. Any decision of the Subcommittee must be in writing and must be delivered to the specialist on the next business day following the Subcommittee meeting at which the decision was made. A decision to revoke the privilege will be effective on the next business day after receipt of the decision by the specialist. A specialist who has lost the privilege may reapply for it at the Subcommittee's next scheduled review. The specialist may be reinstated if the Subcommittee finds that the condition which initially caused the revocation of the enhanced participation privilege has been cured and that no other problems exist. Finally, a specialist will be entitled to appeal any decisions made by the Subcommittee pursuant to Rule 509. 11 11 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 5.
