FR940505-1-00312 FR940505-1-00012 (1) A declaration that the facility is in compliance with all of the requirements of this section, and (2) Documentation of methods used to achieve the VOC emissions reductions required in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (B) Each owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section because of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section shall comply with the following: (1) By January 1, 2000, the owner or operator shall certify to the Administrator that the facility is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. This certification shall include: (i) A declaration that the facility is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section because of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section; and (ii) Calculations which demonstrate that total baseline VOC emissions from all emissions sources at the facility are and will remain less than 6.8 kg (15 lbs) during any one day. Baseline emissions shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A)( 2 ) (i) and (ii) of this section. (2) On and after January 1, 2000, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of any record showing that actual emissions of VOC from the facility exceeded 6.8 kg (15 lbs) during any one day by sending a copy of such record to the Administrator within 30 calendar days after the exceedance occurs. (v) Recordkeeping. (A) Each owner or operator of a facility which is subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section shall collect and record all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section for each emissions source and maintain the information at the facility for a period of five (5) years. The information shall be collected and recorded each day of each calendar year beginning in 2001 and ending with 2005. (B) Each owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section shall collect and record all information necessary to demonstrate that actual emissions of VOC from all emissions sources are less than 6.8 kg (15 lbs) during each day and maintain the information at the facility for a period of five (5) years. The information shall be collected and recorded each day of each calendar year beginning in 2001 and ending with 2005. (vi) Testing and Monitoring. (A) The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section because of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and/or to install monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)(B) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (B) The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section because of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to demonstrate that the facility is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (2) VOC Emissions Associated with the Manufacturing of Products. (i) Definitions. (A) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the general definitions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply. (B) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the following definitions also apply: Facility which manufactures products containing VOCs means any facility where VOCs are emitted from processes which are used to manufacture or fabricate products. These products include, but are not limited to, the products specified in paragraphs ( 1 ) through ( 7 ) of this definition. This definition does not include facilities which are subject to any of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(4), or (b)(5) of this section. (1) Industrial and agricultural organic chemicals and gases. Industrial organic chemicals include, but are not limited to, gum and wood chemicals, cyclic organic crudes and intermediates, organic dyes and pigments, and the chemicals listed in 40 CFR 52.741, appendix A. Agricultural organic chemicals include, but are not limited to, pesticides, livestock dips, soil conditioners, and fertilizers.
