FR940328-1-00008 FR940328-1-00004 Public Hearing: OSM will not hold a public hearing on the proposed revision, but OSM personnel will be available to meet with the public during business hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., during the comment period. In order to arrange such a meeting, call or write to the person identified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. II. Background and Substance of Petition The Department of the Interior received a letter dated January 31, 1994, from James Kringlen, Attorney at Law, Appalachian Research and Defense Fund, Inc., Charleston, West Virginia, as a petition for rulemaking. The petitioner requested that ``*␣*␣* a new regulation be issued by the Office of Surface Mining or the Department of the Interior, as appropriate, which would require all permit applications for surface mining include documentation with public records identifying the surface owners of the property they propose to mine as well as the property contiguous to the proposed mining property.'' Under section 201(g) of SMCRA, any person may petition the Director of OSM to initiate a proceeding for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of any of the regulations implementing SMCRA. Under the applicable regulations for rulemaking petitions, 30 CFR 700.12, this notice seeks public comment on the merits of the petition and on the rule changes requested in the petition. At the close of the comment period, a decision will be made whether to grant or deny the petition. Under 30 CFR 700.12, the Director shall issue a written decision either granting or denying the petition within 90 days of the date of its receipt. Soon thereafter, notice of that decision will be published in the Federal Register . If the petition is granted, rulemaking proceedings will be initiated in which public comment will again be sought before a final rulemaking notice appears. If the petition is denied, no further rulemaking action will occur pursuant to the petition. III. Procedural Matters Publication of this notice of the receipt of the petition for rulemaking is a preliminary step prior to the initiation of the rulemaking process. If a decision is made to grant the petition, a rulemaking process will be initiated. Thus, no regulatory flexibility analysis is needed at this stage, nor a review under Executive Order 12866. Publication of this notice does not constitute a major Federal action having a significant effect on the human environment for which an environmental impact statement under the National Environmental Policy Act, 44 U.S.C. 4322(a)(c), is needed. List of Subjects in 30 CFR Part 778 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surface mining, Underground mining. Dated: March 21, 1994. Robert J. Uram, Director, Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement. Appendix The text of the petition dated January 31, 1994, (received February 3, 1994), from James Kringlen is as follows:
