FR940505-2-00089 FR940505-2-00061 Notice Pursuant to the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993_Hart Communication Foundation Notice is hereby given that, on March 17, 1994, pursuant to section 6(a) of the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993, 15 U.S.C. 4301 et seq. (``the Act''), Hart Communication Foundation (``HCF'') has filed written notifications simultaneously with the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission disclosing (1) the identities of the parties and (2) the nature and objectives of the venture. The notifications were filed for the purpose of invoking the Act's provisions limiting the recovery of antitrust plaintiffs to actual damages under specified circumstances. Pursuant to section 6(b) of the Act, the identities of the parties are Delta Controls Limited, West Molesey, Surrey, ENGLAND; Drexelbrook Engineering Company, Horsham, PA; Endress & Hauser GmbH, Maulburg, GERMANY; Fairchild Industrial Products, Winston-Salem, NC; Fischer & Porter Company, Warminster, PA; Fisher-Rosemount Systems, Inc., Burnsville, MN; Flowdata, Inc., Richardson, TX; Honeywell Loveland Controls Company, Loveland, CO; Kay-Ray/Sensall, Inc., Mt. Prospect, IL; KDG Mobrey Ltd., Slough, Berks, ENGLAND; Leeds & Northrup, North Wales, PA; Measurement Technology Limited, Luton, Bedfordshire, ENGLAND; Micro Motion, Inc., Boulder, CO; Moore Industries-International, Inc., Sepulveda, CA; Moore Products Co., Spring House, PA; Oyster Terminal Ltd., Gwent, Great Britain; Prime Technology, Inc., North Branford, CT; Princo Instruments, Inc., Southhampton, PA; Rosemount Analytical Inc., Eden Prairie, MN; Rosemount Inc., Eden Prairie, MN; Smar International Corporation, Houston, TX; SOR, Inc., Lenexa, KS; UTSI International Corp., Friendswood, TX; Viatran Corporation, Grand Island, NY; Westlock Controls Corporation, Saddle Brook, NJ; Whessoe Varec, Inc., Cypress, CA. A Minnestoa not-for-profit corporation, HCF has been established through which cooperative research and development work will be conducted. Membership in HCF will be open to any individual or entity that supports the objectives of the organization, subscribes to its bylaws and pays the dues for such membership. The objective of the HCF is to develop an open and interoperable standard protocol for a digitally enhanced analog communications technology to be used by instruments and control systems for process control and other industrial applications. A successful open and interoperable standard protocol will permit field devices of different manufacturers to be used within a system, thereby reducing both the initial and operating costs and improving performance of such a system. Such a protocol will also increase the range of options for builders of industrial equipment systems. The development and use of this technology will provide compatability with analog instruments currently installed in these systems and will provide new capability for those installations. Use of this technology will allow a transition to the fully digital technology to be implemented when it is available in the future. Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations Antitrust Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10817 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
