FR940314-2-00114 FR940314-2-00060 [Docket No. 50&hyph;328] Tennessee Valley Authority; Sequoyah Nuclear Plant, Unit 2; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of a one-time schedular exemption from the requirements of sections III.D.2(a) and III.D.3 of appendix J to 10 CFR part 50 to the Tennessee Valley Authority, licensee for the Sequoyah Nuclear Plant (SQN), Unit 2. The plant is located at the licensee's site in Hamilton County, Tennessee. The exemption was requested by the licensee in its letter dated February 4, 1994. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The action would exempt the licensee from the provisions in sections III.D.2(a) and III.D.3 of appendix J to 10 CFR part 50 with respect to the requirement to perform Primary Containment Type B and Type C local leak rate tests at intervals no greater than 2 years. The exemption would affect Unit 2 only and allow the tests to be delayed until the Cycle 6 refueling outage. This outage is scheduled to start approximately 4 months after the 2-year period ends. Between March and April 1992, all Type B and Type C local leak rate tests were preformed during the SQN Unit 2 Cycle 5 refueling outage. Between March 1, 1993, and October 19, 1993, Unit 2 was shut down due to a steam leak in the secondary system, and experienced several forced shutdowns since it was restarted. Due to the accumulated length of the shutdowns, TVA has decided to delay start of the Unit 2 Cycle 6 refueling outage until July 1994. As a result, the expiration of the 2-year time interval for the Type B and Type C tests occurs before the outage starts. Therefore, to perform the tests in accordance with the requirement would force the unit to shut down in April 1994. To prevent this, the proposed exemption would allow a one-time deferment of the Appendix J interval requirement from March 1994 until the shutdown in July 1994. The result would be an interval of approximately 4 months since the previous test for any component. This environmental assessment is similar to an environmental assessment processed by the Commission and forwarded by letter dated November 9, 1993. It was published in the Federal Register on November 16, 1993 (58 FR 60470). This action addressed the 10 CFR part 50 appendix J exemption for the Unit 2 refueling outage when it was scheduled to begin in April 1994. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed action is required to exempt the licensee from the requirement to conduct Type B and Type C containment local leak rate tests on SQN Unit 2 at a 2-year frequency so that the tests can be performed during the Cycle 6 refueling outage that is scheduled to start in July 1994. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action With respect to the requested action, exemption from the above requirement would allow the licensee to delay conducting Type B and Type C local leak rate tests at Unit 2 approximately 4 months beyond the scheduled expiration date of the 2-year period. This relatively small increase in the test interval does not significantly contribute to the total Type B and Type C leakage limits. The intent of Sections III.D.2(a) and III.D.3 of appendix J is to ensure that containment leakage is maintained within the prescribed limits. Based on the following information, the exemption will not significantly affect the ability of the individual primary containment components that are subject to Type B or Type C tests to perform this safety function: 1. The valves and components for which the extension of the 2-year interval is being requested have a history of being leak tight and in good condition. The leak-tight condition of these components was last verified by Type B and C local leak rate tests conducted during the Cycle 5 refueling outage in 1992 and, at least for many, by the Type A containment leak rate test conducted on Unit 2 during the same refueling outage. Based on the present containment leakage that accounts for the less than 8.0 percent of the 0.6 percent La limit, the remaining margin is sufficient to ensure any incremental increase in leakage resulting from the extension would not cause unacceptable as-found test results. 2. Based on historical data, any incremental increase in leakage because of the extension will be small. Improved maintenance practices implemented during the Unit 2 Cycle 5 outage, including motor operated valve testing of containment isolation valves, periodic replacement of valve packing, and periodic lubrication of valve stems, provide increased assurance that these components will perform their safety function. 3. Many of the components for which the exemption is requested were included in the Type A test performed in April 1992. This test indicated a containment leak rate of 0.15 percent per day, which is below the 0.1875 percent per day limit.
