FR940602-1-00036 FR940602-1-00013 (2) Those acceptable to the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard; or (3) Those currently accredited by OSHA U.S. Department of Labor, as provided in part 1919 of this chapter. Subpart C_Means of Access §1918.21 Gangways and other means of access. (a) The employer shall not permit employees to board or leave any vessel, except a barge or river towboat, until the following requirements have been met: (1) Whenever practicable, a gangway of not less than 20 inches (.51 m) in width, of adequate strength, maintained in safe repair and safely secured shall be used. If a gangway is not practicable, a substantial straight ladder meeting the requirements of §1918.25 of this subpart and extending at least 36 inches (.92 m) above the upper landing surface, and adequately secured against shifting or slipping shall be provided. When conditions are such that neither a gangway nor straight ladder can be used, a Jacob's ladder meeting the requirements of §1918.22 may be used. (2) Each side of such gangway, and the turntable, if used, shall have a railing with a minimum height of 33 inches (.84 m) measured perpendicularly from rail to walking surfaces at the stanchion, with a midrail. Rails shall be of wood, pipe, chain, wire, rope or materials of equivalent strength and shall be kept taut at all times. Portable stanchions supporting railings shall be so supported or secured as to prevent accidental dislodgement. (b) The gangway shall be kept properly trimmed at all times. (c) When a fixed flat tread accommodation ladder is used, and the angle is low enough to require employees to walk on the edge of the treads, cleated duckboards shall be laid over and secured to the ladder. (d) When the gangway overhangs the water in such a manner that there is danger of employees falling between the ship and the dock, a net or suitable protection shall be provided to prevent employees from falling to a lower level. (e) If the foot of the gangway is more than 1 foot (.30 m) away from the edge of the apron, the space between them shall be bridged by a firm walkway equipped with railings with a minimum height of approximately 33 inches (.84 m) with midrails on both sides. (f) Gangways shall be kept clear of supporting bridles and other obstructions, in order to provide unobstructed passage. If, because of design, the gangway bridle cannot be moved in order to provide unobstructed passage, than the hazard shall be properly marked to alert employees of the danger. (g) When the upper end of the means of access rests on or is flush with the top of the bulwark, substantial steps, properly secured, trimmed and equipped with at least one substantial hand rail 33 inches (.84 m) in height shall be provided between the top of the bulwark and the deck. (h) Obstructions shall not be laid on or across the gangway. (i) Handrails and walking surfaces of gangways shall be kept free of oil, grease, bulk cargoes or other substances that could cause an employee to slip and fall. (j) The means of access shall be illuminated for its full length in accordance with §1918.92. (k) If possible, the vessel's means of access shall be located so that suspended loads do not pass over it. In any event, suspended loads shall not be passed over the means of access while employees or others are on it. (l) Gangways on vessels inspected and certificated by the U.S. Coast Guard are deemed to meet the requirements of this section. §1918.22 Jacob's ladders. (a) Jacob's ladders shall be of the double rung or flat tread type. They shall be well maintained and properly secured. (b) A Jacob's ladder shall either hang without slack from its lashings or be pulled up entirely. §1918.23 Access to barges and river towboats. (a) Ramps for access of vehicles to or between barges shall be: (1) Of adequate strength for intended loads; (2) Provided with side boards; (3) Well maintained; and (4) Properly secured. (b) When employees cannot step safely to or from the wharf and a float, barge, or river towboat, either a ramp meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or a safe walkway meeting the requirements of §1918.21(e) shall be provided. When a walkway cannot be used, a straight ladder meeting the requirements of §1918.25 of this subpart and extending at least 36 inches (.92 m) above the upper landing surface and adequately secured against shifting or slipping shall be provided. When conditions are such that neither a walkway nor a straight ladder can be used, a Jacob's ladder meeting the requirements of §1918.22 may be used. Exception: For barges operating on the Mississippi River System, where the employer demonstrates that these requirements cannot reasonably be met due to local conditions, other safe means of access shall be provided. (c) When a barge, raft or log boom is being worked alongside a larger vessel, a Jacob's ladder meeting the requirements of §1918.22 shall be provided for each gang working alongside unless other safe means of access are provided. However, no more than two Jacob's ladders are required for any single barge, raft or log boom being worked. (d) When longshoring operations are in progress on barges, the barges shall be securely made fast to the vessel, wharf, or dolphins.
