FR940222-1-00027 FR940222-1-00007 We considered also waiving coinsurance for these services because we believe that beneficiaries enroll in an HMO or CMP, in part, to protect themselves from significant unanticipated costs. (In HMOs and CMPs, the actuarial equivalent of deductible and coinsurance amounts is spread among all enrollees and enrollees know in advance what the charge will be for particular services.) We believe that imposition of such costs for enrollees who need a significant cost NCD service could discourage beneficiaries from enrolling or remaining enrolled in an HMO or CMP. We would prefer to encourage beneficiaries to enroll and remain enrolled in Medicare risk contracting HMOs and CMPs, by relieving beneficiaries' liability for coinsurance amount. However, we believe the law requires that beneficiaries be liable for coinsurance amounts because, unlike deductibles, these amounts are attributable to particular services received. We are especially interested in comments on this issue, including other legal interpretations of beneficiary liability for coinsurance amounts. D. Payment for NCD Services We would remove current §417.586 because it provides an option (electing to have Medicare intermediaries process and pay hospital and nursing facility bills for services furnished to Medicare enrollees of a risk HMO or CMP) that was repealed by section 4012(b) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 (OBRA '87). We would add a new §417.586 (Special rules: Payment for significant cost national coverage decision (NCD) services). Under this new section, for significant cost NCD services whose cost was not included in calculating the per capita payment rate for a risk HMO or CMP, payment would be made under the usual Medicare payment rules and methods. Usual Medicare payment methods require that payments for services furnished by a participating provider, for example, a hospital, be made only to that provider. The carrier may make payment for Part B services of physicians and other suppliers such as other practitioners and entities that are not providers, under usual carrier procedures, directly to any of the following: •The beneficiary who obtained the service from a qualified source other than the risk HMO or CMP. •The qualified provider, physician, or supplier that furnished the service. •The risk HMO or CMP that chose to furnish the service even though not required to do so. We would specify, in §417.586(c), that HCFA does not make an additional payment for a significant cost NCD service furnished by the HMO or CMP (even though it is excepted during the current calendar year) if the HMO or CMP furnishes the NCD service as an optional or required supplemental service under §417.440(b)(2), or as an additional benefit under §417.592. The reason for the exclusion is that the costs of both of these types of services are already provided for under the contract, and the statute specifies that the NCD ``shall not apply'' to the contract. Optional or required supplemental services are paid for by the enrollees. The HMO or CMP may provide ``additional benefits'' as one way to compensate the beneficiary if the per capita payments it receives from HCFA are higher than the HMO's or CMP's adjusted community rate (ACR), which is what the HMO or CMP would charge its non-Medicare enrollees for a package of benefits limited to Medicare-covered services. We note that, if the NCD services are already provided under the contract as additional benefits or supplemental services, the beneficiary would not be required to pay any additional Medicare coinsurance due to the NCD. E. Other Clarifying Changes 1. Throughout the affected sections, we would use the more precise term ``HMO'' or ``CMP'' in preference to the generic term ``organization''. 2. In §417.440, we would amend paragraph (a) to update a cross-reference, and paragraph (b)(1) to break down a too-long sentence. IV. Significant Cost
