FR940617-2-00019 FR940617-2-00009 Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the accuracy of all information used in making our final determination. Critical Circumstances Petitioners alleged that critical circumstances exist with respect to imports of silicomanganese from Ukraine. Pursuant to section 733(e)(1) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.16 (1993), we requested shipment information from Zaporozhye and Nikopol and attempted to analyze that information using the Department's standard methodology. To find critical circumstances, we must determine whether there is a reasonable basis to believe or suspect that 1) there is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere of the same class or kind of subject merchandise, or the importer knew or should have known that the producer or reseller was selling the subject merchandise at less than its foreign market value; and 2) there have been massive imports of the subject merchandise over a relatively short period. We have not found a history of dumping of Ukrainian silicomanganese in the United States or elsewhere. According to Department practice, however, we will impute knowledge of dumping to importers of subject merchandise when the dumping margin exceeds 25 percent in purchase price situations. In this case, the estimated dumping margin for silicomanganese imports from Ukraine is 123.02 percent, a rate which exceeds our benchmark for imputing knowledge of dumping. Therefore, we have preliminarily found that importers should be imputed knowledge of dumping of the subject merchandise. Pursuant to 19 CFR 353.16(f)(2), the Department considers imports of subject merchandise to be massive if there has been an increase of 15 percent or more over a relatively short period of time. We also consider, when possible, the respondent's share of import penetration of the domestic market in making this determination. In this case, evidence indicates that Ukrainian U.S. market penetration has increased. To determine whether imports increased, we have examined the volume of imports by comparing volumes for the five months subsequent to the filing of the petition (November 1993 through March 1994) to the five months prior to the filing of the petition (June 1993 through October 1993). Although Zaporozhye has provided adequate information to perform an analysis of whether imports have increased, Nikopol has not done so. Specifically, the shipment information provided by Nikopol was inconsistent with its sales data. ( See the concurrence memorandum, dated June 10, 1994.) Given that neither company has established its eligibility for separate dumping margins, the data concerning critical circumstances must be considered in a consolidated manner. Accordingly, given the lack of adequate information, we preliminarily determined that there have been massive imports of silicomanganese from the Ukraine. Based on the foregoing, the Department preliminarily finds that critical circumstances exist in this case. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of silicomanganese from Ukraine that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after 90 days prior to the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated amount by which the FMV exceeds the USP as shown below. These suspension of liquidation instructions will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margin is as follows: ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Weighted-average margin percentage All exports 123.02 ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. If our final determination is affirmative, the ITC will determine before the later of 120 days after the date of this preliminary determination or 45 days after our final determination whether these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, the U.S. industry.
