FR941110-0-00154 FR941110-0-00016 Only in the case of civil money penalties could we see the necessity of allowing facilities the opportunity to challenge the level of noncompliance since the amount of these penalties hinges upon discrete levels of noncompliance rather than noncompliance as a whole. Thus, it may be legally significant to a facility facing a $10,000 per day civil money penalty to be able to prove that its noncompliance belonged in category 2, rather than category 3, since in category 2 the largest civil money penalty available to HCF or a State would be $3,000 per day. Accordingly, we are revising the rules to allow a facility to challenge the level of noncompliance when a successful challenge on this issue would affect the amount of a civil money penalty that HCFA or a State could collect. We believe that a provider's burden of upsetting survey findings relating to the level of noncompliance should be high, however. As we indicated in the proposed rule, distinctions between different levels of noncompliance, whether measured in terms of their frequency or seriousness, do not represent mathematical judgments for which there are clear or objectively measured boundaries. Identifying failures in a facility's obligation to provide the kind of high quality care required by the Act and the implementing regulations most often reflect judgments that will reflect a range of noncompliant behavior. Thus, in civil money penalty cases, whether deficiencies pose immediate jeopardy, or are widespread and cause actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy, or are widespread and have a potential for more than minimal harm that is not immediate jeopardy does not reflect that a precise point of noncompliance has occurred, but rather that a range of noncompliance has occurred which may vary from facility to facility. While we understand the desire of those who seek the greatest possible consistency in survey findings, an objective that we share, the answer does not lie in designing yardsticks of compliance that can be reduced to rigid and objectively calculated numbers. Survey team members and their supervisors ought to have some degree of flexibility, and deference, in applying their expertise in working with these less than perfectly precise concepts. For these reasons, we have revised the regulations to require an administrative law judge or appellate administrative review authority to uphold State or HCFA findings on the seriousness of facility deficiencies in civil money penalty cases unless they are clearly erroneous. Comment: A few commenters believe it is not sufficient to simply state that the choice of a remedy is not appealable and recommend that the regulation explicitly state that HCFA will not look behind or ``second guess'' the State's selection of remedy or remedies. Response: We cannot accept these comments as sections 1919(h)(6) and (7) of the Act specify the means to resolve any disagreement between the State and the Secretary regarding noncompliance or enforcement action. Comment: Some commenters wanted sanctions imposed upon the facility for interfering with the survey team, monitor or temporary manager. Response: Section 1128(b)(12) of the Act permits the Secretary to exclude SNFs from Medicare and to direct that NFs be excluded from Medicaid for failure to grant access to the applicable survey agencies performing survey and certification functions in accordance with sections 1864(a) and 1902(a)(33)(B) of the Act. Failure to grant access can certainly be regarded as interference with the activities of State agency personnel. However, interference with the temporary manager is different. Sections 488.410 and 488.438 specify that if the facility does not agree to the conditions under which the temporary manager is imposed, the facility may refuse to relinquish control to the temporary manager, and, in so doing, opt for termination. Comment: One commenter wanted HCFA to include a ``sole community provider exception'' to allow States to oversee the operations of noncompliant facilities with uncorrected deficiencies in rural areas, where the closure would result in hardship to the residents and the community. Response: States have the authority to oversee (appoint a State monitor) any noncompliant facility, regardless of the location. However, if the commenter wants a provider in a rural area to be exempted from correcting deficiencies, we do not have the authority to grant such an exception. Waiver authority requirements are provided at ยง483.70 and at ยง483.30(c) and (d), relative to the Physical Environment and Nursing Services participation requirements, respectively, and then only when specified conditions are met.
