FR941216-0-00029 FR941216-0-00010 ``Designated country end product,'' as used in this clause, means an article that (1) is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of the designated country (as defined in section 25.401 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), or (2) in the case of an article which consists in whole or in part of materials from another country or instrumentality, has been substantially transformed into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was so transformed. The term includes services (except transportation services) incidental to its supply, provided that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the product itself. It does not include service contracts as such. ``Canadian end product,'' as used in this clause, means an article that (1) is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Canada, or (2) in the case of an article which consists in whole or in part of materials from another country or instrumentality, has been substantially transformed in Canada into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was transformed. The term includes services (except transportation services) incidental to its supply; provided, that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the product itself. It does not include service contracts as such. ``Mexican end product,'' as used in this clause, means an article that (1) is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Mexico, or (2) in the case of an article which consists in whole or in part of materials from another country or instrumentality, has been substantially transformed in Mexico into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was so transformed. The term includes services (except transportation services) incidental to its supply, provided that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the product itself. It does not include service contracts as such. ``End products,'' as used in this clause, means those articles, materials, and supplies to be acquired under this contract for public use. ``U.S. made end product,'' as used in this clause, means an article which (1) is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of the United States, or (2) in the case of an article which consists in whole or in part of materials from another country or instrumentality, has been substantially transformed in the United States into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was so transformed. ``Nondesignated country end products,'' as used in this clause, means any end product which is not a U.S. made end product, designated country end product, Caribbean Basin Country end product, Canadian end product or Mexican end product. ``United States,'' as used in this clause, means the United States, its possessions, Puerto Rico, and any other place which is subject to its jurisdiction, but does not include leased bases or trust territories. (b) The Contractor agrees to deliver under this contract only U.S. made end products, designated country end products, Caribbean Basin country end products, Canadian end products or Mexican end products or, if a national interest waiver is granted under section 302 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979, nondesignated country end products. Only if such waiver is granted may a nondesignated country end product be delivered under this contract(s). (c) Offers will be evaluated in accordance with the policies and procedures of Part 25 of the FAR except that offers of U.S. made end products, designated country end products, Caribbean Basin end products, Canadian end products or Mexican end products shall be evaluated without the restrictions of the Buy American Act or the Balance of Payments Program. (End of Clause) 7. Section 552.225&hyph;72 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) introductory text, (a)(1) and (c) [the chart is unchanged] to read as follows: 552.225&hyph;72 Eligible Products From Nondesignated Countries_Waiver. As prescribed in 525.407(b), insert the following clause: ELIGIBLE PRODUCTS FROM NONDESIGNATED COUNTRIES_WAIVER (DEC 1994) (a) In accordance with the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 and 48 CFR 25.402(b), no eligible product that originates in a nondesignated country may be purchased by a Federal agency. However, this restriction may be waived before award when it is determined to be in the national interest. Accordingly, offers to furnish products originating in a nondesignated country identified in paragraph (c) below, may be submitted in response to this solicitation and will be considered for award if a waiver is obtained from the U.S. Trade Representative or a designee (19 U.S.C. 2512) on the basis that: (1) No responsive bid or technically acceptable offer from a responsible offeror is received offering U.S. or designated country end products Caribbean end products, Canadian or Mexican end products as defined in the clause entitled ``Trade Agreements Act'' in this solicitation; or * * * * * (c) The Offeror certifies that the following product(s) is an end product other than an end product of the United States, a designated country or a Caribbean Basin country Canadian or Mexican end products, as such end products are defined in the clause entitled ``Trade Agreements Act'' in this solicitation: * * * * * 8. Section 552.225&hyph;75 is revised to read as follows: 552.225&hyph;75 Buy American Act Notice_Construction Materials. As prescribed in 525.205, insert the following provision: BUY AMERICAN ACT NOTICE_CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (JAN 1994) (a) The Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10) generally requires that only domestic construction material be used in performing this contract (See the clause entitled ``Buy American Act_Construction Materials''). This requirement does not apply to the excepted construction material or components listed below: (List applicable excepted materials or indicate ``none.'') (b) Offers based on the use of other foreign construction material may be acceptable for award if the Government determines that_ (1) Comparable domestic construction material in sufficient and reasonably available quantities, of a satisfactory quality, is unavailable; or (2) Use of comparable domestic construction material is impracticable or would unreasonably increase the cost of this contract. (c) Any offer based on the use of one or more other foreign construction materials shall include current data, based on a reasonable canvass of suppliers, in the format listed in paragraph (g) below, clearly demonstrating that the cost of each other foreign construction material, plus 6 percent, is less than the cost of each comparable domestic construction material. The cost of construction material shall include all delivery costs to the construction site and any applicable duty (whether or not a duty-free entry certificate may be issued). (d) For evaluation purposes, the Government will add to the offer 6 percent of the cost of other foreign construction material that qualifies for acceptance under paragraph (c) above. (e) When offering other foreign construction material, offerors may also offer, at stated prices, any available comparable domestic construction material to avoid the possibility that the entire offer will be rejected if the other foreign construction material is not accepted under (c) above. If any other foreign construction material does not qualify for acceptance under paragraph (c) above, the Government will evaluate the offer on the basis of the stated price for comparable domestic construction material, and the Offeror shall be required to furnish such domestic construction material at that price. If the Offeror does not state a price for a comparable domestic construction material, and the other foreign construction material does not qualify for acceptance under paragraph (c) above, the offer will be rejected in sealed bid procurements and may be rejected in negotiated procurements.
