FR940721-1-00057 FR940721-1-00014 The following are the Department's policy objectives in addressing each issue and the Department's conclusions as set forth in the proposed rule: A. Issue 1: The Employer-Employee Exemption (1) HUD's objective. Controlled business arrangements and so-called ``one-stop shopping'' may offer consumers significant benefits including reducing time, complexity, and costs associated with settlements. If they do, the market should produce incentives for the creation of controlled business arrangements without HUD authorizing incentive payments (otherwise impermissible under RESPA) to encourage these arrangements. However, HUD cannot scrutinize every aspect of the financial relationship between interrelated companies. Therefore, HUD's objective is primarily to prohibit compensation for business development for related entities at a point when that compensation has the greatest potential for overwhelming the other considerations that go into business referrals, e.g., long-term customer satisfaction. (2) HUD Proposal. (a) The exemption under the final rule permitting employers to pay their own employees referral fees is proposed to be withdrawn. Under this proposal, no employee of a company may be paid referral fees, even for referrals to an affiliate company. This proposal is based on the Department's view that the exemption under the final rule was too expansive and compromised the statute's purpose of protecting the consumer from being referred for settlement services based on financial gain to the referrer, rather than on the highest quality and best price of the services. (b) In the interest of avoiding undue interference with the internal operations of controlled businesses, which Congress has concluded are permitted business arrangements under RESPA, the proposed rule would allow the payment of bonuses and compensation to managerial employees in controlled businesses for such purposes as the generation of business among affiliates; provided, however, that the compensation: (i) Is not tied on a one-to-one basis or calculated as a multiple of the number or value of any referrals; and (ii) these employees do not routinely deal with the public. B. Issue 2. Computerized Loan Origination Systems (1) HUD's Objective. The comments and witnesses at the public hearing demonstrated that there is some confusion concerning the scope of the Department's authority under RESPA to regulate CLOs. Thus, the Department's first objective in this area is to clarify what the RESPA rules can and cannot do. (See section below describing the legal framework for analysis of payments for CLO services.) In addition, the Secretary wishes to encourage the exploration and use of new technology, especially when the new technology may provide information and services to better inform consumers about one of the largest and most complex financial transactions in their lives, thus allowing the consumers to be more effective shoppers. However, the use of that technology does not justify increasing the cost of mortgage loan originations when the technology does not provide meaningful information otherwise available without charge, or when there is no additional convenience, clarity, or other benefit. (2) HUD Proposal. The final rule would be amended to define a CLO and to provide that payments made by borrowers to CLO operators for use of a qualified CLO are exempt from RESPA scrutiny. The definition would set forth reasonable requirements for qualified CLO systems for access, lender-neutrality, and disclosure to consumers. Systems that fall outside the exemption would have to meet the basic test of Section 8 of RESPA that the borrower's payments be for goods or facilities actually furnished or for services actually performed.
