FR941202-0-00017 FR941202-0-00001 Misadministration. During the public comment period, the Commission became aware of the need to clarify paragraph (4)(iii) of this definition. The existing rule language, ``When the calculated weekly administered dose is 30 percent greater than the weekly prescribed dose,'' if interpreted literally, means that a misadministration has occurred only when the calculated weekly administered dose is exactly 30 percent greater than the weekly prescribed dose. The Commission intended for this definition to cover incidents in which there is a difference of 30 percent or more between the calculated weekly administered dose and the weekly prescribed dose. To ensure that there is no ambiguity as to the meaning of this provision, it has been reworded and the key phrase in the rule language has been changed from ``30 percent greater than'' to ``30 percent or more.'' Because this better expresses the intent of the existing rule and is a minor administrative correction, the Commission believes that it can be incorporated in this final rule without having first been included in the proposed rule. Recordable event. The existing regulatory text of paragraph (5) of this definition of ``recordable event'' contains the same word structure as paragraph (4)(iii) of the definition of misadministration (discussed above). To ensure that there is no ambiguity as to the meaning of this provision, it has been reworded and the key phrase in the rule language has been changed from ``15 percent greater than'' to ``15 percent or more.'' Because this better expresses the intent of the existing rule and is a minor administrative correction, the Commission believes that it can be incorporated in this final rule without having first been included in the proposed rule. Visiting authorized user. During the public comment period, the Commission became aware of the need to delete this definition. This definition is no longer necessary because §35.27, ``Visiting authorized user,'' in which this definition is applicable is being deleted. Therefore, this definition is being removed from the final rule. Section 35.6␣Provisions for Research Involving Human Subjects This section contains one modification of the proposed rule language. The phrase ``in accordance with the meaning of these terms as defined and described in the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects'' has been added at the end of the last sentence of this section. This phrase has been added to explicitly state that the terms ``informed consent'' and ``IRB approval'' have the same meaning ascribed to those terms in the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects. Section 35.11␣License Required There is no change between the final rule language and the proposed rule language. However, licensees are reminded that if a licensee intends to increase its possession limit for any byproduct material isotope or add any new byproduct material isotopes, the licensee must first obtain a license amendment. Section 35.13␣License Amendments There is no change between the final rule language and the proposed rule language in this section. However, the purpose of this discussion is to remind medical use licensees who are not medical institutions that, pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, they must review the necessary credentials and approve or disapprove any individual who is to work as an authorized user or authorized nuclear pharmacist. In a medical institution, this review and approval must be performed by its Radiation Safety Committee (see §35.22(b)(2)(ii)). Section 35.14␣Notification This section contains two editorial changes: (1) the phrase ``within 30 days of the date'' has been replaced by the phrase ``no later than 30 days after the date,'' and (2) the phrase ``the license, or the permit'' has been replaced by ``the Commission or Agreement state license, or the permit issued by a licensee of broad scope.'' Section 35.25␣Supervision There is a modification to the proposed rule in this section. The proposed rule stated that the supervising authorized nuclear pharmacist or physician authorized user must instruct the workers. The final rule allows the instruction to be delegated to other qualified individuals. This change is based on public comments requesting that the instruction of workers be done by the supervising individuals as well as by other qualified individuals. However, the requirement for periodically reviewing the work of supervised individuals remains with the supervising authorized nuclear pharmacist or physician authorized user.
