FR940323-0-00021 FR940323-0-00011 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Pittsburgh 94&hyph;005] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone; Ohio River AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a safety zone on the Ohio River back channel that separates Coraopolis, Pennsylvania from Neville Island, Pennsylvania. This regulation is needed to control vessel traffic in the regulated area during demolition of one main span and a center support pier of a bridge at Ohio River back channel mile 9.6. This regulation will restrict general navigation in the regulated area during demolition operations for the safety of vessel traffic. EFFECTIVE DATES: This regulation is effective at 8 a.m. on March 22, 1994 and will terminate at 4 p.m. on April 10, 1994, unless terminated at a earlier date by the Captain of the Port, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LT John Meehan, Port Operations Officer, Captain of the Port, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania at (412) 644&hyph;5808. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are LT John Meehan, Project Officer, Marine Safety Office, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and LCDR A.O. Denny, Project Attorney, Second Coast Guard District Legal Office. Regulatory History In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking has not been published for this regulation and good cause exists for making it effective in less than 30 days from the date of publication. Following normal rulemaking procedures would have been impracticable. Specifically, a bridge is being removed from a navigable waterway. Bridge removal operations pose inherent risks to the waterway because the structure is progressively weakened as the operation proceeds. Once commenced, such operations should be completed as quickly as possible. Removal operations involving the southern main span of the bridge and various northern span structural supports have already been completed, leaving insufficient time to publish a notice of proposed rulemaking. The Coast Guard deems it to be in the public's best interest to issue a regulation without waiting for a comment period, as immediate implementation of navigation restrictions is needed to ensure the safety of vessels transitting the area and to minimize the time a bridge in a weakened condition remains over the waterway.
