FR940516-2-00099 FR940516-2-00067 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION All Power Reactor Licensees; Receipt of Petition for Director's Decision Notice is hereby given that by Petition dated April 13, 1994, Paul M. Blanch (Petitioner) has requested that the NRC take immediate action with regard to all power reactor licensees, concerning the potential meltdown of the fuel in the spent fuel pools for all reactors in the United States. Specifically, the Petitioner requests that: (1) The NRC immediately issue an information notice or other appropriate notification forwarding all information in its possession to all power reactor licensees regarding the potential meltdown of fuel in spent fuel pools, and reminding licensees of their responsibilities to perform timely operability determinations in accordance with their technical specifications and NRC Generic Letter 91&hyph;18; (2) each licensee immediately perform an evaluation of compliance of this potential deficiency with respect to its current licensing basis; (3) the NRC deny all requests for license amendments for the expansion of spent fuel pool capacity until these safety concerns are fully resolved; and (4) after evaluation by each licensee, if the NRC determines there is little or no risk to the public health and safety, the NRC may issue a Notice of Enforcement Discretion. As bases for his request, the Petitioner asserts that the NRC was informed approximately one and one-half years ago of a potential substantial nuclear safety hazard at the Susquehanna Steam Electric Station and the NRC has intentionally withheld this information from other utilities. According to the Petitioner, this hazard involves a major design flaw such that during a design basis loss of coolant accident, the electrical power to the fuel pool cooling system would be turned off, resulting in loss of cooling for the spent fuel pool. The Petitioner alleges that radiation levels in the reactor building would prohibit operators from entering the reactor building to restart the system. According to the Petitioner, if cooling is not restored, the water in the spent fuel pool will boil, water will evaporate and, since the valves which must be opened to provide replacement water are within the inaccessible reactor building, replacement water cannot be provided, resulting in high onsite and offsite radiation levels and a meltdown of the spent fuel in the pool resulting in release of massive amounts of airborne radioactivity outside of primary and secondary containment. The Petitioner alleges further that the residual heat removal system could not cool the fuel pool under accident conditions, and that if replacement water could be provided, the temperature and humidity conditions would be generated in the reactor building which would cause the emergency systems to fail, resulting in additional meltdown and failure of the primary and secondary containment. The request is being treated pursuant to 10 CFR 2.206 of the Commission's regulations. The request has been referred to the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. By letter dated May 5, 1994, the Petitioner's request for immediate action has been denied. A copy of the Petition is available for inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room at 2120 L Street, NW. (lower level), Washington, DC 20555. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 6th day of May 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. William T. Russell, Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11788 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
