FR940721-2-00043 FR940721-2-00029 3. Program Plan The adequacy of the applicant's plan to carry out the proposed activities and accomplish the stated objectives. (40 points) 4. Program Integration The adequacy of the applicant's commitment to provide adequate staff and resources necessary to achieve the program objectives. (20 points) 5. Evaluation The extent to which the applicant presents a reasonable plan to measure progress in meeting objectives and evaluate performance. (10 points) 6. Budget The extent to which the applicants provides a detailed budget and line item justification that is consistent with the stated objectives, program purpose, and planned activities of the project. (not weighted) B. 5 A Day Evaluation 1. Background The degree to which the applicant clearly describes a long range, clearly defined, evaluable 5 A Day for better Health project, including a description of the intervention method and channel. (25 points) 2. Program Plan The adequacy of the applicant's plan to carry out the evaluation, including the specific objectives and measures in the evaluation. (45 points) 3. Capacity The capabilities of the personnel (including consultants where appropriate) to carry out the evaluation. (30 points) 4. Budget The extent to which the applicant provides a detailed budget and line item justification that is consistent with the evaluation plan. (not weighted) Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should send them to Edwin L. Dixon, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Room 300, Mailstop E&hyph;18, Atlanta, GA 30305, no later than September 21, 1994. (A waiver for the 60-day requirement has been requested.) The Program Announcement Number and Program Title should be referenced on the document. CDC does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' State process recommendations it receives after that date.
