FR940106-0-00112 FR940106-0-00021 (g) The Administrator shall, to the extent possible under existing law, protect the confidentiality of any complainant or other person who provides information to the Department. ยง XXX .405 Complaints and investigative procedures. (a) The Administrator, through investigation, shall determine whether a facility has failed to perform any attested conditions, misrepresented any material facts in an attestation (including misrepresentation as to compliance with regulatory standards), or otherwise violated the Act or subpart D or E of this part. ( Note: Federal criminal statutes provide penalties of up to $10,000 and/or imprisonment of up to 5 years for knowing and willful submission of false statements to the Federal Government. 18 U.S.C. 1001; see also 18 U.S.C. 1546). (b) Any aggrieved person or organization may file a complaint of a violation of the provisions of section 212(m) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(m)) or subpart D or E of this part. No particular form of complaint is required, except that the complaint shall be written or, if oral, shall be reduced to writing by the Wage and Hour Division official who receives the complaint. The complaint shall set forth sufficient facts for the Administrator to determine what part or parts of the attestation or regulations have allegedly been violated. Upon the request of the complainant, the Administrator shall, to the extent possible under existing law, maintain confidentiality regarding the complainant's identity; if the complainant wishes to be a party to the administrative hearing proceedings under this subpart, the complainant shall then waive confidentiality. The complaint may be submitted to any local Wage and Hour Division office; the addresses of such offices are found in local telephone directories. Inquiries concerning the enforcement program and requests for technical assistance regarding compliance may also be submitted to the local Wage and Hour Division office. (c) The Administrator shall determine whether there is reasonable cause to believe that the complaint warrants investigation and, if so, shall conduct an investigation, within 180 days of the receipt of a complaint. If the Administrator determines that the complaint fails to present reasonable cause for an investigation, the Administrator shall so notify the complainant, who may submit a new complaint, with such additional information as may be necessary. (d) When an investigation has been conducted, the Administrator shall, within 180 days of the receipt of a complaint, issue a written determination, stating whether a basis exists to make a finding that the facility failed to meet a condition of its attestation, or made a misrepresentation of a material fact therein, or otherwise violated the Act or subpart D or E. The determination shall specify any sanctions imposed due to violations. The Administrator shall provide a notice of such determination to the interested parties and shall inform them of the opportunity for a hearing pursuant to ยง XXX .420. ยง XXX .410 Civil money penalties and other remedies. (a) The Administrator may assess a civil money penalty not to exceed $1,000 for each affected person with respect to whom there has been a violation of the attestation or subpart D or E of this part of and with respect to each instance in which such violation occurred. The Administrator also shall impose appropriate remedies, including the payment of back wages and the performance of attested obligations such as providing training. (b) In determining the amount of civil money penalty to be assessed for any violation, the Administrator shall consider the type of violation committed and other relevant factors. The matters which may be considered include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) Previous history of violation, or violations, by the facility under the Act and subpart D or E of this part; (2) The number of workers affected by the violation or violations; (3) The gravity of the violation or violations;
