FR940713-1-00070 FR940713-1-00014 (i) As in the case of the total development cost (TDC) limitations under §941.204, the TMC limitations are established for specific unit sizes (i.e., number of bedrooms) and structure types (i.e., detached, semi-detached, row, walk-up and elevator), and market areas (which are areas where trade conditions and economic influences tend to make costs substantially the same); they will be issued periodically by notice sent to all PHAs; and any donations will be treated in the same way as stated in §941.204(d). (ii) The TMC limitations shall be determined by doubling the average of two nationally recognized residential construction cost indices for good and sound quality housing. (3) Since eligibility for MROP is based on different cost requirements, §941.406(a)(1), which concerns maximum TDC at fund reservation, is modified to provide that the total MROP project cost that may be approved with HUD funds at the time of initial fund reservation, is limited to at least 70 percent of the maximum TDC based on the most recently issued TDC limitations for new construction of similar units in the area, but not more than 100 percent of the maximum TMC based on the MROP limitations most recently issued pursuant to section 5(j)(2)(D) of the Act (see §941.605(b)(2)), except that the reservation amount will be trended by projected construction cost increases over the next 18 months. In addition, §941.406(a)(2) which concerns maximum TDC after fund reservation, is inapplicable; there will be no amendment funds to increase the original amount of the MROP activities fund reservation. (4) A development project for MROP activities must have long-term viability (see §941.603(e)) after completion of reconstruction and the annual contributions contract (ACC) for the MROP project must remain in effect for 40 years. In determining viability, the PHA must have a comprehensive plan (funded from other sources such as CIAP, CGP or donations, etc.) for the project for which the development funds for MROP activities are being requested. The comprehensive plan for the project may be part of the PHA's comprehensive plan for modernization. The comprehensive plan must demonstrate a strategy which will assure that the entire development will be viable for a minimum period of 20 years. This strategy may include, but not be limited to, an estimate of the required amount needed for rehabilitation of the remaining portion of the development to the extent additional rehabilitation is required; sources of funding for any additional work; any proposed demolition/disposition that may be planned; and written evidence of local government and resident support for the strategy. §941.606 MROP application. Eligibility for MROP application approval shall be determined using the CIAP application and procedures under 24 CFR part 968, as modified by the regulations of this part. (a) Application submission. To apply for MROP funds, an eligible PHA shall submit a CIAP application in the form prescribed by HUD to the appropriate HUD Office in response to an issued NOFA. The application must identify the entire existing project, the portion proposed as the MROP project, explain how the PHA and the requested MROP meet the eligibility, rating and other criteria of the NOFA, identify the proposed physical and management improvement needs, estimated costs and funding sources. (1) The application must include a statement of the PHA's priorities for receiving funding, and if it is submitting more than one application, whether it will accept funding for fewer units than requested (refusal to accept fewer units may result in application non-funding due to a disproportionate requirement for funds), and indicate whether the application should be considered for CIAP funding, if appropriate, if the project is determined ineligible for MROP. (2) The application must be accompanied by a PHA Resolution and certifications required under the NOFA that the PHA will comply with the requirements of 24 CFR part 941. (3) If demo/dispo or conversion is needed for long-term viability after reconstruction, the PHA must so state in its MROP application and advise as to the status of its demo/dispo or conversion application (see 24 CFR 941.603 (h) and (i)).
