FR940128-0-00032 FR940128-0-00008 (c) At the end of the normal benefit year during which the employee was qualified for benefits, he or she received less than the maximum sickness benefits for the benefit year and he or she is not qualified for benefits in the next succeeding benefit year. ยง336.13 Years of service requirement. (a) Statutory basis . For the purposes of this part, an employee is not eligible for extended unemployment or sickness benefits if he or she does not have at least 10 years of railroad service. An employee who has 120 service months as defined in part 210 of this chapter, whether or not consecutive, is considered to have 10 years of railroad service, and an employee who has 180 service months, whether or not consecutive, is considered to have 15 years of railroad service. (b) Initial determination . The Board will determine whether an employee has 10 years, or 15 years, of railroad service on the basis of reports filed by employers pursuant to part 209 of this chapter. The number of years of service shown in the Board's records will be accepted as correct for the purposes of this part, unless the employee claims credit for more service than that shown in the Board's records and such additional service is verified. In any such case, the Board will afford the employee an opportunity to establish credit for additional service if such service would be sufficient to bring the employee up to 10 years, or 15 years, of service. If the claim for credit for additional service is made by an employee who has at least 10 years of railroad service but is claiming credit for at least 15 years, the Board will not delay the establishment of an extended benefit period based on 10 years of service but shall extend the ending date of such period if the employee is able to establish credit for 15 years of railroad service. (c) Effective date . An employee acquires 10 years, or 15 years, of railroad service, as the case may be, as of the first day with respect to which creditable compensation is attributable in his 120th, or 180th, month of service. ยง336.14 Extended benefit period. (a) Defined . An extended benefit period consists of seven consecutive 14-day registration periods in the case of an employee having 10&hyph;14 years of railroad service and 13 consecutive 14-day registration periods in the case of an employee having 15 or more years of railroad service. (b) Beginning date . In the case of unemployment benefits, an extended benefit period begins with the first day of unemployment after the day on which the employee exhausts his or her rights to normal unemployment benefits. In the case of sickness benefits, the beginning date is the first day of sickness after the employee exhausts normal sickness benefits. Such first day of unemployment or first day of sickness must be within the same benefit year with respect to which the employee exhausted normal unemployment or normal sickness benefits, as the case may be. However, no extended benefit period may begin on any day of unemployment or sickness prior to the date on which the employee acquired 10 years of railroad service. (c) Ending date . If an employee has 10 but less than 15 years of railroad service, his or her extended benefit period ends on the 97th day after it began. If an employee has 15 or more years of railroad service, his or her extended benefit period ends on the 181st day after it began. If an employee attains age 65 during an extended sickness benefit period, such extended benefit period will terminate on the day next preceding the date on which the employee attains age 65, except that it may continue for the purpose of paying benefits for his or her days of unemployment, if any, during such extended benefit period. If an extended sickness benefit period terminates because the employee has attained age 65 and if at that point the employee has rights to normal sickness benefits, the employee will be paid normal sickness benefits if he or she is otherwise entitled to payment thereof. (d) Maximum number of compensable days . During an extended benefit period consisting of seven consecutive 14-day registration periods, extended benefits may be paid for a maximum of 65 days of unemployment (or 65 days of sickness, as the case may be). During an extended benefit period consisting of 13 consecutive 14-day registration periods, extended benefits may be paid for a maximum of 130 days of unemployment (or 130 days of sickness, as the case may be). ยง336.15 How to claim extended benefits. An employee who has 10 or more years of railroad service who exhausts his or her rights to normal unemployment or normal sickness benefits and who wishes to claim extended unemployment or extended sickness benefits may do so by claiming benefits on the forms provided by the Board pursuant to parts 325 or 335 of this chapter. The claim forms provided for this purpose are the same as those provided for claiming normal benefits. No special application for extended benefits is required, and no waiting period applies to the payment of extended benefits. ยง336.16 Notice to employee. Upon determining that an employee is eligible for a period of extended unemployment or sickness benefits, the Board will notify the employee of the beginning and ending dates of such extended benefit period. Dated: January 21, 1994. By Authority of the Board. Beatrice Ezerski, Secretary to the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1829 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7905&hyph;01&hyph;P
