FR940419-2-00171 FR940419-2-00087 c. Where elimination or relocation has been proven not to be physically possible and economically achievable, permitting authorities should require, for each subsequent permit term, a reassessment based on new or improved techniques to eliminate or relocate, or on changed circumstances that influence economic achievability. 4. Evaluation of Alternatives EPA expects the long-term CSO control plan to consider a reasonable range of alternatives. The plan should, for example, evaluate controls that would be necessary to achieve zero overflow events per year, an average of one to three, four to seven, and eight to twelve overflow events per year. Alternatively, the long-term plan could evaluate controls that achieve 100% capture, 90% capture, 85% capture, 80% capture, and 75% capture for treatment. The long-term control plan should also consider expansion of POTW secondary and primary capacity in the CSO abatement alternative analysis. The analysis of alternatives should be sufficient to make a reasonable assessment of cost and performance as described in Section II.C.5. Because the final long-term CSO control plan will become the basis for NPDES permit limits and requirements, the selected controls should be sufficient to meet CWA requirements. In addition to considering sensitive areas, the long-term CSO control plan should adopt one of the following approaches: a. ``Presumption'' Approach A program that meets any of the criteria listed below would be presumed to provide an adequate level of control to meet the water quality-based requirements of the CWA, provided the permitting authority determines that such presumption is reasonable in light of the data and analysis conducted in the characterization, monitoring, and modeling of the system and the consideration of sensitive areas described above. These criteria are provided because data and modeling of wet weather events often do not give a clear picture of the level of CSO controls necessary to protect WQS. i. No more than an average of four overflow events per year, provided that the permitting authority may allow up to two additional overflow events per year. For the purpose of this criterion, an overflow event is one or more overflows from a CSS as the result of a precipitation event that does not receive the minimum treatment specified below; or ii. The elimination or the capture for treatment of no less than 85% by volume of the combined sewage collected in the CSS during precipitation events on a system-wide annual average basis; or iii. The elimination or removal of no less than the mass of the pollutants, identified as causing water quality impairment through the sewer system characterization, monitoring, and modeling effort, for the volumes that would be eliminated or captured for treatment under paragraph ii. above. Combined sewer flows remaining after implementation of the nine minimum controls and within the criteria specified at II.C.4.a.i or ii, should receive a minimum of: •Primary clarification (Removal of floatables and settleable solids may be achieved by any combination of treatment technologies or methods that are shown to be equivalent to primary clarification.); •Solids and floatables disposal; and •Disinfection of effluent, if necessary, to meet WQS, protect designated uses and protect human health, including removal of harmful disinfection chemical residuals, where necessary. b. ``Demonstration'' Approach A permittee may demonstrate that a selected control program, though not meeting the criteria specified in II.C.4.a. above is adequate to meet the water quality-based requirements of the CWA. To be a successful demonstration, the permittee should demonstrate each of the following: i. The planned control program is adequate to meet WQS and protect designated uses, unless WQS or uses cannot be met as a result of natural background conditions or pollution sources other than CSOs; ii. The CSO discharges remaining after implementation of the planned control program will not preclude the attainment of WQS or the receiving waters' designated uses or contribute to their impairment. Where WQS and designated uses are not met in part because of natural background conditions or pollution sources other than CSOs, a total maximum daily load, including a wasteload allocation and a load allocation, or other means should be used to apportion pollutant loads; iii. The planned control program will provide the maximum pollution reduction benefits reasonably attainable; and
