FR940407-1-00072 FR940407-1-00014 (5) In the absence of a locally established state/county rate, the approved payment rate shall be the national maximum burial payment rate to be established annually by the Assistant Secretary. (6) A supplement may be granted when state/county/tribal burial benefits or other resources are available, but are less than the BIA's established rate. However, the supplement together with the public benefit may not exceed BIA's national payment rate. (7) Upon request, funds to assist with a culturally relevant tribal burial practice may be approved if all other factors of eligibility are met. The rate of payment for this purpose, together with other burial assistance provided under this part, shall not exceed the amount established annually by the Assistant Secretary. (b) Disaster assistance. (1) Disaster assistance payments shall be made only for food, shelter, and/or other necessities directly related to meeting immediate, basic living needs. (2) The order of preference for payment standards is the Federal emergency payment standard, locally established state/county rate, or the rate as determined annually by the Assistant Secretary. Payment shall not exceed the payment standard. Emergency services and expenditures shall be coordinated with other appropriate disaster committees or programs and documented. (3) The Assistant Secretary may authorize community-wide short term disaster assistance and services for Indians not eligible for other services under this part. This assistance is to be used in conjunction with other assistance for which the individual community members qualify and may be authorized only under the following conditions: (i) The beneficiaries are Indians residing on a reservation or in a designated near-reservation area; (ii) A written request is submitted to the Assistant Secretary by the appropriate tribal governing body or BIA official; and (iii) The assistance is necessary to meet essential needs as defined in §20.1. 5. Under subpart C_Eligibility Conditions, new §§20.26 and 20.27 are added to read as follows. §20.26 Adult care assistance. The purpose of the adult care program is to provide non-medical care for eligible adults who need personal care and supervision due to advanced age, infirmity, physical condition, or mental impairment. Services under this program can be provided only if they are not available through state, county, local or other Federal programs. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to restrict payment of adult care financial assistance pending application and/or approval for other programs. (a) Adult care assistance may be approved when: (1) The adult or his/her legally responsible guardian applies for such assistance in writing. (2) The adult is unable to meet his/her essential needs, including non-medical care and/or protection, with his/her own resources. (3) There are no other Federal, state, or county public assistance resources, including services provided pursuant to titles XIX and XX of the Social Security Act, available to meet the required special need. (4) The cost of care is not available from his/her immediate family. (5) Facts regarding infirmity, and/or the physical or mental condition of the client and his/her need for non-medical adult care have been documented. (b) Adult care assistance may be authorized only if the adult does not require skilled nursing care warranting medical supervision. (c) Payments shall be authorized under purchase of service agreements only for care provided in state or tribally licensed/certified group settings, or by individual service providers licensed/certified by a tribe or a state. (d) No adult care payment shall be approved for or on behalf of a client until the eligibility case worker certifies through documentation that all eligibility factors have been met.
