FR940610-1-00005 FR940610-1-00002 C. Additional Description of the Proposal 1. Quarterly Invoices. Under the proposal, the FDIC would provide to each insured depository institution a quarterly invoice based on the quarterly report of condition most recently due from the institution. In addition, the invoice would reflect adjustments from previous quarters, such as adjustments resulting from amendments to earlier reports of condition or from assessment audits by the FDIC. The invoices would be provided no later than 30 days before the due date of the quarterly assessment payment. As the following table indicates, first-quarter invoices would be distributed by the preceding November 30 for the period beginning January 1, and by the preceding May 30 for the period beginning July 1. The respective payment dates 2 for these invoices would be December 30 and June 30. Second-quarter invoices would be distributed by February 28 for the then-current semiannual period, with a payment (debit) date of March 30, and by August 30 for the then-current semiannual period, with a payment date of September 30. 2 Under the proposal, if a specified payment date falls on a day that is not a business day, the payment date becomes the previous business day. ␣ 1Semiannual assessment period covered 1Quarter 1Invoice date 1Payment date 1Report of condition used for preparation Jan.&hyph;June 1 Nov. 30 Dec. 30 Sept. 30. ␣ 2 Feb. 28 Mar. 30 Dec. 31. July&hyph;Dec 1 May 30 June 30 Mar. 31. ␣ 2 Aug. 30 Sept. 30 June 30. The proposal would eliminate the existing process of averaging the two assessment bases derived from the two quarterly reports of condition for the preceding semiannual period. Instead, as indicated above, each quarterly payment would be based separately on the single most recent report of condition. For institutions whose deposits are increasing, this change could result in slightly lower payments in earlier quarters and higher payments in later quarters, while the converse would apply to an institution whose deposits are decreasing. On the whole, however, whether on an institution-by-institution or industry-wide basis, elimination of averaging is expected to simplify the assessment process without having a significant impact on the amount of assessments paid. 2. Assessment Computation Review Procedure. The assessment-base data reflected on an institution's quarterly invoices would be copied from data reported by the institution in its reports of condition. Given the source of the data and the mechanical nature of the assessment computation, it is anticipated that there would be only limited occasion for institutions to disagree with the invoices. However, a procedure for resolving any such disagreements is included in the proposal. The new procedure would apply only to disagreements expressly identified in §327.3(h) of the proposed regulation, such as where the institution believes the rate multiplier applied by the FDIC is inconsistent with the assessment risk classification assigned to the institution for the semiannual period for which the payment is due. The new procedure would not apply to disputes regarding the appropriateness of the assessment risk classification assigned to the institution; such disputes would continue to be covered by the risk classification review procedure in the existing regulations. Under the proposed new procedure, the period within which an institution could file a request for revision of an invoice would generally terminate 60 days from the date of the invoice. However, where the revision would result from an institution-initiated amendment to its report of condition, the filing deadline for the request for revision would be 60 days from the date on which such amendment is filed. Such amendment of the report of condition would not automatically trigger an assessment adjustment. Instead, institutions would need to utilize the new procedure to provide notice to the FDIC of the requested revision resulting from the amendment. 3. Certified Statements Under the proposed rule, institutions would no longer be required to compute their assessments. However, pursuant to section 7(c) of the FDI Act, each institution would still be required to file a semiannual certified statement. For the proposed system, the FDIC would provide a certified statement form reflecting both first- and second-quarter invoice data. The form would show a semiannual assessment amount based on the two quarterly reports of condition on which, by statute, the certified statement is to be based. Each institution would be required to certify its agreement with the assessment computation shown on the form as received from the FDIC or, alternatively, its agreement with that computation as amended in a manner specified by the institution. In connection with amendment of the assessments regulation, the certified-statement element of the proposal includes incidental amendments to part 304 of the FDIC's regulations (``Forms, Instructions, and Reports'') (12 CFR part 304), for such purposes as revising the description of the certified statement forms in §304.3.
