FR940323-1-00004 FR940323-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY United States Customs Service 19 CFR Part 24 RIN 1515&hyph;AB38 Fees Assessed for Defaulted Payments AGENCY: U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This document proposes to amend the Customs Regulations to authorize the assessment of a $30 fee for any defaulted payment resulting from a check or other monetary instrument returned unpaid by a financial institution, including Automated Clearinghouse defaulted payments, which were presented for duties, taxes and other charges incurred in connection with any commercial or noncommercial importation or other Customs transaction whether or not backed by a Customs bond. At present, Customs authority to assess the $30 fee is limited to returned checks presented with respect to noncommercial importations for which no formal entry was required, and other Customs transactions not backed by a Customs bond. The purpose of the proposed change is to enable Customs to recoup the administrative costs incurred in processing all returned checks and other defaulted payments. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 23, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments (preferably in triplicate) must be submitted to U.S. Customs Service, ATTN: Regulations Branch, Franklin Court, 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229, and may be inspected at the Regulations Branch, 1099 14th Street, NW., suite 4000, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Baker, Office of the Comptroller (202&hyph;927&hyph;0620). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background By a document published in the Federal Register as T.D. 92&hyph;73 on August 10, 1992 (57 FR 35458), Customs amended its regulations to establish a $30 charge for each check that is returned by a financial institution to Customs unpaid, if that check was presented either for payment of duties or other charges incurred on noncommercial importations for which a formal entry was not required or for payment in connection with any other transaction not backed by a Customs bond (§24.1(e), Customs Regulations; 19 CFR 24.1(e)). However, Customs has not been entirely successful at charging the $30 fee in part because Customs cannot differentiate in a cost effective manner between returned checks made by individuals on noncommercial importations, and those made by commercial entities, which are usually backed by a Customs bond. Moreover, because Customs is only authorized at present to charge the fee in connection with noncommercial importations or other transactions not backed by a Customs bond, Customs is unable to recoup the administrative costs incurred for processing all returned checks and other defaulted payments. In particular, §24.1(e) does not authorize charging the fee for processing defaulted payments made through the Automated Clearinghouse (ACH) (see §24.25, Customs Regulations; 19 CFR 24.25). Section 24.1(e) was made applicable only to noncommercial importations and other transactions not backed by a Customs bond, primarily because of the availability of liquidated damages in cases where checks were returned unpaid in connection with commercial importations and other transactions which were supported by a bond. However, the assessment of liquidated damages does not recoup the administrative costs connected with processing defaulted payments. All liquidated damages collected by Customs are credited to one of the Treasury Department's miscellaneous receipt accounts which cannot be used to defray the expense of processing defaulted payments. The $30 fee provided for in §24.1(e), on the other hand, is credited to a Customs account whose purpose is specifically to recoup the administrative costs associated with processing defaulted payments. Thus, because the $30 fee is money usable by Customs in this regard while liquidated damages are not, the two assessments may not properly be considered a duplicate assessment for a single defaulted payment. Accordingly, against this backdrop, Customs proposes to amend §24.1(e) so as to permit the application of the $30 fee for all returned checks, other monetary instruments, and ACH defaulted payments, regardless of whether the maker is commercial and/or bonded.
