FR940620-1-00072 FR940620-1-00009 (a) Definitions. As used in this clause: (1) Computer data base means a collection of data recorded in a form capable of being processed by a computer. The term does not include computer software. (2) Computer program means a set of instructions, rules, or routines recorded in a form that is capable of causing a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations. (3) Computer software means computer programs, source code, source code listings, object code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae and related material that would enable the software to be reproduced, recreated, or recompiled. Computer software does not include computer data bases or computer software documentation. (4) Computer software documentation means owner's manuals, user's manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software. (5) Detailed manufacturing or process data means technical data that describe the steps, sequences, and conditions of manufacturing, processing or assembly used by the manufacturer to produce an item or component or to perform a process. (6) Developed means that an item, component, or process exists and is workable. Thus, the item or component must have been constructed or the process practiced. Workability is generally established when the item, component, or process has been analyzed or tested sufficiently to demonstrate to reasonable people skilled in the applicable art that there is a high probability that it will operate as intended. Whether, how much, and what type of analysis or testing is required to establish workability depends on the nature of the item, component, or process, and the state of the art. To be considered ``developed'', the item, component, or process need not be at the stage where it could be offered for sale or sold on the commercial market, nor must the item, component or process be actually reduced to practice within the meaning of Title 35 of the United States Code. (7) Development exclusively at private expense means development was accomplished entirely with costs charged to indirect cost pools, costs not allocated to a government contract, or any combination thereof. (i) Private expense determinations should be made at the lowest practicable level. (ii) Under fixed price contracts, when total costs are greater than the firm fixed price or ceiling price of the contract, the additional development costs necessary to complete development shall not be considered when determining whether development was at Government, private, or mixed expense. (8) Developed exclusively with government funds means development was not accomplished exclusively or partially at private expense. (9) Developed with mixed funding means development was accomplished partially with costs charged to indirect cost pools and/or costs not allocated to a government contract, and partially with costs charged directly to a government contract. (10) Form, fit, and function data means technical data that describes the required overall physical, functional, and performance characteristics, (along with the qualification requirements, if applicable) of an item, component, or process to the extent necessary to permit identification of physically and functionally interchangeable items. (11) Government purpose means any activity in which the United States Government is a party, including cooperative agreements with international or multi-national defense organizations, or sales or transfers by the United States Government to foreign governments or international organizations. Government purposes include competitive procurement, but do not include the rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data for commercial purposes or authorize others to do so.
