FR940506-1-00009 FR940506-1-00006 16 CFR Part 303 Rules and Regulations Under the Textile Fiber Products Identification Act AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Request for public comments. SUMMARY: The Federal Trade Commission (the ``Commission'') is requesting public comments on its Rules and Regulations under the Textile Fiber Products Identification Act (the ``Textile Act''). The Commission is also requesting comments about the overall costs and benefits of the Rules and their overall regulatory and economic impact as a part of its systematic review of all current Commission regulations and guides. DATES: Written comments will be accepted until June 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Secretary, Federal Trade Commission, room H&hyph;159, Sixth & Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20580. Submissions should be marked ``Rules and Regulations under the Textile Act, 16 CFR part 303_Comment.'' FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bret S. Smart, Program Advisor, Los Angeles Regional Office, Federal Trade Commission, 11000 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 13209, Los Angeles, CA 90024, (310) 575&hyph;7890. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission has determined, as part of its oversight responsibilities, to review rules and guides periodically. These reviews will seek information about the costs and benefits of the Commission's rules and guides and their regulatory and economic impact. The information obtained will assist the Commission in identifying rules and guides that warrant modification or revision. At this time, the Commission solicits written public comments concerning the Commission's Rules and Regulations under the Textile Act. The Textile Act (15 U.S.C. 70) requires marketers of covered textile products to mark each product with (1) the generic names and percentages by weight of the constituent fibers present in the textile product; (2) the name under which the manufacturer or other responsible company does business, or in lieu thereof, the registered identification number (RN) of such company; and (3) the name of the country where the textile product was processed or manufactured. Furthermore, the Textile Act contains advertising and recordkeeping provisions. Pursuant to section 7(c) of the Textile Act, ``[t]he Commission is authorized and directed to make such rules and regulations, including the establishment of generic names of manufactured fibers, under and in pursuance of the terms of this Act as may be necessary and proper for administration and enforcement.'' (15 U.S.C. 70e(c).) These implementing rules and regulations are set forth at 16 CFR part 303.
