FR940429-0-00113 FR940429-0-00012 The Secretary believes that the most appropriate entity to provide to the Secretary information about a pattern of the complaints is the SPRE. Changes: The Secretary has limited consideration of a pattern of complaints as a basis for referrals under §667.5(b)(11) to a pattern of student complaints. Comments: A number of commenters agreed that it would be wasteful continually to refer an institution to a SPRE for review for an event that happened once. In the NPRM, the Secretary proposed to reserve for future consideration whether to refer an institution to a SPRE for review under three criteria if on the basis of an earlier referral, the SPRE conducted a review of the institution and made no significant findings. These criteria were those relating to late audits, changes of ownership, and the first five years of participating in a title IV, HEA program. These commenters also suggested that this consideration ought to be given to more or all of the referral criteria. Discussion: The Secretary attempted to resolve this problem by proposing remedies through legislation. However, in the Higher Education Technical Amendments of 1993, Public Law 103&hyph;208, only one of the three subject criteria, the criterion set forth in §667.5(b)(10) was addressed. With regard to that criterion, an institution participating for less than five years in a title IV, HEA program must be referred to a SPRE, but the Secretary may determine that the SPRE need not review the institution if the institution was referred solely under §667.5(b)(10), and the SPRE previously conducted a review of that institution and found no violations of the State's standards. For the other two criteria, the Secretary believes that section 494C(b) of the HEA requires the Secretary to refer institutions that meet those other two requirements. However, to avoid wasting a SPRE's time and effort, the Secretary will allow a SPRE to place institutions on the lowest review priority if the institutions were referred because of a late audit or a change in ownership and a previous SPRE review found no significant violations of State standards. Changes: Section 667.23(a)(2) is changed to provide that the Secretary may determine that a SPRE need not review an institution that was referred only because it meets §667.5(b)(10), if the SPRE previously conducted a review of that institution and found no violations of the State's standards. In addition, a new §667.12(c)(3)(ii) is added to permit a SPRE to place an institution in the lowest priority for review if the institution was referred because of a late audit or a change in ownership and a previous SPRE found no significant violations of State standards. Comments: A few commenters noted that the Secretary did not have complete data pertaining to several of the referral criteria and were concerned that the Secretary would nevertheless refer institutions to a SPRE based on this incomplete data or on assumptions regarding this data. Discussion: The Secretary acknowledges that complete data for all the referral criteria are not available. However the Secretary assures commenters that no referral will be made based on assumptions or incomplete data. Changes: None. Comments: Several commenters noted that the Secretary sometimes withdraws an action to limit, suspend, or terminate an institution's participation in a title IV, HEA program because the Secretary concludes retrospectively that such an action was not warranted. Therefore, these commenters argued that the proposed language for this referral criterion be modified to reflect that the Secretary would not refer an institution subject to limitation, suspension, or termination until the Secretary completes that action. Discussion: If the Secretary withdraws a limitation, suspension, or termination action solely because the Secretary determines that there was no factual basis for that action, the Secretary will not consider that action as triggering a referral. However, if the Secretary withdraws a limitation, suspension, or termination action against an institution because of an action on the part of the institution, or the promise of some current or future action on the part of the institution, the initiation of the Secretary's action will trigger a referral. Changes: None. Section 667.6␣SPRE Selection of Institutions for Review Comments: Many commenters were concerned about the SPRE's authority under the statute to select an institution for review if the SPRE had ``reason to believe'' that the institution was engaged in fraudulent practices. Some of these commenters believed that SPREs would abuse this authority by using it as the basis to review any institution. A number of commenters believed strongly that the regulations should clarify what is meant by the phrase ``reason to believe'' and define the term ``fraud.'' Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenters that SPREs would abuse the statutory authority that allows SPREs to review institutions that they have reason to believe are engaged in fraudulent practices. With regard to a definition of fraud, in general, fraud involves intentional misconduct to obtain a benefit. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters believed that an institution selected by the SPRE on the basis of ``more recent data'' should be afforded the opportunity to challenge that data before the SPRE may conduct a review of that institution. In addition, several commenters urged that institutions selected by the State for review under proposed §667.6 should be afforded the opportunity to challenge the State's data. A few of these commenters believed that the confirmation procedures should be waived in cases where the State has reason to believe that institutions were engaged in fraudulent practices. Discussion: The Secretary agrees based on the reasons in the discussion under §667.5. Changes: A change has been made similar to the change in §667.5.
