FR940304-1-00117 FR940304-1-00014 For gas cooktops, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that thermostatically controlled gas burners are not effective at controlling temperature. The sensing element which is designed to make contact with the cooking vessel will not allow effective control if the cooking utensil has an uneven bottom in the area where it is to be ``sensed.'' In addition, since the electric sensing element will retain heat due to its mass, reaction times could be delayed, thus allowing wide swings in the thermostatically selected temperature. The DOE test procedure also cannot measure the effect of thermostatically controlled burners. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 54, 55.) The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that the performance of reflective surfaces is degraded significantly from reaction to cooking vapors, burnt-on spillovers and cleaning with abrasive pads. To maintain reflective surfaces it would be necessary to replace these expensive units periodically. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers felt that the energy savings from reflective surfaces are very small. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 56, 57.) With regard to insulation, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated it is occasionally used in gas cooktops where there are surface temperature problems on the surrounding structures. The insulation is attached outside of the burner box. Any other placement would impair utility, because the space underneath the countertop cooktop unit (that is designed to fit in drawers) would become significantly reduced. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers also felt that the energy savings from insulation is very small. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 56, 57.) In its comments regarding product classes, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, though it suggested that both conventional and sealed burners be considered as one class, stated that it is incorrect to assume that sealed burners are more efficient than conventional burners. Sealed burners obtain all of their secondary air from above the cooktop, which requires that either the grate height be raised or the burner be derated in order for it to be as efficient as conventional burners. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 47, 48.) The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that radiant burners should be considered as a product class rather than a design option and went on to state several problems with these burner types. Since radiant burners use a powered pre-mix burner, carbon monoxide control is more critical, and the burner flame can only be varied by 30 percent. Test work performed by the Gas Research Institute with the American Gas Association Laboratories on prototypes has revealed that low burner rate is difficult to maintain. This means that current prototypes would not meet American National Standards Institute standards. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers also stated that burner efficiency might be no better than conventional burners. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 49&hyph;51.) The Department took into account all sources of available data when determining the cost and energy savings from thermostatically controlled burners, reflective surfaces, and sealed burners. Sources of data included the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, manufacturers, suppliers, and published papers and reports. Lack of any available data regarding catalytic burners, high efficiency electronic controllers, and insulation prevented the Department from analyzing these design options. The Department agrees with the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers' comments regarding radiant gas burners. Because there is no prototype that works satisfactorily, it is not possible to determine if this design option is technologically feasible. For electric open coil cooktops, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that the contact conductance of open coil elements cannot be significantly improved. Manufacturers have worked together to improve the flatness of this element type, and have produced an element that is doing an excellent job. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 57, 58.) The reflective surface and insulation design options cause the same problems for electric open coil cooktops as for gas burners. See comments, supra, for gas cooktops. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 58.)
