FR940325-0-00039 FR940325-0-00009 (ii) If within 180 days of receipt of the manufacturer's end-of-year report, EPA review determines a reporting error in the manufacturer's favor (i.e., resulting in a positive credit balance) or if the manufacturer discovers such an error within 180 days of EPA receipt of the end-of-year report, the credits will be restored for use by the manufacturer. For the 1992 model year, corrections to the end-of-year reports may be submitted until May 9, 1994. (c)(1) For each participating engine family, NO X and particulate emission credits (positive or negative) are to be calculated according to one of the following equations and rounded, in accordance with ASTM E29&hyph;67, to the nearest one-tenth of a Megagram (Mg). Consistent units are to be used throughout the equation. For determining credit need for all engine families and credit availability for engine families generating credits for averaging programs only: Emission credits=(StdFEL)×(CF)×(UL)×(Production)×(106) For determining credit availability for engine families generating credits for trading or banking programs: Emission credits=(StdFEL)×(CF)×(UL)×(Production)×(106)×(0.8) Where: Std=the current and applicable heavy-duty engine NO X or particulate emission standard in grams per brake horsepower hour or grams per Megajoule. FEL=the NO X or particulate family emission limit for the engine family in grams per brake horsepower-hour or grams per Megajoule. CF=a transient cycle conversion factor in BHP-hr/mi or MJ/mi, as given in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. UL=the useful life, or alternative life as described in paragraph (f) of §86.090&hyph;21, for the given engine family in miles. Production=the number of engines produced for U.S. sales within the given engine family during the model year. Quarterly production projections are used for initial certification. Actual production is used for end-of-year compliance determination. 0.8=a one-time discount applied to all credits to be banked or traded within the model year generated. Banked credits traded in a subsequent model year will not be subject to an additional discount. Banked credits used in a subsequent model year's averaging program will not have the discount restored. (2) The transient cycle conversion factor is the total (integrated) cycle brake horsepower-hour or Megajoules, divided by the equivalent mileage of the applicable transient cycle. For Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines, the equivalent mileage is 6.3 miles. For diesel heavy-duty engines, the equivalent mileage is 6.5 miles. When more than one configuration is chosen by EPA to be tested in the certification of an engine family (as described in §86.085&hyph;24), the conversion factor used is to be based upon the configuration generating the highest conversion factor when determining credit need and the lowest conversion factor when determining credit availability for banking, trading or averaging. (d) Averaging sets for NO X emission credits: The averaging and trading of NO X emission credits will only be allowed between heavy-duty engine families in the same averaging set and in the same regional category. Engines produced for sale in California constitute a separate regional category than engines produced for sale in the other 49 states. Banking and trading are not applicable to engines sold in California. The averaging sets for the averaging and trading of NO X emission credits for heavy-duty engines are defined as follows: (1) For Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines: (i) Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines constitute an averaging set. Averaging and trading among all Otto-cycle heavy-duty engine families is allowed. There are no subclass restrictions. (ii) Gasoline-fueled heavy-duty vehicles certified under the provisions of §86.085&hyph;1(b) may not average or trade credits with gasoline-fueled heavy-duty Otto-cycle engines, but may average or trade credits with light-duty trucks. (2) For diesel cycle heavy-duty engines:
