FR940419-2-00130 FR940419-2-00072 [Release No. 34&hyph;33903; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;20] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to the Administration of the Association April 13, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on April 8, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The NASD has designated this proposal as one constituting an administrative matter under Section 19(b)(3)(A)(iii) of the Act, which renders the rule effective upon the Commission's receipt of this filing. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing a rule change to amend Schedule B to the NASD By-Laws 1 to assign all U.S. Pacific territories and possessions to NASD District 2. Below is the text of the proposed rule change. Proposed new language is italicized. 1 NASD Manual , Schedules to the By-Laws, Schedule B (CCH) ¶1772 Schedule B to the By-Laws The number and territorial boundaries of the several districts established as provided in section 1 of Article VIII and the number of Governors elected from the several districts established as provided in Section 4(b) of Article VII of the By-Laws of the Corporation are as follows: * * * * * District No. 2␣In the State of California, that part of the State South or East of the Counties of Monterey, San Benito, Fresno and Inyo[;] , and, in the State of Nevada, that part of the State South or East of the Counties of Esmeralda and Nye, and, all Pacific possessions and territories of the United States . One Governor shall be elected from and by the members of the Corporation eligible to vote in District 2. * * * * * II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Under the Act, the NASD is obligated to ensure fair representation, of its members. 2 Article VII, section 4(b) to the NASD By-Laws authorizes the Board to consider the fairness of the representation of members by the current administrative district structure 3 and, whenever the Board finds unfairness in such representation, to change the number and boundaries of the administrative districts. Changes are necessary to the existing administrative district structure from time to time to address significant demographic shifts in the NASD's membership and to ensure fair and effective district representation on the Board. The Board noted that whereas the representation of District 7 currently includes United States territorial possessions in the Caribbean, the Canal Zone and the Virgin Islands, no comparable representation exists for U.S. Pacific territories and possessions. The proposed rule change thus remedies this lack of representation by amending Schedule B to the By-Laws to assign all U.S. Pacific territories and possessions to NASD District 2. 2 Section 15A(b)(4) of the Act requires that ``[T]he rules of the association [NASD] assure a fair representation of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs and provide that one or more directors shall be representative of issuers and investors and not be associated with a member of the association, broker, or dealer.'' 3 For purposes of administration, the NASD has divided the United States, its territories and possessions into ``districts'' the boundaries of which are established by the Board of Governors. The NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of Section 15A(b)(4) of the Act, 4 which require that the rules of the Association provide for the fair representation of its members in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs in that the proposed rule change ensures the fair representation of members in the district structure. 4 15 U.S.C. 78 o&hyph;3 (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD does not believe that the proposed rule change will result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, as amended. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change has become effective upon filing pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A)(iii) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of Rule 19b-4 thereunder in that it constitutes solely an administrative matter of the Association. At any time within 60 days of the filing of a rule change pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act, the Commission may summarily abrogate the rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by May 10, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9317 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
