FR940826-2-00129 FR940826-2-00066 The Exchange seeks to have the ability to utilize its Auto-Ex system for orders in Index options of up to 50 contracts. Auto-Ex is the Exchange's automated execution system which provides for the automatic execution of market and marketable limit orders at the best bid or offer at the time the order is entered. The Exchange believes the ability to use Auto-Ex for orders of up to 50 contracts will provide customers with liquid markets and expeditious executions. The Amex represents that it has the necessary systems capacity to support new series that would result from the introduction of Israeli Index Options. 6 6 See Letter from Warren I. Kaiser, Senior Vice President, Information Technology, Amex, to Michael Walinskas, Derivative Products Regulation, SEC, dated August 8, 1994. Additionally, the Options Price Reporting Authority (``OPRA'') has stated that it has the necessary systems capacity to support those new series of index options that would result from the introduction of Index options and Index LEAPS. See Memorandum from Joe Corrigan, Executive Director, OPRA, to Charles Faurot, Managing Director, Market Data Services, Amex, dated August 8, 1994. 2. Statutory Basis The Exchange believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers and dealers. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange believes the proposed rule change will impose no burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;18 and should be submitted by September 16, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 7 7 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21010 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
