FR940711-1-00009 FR940711-1-00003 With regard to stranded costs associated with ``existing'' wholesale requirements contracts, the proposed rule provides a three-year transition period during which public utilities must attempt and non-public utilities are encouraged to attempt to renegotiate certain existing contracts, and during which they may seek recovery of stranded costs as follows: (a) If an existing wholesale requirements contract explicitly addresses stranded costs through an exit fee or other stranded cost provision, no public utility or transmitting utility may seek recovery of stranded costs associated with that contract through transmission rates; the utility may recover such costs only as specified in the requirements contract. (b) If an existing wholesale requirements contract does not explicitly address stranded costs through an exit fee or other stranded cost provision, the parties to the contract, within a three-year transition period, must make a good faith attempt to negotiate a stranded cost amendment to the contract. If the parties are able to negotiate an amendment, and the selling utility under the contract is a public utility, the amendment should be filed for Commission approval under section 205 or 206 of the FPA prior to the end of the three-year period. If the parties to the existing contract are not able to negotiate an amendment, and the selling utility under the contract is a public utility, the public utility may unilaterally file a proposed amendment, under section 205 or 206 of the FPA, prior to the end of the three-year period. 5 If an amendment is not filed and the customer leaves the public utility's system after the end of the three-year transition period, the Commission will deny any extra-contractual stranded cost claim in a section 205 or 206 requirements rate proceeding arising under the contract in question. 5 If the selling utility is a transmitting utility that is not also a public utility, its wholesale requirements contracts are not subject to this Commission's jurisdiction. Therefore, such transmitting utility should within the three-year transition period take whatever steps are permitted or required under its regulatory requirements to unilaterally propose to its regulatory authority a stranded cost provision as an amendment to its existing contract. Under this proposal, it will not be permitted to seek stranded cost recovery from this Commission after the close of the three-year transition period. (c) If an existing wholesale requirements contract does not explicitly address stranded costs through an exit fee or other stranded cost provision, and if, prior to the end of the three-year transition period, the customer gives notice pursuant to the contract 6 that it will no longer purchase all or part of its requirements from the selling utility but instead will purchase from the selling utility unbundled section 205 or section 211 transmission services 7 that will begin prior to the end of the three-year period, then the selling utility may seek to recover stranded costs from that customer through jurisdictional transmission rates. This is the only circumstance in which the rule proposes to allow wholesale stranded cost recovery through transmission rates. 6 This refers to proper notice given in accordance with the contract. If the customer attempts to breach the contract, the utility will have the usual recourse. 7 I.e. , services pursuant to a transmission tariff or agreement on file with the Commission under FPA section 205, or services pursuant to a request for an order under FPA section 211. (d) If a utility does seek recovery of stranded costs as permitted by the proposed rule, and the existing wholesale requirements contract contains a notice provision, there will be a rebuttable presumption that the utility had no legitimate expectation of continuing to serve the customer beyond the period provided for in the notice provision. With regard to retail stranded costs, the proposed rule adopts a strong policy preference that appropriate State or local regulatory authorities address, in whatever manner they deem appropriate, stranded cost recovery. The proposed rule provides alternative proposals for how the Commission will address retail stranded costs. The Commission expresses no preference in favor of either alternative. Under the first alternative, the rule provides that if the appropriate State or local authority does not explicitly address retail stranded costs, 8 or if there is conflict among authorities within a State or among different States, the Commission will entertain requests to recover stranded costs in section 205&hyph;206 rates for wholesale or retail transmission services in interstate commerce, 9 or in section 212 rates for wholesale transmission services ordered under section 211. Under the second alternative, the rule provides that the Commission will not entertain any request for recovery of retail stranded costs. However, the Commission solicits comments on whether there should be exceptions to this alternative rule. 8 See discussion, infra , section III.C.(6)(ii), regarding mechanisms by which states might explicitly address retail stranded costs. 9 ``Wholesale transmission services'' means the transmission of electric energy sold, or to be sold, at wholesale in interstate commerce. This is the definition contained in FPA section 3(24). For purposes of this proposed rulemaking, ``retail transmission services'' refers to the transmission of electric energy sold, or to be sold, in interstate commerce directly to a retail customer. Finally, the proposed rule provides guidance as to the substantive criteria and evidentiary demonstration necessary for wholesale and retail stranded cost recovery. The Commission requests the general views, comments and analyses of all interested persons, pursuant to the procedures herein. It has set forth enumerated questions in the Appendix attached hereto on which it solicits comment in particular.
