FR940919-2-00112 FR940919-2-00046 The Team's conducted extensive fact-finding visits and interviews with members of the disability community. Team members visited 421 locations in 33 States and conducted over 3,600 interviews. Almost 2,900 of these involved front-line employees, managers and executives. The Team conducted an additional 111 interviews by telephone. The Team also interviewed over 750 parties external to SSA for their views. They also publicized surface/electronic mail addresses and fax and voice telephone numbers for those who were not contacted or had additional information to provide. Individuals and groups both internal and external to the process were interviewed for ideas about a new process. The Team solicited a wide spectrum of opinions about problems with the current disability process and directions for redesign. In addition to individuals in the SSA and DDS communities, the team talked to a wide variety of externals including physicians, health maintenance organizations and hospital officials, disability advocates, attorneys, professional association groups, Federal judges, other Federal agencies, and Congressional staffs. Prior to site visits and contacts, Team members provided individuals and organizations with general information about the reengineering effort, key research areas, and some unconventional ideas about the disability process so that the interviewees would have an opportunity to think about process issues. The Team encouraged interviewees to provide open and honest opinions, suggestions, and ideas. The interviews provided useful insights into the problems confronting the disability program and recommendations for solving these problems. Focus Groups A series of 12 focus groups were held throughout the country to obtain input from members of our claimant population and the general public regarding their experiences with and expectations of the SSA disability process. The focus groups provided the Team valuable information about claimants' expectations and preferences, as well as concerns about the current process. The following is a list of the focus group sites and composition. BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN19SE94.072 BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;C
