FR940407-2-00072 FR940407-2-00038 C. Eligible Applicants 1. Who Is Eligible To Apply? The following organizations are eligible to apply: •Federally recognized Indian tribes as listed in the Federal Register Notice dated October 21, 1993; •Incorporated non-Federally and state recognized Indian tribes; •Alaska Native villages as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) and/or nonprofit village consortia; •Nonprofit Alaska Native Regional Corporations and/or associations with village specific projects; •Other tribal or village organizations or consortia of Indian tribes. 2. Who Is Not Eligible? The following organizations are not eligible to apply: •Urban Indian Centers; •Incorporated nonprofit multi-purpose community-based Indian organizations; •Public and nonprofit private agencies serving: Native Hawaiians, peoples from Guam, American Samoa, Palau, or the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands; •Incorporated nonprofit Alaska Native multi-purpose community based organizations; •National or regional incorporated nonprofit Native American organizations with Native American community-specific objectives. D. Available Funds Approximately $3 million of Fiscal Year 1994 funds were appropriated and are available to support this regulatory enhancement effort. ANA expects to award approximately 35 grants in amounts up to $250,000 per budget period. Each tribe, Native American organization, or other eligible applicant can receive only one grant award under this announcement. The Administration for Native Americans will accept only one application from any one applicant. If an eligible applicant sends in two applications, the one with the earlier postmark will be accepted for review unless the applicant withdraws the earlier application. Applicants who have current ANA SEDS grants are eligible to apply for funds under this program announcement. E. Multi-Year Projects This announcement is soliciting applications for project periods up to three years. Awards on a competitive basis, will be for a one-year budget period, although project periods may be for up to three years. Applications for continuation grants funded under these awards beyond the one-year budget period, but within the three year project period, will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis subject to availability of funds, satisfactory progress of the grantee and determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the government. A multi-year project cannot be a series of unrelated objectives with activities presented in chronological order over a two or three period. Timely submission of objective progress reports on work under a grant is essential to continued funding of that grant. Applicants may apply for projects of up to 36 months duration. A multi-year project is a project on a single theme that requires more than 12 months to complete and affords the applicant an opportunity to develop and address more complex and in-depth strategies than can be completed in one year. Applicants are encouraged to develop multi-year projects. A multi-year project cannot be a series of unrelated objectives with activities presented in chronological order over a two or three year period. The budget period for each multi-year project grant is 12 months. The non-competitive funding for the second and third years is contingent upon the grantee's satisfactory progress in achieving the objectives of the project, according to the approved Objective Work Plan (OWP), the availability of Federal funds, and compliance with the applicable statutory, regulatory and grant requirements, including timely submission of objective progress reports (OPRs). F. Grantee Share of Project Grantees must provide at least 20 percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the Federal share and the non-Federal share. The non-Federal share may be met by cash or through the provision of in-kind property or services, but only to the extent that cash or property is from any source (including any Federal agency) other than a program, contract or grant authorized under the Native American Programs Act of 1974, as amended. Therefore, a project requesting $300,000 in Federal funds (based on an award of $100,000 per budget period for three years), must include a match of at least $75,000 (20% of the total project costs). An itemized budget detailing the applicant's non-Federal share, and its source, must be included in an application. A request for a waiver of the non-Federal share requirement may be submitted in accordance with 45 CFR 1336.50(b)(3) of the Native American Program Regulations. G. Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs This program is not covered by Executive Order 12372. H. The Application Process
