FR941202-0-00016 FR941202-0-00001 Response. The Commission agrees with these comments because the ``grandfathering'' provisions should apply regardless of whether a qualified nuclear pharmacist is currently working in a commercial nuclear pharmacy or a hospital-based nuclear pharmacy. Therefore, this section has been added to the final rule. III. Discussion of Final Rule Text This section discusses those provisions of the final rule in which the proposed rule language has been modified. These modifications are either based on public comments or the Commission's identified need to modify or clarify the rule language. Provisions in which the final rule language remains the same as the proposed rule language will not be discussed in this section. Referring to section V entitled ``Text of Final Regulations'' may expedite the reader's understanding of this discussion. Section 32.72␣Manufacture, Preparation, or Transfer for Commercial Distribution of Radioactive Drugs Containing Byproduct Material for Medical Use Under 10 CFR Part 35 Section 32.72(a)(4) This paragraph contains one modification of the proposed rule language. The phrase ``one label is acceptable to NRC provided that it contains all of the information which NRC requires'' has been added at the end of the last sentence of this paragraph. This phrase has been added to clarify that this rule allows licensees to use one label if that label contains all the information specified in this section. Section 32.72(b) The proposed rule language has been modified to clarify the intent of this section. These modifications are discussed below. (1) The phrase ``a licensee described by paragraph (a)(2)(iii) or (iv) of this section'' has been moved from proposed §32.72(b)(1) to the introductory phrase of §32.72(b) to clarify that this phrase applies throughout paragraph (b). (2) The final rule text of §32.72(b)(1) is essentially the same as the proposed (b)(1) except that the reference to the definition of ``authorized nuclear pharmacist'' in Part 35 has been moved to paragraph (b)(2). (3) A new §35.72(b)(2) has been added to the final rule to make clear that there are three different ways that an individual may qualify as an authorized nuclear pharmacist. (4) A new §35.72(b)(3) has been added to the final rule to make clear that the actions authorized in §32.72(b)(1) and (2) are permitted in spite of more restrictive language in existing license conditions and to avoid the need for many license amendments in order to implement the Commission's intentions. (5) The proposed §32.72(b)(2), which provided criteria for ``grandfathering'' qualified Part 32 ``authorized users,'' has been redesignated as §32.72(b)(4). Also, the proposed rule specified that a pharmacist may be ``grandfathered'' if the individual is identified on a Commission license as an ``authorized user'' on or before the ``effective date'' of the rule; this cutoff date has been changed to the publication date of the final rule. This change is needed because the Commission believes that ``grandfathering'' is only appropriate for those qualified nuclear pharmacists who are ``authorized users'' on or before the publication date of this final rule. (6) The proposed §32.72(b)(3), which requires licensees to provide certain documents, has been redesignated as §32.72(b)(5). The final rule text in this paragraph has been modified to include several editorial changes, including: (i) Replacing the phrase ``the individual's board certification, the license, or the permit'' by the phrase ``each individual's certification by the Board of Pharmaceutical Specialties, the Commission or Agreement State license, or the permit issued by a licensee of broad scope''; (ii) Replacing the phrase ``within 30 days of the date'' by the phrase ``no later than 30 days after the date''; and (iii) Adding ``pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(iii)'' to indicate that a notification is not required by paragraph (b)(2)(ii) because a license amendment is required. Section 35.2␣Definitions Authorized nuclear pharmacist. During the public comment period, the Commission became aware that the word ``currently'' is unnecessary in the proposed phrase ``Authorized nuclear pharmacist means a pharmacist who is: (1) Currently board certified as a nuclear pharmacist by XXX .'' Therefore, the word, ``currently,'' has been removed in the final rule.
