FR941121-0-00057 FR941121-0-00008 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Parts 9, 63 and 71 [FRL&hyph;5106&hyph;2] RIN 2060&hyph;AF10 Federal Operating Permit Programs; Permits for Early Reductions Sources AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rulemaking establishes an interim Federal permitting program solely for sources participating in the Early Reductions Program under section 112(i)(5) of the Clean Air Act (Act), as amended. It is designed to provide a temporary permitting mechanism until such time as permanent permitting programs become effective pursuant to title V of the Act. Under this interim program, EPA will be able to permit early reductions sources in a timely manner, thus ensuring that emission reductions achieved are maintained and providing assurance to participating sources that they have qualified for the benefits of the Early Reductions Program. Also promulgated in this rulemaking are two amendments to the Early Reductions Rule. The first appends to enforceable commitments made under the Early Reductions Program information on emission reduction measures employed to achieve early reductions and the second clarifies deadlines for submitting post-reduction emission information to EPA. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Background Information Document. The background information document (BID) for the promulgated standards may be obtained from the U.S. EPA Library (MD&hyph;35) , Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, telephone number 919&hyph;541&hyph;2777. Please refer to ``Federal Operating Permit Programs: Permits for Early Reductions Sources_Background Information for Promulgated Rule'' (EPA&hyph;453/R&hyph;94&hyph;061b). The BID contains (1) a summary of changes made to the rule since proposal and (2) a summary of all public comments made on the proposed standards and EPA's response to those comments. Docket. Docket number A&hyph;93&hyph;08, containing supporting information used in developing the promulgated rule is available for public inspection and copying between 8:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, at EPA's Air Docket, room M1500, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. David Beck, Emission Standards Division (MD&hyph;13), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, telephone number 919&hyph;541&hyph;5421. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The information presented in this preamble is organized as follows: I. Introduction II. Summary of Significant Comments and Changes Since Proposal III. Administrative Requirements I. Introduction The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 rewrote existing section 112, which directs the EPA to establish national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (HAP). A new provision, section 112(i)(5), offers to sources that achieve substantial early reductions of HAP emissions an extension in the compliance date for applicable standards to be promulgated under section 112(d). To help implement this ``Early Reductions Program,'' EPA is acting in this notice to promulgate an interim, limited scope permit program, pursuant to title V of the Act. This interim program will allow EPA to process applications under the Early Reductions Program in a timely manner, until such time as comprehensive title V permitting mechanisms become available. A detailed rationale for this rulemaking accompanied the proposal notice, which was published in the Federal Register on December 29, 1993 (57 FR 68804). II. Summary of Significant Comments and Changes Since Proposal The comment period for the proposed early reductions permits rule ended on March 3, 1994, and EPA received five comment letters. Copies of the comments reside in the docket for this rulemaking and are available for public inspection (see ``Docket'' in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble for further information). A summary of public comments and EPA's responses to the comments are contained in the background information document mentioned in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. Consideration of these comments and other deliberations within the Agency led to a few changes from the proposed permits rule, although none of the changes altered the rule significantly. A brief summary of the more notable changes appear in the list below (an expanded explanation of these changes is contained in the background information document). 1. A definition of ``post-reduction year'' has been added, as well as clarifying language pertaining to deadlines for filing post-reduction emission information. These changes make clearer the requirements for demonstrating that qualifying reductions have been achieved, and provide more flexibility to sources that wish to make reduction demonstrations before the statutory deadline. 2. The proposed requirement to submit an application in a computerized format, in addition to the typed application, has been deleted. The EPA has not yet settled on a computer format for such submittals. 3. The proposed rule contained a provision requiring permittees to report any deviations from permit terms or conditions within ten days of occurrence. This requirement has been revised to require ``prompt'' reporting of deviations, where ``prompt'' will be defined in each early reductions permit and will be based on the type and degree of the deviation. This is consistent with similar language in the part 70 for State title V permit programs. 4. The procedures for making administrative amendments to existing early reductions permits have been revised. The revisions are consistent with recently proposed revisions to the administrative amendments procedures specified in the part 70 rule for State title V programs. The revised procedures clarify the permittee's actions in initiating an administrative amendment and set the effective date of an amendment at 60 days after receipt by the Administrator of the amendment application (assuming the Administrator does not reject the amendment prior to that time).
