FR940204-0-00059 FR940204-0-00021 Service Response : Under section 4(a)(3)(A) of the Act, the Secretary must designate critical habitat to the maximum extent prudent and determinable at the time a species is determined to be endangered or threatened. In the proposed rule, the Service found that determination of critical habitat was not prudent for these species. As discussed under the ``Critical Habitat'' section below, the Service finds that designation of critical habitat for Chorizanthe robusta , inclusive of vars. robusta and hartwegii , is prudent but not determinable at this time. For certain populations that would likely not be imperiled by the threat of vandalism, collecting, or other human activities, the Service will propose designation of critical habitat. Issue 13 : One commenter expressed concern that several specimens of Chorizanthe collected by Yadon from Fort Ord, Monterey County, were not discussed in the proposed rule. The specimens were originally annotated as Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii by Dr. James Reveal. Service Response : The specimens that were collected from Fort Ord were among those that were reviewed by taxonomists at the University Herbarium and the Jepson Herbarium at the University of California, Berkeley, prior to preparation of the proposed rule (Ertter 1990). In their report, the taxonomists indicated that the specimens belong in Chorizanthe douglasii rather than Chorizanthe robusta . They cite the well-developed united involucral margins, a feature that separates the subsection Legnota (which includes Chorizanthe douglasii ) from the seven other subsections of the genus Chorizanthe (which includes the subsection Pungentes) that do not have united involucral margins (Ertter 1990, Reveal and Hardham 1989). On the basis of this taxonomic review, the Service concludes that no confirmed collections of Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii exist from Fort Ord or anywhere else in Monterey County. No additional discussion concerning the specimens from Fort Ord has been included in the final rule. Summary of Factors Affecting the Species After a thorough review and consideration of all information available, the Service has determined that Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana (Ben Lomond spineflower), Chorizanthe robusta (inclusive of vars. hartwegii and robusta ) (robust spineflower), and Erysimum teretifolium (Ben Lomond wallflower) should be classified as endangered species, and Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens (Monterey spineflower) should be classified as a threatened species. Procedures found at section 4 of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .) and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act were followed. A species may be determined to be an endangered or threatened species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to Chorizanthe pungens Benth. var. hartwegiana Reveal & Hardham (Ben Lomond spineflower), Chorizanthe pungens Benth. var. pungens (Monterey spineflower), Chorizanthe robusta Parry (inclusive of var. hartwegii (Benth. in A. DC) Reveal & Morgan and var. robusta ) (robust spineflower), and Erysimum teretifolium Eastwood (Ben Lomond wallflower) are as follows: A. The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range . Three taxa ( Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana, Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii , and Erysimum teretifolium ) are restricted to sandstone and mudstone soils in the Santa Cruz Mountains. Two taxa ( Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens and Chorizanthe robusta var. robusta ) are found only on sandy soils of coastal and near coastal habitats in southern Santa Cruz and northern Monterey Counties. These species and their associated habitats are threatened by one or more of the following: residential and golf course development, agricultural land conversion, recreational use, sand mining, dune stabilization projects, and military activities. Sand quarrying resulted in the direct removal of Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana habitat, and a currently proposed expansion of operations at Quail Hollow Quarry may eliminate additional populations. Residential development on smaller parcels of privately owned lands also contributed to the elimination of C. pungens var. hartwegiana and the fragmentation of the remaining habitat. Protective management for sandhill parkland communities will be developed for one parcel recently acquired by the State of California.
