FR940825-1-00055 FR940825-1-00008 (iii) State that assistance will be prorated, denied or terminated, as appropriate, upon a final determination of ineligibility after all appeals have been exhausted (see §200.186 concerning INS appeal, and informal hearing process by the project owner) or, if appeals are not pursued, at a time to be specified in accordance with HUD requirements. Tenants also shall be informed of how to obtain assistance under the preservation of families provisions of §200.187. (g) When evidence of eligible status is required to be submitted. The project owner shall require evidence of eligible status to be submitted at the times specified in paragraph (g) of this section, subject to any extension granted in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. (1) Applicants. For applicants, project owners must ensure that evidence of eligible status is submitted not later than the date the project owner anticipates or has knowledge that verification of other aspects of eligibility for assistance will occur (see §200.185(a)). (2) Tenants. For tenants (i.e., persons already receiving the benefit of assistance in a covered program on [insert the effective date of the final rule]), evidence of eligible status is required to be submitted as follows: (i) For financial assistance in the form of rent supplement payments or section 236 basic rent tenancy or rental assistance payments, the tenant shall, in accordance with the provisions of §§215.55(a) and 236.80(a) of this chapter, submit the required evidence at the first regular reexamination after [insert the effective date of the final rule]. (ii) For financial assistance in the form of section 235 assistance payments, the mortgagor shall submit the required evidence in accordance with §235.13(c) of this chapter. (3) New occupants of assisted units. For any new occupant of an assisted unit (e.g., a new family member comes to reside in the assisted unit), the required evidence shall be submitted at the first interim or regular reexamination following the person's occupancy. (4) Changing participation in a HUD program. Whenever a family applies for admission to a program covered by this subpart, evidence of eligible status is required to be submitted in accordance with the requirements of this subpart unless the family already has submitted the evidence to the project owner for a covered program. (5) One-time evidence requirement for continuous occupancy. For each family member, the family is required to submit evidence of eligible status only one time during continuously assisted occupancy under any covered program. (h) Extensions of time to submit evidence of eligible status _(1) When extension must be granted. The project owner shall extend the time, provided in paragraph (g) of this section, to submit evidence of eligible immigration status if the family member: (i) Submits the declaration required under §200.183(a) certifying that any person for whom required evidence has not been submitted is a noncitizen with eligible immigration status; and (ii) Certifies that the evidence needed to support a claim of eligible immigration status is temporarily unavailable, additional time is needed to obtain and submit the evidence; and prompt and diligent efforts will be undertaken to obtain the evidence. (2) Prohibition on indefinite extension period. Any extension of time, if granted, shall be for a specific period of time. The additional time provided should be sufficient to allow the individual the time to obtain the evidence needed. The project owner's determination of the length of the extension needed shall be based on the circumstances of the individual case. (3) Grant or denial of extension to be in writing. The project owner's decision to grant or deny an extension as provided in paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall be issued to the family by written notice. If the extension is granted, the notice shall specify the extension period granted. If the extension is denied, the notice shall explain the reasons for denial of the extension. (i) Failure to submit evidence or to establish eligible status. If the family fails to submit required evidence of eligible immigration status within the time period specified in the notice, or any extension granted in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, or if the evidence is timely submitted but fails to establish eligible immigration status, the project owner shall proceed to deny, prorate or terminate assistance, or provide continued assistance or temporary deferral of termination of assistance, as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of §§200.186 and 200.187. §200.184 Documents of eligible immigration status. (a) General. A project owner shall request and review original documents of eligible immigration status. The project owner shall retain photocopies of the documents for its own records and return the original documents to the family. (b) Acceptable evidence of eligible immigration status. The original of one of the following documents is acceptable evidence of eligible immigration status, subject to verification in accordance with §200.185. (1) Form I&hyph;551, Alien Registration Receipt Card (for permanent resident aliens); (2) Form I&hyph;94, Arrival-Departure Record, with one of the following annotations: (i) ``Admitted as Refugee Pursuant to section 207''; (ii) ``Section 208'' or ``Asylum''; (iii) ``Section 243(h)'' or ``Deportation stayed by Attorney General''; (iv) ``Paroled Pursuant to Sec. 212(d)(5) of the INA''; (3) If Form I&hyph;94, Arrival-Departure Record, is not annotated, then accompanied by one of the following documents: (i) A final court decision granting asylum (but only if no appeal is taken);
