FR940511-1-00083 FR940511-1-00013 1. Toxicological Information_Use of Structural Activity Relationships While many chlorinated organic compounds are used widely and have been studied in great detail, their brominated analogs are more specialized and have not been investigated in the same detail. EPA has found that no reliable health effects data directly showing significant subchronic toxicity are available for a few of the compounds identified in the record samples from this industry. For the constituents of concern, validated health effects data, directly showing subchronic toxicity, are not available for four compounds: ethyl bromide, tetrabromobisphenol-A, tribromophenol, and the brominated dibenzofurans. Because of the lack of data on these compounds, the Agency explored the use of structure activity relationships to develop toxicological values for these compounds. Structure activity relationships involve the use of health effects information for a compound with a very similar chemical structure and properties to that of the chemical of concern. The Agency determined that this technique could be used for 2,4,6-tribromophenol and for brominated dibenzofurans because the chemical behavior and mechanism of action for these compounds is expected to be similar to their chlorinated analogues. For ethyl bromide and tetrabromobisphenol-A, this technique could not be used because suitable surrogate compounds, for which data exist, could not be found. No toxicological data exist for other halogenated derivatives of bisphenol A, and ethyl bromide differs from its chlorinated congeners with respect to its ability to undergo hydrolysis and other important reactions. The basis for the listing determinations for the wastes with these two compounds is discussed later in this preamble. At the present time, inadequate toxicity data have prevented EPA from establishing a verified or unverified human health reference value for 2,4,6-tribromophenol (TBP). The structures of TBP and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCP) are sufficiently similar to be considered halogenated congeners of phenol, and their toxicities are explainable in terms of identified molecular mechanisms. The relative quantitative activities of halogenated phenol congeners such as TBP and TCP are derived from the ease of formation and reaction of these compounds and their metabolites. Both halogenated phenols contain three symmetrically placed bromine or chlorine substituents which are difficult to remove by chemical substitution. The presence of difficult-to-remove substituents at the ortho and para positions inhibits oxidative decomposition of these moieties via formation of cyclic ketone intermediates. EPA has used this information to develop a quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analysis for TBP. The critical endpoint of concern for TCP and TBP is carcinogenicity. The Agency has determined that, based on QSAR analysis, the long-term toxicity of TBP and TCP are essentially the same. For today's proposal, the Agency has estimated the cancer slope factor for TBP to be the same as TCP, or 1.1 x 10 ^2 (mg/kg per day) ^1 . In addition, data on TBP analyzed by EPA's Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics indicated a ``low to moderate'' concern for oncogenicity, mutagenicity, liver and kidney toxicity, developmental, and reproductive toxicity. The Agency's QSAR analysis reports for TBP are available in the docket of today's proposal. See ADDRESSES section. With regard to dibenzofurans, quantitative data comparing the potency of brominated dioxins and furans to their chlorinated counterparts are also relatively sparse. Consensus among most of the studies supports the view that brominated analogs are less potent than the chlorinated dioxins and furans, although several studies suggest that the groups are equipotent when considered on a molar basis. EPA estimated a potency factor of 0.3 for 2,3,7,8-tetrabromodibenzo-p-dioxin (TBDD) relative to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). This report is available in the docket. See ADDRESSES section. However, application of the toxicity equivalency factor (TEF) methodology to all of the BDFs is not currently possible because of the lack of research data. EPA conducted an analysis assuming 30&hyph;100% toxicity for the brominated furans as compared to the chlorinated ones and used the 100 percent value for making risk-based decisions. EPA believes this is a conservative approach that will ensure protection of human health and the environment. The Agency requests comment on this approach. For all other compounds, the Agency is basing its determination of whether to list on constituents for which adequate health effects data exist. (For a complete listing of the constituents identified in the samples of wastes from the production of chemicals listed in the EDF consent decree and their concentrations, see the Background Document for this proposed listing determination, available in the RCRA public docket.) In summary, published health-based data exist for all but four of the waste constituents of concern. Inadequate data exist for tetrabromobisphenol-A, ethyl bromide, the brominated dibenzofurans and tribromophenol. Structure activity-derived health-based information is available and was used for the brominated dibenzofurans and tribromophenol. Quantitative Structure Activity Relationships (QSARs) have been used in other ways in other EPA programs. For example, EPA uses QSARs in evaluating premanufacturing notice data submitted by industry under TSCA. The Agency may require additional testing of the chemical being reviewed based on a QSAR analysis. However, this is the first time the Agency is basing a listing determination for a wastestream on QSAR analysis. The prospect of using QSARs to identify wastes for regulation holds significant promise for the Agency. It is one way to evaluate some potentially hazardous constituents without requiring expensive and time-consuming toxicity testing. However, the Agency recognizes that the approach could result in additional regulatory effects on some waste generators, local governments, or other federal agencies. In addition, the use of QSARs in listing determinations could have broad policy implications for EPA. Therefore, the Agency solicits comment on the following: 1. Under what conditions is the use of QSAR valid in making hazardous waste listing determinations? 2. Is there another way to characterize the risk potential of wastestreams for which there is a lack of toxicity data on the sole or the primary constituent in the wastestream? (Note that limited resources may restrict the ability of the Agency to conduct testing of the compounds involved).
