FR940628-0-00032 FR940628-0-00017 Section 682.401(b)(16) Comments: A few commenters suggested that the regulations be revised to permit assignment of partially disbursed loans if the lending institution closes or is terminated and the assignment is necessary to be certain that undisbursed funds are delivered to the student. Discussion: Section 428G(g) of the HEA allows for sale and transfers only when a loan is fully disbursed unless the sale will not change the party to whom payments are to be made and the first disbursement has been made. Changes: None. Section 682.401(b)(24) Section 682.401(b)(24)(iv) Comments: A few commenters suggested that the regulations be revised to provide that the guaranty agency provide schools that request information under this paragraph an appropriate number for borrower inquiries if the assignee of a loan uses a lender servicer, rather than the number of the lender. The commenters pointed out that many lenders use servicers to address loan inquiries. The commenters suggested that these lenders do not staff their offices to address borrower inquiries, or maintain on-line access to borrower information. Inclusion of the assignee's number will flood these offices with calls, frustrating the intent of providing the borrower with loan information. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Changes: The regulations have been revised to include reference to another appropriate number for borrower inquiries if the assignee uses a lender servicer. Section 682.401(b)(25) Comments: Some commenters suggested that the designation as exceptional servicer or lender is a significant event in the business of the servicer or lender. The commenters suggested that the parties should be aware of the progress of their application. Another commenter suggested that the period of time for the guaranty agency to provide the Secretary with any information regarding an eligible lender or servicer applying for designation for exceptional performance should be increased to 60 days. Discussion: The Secretary notes that these comments relate to ยง682.415 of the regulations included in a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking published on April 20, 1994. The commenters' concerns will be addressed in that package. Changes: Section 682.401(b)(25) has been removed. Section 682.401(c) Comments: A number of commenters suggested that the Secretary delete the LLR provisions from the regulations since some of these provisions have been repealed by OBRA. Other commenters suggested that the regulations should be revised to address the issues and changes made by OBRA. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes that OBRA repealed the provisions providing guaranty agencies the authority to deny LLR services to students attending certain categories of schools and has removed these provisions from the regulations. In addition, the Secretary has reflected certain other changes made by OBRA in these regulations. Changes: The regulations have been revised to delete the provisions allowing limitations of LLR services. The Secretary has also incorporated some changes made by OBRA affecting LLR services. Section 682.401(c) of the regulations has been revised to incorporate the new requirements that: (1) The guaranty agency must respond to a student within 60 days after the student submits an original complete application; and (2) prohibit the agency from requiring a borrower to obtain more than two rejections from eligible lenders. Section 682.401(c)(8) Comments: A commenter suggested that the provision be revised to reflect that during the appeal process, for schools that have been notified that LLR services will not be provided to the school's students, the guaranty agency must provide LLR services to students attending the school until the date on which the guarantor is notified rather than until the date the Secretary rejects the appeal. The commenter noted that the guaranty agency should be protected for LLR loans made in the brief period between the date that the Secretary rejects the appeal and the date that the guaranty agency is aware of the rejection and ceases origination activities. The commenter suggested that the regulations as currently written would appear to cause these ``interim'' loans to be uninsured.
