FR940922-1-00035 FR940922-1-00008 In EPA's ROMNET study, 21 except for the New York metropolitan area, scenarios with predicted ozone levels below the NAAQS involved NO X reductions on the order of 60%&hyph;70% below 1985 levels. EPA's conclusions regarding necessary NO X reductions varied from city to city, depending on whether VOC or NO X was the limiting factor in ozone production near the city. VOC tends to be the limiting factor in urban areas, where there are less biogenic VOC emissions. In rural or suburban areas where biogenic emissions of VOC from vegetation are greater, NO X tends to be the limiting factor. NO X reductions in the rural and suburban areas can be important even where such areas are not themselves violating the NAAQS, because the ozone and ozone precursors from these areas are transported into the nonattainment areas, exacerbating conditions in the nonattainment areas. EPA concluded that VOC reductions on the order of 70%&hyph;90% from 1985 22 levels would be needed to reduce ozone levels to comply with the level specified in the NAAQS in several of the large cities along the East Coast urban corridor. Based on this and the other studies discussed below, EPA believes that NO X controls are needed regionally, while VOC reductions are critical particularly in and near the urban areas in the region. 21 See Regional Ozone Modeling for Northeast Transport (ROMNET), EPA Doc. EPA&hyph;450/4&hyph;91&hyph;002a (June 1991). 22 Both the ROMNET study and another study (the matrix study), discussed later, used the 1985 National Acid Precipitation Assessment Program (NAPAP) regional emissions inventory as the baseline. The 1985 NAPAP inventory of NO X and VOC was the only regional inventory available at the time for use in these studies. Another ROM study, called ``the matrix study,'' 23 analyzed the impact of uniform reductions in NO X and VOC emissions throughout the eastern half of the United States. This analysis indicates that, for the July 1&hyph;15, 1988 episode for the OTR portion of the modeling domain, emission reductions for both NO X and VOC on the order of 50% to 75% from 1985 levels are needed to reduce maximum ozone levels in the OTR portion of the modeling domain to the level specified in the NAAQS. 23 See Chu, S.H., E.L. Meyer, W.M. Cox, R.D. Scheffe, 1993, ``The Response of Regional Ozone to VOC and NO X Emissions Reductions: An Analysis for the Eastern United States Based on Regional Oxidant Modeling,'' Proceedings of U.S. EPA/AWMA International Specialty Conference on Tropospheric Ozone: Nonattainment and Design Value Issues, AWMA TR&hyph;23, pp.305&hyph;311 (1993). While these studies used a regional 1985 emission inventory as the baseline, it is the 1990 emissions baseline that is of particular concern in determining whether LEV is necessary for attainment. Under the Act, states are required to submit comprehensive 1990 inventories of NO X and VOC emissions upon which to base their air quality planning, including their attainment demonstrations. EPA believes that, based on current, recently updated information, both the matrix and ROMNET studies relied on assumptions about the emissions inventory that underestimated base case VOC and NO X emissions. 24 This is because inventories used in both the matrix and ROMNET studies were based on older estimates compiled for the National Acid Precipitation Assessment Program (NAPAP). 25 For example, EPA believes that inventory assumptions in the matrix study underestimated 1990 baseline emissions in the OTR for NO X by 16% and VOC by about 38%. Correcting the inventory assumptions in the matrix study should therefore result in modeling results that reductions in NO X and VOC emissions needed for attainment throughout the OTR are even greater than described above. EPA does not have a precise comparison between the current inventory information and the assumptions relied on in the ROMNET study, but a comparable difference is likely based on the difference between the current recently updated inventory and the older NAPAP-based inventory used in ROMNET. Based on these ROM modeling studies and analysis of 1985 and 1990 emission inventory assumptions, EPA concludes that, at a minimum, 50% to 75% reductions in NO X throughout the OTR and VOC in and near the urban areas emissions will be necessary for regional attainment from the 1990 baseline. 24 See E.H. Pechan & Associates, Regional Interim Emission inventories (1987&hyph;1991), Volume I: Development Methodologies, Prepared under EPA contract 68&hyph;D2&hyph;159, Work Assignment No. 13, (May 1993). 25 Saeger, M., J.Langstaff, R.Walters, L.Modica, D.Zimmerman, D.Fratt, D.Dulleba, R.Ryan, J.Demmy, W.Tax, D.Sprague, D.Mudgett, A.Werner. The NAPAP Emissions Inventory (Version 2): Development of the Annual Data and Modeler's Tapes, EPA Doc. No.600/7&hyph;89&hyph;012a., U.S. EPA, Research Triangle Park, NC (1989). (b) Contribution Analysis. The second step in EPA's analysis is to assess the degree to which transport contributes to the ozone problem in the OTR. As explained in the April 26 notice, EPA believes that the ``need'' for additional measures in the OTR in order to comply with section 110(a)(2)(D) focuses primarily on the states' need to adopt the program in question for the benefit of areas downwind. See 59 FR at 21728. Of course, the states retain full authority to adopt the LEV program under section 177 for their own benefit without EPA approval. As explained below, analysis of what reductions are needed for any specific area to avoid causing ozone exceedances downwind is an enormously complicated task that depends on regional, urban, and wind trajectory modeling information and monitoring data. Further, the analysis of the controls necessary in an upwind area depends on the controls assumed in the web of downwind areas and other upwind areas. In dealing with these complications and uncertainties, EPA emphasizes that the lead-time together with the lengthy time needed for fleet turnover in order to obtain the benefits from the OTC LEV program support reaching a decision now based on the best data currently available. Based on this data, EPA's conclusion is that very large reductions in NO X emissions on the order of 50% to 75% throughout the OTR are necessary for the serious and severe nonattainment areas in the OTR to attain the ozone standard by their respective attainment dates. EPA also believes that a similar magnitude of reductions in VOC emissions is necessary primarily in and near the urban areas of the OTR.
