FR940505-1-00233 FR940505-1-00012 As described more fully below in the nonroad fleet averaging program, EPA is concerned that engine and truck dealers may be significantly hurt if fleet owners prebuy 4.0 g/bhp-hr NO X engines to reduce the need for purchases of 1.5 g/bhp-hr NO X engines in the initial years of the program. Dealers are generally local, unlike all manufacturers and some fleet owners. They therefore may have trouble surviving more than a year of slow movement in the California market. Therefore, EPA is requesting comment on a manufacturer sales mandate for heavy-duty onhighway similar to that for nonroad engines. Interested readers should review section C.(7)(b) of this appendix for more information. EPA requests comments on all aspects of the heavy-duty declining fleet average proposal. 10. Fleets As described in the enhanced light-duty vehicle section (A(6)), EPA is proposing a revised Clean Fuel Fleet program in the South Coast and requesting comment on expanding it into the other two FIP areas. As described in the Clean Air Act Title II, Part C and in EPA's Clean Fuel Fleet program regulations (see 58 FR 32474, June 10, 1993 and 58 FR 64679, December 9, 1993) the national Clean Fuel Fleet program would require certain centrally fueled fleets to make a certain percentage of their new vehicle purchases clean fuel vehicles. The CAA HD fleet program applies to fleets up to 26,000 pounds GVWR and requires that 50 percent of all purchased be Clean Fuel Vehicles. As described in the light-duty enhanced vehicle program, EPA is proposing to require that the affected fleets purchase ILEVs which meet a composite NMHC standard set to reflect their low evaporative emission potential, rather than merely clean fuel vehicles. This requirement ensures that the fleet program will achieve significant hydrocarbon reductions beyond what is required by the general enhanced vehicle program. The application of this program is straightforward for most vehicles up to 14,000 lbs. GVWR. On the other hand, for vehicles certified to engine based standards (all vehicles above 14,000 lbs GVWR and some under that threshold), an ILEV requirement is already in place and therefore no composite is necessary. EPA therefore is proposing to apply the fleet program only to vehicles certified to a chassis-based standard, currently to vehicles up to 14,000 lbs GVWR. If EPA extends the chassis-based certification option to vehicles between 14,000 and 26,000 lbs. GVWR, the fleet program will extend to these vehicles as well. 11. General Enforcement It would be a violation of federal law for any engine manufacturers or owners to fail to comply with the specific requirements and prohibitions described above. In addition, under the enhanced heavy-duty vehicle program, it would be a violation of federal law for the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) or any other department of the State of California (or any political subdivision thereof) to register any vehicle subject to any requirement for which a valid certificate of compliance or waiver (either paper-based or electronic) has not been presented. Any person providing fraudulent certification or otherwise aiding or abetting in the violation of this section, would also be violating federal law. That is, it is a violation to permit registration or facilitate reregistration of a model year 1999 or later engine for which there is not in force a valid certificate of conformity from EPA (either for the engine or for the rebuild). Further it is a violation to register any model year 1998 or previous vehicle or engine after 2001 without EPA confirmation that the appropriate fleet average fee, if any, has been paid. Violations could result in civil penalties under federal law of up to $25,000 per violation. Each instance of unlawful registration would be considered a separate offense. C. Enhanced In-Use Compliance Program for Nonroad Engines Over 37 kw 1. Applicability EPA intends the enhanced in-use compliance program for nonroad engines to apply to most nonroad engines at or above 37 kw, with the exceptions described above. This means that the Agency is adding two categories of nonroad engines not covered under the nationwide federal rulemaking. The first category is spark-ignition engines for all categories except recreational marine engines. The second is high speed Diesel marine engines which are at or above 37 kw; these engines are not included in other FIP regulations. The enhanced nonroad engine program is proposed to include both CI and SI engines. EPA is concerned that applying more stringent emission standards only to CI engines would create an incentive to replace diesel (CI) engines with gasoline (SI) engines, because if left unregulated these engines could have a cost advantage. This shift would increase emissions because the unregulated gasoline engines would have higher exhaust levels and significantly higher evaporative emissions than diesel engines. EPA is therefore proposing exhaust emission regulations for both CI and SI engines (i.e., all engine types in the size range described) and adding a requirement to prevent evaporative emission increases. This strategy should level the playing field from an emissions perspective and avoid introducing an inappropriate encouragement to shift to gasoline and higher HC emissions.
