FR940919-2-00195 FR940919-2-00081 58. We solicit comments on how open access should be defined at this time. How should an open access policy be shaped to accommodate the changing needs of our information society? What impact will open access have on competition and ultimately on the extent of the need for universal service regulation? How can policymakers ensure that the NII fulfills its promise for education, economic growth and job creation? How will the new entrants in the market affect open access? What steps can be taken to facilitate or ensure access by Americans with disabilities? 59. The Administration also envisions open access to a two-way system of broadband communications as a means of individual empowerment. The idea is that improved access to information will build and promote the values of democracy. 79 Open access in this new environment creates opportunities for potential service providers as well as users to be providers of information, thereby promoting an enhanced concept of community involvement and competition in the free flow of ideas. Thus, open access to the NII could spur development of community-driven grass-roots networks or ``electronic commons.'' In addition, the NII will enhance the ability of the Federal government and state and local governments to deliver information and services to citizens more effectively, and for citizens to communicate their views on legislation and policy initiatives back to government officials just as easily. 79 Id. at 49,029. 60. How can the ``electronic communities'' envisioned by the Administration be fostered? How can access to the NII be assured for individuals, small and large businesses, non-profit institutions (in particular, schools, libraries and health care facilities) and state and local governments? How can access be assured in rural areas? Should there be different access opportunities and prices for profit and non-profit entities? Large and small entities? How can society ensure that our citizens are sufficiently ``computer literate'' to utilize the NII? 61. The critical question facing policymakers is how to ensure open access to the NII. 80 NTIA's field hearings revealed a general consensus among witnesses that significant issues such as interconnection, 81 interoperability and standard open interfaces, 82 and reasonable prices and tariffs 83 need to be addressed before open access can be assured. 84 80 The telecommunications reform bills being considered by the 103rd Congress contain numerous provisions to promote open access. These include, for example, requirements for interconnection capability among telecommunications carriers; non-discriminatory access to network facilities, services, functions and information on an unbundled basis under certain conditions; the development of interconnection standards; joint planning among telecommunications and information service providers for interoperability of private and public networks; the elimination of restrictions on resale or sharing of network facilities and services; and the provision of advanced services, possibly with preferential rates, to various governmental and non-profit institutions. The nature and extent of these provisions will depend on final passage of telecommunications reform legislation in Congress and implementation actions by the FCC. 81 See Comments of The News & Observer; North Carolina State University; M. Strata Rose, Virtual City Network Project; and NC Electronics & Information Technologies Association. 82 Comments of NC Rural Economic Development Center; First Pacific Networks; Prodigy Services Company; SAGRELTO Enterprises; GTE West Area Telephone Operations; Pacific Bell; Virtual Valley Inc.; Multimedia Design Corporation; Adamation, Inc.; MCNC; and State of New Mexico, GSD/ISD Office of Communications. 83 Comments of First Pacific Networks; Prodigy Services Company; Adamation, Inc.; Communications Resources, Inc.; Hooked, Inc.; and NC Electronics & Information Technologies Association. 84 A number of commenters also noted that resolving security, privacy, and intellectual property issues over the NII is also critical. The Administration is currently addressing these issues through several IITF committees and working groups. These include the NII Security Issues Forum, the Network Reliability and Vulnerability Working Group, and the Privacy Working Group. 62. The NII will integrate and build upon many different hardware and software components, some of which already exist and many of which are still in development. These components must be interoperable, i.e., able to work together. Interoperable components would allow distinct networks to communicate with each other and allows users to access various products and services through standard software and hardware. 85 An NII comprised of interoperable networks will create an infrastructure that is accessible to all providers and users. 86 What critical points in today's infrastructure must be interoperable if the NII vision is to be successfully implemented? What role, if any, should open or standard interfaces and protocols play? What role can government play in facilitating interoperability, both in the short term ( e.g., two years) and in the long term. 85 Computer Systems Policy Project Perspectives on the National Information Infrastructure: Ensuring Interoperability 5 (Feb. 1944). Familiar examples of interoperability include standard size nuts and bolts, telephone jacks and telephones, and computers and modems. 86 Many believe that the Internet is an excellent model for such interoperability, since it allows users all over the world to access information and talk to each other easily over the network. We request comments on whether the Internet is, indeed, a good model for interoperability for the NII. 63. Interoperability can be accomplished in a number of different ways. Equipment can have open protocols and interfaces that permit a physical connection (as is the case of a plug and socket) or logical connection (message format and exchange procedure). 87 Equipment built with open architecture will also permit interoperability. Additionally, standards for voice, video, data and multi-media services are also crucial to interoperability. 88 87 Protocols are the set of rules governing the operation of functional units of a communication system that make communication possible. Open interfaces are specifications for interconnection compatibility made available to all vendors. 88 See, e.g., Comments of Alan R. Blatecky, Vice President, Information Technologies, MCNC, North Carolina Hearing (Apr. 27, 1994). ``It is essential to have regulatory guidelines which ensure interoperability across networks through the rapid adoption and encouragement of open standards. If standards are not adopted, the marketplace becomes a battleground for proprietary solutions which penalize users until one of the standards finally become[s] a de facto standard.'' Id. at 2.
