FR940314-2-00033 FR940314-2-00015 d. Refuse to quote prices for, or to market or sell in, Export Markets with respect to Products and/or Services; e. Solicit Member Suppliers to sell their Products and/or Services and/or offer Export Trade Facilitation Services through the certified activities of ASIA and/or its Members; f. Coordinate with respect to the installation and servicing of Products in Export Markets, including the establishment of joint warranty, service, and training centers in such markets; g. Engage in joint promotional activities, such as advertising and trade shows, aimed at developing existing or new Export Markets; and h. Bring together from time to time groups of Members to plan and discuss how to fulfill the technical Product and Service requirements of specific export customers or particular Export Markets. 2. Members may license associated Technology Rights in Export Markets to non-Members in conjunction with the sale of Products, but in all instances the terms of such licenses shall be determined solely by negotiations between the licensor Member and such non-Member customer without coordination with ASIA or any other Member. 3. ASIA and/or its Members may enter into agreements wherein ASIA and/or one or more Members agree to act in certain countries or markets as the Members' exclusive or non-exclusive Export Intermediary for Products and/or Services in that country or market. In such agreements, (i) ASIA or the Member(s) acting as an exclusive Export Intermediary may agree not to represent any other non-Member Supplier for sale in the relevant country or market, and (ii) Members may agree that they will export for sale in the relevant country or market only through ASIA or the Member(s) acting as exclusive Export Intermediary, and that they will not export independently to the relevant country or market, either directly or through any other Export Intermediary. ASIA and/or any Member when acting as an Export Intermediary shall make its services available to any Member on non-discriminatory terms. 4. Except as set forth in paragraph 8, ASIA and/or its Members may exchange and discuss the following types of information solely about Export Markets: a. Information (other than information about the costs, output, capacity, inventories, domestic prices, domestic sales, domestic orders, terms of domestic marketing or sale, or United States business plans, strategies or methods) that is already generally available to the trade or public; b. Information about sales and marketing efforts for Export Markets; activities and opportunities for sales of Products and Services in Export Markets; selling strategies for Export Markets; pricing in Export Markets; projected demands in Export Markets; customary terms of sale in Export Markets; the types of Products available from competitors for sale in particular Export Markets, and the prices for such Products; and customer specifications for Products in Export Markets; c. Information about the export prices, quality, quantity, source, and delivery dates of Products available from Members for export, provided, however, that exchanges of information and discussions as to export prices, Product quantity, source, and delivery dates are on a transaction-by-transaction basis only; d. Information about terms and conditions of contracts for sales in Export Markets to be considered and/or bid on by ASIA and its Members; e. information about joint bidding, selling, or servicing arrangements for Export Markets and allocation of sales resulting from such arrangements among the Members; f. Information about expenses specific to exporting to and within Export Markets, including, without limitation, transportation, intermodal shipments, insurance, inland freight to port, port storage, commissions, export sales, documentation, financing, customs, duties, and taxes;
