FR940620-1-00090 FR940620-1-00009 (6) Detailed manufacturing or process data means technical data that describe the steps, sequences, and conditions of manufacturing, processing or assembly used by the manufacturer to produce an item or component or to perform a process. (7) Developed means_ (1) (applicable to technical data other than computer software documentation) an item, component, or process, exists and is workable. Thus, the item or component must have been constructed or the process practiced. Workability is generally established when the item, component, or process has been analyzed or tested sufficiently to demonstrate to reasonable people skilled in the applicable art that there is a high probability that it will operate as intended. Whether, how much, and what type of analysis or testing is required to establish workability depends on the nature of the item, component, or process, and the state where it could be offered for sale or sold on the commercial market, nor must the item, component or process be actually reduced to practice within the meeting of Title 35 of the United States Code. (ii) A computer program has been successfully operated in a computer and tested to the extent sufficient to demonstrate to reasonable persons skilled in the art that the program can reasonably be expected to perform its intended purpose. (iii) Computer software, other than computer programs, has been tested or analyzed to the extent sufficient to demonstrate to reasonable persons skilled in the art that the software can reasonably be expected to perform its intended purpose. (iv) Computer software documentation required to be delivered under a contract has been written, in any medium, in sufficient detail to comply with requirements under that contract. (8) Developed exclusively at private expense means development was accomplished entirely with costs charged to indirect cost pools, costs not allocated to a government contract, or any combination thereof. (i) Private expense determinations should be made at the lowest practicable level. (ii) Under fixed price contracts, when total costs are greater than the firm fixed price or ceiling price of the contract, the additional development costs necessary to complete development shall not be considered when determining whether development was at Government, private, or mixed expense. (9) Developed exclusively with Government funds means develop was not accomplished exclusively or partially at private expense. (10) Developed with mixed funding means development was accomplished partially with costs charged to indirect cost pools and/or costs not allocated to a government contract, and partially with costs charged directly to a government contract. (11) Form, fit, and function data means technical data that describe the required overall physical, functional, and performance characteristics, (along with the qualification requirements, if applicable) of an item, component, or process to the extent necessary to permit identification of physically and functionally interchangeable items. (12) Generated means technical data or computer software first created in the performance of this contract. (13) Government purpose means any activity in which the United States Government is a party, including cooperative agreements with international or multi-national defense organizations or sales or transfers by the United States Government to foreign governments or international organizations. Government purposes include competitive procurement, but do not include the rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data or computer software for commercial purposes or authorize other to do so. (14) Limited rights means the rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data, in whole or in part, within the Government. The Government may not, without the written permission of the party asserting limited rights, release or disclose the technical data outside the Government, use the technical data for manufacture, or permit the technical data to be used by another party, except that the Government may reproduce, release or disclose such data or permit the use or reproduction of the data by persons outside the Government if reproduction, release, disclosure, or use is_ (i) Necessary for emergency repair and overhaul; or, (ii) A release or disclosure of technical data (other than detailed manufacturing or process data) to, or use of such data by, a foreign government that is in the interest of the Government and is required for evaluational or informational purposes; and, (iii) Subject to a prohibition on the further reproduction, release, disclosure, or use of the technical data; and, (iv) The contractor or subcontractor asserting the restriction is notified of such reproduction, release, disclosure, or use. (15) Minor modification means a modification that does not significantly alter the nongovernmental function or purpose of computer software or is of the type customarily provided in the commercial marketplace.
