FR941207-0-00135 FR941207-0-00022 Special Provisions For Designated Entities Bidding Credits 97. In the Fifth Report and Order, we determine that bidding credits were necessary to better ensure that women and minority-owned businesses and small businesses have meaningful opportunities to participate in broadband PCS. Accordingly, our rules provided that small businesses will receive a 10 percent credit, women and minority-owned businesses will receive a 15 percent credit, and small businesses owned by women and minorities will receive an aggregate credit of 25 percent. 58 Our decision in the Fifth Report and Order to enhance the effectiveness of the entrepreneurs' blocks through the addition of bidding credits reflected our expectation that broadband PCS will be a capital intensive undertaking. We stated that bidding credits would function as a discount on the bid price a firm will actually have to pay to obtain a license and, thus, would directly address the obstacles to raising capital encountered by small, women and minority-owned firms. 58 See 47 CFR 24.712(a)&hyph;(c). 98. Several petitioners request that we increase the level of bidding credits. For example, while some petitioners argue in favor of higher bidding credits for all designated entities, others seek to raise the bidding credit for women and minority-owned businesses, or only for minority-owned small businesses. Many of these petitioners find support in our Third Memorandum Opinion and Order in this docket, where we raised the bidding credit for minority and women-owned businesses bidding on regional narrowband PCS licenses from 25 percent to 40 percent. 59 Two petitioners contend that rural telephone companies should receive a 10 percent bidding credit, that would be cumulative with any other bidding credits for which the applicant would be eligible. Finally, consistent with its argument that the entrepreneurs' blocks should be abolished, GTE supports availability of bidding credits across all broadband PCS channel blocks. 59 Third Memorandum Opinion and Order, FCC 94&hyph;219 at ¶58. See also 47 CFR 24.309(b)(2). 99. We will retain our existing bidding credit scheme. Present levels of bidding credits, coupled with other provisions directed at the capital formation problems of designated entities, such as size limitations on the entrepreneurs' block and installment payments, are sufficient to achieve our regulatory objectives. Moreover, additional measures that we have adopted on reconsideration, including elimination of the limits on personal net worth and relaxation on the attribution of affiliates owned and controlled by minorities, will further enhance the value of the bidding credits to women and minority-owned firms in particular. We find that our action on reconsideration of the narrowband PCS auction rules does not dictate raising the bidding credit in this instance. As the Third Memorandum Opinion and Order makes clear, the 40 percent bidding credit for women and minorities bidding on regional narrowband PCS licenses was adopted in the absence of any entrepreneurs' blocks. Further, we state that in the insulated entrepreneurs' block setting, a 25 percent bidding credit for minority and/or women-owned small firms is more appropriate. We also find that the record does not support creation of a new bidding credit for rural telephone companies. In this regard, we agree with BET that petitioners have failed to demonstrate a historical lack of access to capital that was the basis for according bidding credits to small businesses, minorities and women. To the extent that a rural telephone company is also a small business, or minority or women-owned, then bidding credits would, of course, be available. We also decline to adopt GTE's scheme to eliminate the entrepreneurs' blocks, and distribute bidding credits throughout the broadband PCS channel blocks. As Omnipoint, Columbia PCS and ET observe, the insulation provided by the entrepreneurs' block is key to the utility of bidding credits in such a capital intensive undertaking. Installment Payments 100. In the Fifth Report and Order we made installment payments available to most businesses that obtain entrepreneurs' block licenses. Installment payments directly address the significant barriers that smaller businesses face in accessing private financing. With the expectation of enormous costs associated with obtaining and operating a broadband PCS license, installment payments provide low-cost government financing that reduces the amount of private financing needed before and after the auction. Our installment payment plan was made available to all entrepreneurs' block eligibles granted licenses in the 50 largest BTAs. In the smaller BTAs where the costs of license acquisition and operation are expected to be lower, installment payments are only available to licensees owned by women and minorities, and licensees with less than $75 million in gross revenues. We also provided an ``enhanced'' installment payment plan for small businesses and businesses owned by women and minorities where interest-only payments were required for such entities for as long as five years from the date of license grant if the firm is both small and owned by women or minorities. By tailoring the deferral of principal payments to the needs of the particular designated entities, we promoted greater participation in broadband PCS by viable competitors. 101. Vanguard asks us to offer installment payments to all entrepreneurs' block winners for all BTAs. Without this relief, Vanguard contends that small cellular carriers that are, in fact, more likely to serve the smaller markets would be forced to comply with the same payment schedule as large carriers bidding for smaller markets. SBPCS seeks to eliminate interest on installment payments altogether, and limit availability of installment payment plans to revenue less than $75 million dollars. Hernandez requests that the Commission require bidders to demonstrate their ability to meet the terms of an installment payment plan when the short-form application is filed.
