FR940512-1-00055 FR940512-1-00010 (2) The SILC's resource plan must, to the maximum extent possible, rely on the use of resources in existence during the period of implementation of the State plan. (3) No conditions or requirements may be included in the SILC's resource plan that may compromise the independence of the SILC. (4) The SILC is responsible for the proper expenditure of funds and use of resources that it receives under the resource plan. (5) A description of the SILC's resource plan required by paragraph (i)(1) of this section must be included in the State plan. (j) Staff. (1) The SILC shall, consistent with State law, supervise and evaluate its staff and other personnel as may be necessary to carry out its functions under this section. (2) While assisting the SILC in carrying out its duties, staff and other personnel made available to the SILC by the DSU may not be assigned duties by the designated State agency or DSU, or any other agency or office of the State, that would create a conflict of interest. (k) Reimbursement and compensation. The SILC may use the resources described in paragraph (i) of this section to reimburse members of the SILC for reasonable and necessary expenses of attending SILC meetings and performing SILC duties (including child care and personal assistance services) and to pay compensation to a member of the SILC, if the member is not employed or must forfeit wages from other employment, for each day the member is engaged in performing SILC duties. (l) Conflict of interest. No member of the SILC is permitted to cast a vote on any matter that may provide direct financial benefit to the member or the member's organization, that creates some other conflict of interest, or that otherwise gives the appearance of a conflict of interest under State law, unless that member announces publicly to all members of the SILC and to the public prior to his or her vote of the possible financial benefit, conflict of interest, or appearance of a conflict of interest. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 796d) ยง364.22 What is the State's responsibility for administration of the programs authorized by Chapter 1 of Title VII? (a) General. The State plan must identify the DSU as the entity that, on behalf of the State, shall_ (1) Receive, account for, and disburse funds received by the State under part B of chapter 1 and section 723 of title VII of the Act (and 34 CFR parts 365 and 366, as applicable) based on the plan; (2) Provide, as applicable, administrative support services for the SILS and CIL programs under part B of chapter 1 and section 723 of title VII of the Act, respectively, and 34 CFR parts 365 and 366, respectively; (3) Keep records and afford access to these records as the Secretary finds to be necessary with respect to the SILS and CIL programs; and (4) Submit additional information or provide assurances as the Secretary may require with respect to the SILS and CIL programs. (b) Provision of administrative support services. The State plan must describe the administrative support services to be provided by the DSU under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (c) Designation of State unit for individuals who are blind. The State plan may designate a State agency or the organizational unit of a State agency that is authorized under State law to provide VR services to individuals who are blind under a State VR plan as the DSU to administer that part of the State IL plan under which IL services are provided to individuals who are blind. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 796c(c)) ยง364.23 What are the staffing requirements? (a) General staffing requirement. The State plan must assure that the staff of the service provider includes personnel who are specialists in the development and provision of IL services and in the development and support of centers. (b) Special communication needs staffing. The State plan must also assure that, to the maximum extent feasible, the service provider makes available personnel able to communicate_
