FR940805-1-00032 FR940805-1-00004 (8) Statement H_other factors. This statement must describe any other factors that bear on the issue of whether the carrier lacks significant market power in the relevant markets. The description must explain why those other factors are pertinent. (9) Statement I_prepared testimony. This statement must include the proposed testimony in support of the application and will serve as the carrier's case-in-chief, if the Commission sets the application for hearing. §348.2 Procedures. (a) A carrier must file, as provided in §341.1 of this chapter, fourteen copies of its application, including its statement of position, statements, and related material, and a letter of transmittal and must submit its application on an electronic medium. The formats for the electronic filing and the paper copy can be obtained at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Division of Public Information, 825 North Capitol Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20426. (b) A carrier must provide a copy of its letter of transmittal to each shipper and subscriber on or before the day the material is transmitted to the Commission for filing. (c) A letter of transmittal must describe the market-based rate filing, including an identification of each rate that would be market-based, and the pertinent tariffs or supplement numbers, state if a waiver is being requested and specify the statute, section, subsection, regulation, policy or order requested to be waived. Letters of transmittal must be certified pursuant to §341.2(c)(2) of this chapter and acknowledgement must be requested pursuant to §341.2(c)(3) of this chapter. (d) A person must make a written request to the carrier for a copy of the carrier's complete application within 15 days after the filing of the application. (e) The carrier must provide a copy of the complete application to the requesting person within 7 days after receipt of the written request. (f) A carrier must provide copies as required by paragraph (b) and (e) by first-class mail or by other means of transmission agreed upon in writing. (g) Any intervention or protest to the application must be filed within 60 days after the filing of the application and must be filed pursuant to §§343.2(a) and (b) of this chapter. A protest must also be telefaxed if required by §343.3(a) of this chapter. (h) A protest filed against an application for a market power determination must set forth in detail the grounds for opposing the carrier's application, including responding to its position and information and, if desired, presenting information pursuant to section 348.1(c) of this part. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18872 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
