FR940110-1-00075 FR940110-1-00006 (1) A legally binding agreement or other legally enforceable mechanism that permits it to recover these funds from the sponsor or owner; or (2) If the Bank agrees and such an agreement is legally enforceable, a three-party agreement that includes the Bank, the sponsor or owner and the applicant that permits the Bank to recover these funds from the sponsor or owner. Section 960.16(a)(4) of the proposed rule provides that the Board in its discretion may grant a waiver of any required remedial actions under this paragraph (a) upon written request by the Bank, applicant, sponsor or owner. 2. Other Types of Non-Compliance Non-compliance by a party with the AHP requirements, such as due to inadvertent errors by such party or changes in circumstances that are outside such party's control, does not warrant imposition of the most severe remedial actions since the party lacked the intent to violate such requirements. In addition, in many such cases, the non-compliance can be rectified within a reasonable period of time. Accordingly, ยง960.16(b) of the proposed rule provides that in the event of inadvertent non-compliance by an applicant, sponsor or owner, the Bank shall provide such party with a reasonable period of time in which to take reasonable efforts, pursuant to a compliance plan approved by the Bank, to remedy the non-compliance. The Bank in its discretion may exclude such party from participation in the AHP while it is under a compliance plan, or in its discretion may require the applicant to increase the long-term period committed to in its AHP application for the project by the amount of time the project has been in non-compliance. Section 960.16(b) of the proposed rule further provides that if the applicant, sponsor or owner takes no reasonable efforts to comply with the compliance plan, then such party is in willful non-compliance with the requirements of this part and is subject to the remedial actions contained in paragraph (a) of this section. If the applicant, sponsor or owner takes reasonable efforts pursuant to the compliance plan to remedy the non-compliance under paragraph (b) and such efforts are unsuccessful, the applicant, sponsor or owner would be subject to the remedial actions for fraud or willful non-compliance, but may apply to the Bank for a waiver of any such required remedial actions. The Bank shall report to the Board in writing on any waivers approved pursuant to paragraph (b) within 30 calendar days of such approval. 3. Sale of AHP-assisted Owner-Occupied Housing Unit to Income-Ineligible Household a. Recapture requirement. Section 960.16(c) of the proposed rule provides generally that in the event that a household sells its AHP-assisted owner-occupied housing unit to a household whose income exceeds the level committed to in the AHP application prior to the end of the required long-term period, then: (i) If the Bank provided a direct subsidy to the applicant which was passed on as a grant to the seller, the Bank shall require the seller to repay a pro rata share, except for de minimis amounts, of the grant received by such seller. The amount to be repaid shall be reduced for every year the seller owned the unit, to be repaid from any net gain from the sale of the unit after deduction for sales expenses, and to be returned to the Bank. The proposed rule provides, however, that the Bank in its discretion may waive such requirement if the imposition of such requirement will cause undue hardship on the seller, as defined by the Bank in its AHP implementation plan; or (ii) If the Bank provided a subsidized advance to the applicant and the applicant provided a below market rate loan to the seller, then the applicant shall either repay to the Bank that portion of the advance used to make the loan to the seller or the Bank shall convert that portion of the advance used to make the loan to the seller to a market rate advance with an interest rate equal to the market rate of interest at the time the advance was made, and any unused AHP subsidy which had been set aside by the Bank to subsidize that portion of the advance used to make the loan to the seller shall be made available by the Bank for additional AHP projects. b. Exception to recapture requirement. Section 960.16(c)(3) of the proposed rule provides that the recapture requirements described above shall not apply provided the sponsor, pursuant to a legally binding agreement with the Bank, assists another household with an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application in the manner originally committed to in the AHP application.
