FR941130-2-00066 FR941130-2-00042 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Steamboat Buckwheat (Eriogonum Ovalifolium var. Williamsiae) for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the endangered Steamboat buckwheat ( Eriogonum ovalifolium var. williamsiae ). This plant species is endemic to substrates derived from the deposits of a single hot spring in the Steamboat Hills, southern Washoe County, Nevada. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before January 30, 1995, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the State Supervisor, Nevada Ecological Services State Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 4600 Kietzke Lane, Building C&hyph;125, Reno, Nevada, 89502 (telephone: 702&hyph;784&hyph;5227), or the Assistant Regional Director, Ecological Services, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Eastside Federal Complex, 911 NE. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181 (telephone: 503&hyph;231&hyph;6241). Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to Mr. David L. Harlow, State Supervisor, at the above Reno, Nevada address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above Reno, Nevada address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Janet Bair at the above Reno, Nevada address (telephone: 702&hyph;784&hyph;5227). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring endangered or threatened animals and plants to the point where they are again secure, self-sustaining members of their ecosystems is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's (Service) endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for the conservation of the species, establish criteria for reclassification or delisting, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. Eriogonum ovalifolium var. williamsiae is endemic to substrates derived from the deposits of a single hot spring in the Steamboat Hills, southern Washoe County, Nevada. This plant is locally abundant, but apparently restricted to approximately 20 hectares (ha) of plants in an area of approximately 100&hyph;150 ha. Populations and habitat of Eriogonum ovalifolium var. williamsiae are threatened by a variety of activities, including geothermal resource development, commercial and industrial construction, highway expansion, and off-road vehicle travel. The habitat for this taxon is under both private ownership and Federal management. Recovery of Eriogonum ovalifolium var. williamsiae will require protection of its habitat from adverse physical and biological modifications, identification of factors limiting long-term population viability, and public information and education. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: November 18, 1994. Thomas Dwyer, Acting Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29435 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
