FR940217-1-00148 FR940217-1-00018 (11) Prepare evaluations of contractor performance in accordance with subpart 42.15. * * * * * 7. Subpart 42.15, consisting of sections 42.1500 through 42.1503, is added to read as follows: Subpart 42.15_Contractor Performance Information 42.1500 Scope of subpart. This subpart provides policies and establishes responsibilities for recording and maintaining contractor performance information. It implements Office of Federal Procurement Policy Letter 92&hyph;5, Past Performance Information. This subpart does not apply to procedures used by agencies in determining fees under award or incentive fee contracts. 42.1501 General. Past performance information is relevant information regarding a contractor's actions under previously awarded contracts. It includes, for example, the contractor's record of conforming to specifications and to standards of good workmanship; the contractor's record of forecasting and containing costs on any previously performed contracts; the contractor's adherence to contract schedules, including the administrative aspects of performance; the contractor's history for reasonable and cooperative behavior and commitment to customer satisfaction; and generally, the contractor's business-like concern for the interest of the customer. This information may be used in preparing evaluations of contractor performance under this subpart. 42.1502 Policy. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, agencies shall prepare an evaluation of contractor performance for each contract in excess of $100,000 at the time the work under the contract is completed. Additional evaluations may be prepared during the term of the contract. The content and format of performance evaluations shall be established in accordance with agency procedures and should be tailored to the size, content, and complexity of the contractual requirements. (b) Agencies shall evaluate construction contractor performance and architect/engineer contractor performance in accordance with 36.201 and 36.604, respectively. 42.1503 Procedures. (a) Agency evaluations of contractor performance prepared under this subpart shall be provided to the contractor as soon as practicable after completion of the evaluation. Contractors shall be given a minimum of 30 days to submit comments, rebutting statements, or additional information. The ultimate conclusion and content of an evaluation is a decision of the contracting agency. Copies of the contractor response shall be permanently retained as part of the evaluation. (b) Departments and agencies are encouraged to share past performance information with other departments and agencies when considered appropriate and to the extent practicable to support future award decisions. However, past performance information including evaluations of contractor performance, shall not be provided to any private party without the contractor's consent, except in accordance with subpart 24.2. (c) Any past performance information systems, including automated systems, used for maintaining contractor performance information and/or evaluations should include appropriate management and technical controls to ensure that only authorized personnel have access to the data. (d) Past performance information should be updated as often as necessary to maintain the currency of the information, and shall not be retained for more than six years without being updated. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3666 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;34&hyph;M
