FR941103-0-00035 FR941103-0-00007 A second implication of the fairness principle is that economic harm that could be created during a period of transition from one pricing approach to another should be mitigated to the extent practicable. Solutions to any transition problems arising from pricing reform should balance fairness considerations associated with any reform against the potential efficiency improvements, and should mitigate the hardships arising from any reform. The major purpose of transmission pricing reform should be to provide more efficient price signals, particularly for new transmission uses, and not simply to reallocate sunk costs. 5. Transmission Pricing Should Be Practical Transmission pricing should be practical and as easy to administer as appropriate given the other pricing principles. A user should be able to calculate how much it will be charged for transmission service. Some pricing proposals may be so complex that they are difficult to understand and analyze. Such complexity, while not fatal, should be balanced by efficiency gains or other advantages produced by such complexity. IV. Guidance Regarding Pricing Proposals That Conform to the Traditional Revenue Requirement In addition to the five general principles above, the Commission provides guidance on specific pricing proposals, including examples of acceptable pricing approaches and clarification of limitations on pricing flexibility. It is important for those involved in transmission pricing discussions and negotiations to have a common understanding of the attributes of various pricing proposals. For example, various parties advocate the use of ``megawatt mile'' pricing. Several distinct pricing proposals carry the same ``megawatt mile'' label. Therefore, those proposing transmission pricing reform must provide a clear explanation of their proposal. As the industry considers possible pricing reform, the following three attributes of any transmission pricing method should be specified to provide a common framework for analysis: •The method for measuring cost for purposes of rate design: embedded cost, incremental cost, the Commission's current ``or'' policy, long-run marginal cost, or short-run marginal cost; •The method for treating power flows: contract path or flow-based approach; and, •The method for grouping transmission facilities: corporate postage stamp versus more disaggregated approaches, such as zones, or line-by-line methods. 30 30 Under a line-by-line pricing method, the costs of each transmission line, or segment, are allocated to individual transmission transactions, based on the usage each transaction makes of each line or segment. We anticipate that a wide variety of pricing proposals may be reconciled with the traditional revenue requirement. In theory, acceptable cost-based pricing that satisfies our principles could be designed for many combinations of these possible attributes. For example, prices could reflect incremental cost (the first attribute), be based on flow (the second attribute), and be allocated on a line-by-line basis (the third attribute). A different approach is taken by changing any one of the attributes, e.g., zones instead of lines. Therefore, many varieties of cost-based pricing are possible. We fully intend to be flexible and to consider innovative, conforming pricing approaches that accommodate the changing needs of the competitive bulk power market. This applies to pricing for firm as well as non-firm transmission services. The pricing principles set out in the prior section are intended to guide RTGs and individual utilities in their consideration of new approaches. To provide further guidance, we discuss below examples of new cost-based pricing methods that we believe can be made consistent with our principles. These examples are intended to be illustrative. Other approaches also may be consistent with the principles. In all cases, we emphasize that pricing reform must have a purpose consistent with the principles. We want transmission pricing that supports good and consistent decisionmaking by transmission system users and owners.
