FR940325-1-00109 FR940325-1-00008 (1) Grazing practices that maintain or achieve healthy, properly functioning ecosystems; (2) Grazing practices that maintain or achieve properly functioning riparian systems; (3) Grazing practices that maintain, restore or enhance water quality and ensure to the extent practicable the attainment of water quality that meets or exceeds State standards; and (4) Grazing management practices that ensure to the extent practicable in the maintenance, restoration and enhancement of the habitat of threatened or endangered, and Category 1 or 2 candidate species. (b) The authorized officer shall take appropriate action pursuant to subparts 4110, 4120, 4130, and 4160 of this part as soon as practicable but not later than the start of the next grazing year where existing management practices fail to meet the requirements of this section. ยง4180.2 Standards and guidelines for Grazing Administration (a) Each Bureau of Land Management State Director shall determine the appropriate geographical area for which such standards and guidelines shall be developed and implemented. Standards and guidelines shall be developed for an entire State, or for an ecoregion encompassing portions of more than one State, except where the State Director determines that the combination of the geophysical and vegetal character of an area is unique and the health of the rangelands within the area will not be adequately protected using standards and guidelines developed on a broader geographical scale. The State Director shall consult with the multiple resource advisory councils, where they exist, in making these determinations. (b) The Bureau of Land Management State Director shall provide the opportunity to the public for involvement in the development of State or regional standards and guidelines. (c) The Bureau of Land Management State Director shall develop and amend State or regional standards and guidelines in consultation with the relevant Bureau of Land Management multiple resource advisory councils, Indian tribes, and other Federal land management agencies responsible for the management of lands and resources within the region or area under consideration, and the interested public. (d) At a minimum, State or regional standards for rangeland health developed pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, shall address indicators of the following: (1) Soil stability and watershed function; (2) The distribution of nutrients and energy; (3) Recovery mechanisms; and (4) Riparian functioning condition. (e) At a minimum, State or regional guidelines for grazing administration developed pursuant paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, shall address the following: (1) Grazing management practices to be implemented to assist the recovery of threatened or endangered species, and prevent species listed as Category 1 or 2 from becoming threatened or endangered. (2) Grazing management practices to be implemented to maintain, restore or enhance water quality, and assist in attaining water quality which is necessary to meet or exceed State standards. (3) Periods of critical plant growth and regrowth and the need for, and the general timing and duration of, periods of rest from livestock grazing.
