FR941110-0-00247 FR941110-0-00016 (b) Review of survey agency's scheduling and surveying procedures. (1) HCFA reviews on an annual basis each State survey agency's scheduling and surveying procedures and practices to ensure that survey agencies avoid giving notice of a survey through the scheduling procedures and the conduct of the surveys. (2) HCFA takes corrective action in accordance with the nature and complexity of the problem when survey agencies are found to have notified a SNF or NF through their scheduling or procedural policies. Sanctions for inadequate survey performance are in accordance with ยง488.320. (c) Civil money penalties. An individual who notifies a SNF or NF, or causes a SNF or NF to be notified, of the time or date on which a standard survey is scheduled to be conducted is subject to a Federal civil money penalty not to exceed $2,000. ยง488.308 Survey frequency. (a) Basic period. The survey agency must conduct a standard survey of each SNF and NF not later than 15 months after the last day of the previous standard survey. (b) Statewide average interval . (1) The statewide average interval between standard surveys must be 12 months or less, computed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. (2) HCFA takes corrective action in accordance with the nature of the State survey agency's failure to ensure that the 12-month statewide average interval requirement is met. HCFA's corrective action is in accordance with ยง488.320. (c) Other surveys. The survey agency may conduct a survey as frequently as necessary to_ (1) Determine whether a facility complies with the participation requirements; and (2) Confirm that the facility has corrected deficiencies previously cited. (d) Computation of statewide average interval. The statewide average interval is computed at the end of each Federal fiscal year by comparing the last day of the most recent standard survey for each participating facility to the last day of each facility's previous standard survey. (e) Special surveys. (1) The survey agency may conduct a standard or an abbreviated standard survey to determine whether certain changes have caused a decline in the quality of care furnished by a SNF or a NF, within 60 days of a change in the following: (i) Ownership; (ii) Entity responsible for management of a facility (management firm); (iii) Nursing home administrator; or (iv) Director of nursing. (2) The survey agency must review all complaint allegations and conduct a standard or an abbreviated standard survey to investigate complaints of violations of requirements by SNFs and NFs if its review of the allegation concludes that_ (i) A deficiency in one or more of the requirements may have occurred; and (ii) Only a survey can determine whether a deficiency or deficiencies exist. (3) The survey agency does not conduct a survey if the complaint raises issues that are outside the purview of Federal participation requirements. ยง488.310 Extended survey. (a) Purpose of survey. The purpose of an extended survey is to identify the policies and procedures that caused the facility to furnish substandard quality of care. (b) Scope of extended survey. An extended survey includes all of the following: (1) Review of a larger sample of resident assessments than the sample used in a standard survey. (2) Review of the staffing and in-service training. (3) If appropriate, examination of the contracts with consultants.
