FR941103-0-00009 FR941103-0-00003 Response: We agree that it is not necessary to limit the regulations to hams, pork shoulders, and pork loins that originate in the country where they are processed, as long as all the processing requirements are met. We are amending §94.17(a) to eliminate the origin requirement for the articles. However, since processing facilities may frequently change suppliers, eliminating the origin requirement could result in the mixing at processing facilities of meat products originating from countries where SVD exists and meat products from countries free of SVD. Because of this, we are also amending proposed paragraphs (o)(2) (ii) and (iii) of §94.17 to ensure that Serrano and Iberian hams processed under the regulations are processed for 560 days, the period necessary to destroy the SVD agent in Serrano and Iberian hams, if the hams are processed either in a country where SVD exists, or in a facility that may also process meat from countries where SVD exists (i.e., any facility other than one authorized by the veterinary services of the national government to process only meat from countries free of swine vesicular disease). This additional processing time only applies to Serrano and Iberian hams, not to Italian-type hams, Iberian pork shoulders, and Iberian pork loins, because the processing time already required for these latter products is sufficient to destroy the SVD agent. Comment: The proposed requirements for importing hams, pork shoulders, and pork loins include a step where they are frozen to ^40 ○C and kept frozen at ^18 ○C for at least 30 days (§94.17, paragraphs (i)(2)(i), (i)(3)(i), (i)(4)(i), and (i)(5)(i)). In reviewing the research by the Foreign Animal Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory on which the proposal was based, it does not appear that this freezing step is necessary to eliminate disease risk. The freezing requirements should be removed, and the requirements describing how frozen hams, pork shoulders, and pork loins should be thawed should be reworded to make it clear that freezing is optional, not required. Response: We agree, and are deleting the paragraphs cited above that contain the freezing requirement and are rephrasing the thawing requirements to indicate that they only apply if the hams, pork shoulders, or pork loins are received frozen. The freezing requirement was inadvertently included in the proposal because certain test hams were kept frozen at these temperatures, but the research did not indicate that freezing reduces disease risk for the products. Comment: The relative humidity proposed for Serrano hams during the salt curing or pickling phase is 75 to 85 percent (proposed §94.17(i)(2)(iii)); the range proposed for Iberian hams is 70 to 80 percent (proposed §94.17(i)(3)(iii)); for Iberian pork shoulders, it is 75 to 95 percent (proposed §94.17(i)(4)(iii)), and for Iberian pork loins, it is 75 to 85 percent (proposed §94.17(i)(5)(iii)). The research 1 on which the proposal was based suggests that a range of 75 to 95 percent is appropriate for all four products. 1 Copies of the research may be obtained from the office identified in the ``For Further Information Contact:'' section of this final rule. Response: We agree. We are changing the processing requirements for all four products to require a range of 75 to 95 percent relative humidity during the salt curing or pickling stage. Because of the renumbering of paragraphs necessary due to our deletion of the freezing requirement (discussed above), the humidity requirements for the salt curing or pickling stage now appear in §94.17(i)(2)(ii), (i)(3)(ii), (i)(4)(ii), and (i)(5)(ii). The humidity requirements for stages of processing other than the salt curing or pickling stage have not been changed from what was proposed. Comment: In proposed §94.17(j)(2), the requirement that each ham or pork shoulder bear a plastic tag stating the date the ham or pork shoulder entered the processing establishment is unnecessary. The same paragraph requires that the products bear an ink seal containing the date that salting began. Response: We agree, and are deleting the requirement for the plastic tag. The ink seal records the date (day, month, and year) that salting begins, and this date is more useful for determining whether products have been properly cured than the less specific date requirement proposed for the plastic tag (the month and year that the ham or pork shoulder entered the processing establishment).
