FR940919-2-00171 FR940919-2-00071 4. The Company asserts that its failure to become primarily engaged in a non-investment business by December 30, 1994 is a result of factors beyond its control. The existence of the FDIC Claims has precluded the Company from investing its assets in a non-investment company business. Although the Company's executive officers reviewed numerous possible asset or business acquisitions, the magnitude of the FDIC Claims and the potential threat that the FDIC would seek to enjoin any utilization of the Company's assets has prevented the Company from investing its assets in a non-investment company business. 5. Pending the settlement of the FDIC Claims, the Company has limited its investments to high quality marketable securities, cash or cash equivalents. Thus, the Company asserts that it primarily invests in securities solely to preserve the value of its assets. 6. Although the Company has made substantial efforts to formulate alternative methods by which it can acquire an operating business and utilize its tax loss, the pending settlement negotiations of the FDIC Claims make it necessary for the Company to seek relief extending the relief granted by the Prior Orders. This would allow the Company to seek an FDIC settlement and, if successful, to formulate and implement new plans for becoming an operating business and utilizing the Tax Loss. 7. The Company believes that the issuance of an order exempting it from all provisions of the Act, subject to certain exceptions, until December 30, 1995 would be in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes of the Act. Applicant's Conditions The Company agrees that the requested exemption will be subject to the following conditions, each of which will apply to the Company until it acquires an operating business or otherwise falls outside the definition of an investment company: 1. During the period of time the Company is exempted from registration under the Act, it will not purchase or otherwise acquire any securities other than securities with a remaining maturity of 397 days or less and that are rated in one of the two highest rating categories by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, as that term is defined in rule 2a-7(a)(10) under the Act. 2. The Company will continue to comply with section 9, 17(e) and 36 of the Act. 3. The Company will continue to comply with sections 17(a) and17(d), subject to the following exceptions: (a) if the Company becomes subject to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, the Company need not comply with section 17(a) or section 17(d) with respect to any transaction, including without limitation the Reorganization Plan, that is approved by the bankruptcy court; and (b) the Company would not be required to comply with section 17(a) or section 17(d) with respect to any transaction or series of transactions that result in its ceasing to fall within the definition of an ``investment company'' provided that (i) no cash payments are made to an ``affiliated person'' (as defined in the Act) of the Company as part of such transaction or series of transactions, and (ii) no debt securities are issued to an affiliated person of the Company as part of such transaction or series of transactions unless such debt securities are expressly subordinated upon liquidation to claim of the holders of the Company's 9% Debentures. 4. The Company will continue to comply with section 17(f) of the Act as provided in rule 17f&hyph;2. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23050 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
