FR940505-2-00122 FR940505-2-00086 The Index value will be updated dynamically and disseminated at least once every fifteen seconds during the trading day. 9 The Phlx has retained Bridge Data, Inc. to compute and do all necessary maintenance of the Index. Pursuant to Phlx Rule 1100A, updated Index values will be disseminated and displayed by means of primary market prints reported by the Consolidated Tape Association and over the facilities of the Options Price Reporting Authority. The Index value also will be available on broker/dealer interrogation devices to subscribers of the option information. 9 To the extent that a component stock does not open for trading on a particular trading day, or trading in that component stock is halted during the course of a particular trading day, the last reported sale price of such security will be used for purposes of calculating the current Index value. Telephone conversation between Michele R. Weisbaum, Associate General Counsel, Phlx, and Thomas N. McManus, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, on April 26, 1994. The Index value, for purposes of settling outstanding Index options contracts upon expiration, will be calculated based upon the regular way opening sale prices for each of the Index's component stocks on the last trading day prior to expiration. Once all of the component stocks have opened, the value of the Index will be determined and that value will be used as the final settlement value for expiring Index options contracts. If any of the component stocks do not open for trading on the last trading day before expiration, then the last reported sale price of such security will be used in any case where that security does not trade on that day. D. Contract Specifications the proposed options on the Index will be cash-settled, European-style options. 10 Standard options trading hours (9:30 a.m. to 4:10 p.m. New York time) will apply to the contracts. The Index multiplier will be 100. Strike prices will be set at 5.0 point intervals in terms of the current value of the Index. 11 10 A European-style option can be exercised only during a specified period before the option expires. 11 Additional exercise prices will be added in accordance with Phlx Rule 1101A(a). The Exchange will trade consecutive and cycle month series pursuant to Phlx Rule 1101A. Specifically, there will be three expiration months from the March, June, September, December cycle, plus two additional near-term months so that the three nearest term months always will be available. Index options will expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month. Since options on the Index will settle based upon the opening prices of the component stocks on the last trading day before expiration (normally a Friday), the last trading day for an expiring Index option series will be the second to last business day before expiration (normally a Thursday). E. Position and Exercise Limits, Margin Requirements, and Trading Halts Position limits for the Index options will be set at no more than 25,000 contracts on the same side of the market, provided that no more than 15,000 of such contracts are in series in the nearest expiration month. 12 Exercise limits will be set at the same level as position limits. 13 Exchange rules applicable to options on the Big Cap Index will be identical to the rules applicable to other broad-based index options for purposes of trading rotations, halts, and suspensions, 14 and margin treatment. 15 12 See Phlx Rule 1001A(a)(i). 13 See Phlx Rule 1002A. 14 See Phlx Rule 1047A. 15 See Phlx Rules 722 and 1000A. F. Surveillance The Exchange will use the same surveillance procedures currently utilized for each of the Exchange's other index options to monitor trading in Big Cap Index options. These procedures include complete access to trading activity in the underlying securities. Further, the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') Agreement, dated July 14, 1983, as amended on January 29, 1990, will be applicable to the trading of options on the Index. 16 16 The Exchange is a member of the ISG, which was formed on July 14, 1983, among other things, to coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, January 29, 1990. The Commission understands that the ISB Agreement, as amended, covers investigations and inquiries regarding trading activity in options on the Big Cap Index and the underlying component securities.
