FR941202-1-00011 FR941202-1-00002 The Board proposes to use the U.S. Decennial Life Tables for the life expectancy figures. These tables are published by the Department of Health and Human Services and are widely available to the public. The figures in the proposed appendix are based on data currently available, that is, on tables for 1979&hyph;1981, as rounded to the nearest whole year. The Board contemplates updating the figures as data are published periodically. The Board solicits comment on other sources of life expectancy data that are also widely available and would be appropriate for determining the total annual loan cost rate for reverse mortgage transactions. The proposed regulation also tracks the HECM program's use of female life expectancy figures for calculating total annual loan cost rates for all borrowers, as women are estimated to comprise the majority of borrowers under existing reverse mortgage programs. IV. Form of Comment Letters Comment letters should refer to Docket No. R&hyph;0858, and, when possible, should use a standard Courier typeface with a type size of 10 or 12 characters per inch. This will enable the Board to convert the text in machine-readable form through electronic scanning, and will facilitate automated retrieval of comments for review. Also, if accompanied by an original document in paper form, comments may be submitted on 31/2 inch or 51/4 inch computer diskettes in any IBM-compatible DOS-based format. The comment period ends on January 18, 1995, a period slightly less than the 60 days normally called for in the Board's policy statement on rulemaking (44 FR 3957, January 19, 1979). The law provides for a short timeframe to issue implementing amendments in final form, and the Board believes an abbreviated comment period is desirable to ensure that a final rule is in place as soon as possible to provide guidance to creditors affected by the new rules. V. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis The Board's Office of the Secretary has prepared an economic impact statement on the proposed amendments to Regulation Z. A copy of the analysis may be obtained from Publications Services, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551, at (202) 452&hyph;3245. VI. Paperwork Reduction Act In accordance with section 3507 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 35; 5 CFR 1320.13), the proposed revisions will be reviewed by the Board under the authority delegated to the Board by the Office of Management and Budget after consideration of comments received during the public comment period. The proposal requires creditors offering high-rate, high-fee mortgages and creditors offering reverse mortgage transactions to furnish to consumers at least three days prior to consummation a one-time notice disclosing costs of the loan and reminding consumers that signing an application or receiving disclosures does not require the consumer to complete the transaction. A model form in Appendix K is proposed to ease compliance for creditors furnishing reverse mortgage disclosures. The Board believes that the types of mortgage products that would trigger these additional disclosures are not typically offered by state member banks; thus, the proposed requirements would have only a negligible impact on the paperwork burden for state member banks. Any estimates of paperwork burden for institutions other than state member banks that would be affected by the proposed amendments would be provided by the federal agency or agencies that supervise these lenders. VII. Indexing Terms The Code of Federal Regulations publishes a list of subjects identifying common research terms that are intended to assist laypersons with the use of the Code of Federal Regulations. The list of subjects under which 12 CFR part 226 is listed would be expanded as listed below. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 226 Advertising, Banks, banking, Consumer protection, Credit, Federal Reserve System, Mortgages, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Truth in lending. Certain conventions have been used to highlight the proposed revisions to the regulation. New language is shown inside bold-faced arrows, while language that would be deleted is set off with bold-faced brackets. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Board proposes to amend 12 CFR part 226 as follows: PART 226_TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z) 1. The authority citation for part 226 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 3806, 15 U.S.C. 1604 and 1637(c)(5). 2. Section 226.1 would be amended as follows: a. Paragraph (b) would be revised; b. Paragraph (d)(5) would be redesignated as paragraph (d)(6);
