FR940907-2-00128 FR940907-2-00091 Wednesday September 7, 1994 Part II Department of Education National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research Grants; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 172␣/␣Wednesday, September 7, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of Proposed Funding Priorities for Fiscal Years 1995&hyph;1996 for the Knowledge Dissemination and Utilization Program. SUMMARY: The Secretary proposes funding priorities for the Knowledge Dissemination and Utilization (D&U) Program under the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR) for fiscal years 1995&hyph;1996. The Secretary takes this action to ensure that rehabilitation knowledge generated from projects and centers funded by NIDRR and others is utilized fully to improve the lives of individuals with disabilities and their families. DATES: Comments must be received on or before October 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed priorities should be addressed to David Esquith, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Switzer Building, Room 3424, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2601. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Esquith. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8801. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at (202) 205&hyph;5516. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice contains two proposed priorities under the D&U program. The priorities are in the areas of disability research dissemination and accessible data. Authority for the D&U program of NIDRR is contained in sections 202 and 204(a) and 204(b)(6) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 760&hyph;762). Under this program the Secretary makes awards to public and private agencies and organizations, including institutions of higher education and Indian tribes or tribal organizations. These proposed priorities support the National Education Goal that calls for all Americans to possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. Under the regulations for this program (see 34 CFR 355.32), the Secretary may establish research priorities by reserving funds to support particular research activities. The Secretary will announce the final funding priorities in a notice in the Federal Register . The final priorities will be determined by responses to this notice, available funds, and other considerations of the Department. Funding of particular projects depends on the final priorities, the availability of funds, and the quality of the applications received. The publication of these proposed priorities does not preclude the Secretary from proposing additional priorities, nor does it limit the Secretary to funding only these priorities, subject to meeting applicable rulemaking requirements. Note: This notice of proposed priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under this competition will be published in the Federal Register concurrent with or following publication of the notice of final priorities. Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary proposes to give an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priorities. The Secretary proposes to fund under this program only applications that meet these absolute priorities: Proposed Priority 1: Center for the Dissemination of Disability Research Section 200(4)(A) of Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended requires that NIDRR ``ensure the widespread distribution, in usable formats, of practical scientific and technological information generated by research, demonstration projects, training, and related activities.'' This priority calls for a center that can assist NIDRR grantees to better disseminate the results of their research, including increasing the accessibility of research information to those who need alternate formats. Researchers usually report research findings through professional meetings and publications. In order to expand dissemination of research findings to other audiences, including rehabilitation professionals, individuals with disabilities, and other interested parties, researchers may need technical assistance and training. Research is needed to understand the reasons why persons are not utilizing information from NIDRR-sponsored research (e.g., unfamiliarity with terminology, inability to utilize the medium, or the lack of availability of the traditional research publications).
