FR941227-2-00169 FR941227-2-00112 State Planning Estimates State planning estimates are provided in an Appendix to this notice, solely for the purpose of developing the funding applications. These estimates are the same as the PY 1994 allocations. Final allocation levels for PY 1995 will be published at a later date. Part II_Solicitation for Grant Application Subpart (a). Preapplication Program Year 1995 section 402 funds are available for competition in all States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico with the exception of Alaska, Rhode Island and the District of Columbia. Pursuant to regulations at 20 CFR 633.105(b)(2), DOL reserves the right not to allocate any funds for use in a State whose allocation according to the funding formula is less than $120,000. Applications for Statewide programs are encouraged, but are not necessary. Applicants applying for grants shall submit a preapplication consisting of: (1) A Standard Form 424 Facesheet found in OMB Circular No. A&hyph;102, and, as an attachment to this solicitation; (2) An attachment identifying, by State or county, the proposed service area; and (3) For a private nonprofit organization, a recent (within the last six months) certification from a Certified Public Accountant that its financial management system is capable of properly accounting for and safeguarding Federal funds; or, for a public agency, a recent (within the last six months) certification by its Chief Fiscal Officer attesting to the adequacy of the agency's accounting system to properly account for and safeguard Federal funds. The Preapplication for Federal Assistance shall be submitted as part of the application package and should also include the following: (1) A statement indicating the legally constituted authority under which the organization functions. An applicant which is a nonprofit organization shall submit a copy of its Charter or Articles of Incorporation to satisfy this requirement; (2) An employer identification number from the Internal Revenue Service and, for nonprofit applicants, proof of the organization's nonprofit status. Subpart (b). Applications for Funding DOL is soliciting applications for grants under the provisions of JTPA Title IV, section 402, to provide training, employment opportunities, and other services to migrant and other seasonal farmworkers. Review of Funding Applications Applications will be reviewed and rated by a competitive review panel, using the specific review standards cited at 20 CFR 633.203. Panel results are advisory in nature and are not binding on the Grant Officer. In addition, prior to the final selection of an applicant as a potential grantee, DOL will conduct a Responsibility Review of the available records pursuant to 20 CFR 633.204. This review is intended to establish overall responsibility to administer Federal funds and is independent of the competitive process. Applicants failing to meet the requirements of that or other sections of the regulations will not be selected as potential grantees irrespective of their standing in the competition. Specific Rating Criteria The rating criteria and the weights assigned to each are described below: (i) An understanding of the problems of migrant and seasonal farmworkers. Range 0 to 20 points. This factor rates the applicant's analysis of the needs of the target group, including socio-economic characteristics of the client population and the proposed program's potential to address those needs. Ratings are based on a clear and concise narrative demonstrating this understanding; appropriateness of the proposed program mix of training and supportive services meeting the identified needs; and responsiveness to JPTA goals of targeting the hard-to-serve for training which leads to skills acquisition, long-term employability and increased earnings.
