FR941227-1-00005 FR941227-1-00001 Applicants must perform a preliminary hazard analysis to identify electrical/electronic systems that perform critical functions. The term ``critical'' means those functions whose failure would contribute to or cause a failure condition that would prevent the continued safe flight and landing of the helicopters. The systems identified by the hazard analysis as performing critical functions are required to have HIRF protection. A system may perform both critical and noncritical functions. Primary electronic flight display systems and their associated components perform critical functions such as attitude, altitude, and airspeed indications. HIRF requirements would apply only to the systems that perform critical functions. Compliance with HIRF requirements will be demonstrated by tests, analysis, models, similarity with existing systems, or a combination of these methods. The two basic options of either testing the rotorcraft to the defined environment or laboratory testing may not be combined. The laboratory test allows some frequency areas to be under tested and requires other areas to have some safety margin when compared to the defined environment. The areas required to have some safety margin are those that have been, by past testing, shown to exhibit greater susceptibility to adverse effects from HIRF; and laboratory tests, in general, do not accurately represent the aircraft installation. Service experience alone will not be acceptable since such experience in normal flight operations may not include an exposure to HIRF. Reliance on a system with similar design features for redundancy, as a means of protection against the effects of external HIRF, is generally insufficient because all elements of a redundant system are likely to be concurrently exposed to the radiated fields. The modulation that represents the signal most likely to disrupt the operation of the system under test, based on its design characteristics, should be selected. For example, flight control systems may be susceptible to 3 H Z square wave modulation while the video signals for electronic display systems may be susceptible to 400 H Z sinusoidal modulation. If the worst-case modulation is unknown or cannot be determined, default modulations may be used. Suggested default values are a 1 KH Z sine wave with 80 percent depth of modulation in the frequency range from 10 KH Z to 400 MH Z and 1 KH Z square wave with greater than 90 percent depth of modulation from 400 MH Z to 18 GH Z . For frequencies where the unmodulated signal would cause deviations from normal operation, several different modulating signals with various waveforms and frequencies should be applied. Acceptable system performance would be attained by demonstrating that the critical function components of the system under consideration continue to perform their intended function during and after exposure to required electromagnetic fields. Deviations from system specifications may be acceptable but must be independently assessed by the FAA on a case-by-case basis.
