FR940106-0-00053 FR940106-0-00017 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background On February 28, 1992, we published in the Federal Register at 57 FR 7002, rules that set forth the test performance requirements for laboratories that are subject to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA). We subsequently published in the Federal Register a related rule (January 19, 1993 (58 FR 5215)) that made technical corrections and addressed immediate concerns raised by some of the approximately 16,000 comments on the publication of the February 28 regulations. This rule responds to concerns raised by some of the commenters and pertains to limited aspects of the CLIA requirements: The period of time during which an individual who needs 2 years experience as a cytotechnologist is allowed to earn that experience, and the period of time that a person may either obtain appropriate training in a school approved by the Commission on Allied Health Education and Accreditation (CAHEA) or be certified by an organization approved by HHS. The February 28, 1992 CLIA regulations represented establishment of uniform personnel standards for cytotechnologists for all laboratories offering cytology, regardless of location. Prior to these regulations, individuals working in hospital cytology laboratories that were not licensed under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967 to test specimens in interstate commerce were not subject to Federal personnel qualification requirements for cytotechnologists. In addition, individuals employed in cytology laboratories that were not approved to participate in the Medicare or Medicaid program were not subject to Federal requirements, including personnel requirements. In the preamble to the February 28, 1992 regulations, we stated that in developing the personnel standards for cytotechnologists, it was not our intention to put out of work individuals currently employed as cytotechnologists. Our aim was to provide qualification standards that would ensure quality of service and be in the best interest of the public health. Recognizing the existing shortage of laboratory personnel, particularly cytotechnologists, we stated that we were expanding the qualification requirements to allow individuals additional methods of qualifying. We stated, ``In our opinion, many individuals currently working in laboratories, as a function of their employment, have gained valuable experience in testing operations. In most instances in this rule, we are acknowledging the value of this experience, by allowing those individuals, who do not meet the qualification requirements in these regulations, to continue their laboratory employment while acquiring the education or training necessary to meet the requirements. The net effect of the personnel standards will be to permit a preponderance of personnel presently working in laboratories to continue their employment while they are updating their credentials to meet the national standards for laboratory personnel specified in this rule.'' (57 FR 7083)
