FR940830-2-00038 FR940830-2-00015 c. Spot Purchasers. We propose to adopt a rebuttable presumption that a reseller or retailer that made only spot purchases from Beacon Bay did not suffer injury as a result of those purchases. As we have previously stated, spot purchasers generally had considerable discretion as to the timing and location of their purchases, and therefore would not have made spot market purchases from a firm at increased prices unless they were able to pass through the full amount of the firm's selling price to their own customers. See, e.g., Vaqueros, 8 DOE at 85,396-97. Accordingly, a spot purchaser claimant must submit specific and detailed evidence to rebut the spot purchaser presumption and to establish the extent to which it was injured as a result of its spot purchases from Beacon Bay. 8 8 In prior proceedings, we have stated that refunds will be approved for spot purchasers who demonstrated that: (1) they made the spot purchases for the purpose of ensuring a supply for their base period customers rather than in anticipation of financial advantage as a result of those purchases, and (2) they were forced by market conditions to resell the product at a loss that was not subsequently recouped through the draw down of banks. See, e.g., Texaco Inc., 20 DOE ¶85,147 at 88,321 (1990); Quaker State Oil Refining Corp./Certified Gasoline Co., 14 DOE ¶85,465 (1986). B. Refund Applications Filed by Representatives. In addition, we propose to adopt the following procedures relating to refund applications filed on behalf of applicants by ``representatives,'' including refund filing services, consulting firms, accountants, and attorneys. See Texaco Inc., 20 DOE ¶85,147 (1990). Each such filing service shall, contemporaneously with its first filing in the Beacon Bay proceeding, submit a statement indicating its qualifications for representing refund applicants and containing a detailed description of the solicitation practices and application procedures that it has used and plans to use. 9 This statement should contain the following information: 10 9 This statement should be submitted under separate cover and reference the Beacon Bay refund proceeding, Case No. LEF&hyph;0074. 10 This information with regard to some filing services has already been requested and received by this Office. Therefore, any filing service that has had more than 10 Applications for Refund approved before the issuance of this Proposed Decision and Order need not submit this information if it has already done so in another proceeding. Instead, such a filing service need only include a copy of the previous submission(s) responsive to items (1)&hyph;(5) and provide an update if its response to any of these questions has changed since it first submitted its information. However, in light of the importance of this information, it is prudent for all filing services to review their practices and inform the OHA of any alterations or improvements that may have been made. (1) A description of the procedures used to solicit refund applications in the Beacon Bay proceeding and copies of any solicitation materials mailed to prospective Beacon Bay applicants; (2) A description of how the filing service obtains authorization from its clients to act as their representative, including copies of any type of authorization form signed by refund applicants; (3) A description of how the filing service obtains and verifies the information contained in refund applications; (4) A description of the procedures used to forward refunds to its clients; (5) A description of the procedures used to prevent and check for duplicate filings. Upon receipt of this information, we may suggest alteration of a filing service's procedures if they do not conform to the procedural requirements of 10 C.F.R. Part 205 and this proceeding. Second, we will require strict compliance with the filing requirements as specified in 10 C.F.R. §205.283, particularly the requirement that applications and the accompanying certification statement be signed by the applicant. Third, in any case where an application has been signed and dated before the issuance of the final Decision and Order in this proceeding, we will require a certification statement, signed and dated by the applicant after the date of the issuance of the final Decision and Order. This certification should state that the applicant has not filed and will not file any other Application for Refund in the Beacon Bay proceeding and that, after having been provided a copy of the final Decision and Order, it still authorizes that filing service to represent it. Fourth, we will require from each representative a statement certifying that it maintains a separate escrow account at a bank or other financial institution for the deposit of all refunds received on behalf of applicants, and that its normal business practice is to deposit all Subpart V refund checks in that account within two business days of receipt and to disburse refunds to applicants within 30 calendar days thereafter. Unless such certification is received by the OHA, all refund checks approved will be made payable solely to the applicant. Representatives who have not previously submitted an escrow certification form to the OHA may obtain a copy of the appropriate form by contacting: Marcia B. Carlson, HG&hyph;13, Chief, Docket & Publications Branch, Office of Hearings and Appeals, Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. 20585. Finally, the OHA reiterates its policy to closely scrutinize applications filed by filing services. Applications submitted by a filing service should contain all of the information indicated in the final Decision and Order in this proceeding. C. Distribution of Funds Remaining After First Stage. We propose that any funds that remain after all first stage claims have been decided be distributed in accordance with the provisions of the Petroleum Overcharge Distribution and Restitution Act of 1986 (PODRA), 15 U.S.C. §§4501&hyph;07. The PODRA requires that the Secretary of Energy determine annually the amount of oil overcharge funds that will not be required to refund monies to injured parties in Subpart V proceedings and make those funds available to state governments for use in four energy conservation programs. The Secretary has delegated these responsibilities to the OHA, and any funds in the Beacon Bay Remedial Order fund that the OHA determines will not be needed to effect direct restitution to injured customers will be distributed in accordance with the provisions of the PODRA. It Is Therefore Ordered That: The refund amount remitted to the Department of Energy by Beacon Bay Enterprises, Inc. pursuant to the Remedial Order issued on June 21, 1982, will be distributed in accordance with the foregoing Decision. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21373 Filed 8&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
