FR940428-1-00012 FR940428-1-00005 (1) A portion of certain items of this procurement, as listed in the Schedule, has (have) been set aside for award to eligible small businesses, with preferential consideration for SDB concerns. The quantities indicated for such items in the Schedule include the set-aside portion. All offerors are urged to offer the maximum quantities they desire and are capable of delivering. Small businesses and SDB concerns interested in receiving a set-aside contract should submit an offer in the same manner as though there were no set-aside. Volumes offered by qualified small businesses or SDB concerns will be evaluated for the non set-aside and set-aside portions of the procurement. Separate offers should not be submitted on the non set-aside and set-aside portions. (2) The partial small business set-aside of the procurement is based on a determination by the Contracting Officer that it is in the interest of maintaining or mobilizing the nation's full production capacity or in the interest of national defense programs, or in the interest of assuring that a fair portion of Government procurement is placed with small business concerns. (3) All of the offers received under this solicitation will be first negotiated as to price and an evaluation will be made as though there were no set-aside. (4) For the purposes of set-aside evaluation, when an offer contains increments at different prices, each increment will be considered a separate offer. Except as provided in paragraph (e) below, negotiations will be limited to the offered quantities not awarded under the provisions of subparagraph (d)(2). (c) Set-aside award procedure (preferential consideration for SDB concerns). (1) Offers from SDBs and small business concerns will be evaluated with preferential consideration, as described below, given to eligible SDB concerns. (2) Offers from SDB concerns will be reviewed first to determine if an award can be made to an SDB concern at its offered price, beginning with the SDB concern offering the lowest evaluated price for that item. Awards to SDB concerns on the set-aside portion of this procurement will be made at the price offered by the SDB concern if that evaluated price does not exceed the highest award price on the non set-aside portion by more than 10 percent, as adjusted for transportation charges and other factors. If the SDB price exceeds the highest non set-aside price by more than 10 percent, the SDB will be treated as a small business and the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) below will apply. (3) Any volumes remaining on the set-aside portion that are not awarded to the lowest priced eligible SDB concern under subparagraph (c)(2) will be awarded to any other SDBs eligible for award under the procedures set forth above, beginning with the SDB concern offering the next lowest price. (d) Set-aside award procedure (small business concerns). (1) After evaluation and award to eligible SDB concerns, if any, negotiations will be conducted with small business concerns for any set-aside volumes not awarded to eligible SDB concerns under paragraph (c). (2) The price for the small business set-aside portion will be negotiated by the Contracting Officer based upon prices the Government would otherwise pay under this solicitation had there been no set-aside for supply of the location at which the set-aside is placed, adjusted for transportation charges, and other factors. For the set-aside portion of an item not already awarded to SDB concerns, awards will be made to the small business concern whose offer is determined by this evaluation to be low without further negotiations. Contracts for the remaining set-aside portions will be negotiated with those eligible small business concerns who have submitted a responsive offer on the various items for which a set-aside has been established. (3) Negotiations for small business set-aside awards will begin with the small business concern with the lowest evaluated price and a quantity of offered product remaining. If the low small business concern on the item does not offer to supply product at the set-aside price, the next low small business concern on the item will be given the same opportunity and continuing with the next low small business concern until all small business concerns have been contacted. (e) After the set-aside negotiations have been concluded, a final evaluation will be accomplished. All eligible offerors, without regard to the size of the company, will be afforded an opportunity to compete for non set-aside quantities. The Government reserves the right to make awards to the otherwise low offeror for all or any portion of the set-aside quantities, without regard to the size of the company, if eligible SDB or small business concerns do not offer a quantity of product sufficient to meet a set-aside requirement or do not offer to supply at the set-aside prices. The total quantity which will be awarded a small business or an SDB offeror on both the unreserved and reserved portions will not exceed the total quantity offered under this solicitation by such small business or SDB offerors. However, if insufficient product is offered by small business and SDB concerns to meet the quantity set-aside for small business, SDB and small business concerns with whom the Government has already commenced negotiations may be given an opportunity to offer additional product. (f) Where the Trade Agreement Act applies to the non set-aside portion, offers of eligible products will be treated as if they were qualifying country end products. (g) Token offers. The Government reserves the right to not consider token offers or offers designed to secure an unfair advantage over other offerors eligible for the set-aside portion. [End of Clause] Marilyn S. Barnett, Executive Director, (Procurement). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9960 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3620&hyph;01&hyph;M
