FR940428-2-00070 FR940428-2-00042 [NM&hyph;070&hyph;4350&hyph;1] Intent To Prepare Resource Management Plan Amendment; Farmington District, NM AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of intent and invitation to participate in a plan amendment/environmental assessment to address the impacts of implementing restrictions on off highway vehicle travel in the BLM's Farmington District, New Mexico. SUMMARY: The BLM will prepare a RMP plan amendment/environmental assessment for the purpose of addressing the impacts related to imposing travel restrictions on off highway vehicle travel in the Farmington District. The travel restrictions will apply to the entire Farmington District which occupies approximately three million acres of mixed land status in the northwest quadrant of New Mexico. Within this area there are about 1.5 million acres of public land with significant amounts of private, indian allotted, Navajo Tribal trust, state of New Mexico and lands withdrawn for the exclusive use of Navajo Indians under Public Land Order 2198 and 1483. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before June 1, 1994. Two methods will be employed to obtain public input into the planning process. The first method will be to receive written comments from the public in response to this Notice of Intent. The second method will be to hold two public meetings. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the RMP Amendment/EA Team Leader, BLM, Farmington District Office, 1235 Laplata Highway, Farmington, New Mexico 87401. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 John Hansen at the address above or at (505) 599&hyph;6325. PUBLIC MEETINGS: An additional opportunity will be provided to the public to comment through two public meetings that will be held at the following times and locations. Date: May 11, 1994. Time: 7 p.m. Location: Farmington Civic Center, 200 W. Arrington, Farmington, New Mexico. Date: May 17, 1994. Time: 10 a.m. Location: Crownpoint Institute of Technology, Crownpoint, New Mexico. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Description of Proposed Planning Action: the proposed action is to amend the existing Farmington Resource Management Plan for the purpose of implementing off highway vehicle travel restrictions on public lands within the Farmington District. Type of Issues Anticipated 1. The ability of industry personnel to conveniently and cost effectively access oil and gas wells may be impacted due to the obliteration of some duplicate roads. 2. Enforcement of area limitations and road closures through installation of signs may be very difficult. 3. If benefits are expected to accrue to big game animals couldn't this be accomplished through means other than limiting vehicle travel. 4. Visual resources have already been significantly altered in the Farmington District as a result of energy development. Is it reasonable to assume that additional, similar development will have any more of a negative impact? 5. Off road vehicle enthusiasts may object to increasing the limited designation acreage. 6. How many miles of road will need to be closed by ripping and seeding, signing or gating? 7. Some people may object to the limited designation due to its impact on their ability to travel off road by vehicle in search of firewood, pinyon nuts and livestock. Criteria to Guide Development of the Planning Action: The planning criteria were identified to help guide the resolution of the issues. Non-Discretionary Criteria 1. The proposed action must comply with laws, executive orders and regulations. 2. The proposed action must be reasonable and achievable with available technology. Discretionary Criteria 1. Evaluate and consider long term benefits to the public in relation to short term benefits. As new information becomes available during the planning process or through public participation, additional criteria may be developed for future guidance of this planning effort. The Disciplines to be Represented on the Interdisciplinary Team: The planning amendment/environmental assessment will be prepared by an interdisciplinary team consisting of a wildlife biologist, rangeland management specialist, geologist, recreation planner, surface protection specialist and an environmental coordinator. A habitat management specialist and a conservation officer with the New Mexico Department of Game & Fish will also be on the team to provide additional wildlife input. The Kind and Extent of Public Participation Activities To Be Provided A press release will be sent to the local newspapers informing them of the proposed planning action. Two public meetings will also be held to inform the public of the proposed action and solicit comments. The Location and Availability of Documents Relevant to the Planning Process Pertinent information is available at the BLM Office at 1235 Laplata Highway, Farmington, New Mexico 87401 and is subject to public review on weekdays from 7:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Dated: April 18, 1994. Patricia E. McLean, Acting Associate State Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9823 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;FB&hyph;M
