FR940204-2-00039 FR940204-2-00025 Use or disclosure of the data set forth above is subject to the restriction on the cover page of this application. It should be noted, however, that data bearing the aforementioned legend may be subject to release under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Action (FOIA), if DOE or a court determines that the material so marked is not exempt under the FOIA. The Government assumes no liability for disclosure or use of unmarked data and may use or disclose such data for any purpose. Applicants are hereby notified that DOE intends to make all applications submitted available to non-Government personnel for the sole purpose of assisting the DOE in its evaluation of the applications. These individuals will be required to protect the confidentiality of any specifically identified information obtained as a result of their participation in the evaluation. b. Budget: A budget period is an interval of time (12 months) into which the project period is divided for funding and reporting purposes. Project period means the total approved period of time that DOE will provide support contingent upon satisfactory progress and availability of funds. The project period may be divided into several budget periods. Each application must contain a Standard Form 424A, Budget Information Form. Items of needed equipment should be individually listed by description and estimated cost, inclusive of tax, and adequately justified. The type and extent of budgeted travel and its relation to the research should be specified. Anticipated consultant services should be justified and information furnished on each individual's expertise, primary organizational affiliation, daily compensation rate and number of days of expected service. Consultant's travel costs should be listed separately under travel in the budget. 3. Notices to Applicants. a. False Statements: Applicants must set forth full, accurate, and complete information as required by this solicitation. The penalty for making false statements is prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 1001. b. Application Clarification: DOE reserves the right to require applications to be clarified or supplemented to the extent considered necessary either through additional written submissions or oral presentations. c. Amendments: All amendments to this solicitation will be mailed to recipients who submit a written request for the application forms. d. Applicant's Past Performance: DOE reserves the right to solicit from available sources relevant information concerning an applicant's past performance and may consider such information in its evaluation. e. Commitment of Public Funds: The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with the proposed award. Any other commitment, either explicit or implied, is invalid. f. Effective Period of Application: All applications should remain in effect for at least 180 days from the closing date. g. Availability of Funds: The actual amount of funds to be obligated in each fiscal year will be subject to availability of funds appropriated by Congress. h. Assurances and Certifications: DOE requires the submission of preaward assurances of compliance and certifications which are mandated by law. The assurance and certification forms will be provided in the application package. i. Preaward Costs: The government is not liable for any costs incurred in preparation of an application. Awardees may incur preaward costs up to ninety (90) days prior to the effective date of award. Should the awardee take such action, it is done so at the awardee's risk and does not impose any obligation on the DOE to issue an award. j. Patents, Data, and Copyrights: Applicants are advised that patents, data, and copyrights will be treated in accordance with 10 CFR 600.33. k. Environmental Impact: An applicant environmental checklist will be provided in the application package. Award will not be made until all environmental requirements are completed. l. To facilitate handling, please place the solicitation number DE&hyph;PS07&hyph;94ID13285 on the outside of the application/proposal package. Procurement Request Number: 07&hyph;94ID13285.000 Dated: January 26, 1994. David W. Newnam, Director, Procurement Services Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2597 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
