FR940810-2-00115 FR940810-2-00072 Issues Not Addressed in the Notice Ownership Interests in a Broker/Dealer Several commentators asked for advice on when passive investors who are limited partners, equity owners or subordinated lenders of a broker/dealer would be construed as associated persons under the Interpretation. In other words, what ownership or contribution percentage would trigger associated person status. The NASD believes that if the person owns or has contributed 10% or less to the firm's capital, does not receive hot issues from the member in which he has the interest, and that member is not in a position to direct hot issues to the investor, then the NASD should not construe the investor to be an associated person solely by virtue of the investment in the broker/dealer. Category 4 Restricted Persons Several commentators asked whether managers/advisors of hedge funds, investment partnerships or of other similar entities would be construed as a restricted person under Paragraph four of the Interpretation (sales to the senior officer of a bank, investment company or other institutional type account). The NASD believes that managers of investment partnerships or corporations, hedge funds, and other similar accounts are clearly involved with the buying or selling of securities for an institutional type account and, as such, are restricted under Paragraph four of the Interpretation. Private Placements Several commentators sought advice on how the Interpretation should be applied to members who receive securities of an issuer in a private placement. The definition of ``public offering'' as currently set forth in the Interpretation is comprehensive. The definition includes all distributions ``*␣*␣* of securities whether underwritten or not; whether registered, unregistered or exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, and whether they are primary or secondary distributions, including intrastate distributions and Regulation A issues, which sell at an immediate premium, in the secondary market.'' As such, the definition by its terms covers these private placements. Such distributions may involve securities which are either registered or unregistered. The NASD believes that the definition of public offering is unnecessarily broad and does not believe that the Interpretation should cover traditional ``private placements'' of unregistered securities. Thus, the NASD has proposed a definition of a public offering consistent with the definition provided in Schedule E to the Association's By-Laws. Issuer Directed Exemption Several commentators requested that employees of an issuer or the issuer's parent who are restricted persons be exempt from the Interpretation when purchasing shares of their employer or its parent. Currently, such exemptions can only be granted on a case-by-case basis by the NASD Board of Governors. The NASD agrees that the issuer directed share exemption should be modified to allow restricted employees to purchase under the same terms and conditions as employees of member firms do under Schedule E of the By-Laws, thereby eliminating the need for applications to the NASD. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: A. By order approve such proposed rule change, or B. Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by [insert date 21 days from the date of publication]. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19444 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
