FR941026-1-00036 FR941026-1-00014 Comments may also be sent through the Internet to the Branch of Research and Technical Standards, Internet address: 171B@osm.doi.CompuServe.com. Copies of any messages received electronically will be filed with the Administrative Record. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Scott Boyce, Branch of Research and Technical Standards, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1951 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room 640NC, Washington, DC 20240; Telephone: (202) 343&hyph;3839. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Public Comment Procedures II. Background III. Discussion of Proposed Rule IV. Procedural Matters I. Public Comment Procedures Written Comments Written comments submitted on the proposed rule should be specific, should be confined to issues pertinent to the proposed rule, and should explain the reason for any recommended change. Where practicable, commenters should submit three copies of their comments (see ADDRESSES ). Comments received after the close of the comment period or delivered to addresses other than those listed above (see DATES ) may not be considered or included in the Administrative Record for the final rule. Public Hearings OSM will hold a public hearing on the proposed rule, at a time and place to be announced, in Vincennes, Indiana. Any person interested in participating in the hearing should inform Scott Boyce (see FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT ) either orally or in writing by 5 p.m. Eastern time, December 27, 1994. If no one has contacted Mr. Boyce to express an interest in participating in a hearing by that date, the hearing will not be held. If only one person expresses an interest, a public meeting rather than a hearing may be held and the results included in the Administrative Record. If a hearing is held, it will continue until all persons wishing to testify have been heard. To assist the transcriber and ensure an accurate record, OSM requests that persons who testify at the hearing give the transcriber a copy of their testimony. To assist OSM in preparing appropriate questions, OSM also requests that persons who plan to testify submit to OSM at the address previously specified for the submission of written comments (see ADDRESSES ) an advance copy of their testimony.
