FR940706-0-00025 FR940706-0-00001 (l) Official records or documents. An official government record or document or entry therein, if admissible for any purpose, shall be admissible in evidence without the production of the person who made or prepared the same, and shall be prima facie evidence of the relevant facts stated therein. Such record or document shall be evidenced by an official publication thereof or by a copy certified by a person having legal authority to make such certification. (m) Official notice. Official notice shall be taken of such matters as are judicially noticed by the courts of the United States and of any other matter of technical, scientific, or commercial fact of established character. Provided, that the parties shall be given adequate opportunity to show that such facts are erroneously noticed. (n) Offer of proof. Whenever evidence is excluded by the ALJ, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which shall be included in the transcript. The offer of proof shall consist of a brief statement describing the evidence excluded. If the evidence consists of a brief oral statement, it shall be included in the transcript in toto. If the evidence consists of a document or other exhibit, it shall be marked for identification and inserted in the hearing record. In either event, if the Judicial Officer, upon review, determines that the ALJ's ruling excluding the evidence was erroneous and prejudicial, the evidence shall be considered a part of the transcript and hearing record. If the Judicial Officer determines that the ALJ's ruling excluding the evidence was erroneous and prejudicial, and that it would inappropriate to have such evidence considered a part of the hearing record without reopening the hearing, the Judicial Officer may direct that the hearing be reopened to permit the taking of such evidence or for any other purpose in connection with the excluded evidence. (o) Transcript. Hearings shall be recorded and transcribed verbatim. The party requesting the hearing shall bear the transcription cost of producing the transcript and the duplication cost for one transcript provided to the ALJ and to the other parties to the appeal. §283.16 Consolidation of issues. Similar issues involved in appeals by two or more State agencies may be consolidated upon motion by the State agencies, FNS, or at the discretion of the ALJ if it is decided that consolidation would help to promote administrative efficiency. (a) Disposition of consolidated issues. If the ALJ orders consolidation, the issues consolidated will be considered first. If a hearing has been requested by any of the parties that have had issues consolidated, arguments on the consolidated issues will be heard before arguments on dissimilar issues. The ALJ will take the information into consideration along with arguments on other issues in preparing initial decisions for QC appeals in which some issues have been consolidated. (b) Initial decision. (1) If the ALJ decides the evidence and arguments by the State agencies on the consolidated issues cannot be overcome by the evidence presented by FNS and are sufficient to grant the relief requested by a State agency or all State agencies in which the issue is involved, the ALJ shall prepare an initial decision as provided in §283.17(c). (2) FNS may file a motion for reconsideration pursuant to §283.17(d) or seek review by the Judicial Officer in accordance with §283.20. §283.17 Post-hearing procedure. (a) Corrections to transcript. (1) At any time, but not later than the time fixed for filing proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, order and briefs, any party may file a motion proposing corrections to the transcript. (2) Unless a party files such a motion in the matter prescribed, the transcript shall be presumed to be a true, correct, and complete transcript of the testimony given at the hearing and to contain an accurate description or reference to all exhibits received in evidence and made part of the hearing record. The transcript shall be deemed to be certified without further action by the ALJ. (3) At any time prior to the filing of the ALJ's initial decision and after consideration of any objections filed as to the transcript, the ALJ may issue an order making any corrections in the transcript that the ALJ finds are warranted. Such corrections shall be entered into the original transcript by the Hearing Clerk (without obscuring the original text). (b) Proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, order, and briefs. The parties may file proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and orders based solely upon the record and on officially noticed matters, and briefs in support thereof. briefs may be filed at the discretion of the ALJ. The ALJ shall announce at the hearing the time within which these documents may be filed. (c) ALJ's initial decision. (1) The ALJ shall decide the appeal not later than 60 days after receipt of rebuttal evidence submitted by the State agency or, if the State agency does not submit rebuttal evidence, not later than 90 days after the State agency submits the notice of appeal and evidence in support of the appeal. In accordance with §283.22(f), the ALJ may, upon motion or sua sponte , extend this deadline for cause shown. (2) The ALJ shall prepare, upon the basis of the record and officially noticed matters, and shall file, an initial decision which shall include a decision on a request for good cause relief, a copy of which shall be served upon each of the parties. (3) Such initial decision shall be considered final for purposes of judicial review without further proceedings, unless there is a motion for reconsideration filed pursuant to §283.17(d) or review by the Judicial Officer is sought pursuant to §283.20. (4) If no motion for reconsideration or review by the Judicial Officer is filed, the initial decision shall constitute the final notice of determination for purposes of judicial review and shall become effective 30 day after service. (d) Motion for reconsideration. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 30 days of service of the initial decision. If served by mail, the time for filing a motion for reconsideration will be 5 days longer in accordance with §283.22. (2) Every such motion must set forth the mattes claimed to have been erroneously decided and the basis of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief. (3) Responses to such motions shall be filed in accordance with §283.18(d). (4) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration. (5) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
