FR940505-1-00406 FR940505-1-00012 (A) Any owner or operator that chooses to retrofit the unit with combustion controls or install new control equipment shall meet the following increments of progress: ( 1 ) Within 2 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200,000 brake horsepower hours in a calendar year, apply for all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, and ( 2 ) Within 6 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200,000 brake horsepower hours in a calendar year, commence construction of all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance within 12 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200,000 brake horsepower hours in a calendar year. (B) Any owner or operator that chooses to convert the unit to electric power shall meet the following increments of progress: ( 1 ) Within 4 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200,000 brake horsepower hours in a calendar year, apply for all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for conversion of the unit to electric power, and ( 2 ) Within 18 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200,000 brake horsepower hours in a calendar year, commence conversion of the unit to electric power, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance within 24 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200,000 brake horsepower hours in a calendar year. (v) Any owner or operator of a unit in existence prior to the date of adoption of this section that chooses to comply with the requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section by means of paragraph (m)(3)(i)(B) of this section shall comply with the following increments of progress: (A) From May 15, 1996 through May 14, 1997, no owner or operator shall operate a unit in excess of 4,380 hours. The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the unit is operated less than or equal to 4,380 hours in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (m)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. (B) From May 15, 1997 through May 14, 1998, no owner or operator shall operate a unit in excess of 1,800 hours. The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the unit is operated less than or equal to 1,800 hours in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (m)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. (C) From May 15, 1998 through May 14, 1999, no owner or operator shall operate a unit in excess of 900 hours. The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the unit is operated less than or equal to 900 hours in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (m)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. (D) On and after May 15, 1999, no owner or operator shall operate a unit equal to or greater than 200 hours per calendar year. The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the unit is operated less than 200 hours in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (m)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. (6) Reporting, monitoring, and recordkeeping. (i) Reporting requirements. Any owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section shall comply with the applicable notification requirements of ยง60.7, and shall also comply with the following requirements: (A) By May 15, 1995, submit to the Administrator the identification number and type of each unit subject to the section, the name and address of the plant where the unit is located, and the name and telephone number of the person responsible for demonstrating compliance with the section. For each unit identified, the following information shall be submitted to the Administrator: ( 1 ) The rated brake horsepower and combustion method (i.e., rich-burn, lean-burn, or diesel) of the engine; type of gaseous and/or liquid fuel(s) that will be burned in the unit; purpose for which the unit is used; hours of operation and fuel consumption (cubic feet of gas or gallons of liquid) for each type of fuel for the previous one year period; brake horsepower hours for the previous one year period; and manufacturer, model designation, and age of the unit. ( 2 ) A selection of the standard(s) in paragraph (m)(3) of this section with which the unit will comply. ( 3 ) For owners or operators complying by means of paragraph (m)(3)(i) (C) or (D) of this section, a description of the NO X control system that will be installed on the engine (if any), including type (e.g., selective or nonselective catalytic reduction, ``clean-burn'' combustion, etc.) and manufacturer, as well as a description of any ancillary equipment related to the control of emissions (e.g., automatic air/fuel ratio controller, fuel valves, etc.). (B) Any owner or operator subject to the compliance schedule specified in paragraph (m)(5) (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section shall notify the Administrator in writing of the following: ( 1 ) The date construction is commenced on retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. ( 2 ) The anticipated date of initial startup of the unit after completing retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit.
