FR941219-2-00074 FR941219-2-00049 What Is the Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback Law? Among its provisions, the anti-kickback statute penalizes anyone who knowingly and willfully solicits, receives, offers or pays remuneration in cash or in kind to induce, or in return for: A. Referring an individual to a person for the furnishing, or arranging for the furnishing, of any item or service payable under the Medicare or Medicaid program; or B. Purchasing, leasing or ordering , or arranging for or recommending purchasing, leasing or ordering, any goods, facility, service or item payable under the Medicare or Medicaid program. Violators are subject to criminal penalties, or exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or both. In 1987, section 14 of the Medicare and Medicaid Patient and Program Protection Act, PL 100&hyph;93, directed this Department to promulgate ``safe harbor'' regulations, in order to provide health care providers a mechanism to assure them that they will not be prosecuted under the anti-kickback statute for engaging in particular practices. The Department published 11 final ``safe harbor'' regulations on July 29, 1991 (42 CFR 1001.952, 56 FR 35952), and two more on November 5, 1992 (42 CFR 1001.952, 57 FR 52723). The scope of the anti-kickback statute is not expanded by the ``safe harbor'' regulations; these regulations give those in good faith compliance with a ``safe harbor'' the assurance that they will not be prosecuted under the anti-kickback statute. B. Special Fraud Alert: Joint Venture Arrangements (Issued August 1989) The Office of Inspector General has become aware of a proliferation of arrangements between those in a position to refer business, such as physicians, and those providing items or services for which Medicare or Medicaid pays. Some examples of the items or services provided in these arrangements include clinical diagnostic laboratory services, durable medical equipment (DME), and other diagnostic services. Sometimes these deals are called ``joint ventures.'' A joint venture may take a variety of forms: it may be a contractual arrangement between two or more parties to cooperate in providing services, or it may involve the creation of a new legal entity by the parties, such as a limited partnership or closely held corporation, to provide such services. Of course, there may be legitimate reasons to form a joint venture, such as raising necessary investment capital. However, the Office of Inspector General believes that some of these joint ventures may violate the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute. Under these suspect joint ventures, physicians may become investors in a newly formed joint venture entity. The investors refer their patients to this new entity, and are paid by the entity in the form of ``profit distributions.'' These subject joint ventures may be intended not so much to raise investment capital legitimately to start a business, but to lock up a stream of referrals from the physician investors and to compensate them indirectly for these referrals. Because physician investors can benefit financially from their referrals, unnecessary procedures and tests may be ordered or performed, resulting in unnecessary program expenditures. The questionable features of these suspect joint ventures may be reflected in three areas: (1) The manner in which investors are selected and retained; (2) The nature of the business structure of the joint venture; and (3) The financing and profit distributions. Suspect Joint Ventures: What To Look For To help you identify these suspect joint ventures, the following are examples of questionable features, which separately or taken together may result in a business arrangement that violates the anti-kickback statute. Please note that this is not intended as an exhaustive list, but rather gives examples of indicators of potentially unlawful activity. Investor •Investors are chosen because they are in a position to make referrals. •Physicians who are expected to make a large number of referrals may be offered a greater investment opportunity in the joint venture than those anticipated to make fewer referrals. •Physician investors may be actively encouraged to make referrals to the joint venture, and may be encouraged to divest their ownership interest if they fail to sustain an ``acceptable'' level of referrals. •The joint venture tracks its sources of referrals, and distributes this information to the investors. •Investors may be required to divest their ownership interest if they cease to practice in the service area, for example, if they move, become disabled or retire. •Investment interests may be nontransferable. Business Structure •The structure of some joint ventures may be suspect. For example, one of the parties may be an ongoing entity already engaged in a particular line of business. That party may act as the reference laboratory or DME supplier for the joint venture. In some of these cases, the joint venture can be best characterized as a ``shell.'' •In the case of a shell laboratory joint venture, for example: _It conducts very little testing on the premises, even though it is Medicare certified. _The reference laboratory may do the vast bulk of the testing at its central processing laboratory, even though it also serves as the ``manager'' of the shell laboratory. _Despite the location of the actual testing, the local ``shell'' laboratory bills Medicare directly for these tests.
