FR941103-0-00048 FR941103-0-00007 NUGs/IPPs, Regulatory/Government entities and Others generally did not address this issue. Other claimed ancillary services include: Backup and Standby Service; Loss Service; Redispatch Costs; Control Center Service; Emergency Services; fast starts, ``BlackStart'' capability (starting up a generating station with no external power supply), regulation, and stability. Graves, et al. proposed that ancillary services could be provided by an independent entity, which they call a ``Poolco'' ( e.g. , an existing power pool, an RTG, NERC subregion, or consortium of independent generators). Their version of a Poolco would not participate directly in real power MW brokerage or energy supply; rather, it would own and operate a relatively small collection of generation and flow control assets sufficient to assure the integrity of the system, relying on tieline flows, voltage measurements at a few key load centers, and forecast control-area load changes (over the next few hours). 6. Direction Aspects of Power Flows The power flows caused by a transmission transaction may be either with, or counter to, the prevailing flows. The incremental effects of transmission transactions may also raise issues with respect to the use of multiple parallel paths and the incremental effects on transmission losses. A. Directional Flows Most commenters (most IOUs, some Muni/Coops, and some Regulatory/Government entities) suggest that charges should be applied for all power flows on a system (regardless of direction). Several commenters indicate that reverse flows exist only under some system conditions and that changes in transmission system configuration (due to line outages) and changes in generating unit dispatch, may eliminate any reverse flows. Such commenters also claim that all transmission elements support all power flows. Accordingly, reverse flows should only be credited if they provide a direct economic benefit to the utility. Other commenters (some Muni/Coops, some Regulatory/Government entities, and most Others) argue that it is important for the Commission to adopt a transmission pricing method which recognizes flow direction and discounts transmission service which ``unloads'' the system and helps to relieve constrained transmission lines. These commenters suggest that this type of pricing signal encourages the most efficient use of the transmission system.
