FR940204-2-00142 FR940204-2-00097 Meeting Procedures The following procedures are established to facilitate the meeting: (1) There will be no admission fee or other charge to attend or to participate in the meeting. The meeting will be open to all persons who have requested in advance to present statements and on a space-available basis to all those non-presentors who notified FAA of their planned attendance prior to the day of the meeting. The meeting may adjourn early if scheduled speakers complete their statements in less time than currently is scheduled for the meeting. (2) An individual, whether speaking in a personal or a representative capacity on behalf of an organization, may be limited to a 10-minute statement, if required by time constraints. The speaker will be notified if additional time is available. (3) Every effort will be made to accommodate all speakers. If the available time does not permit this, speakers generally will be scheduled based on when their request was received in the FAA. (4) Sign interpretation will be available at the meeting. (5) For record purposes, it is requested that one copy of presentation and hand-out materials be provided to the presiding official by the presentor. In addition, materials may be distributed to the audience; however these copies must be provided by the presentor. (6) The DOT executive oversight committee will review and consider the material presented at the meeting. (7) Statements made by the DOT official presiding over the meeting are intended to facilitate discussion or to clarify issues. Any statement made during the meeting by the presiding official is not intended to be, and should not be construed as, a position of the DOT or FAA. (8) The meeting is designed to elicit public views and more complete information on the issues discussed in this notice. Therefore, the meeting will be conducted in an informal and nonadversarial manner. No individual will be subject to cross-examination by any other participant. (9) A recorder will be present to document the meeting. Issued in Washington, DC, on February 1, 1994. Edward M. Kelly, Deputy Associate Administrator for Airway Facilities, Chairperson, Corporation Assessment Ad Hoc Task Force. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2556 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
