FR940523-2-00037 FR940523-2-00021 _Potential effects on future decontamination and decommissioning decisions; _Potential impacts from energy requirements and conservation alternatives; _Effects on near and long-term waste management practices and activities, including pollution prevention, waste minimization, and waste stream characterization; _Potential effects on agricultural lands and practices; _Potential impacts of noise levels to the ambient environment and sensitive receptors; _Potential impacts to scenic and visual resources; _Potential impacts on land use plans, policies, and controls; _Unavoidable adverse environmental impacts; _Short-term uses of the environment versus long-term productivity; and _Potential irretrievable and irreversible commitment of resources. Related Documentation Background information regarding the operation of the Pantex Plant is available in the public reading rooms listed above. The Department will prepare transcripts of the oral comments received during the scoping meetings. The records of all comments, both oral and written, received during the scoping period will be made available for public review in the reading rooms listed earlier. All additional background documents and references developed during the Environmental Impact Statement process will also be made available in the reading rooms. The following is a list of forthcoming NEPA documentation related to this Environmental Impact Statement that have the potential for affecting its scope: (a) Reconfiguration Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement_On July 23, 1993, the Department published a revised Notice of Intent to prepare a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement for reconfiguration of its nuclear weapons complex due to nuclear weapons stockpile reductions. The Department will soon issue an update to its revised Notice of Intent which will reflect recent budget and stockpile reduction decisions; (b) Fissile Materials Storage and Disposition Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement_A draft Notice of Intent has been provided to stakeholders for review and comment. In the near future, the Department plans to publish a Notice of Intent in the Federal Register for a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement to address long-term storage of all fissile nuclear materials and disposition of surplus fissile nuclear materials; and (c) Proposed Interim Storage of Highly Enriched Uranium above the Maximum Historical Storage Level at the Y&hyph;12 Plant, Oak Ridge, Tennessee. This Environmental Assessment addresses proposed storage of highly enriched uranium above the maximum historical storage level at the Y&hyph;12 Plant. The draft Environmental Assessment has been reviewed by the State and by stakeholders, and is being revised. Public Meeting Registration and Format Oral and written comments may be presented at the public scoping meetings. Persons desiring to speak at any of these meetings should register by calling the Pantex Plant Environmental Impact Statement Hotline by 3 p.m. two working days in advance of the scoping meeting; writing to Mr. Rosson at the Albuquerque Operations Office address; or submitting written requests using the Pantex Plant Environmental Impact Statement Faxline. Persons wishing to speak that have not registered in advance may register at the entrance of the meeting room. Individuals speaking on behalf of an organization should identify the organization represented. In order to solicit individual viewpoints and facilitate interactive communication between participants and representatives of the Department, separate meeting rooms will be established concurrent with the formal scoping meetings for questions and informal discussions regarding the issues in this Environmental Impact Statement. Subsequent Document Preparation After the completion of the public scoping process, the Department will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement Implementation Plan (the Plan) and make it available to the public upon request and place it in the public reading rooms. The Plan will record the results of the scoping process and define the alternatives and issues that the Department will evaluate in this Environmental Impact Statement. The Department intends to complete the Draft Environmental Impact Statement in November 1995 and will announce its availability in the Federal Register . The Department will solicit comments from the public, organizations, and other agencies on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement, and will consider all comments in its preparation of the Final Environmental Impact Statement. Issued in Washington, DC, on May 18, 1994. Tara O'Toole, Assistant Secretary for Environment, Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12644 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
