FR940628-0-00049 FR940628-0-00017 * * * * * (24) Information on loan sales or transfers. The guaranty agency must, upon the request of an eligible school, furnish to the school last attended by the student, information with respect to the sale or transfer of a borrower's loan prior to the beginning of the repayment period, including_ (i) Notice of the assignment; (ii) The identity of the assignee; (iii) The name and address of the party by which contact may be made with the holder concerning repayment of the loan; and (iv) The telephone number of the assignee, or if the assignee uses a lender servicer, another appropriate number for borrower inquiries. * * * * * (c)(1) Lender-of-last-resort. The guaranty agency must ensure that it or an eligible lender described in section 435(d)(1)(D) of the Act serves as a lender-of-last-resort in the State in which it is the principal guaranty agency, as defined in §682.800(d). (2) The lender-of-last-resort must make a subsidized Stafford loan to any eligible student who satisfies the lender's eligibility requirements and_ (i) Qualifies for interest benefits, pursuant to §682.301, for a loan amount of at least $200; and (ii) Has been otherwise unable after conscientious efforts to obtain a loan from another eligible lender for the same period of enrollment. (3) The guaranty agency or an eligible lender described in section 435(d)(1)(D) of the Act may arrange for a loan required to be made under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be made by another eligible lender. (4) The guaranty agency must develop policies and operating procedures for its lender-of-last-resort program that provide for the accessibility of lender-of-last-resort loans. These policies and procedures must be submitted to the Secretary for approval as required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The policies and procedures for the agency's lender-of-last-resort program must ensure that_ (i) The guaranty agency will serve eligible students attending any eligible school; (ii) The program establishes operating hours and methods of application designed to facilitate application by students; and (iii) Information about the availability of loans under the program is made available to schools in the State; (iv) Appropriate steps are taken to ensure that borrowers receiving loans under the program are appropriately counseled on their loan obligation; (v) The guaranty agency will respond to a student within 60 days after the student submits an original complete application; and (vi) Borrowers are not required to obtain more than two objections from eligible lenders prior to requesting assistance under the lender-of-last-resort program. * * * * * (e) *␣*␣* (2)(i) Offer, directly or indirectly, any premium, incentive payment, or other inducement to any lender, or any person acting as an agent, employee, or independent contractor of any lender or other guaranty agency to administer or market FFEL loans, other than unsubsidized Stafford loans or subsidized Stafford loans made under a guaranty agency's lender-of-last-resort program, in an effort to secure the guaranty agency as an insurer of FFEL loans. Examples of prohibited inducements include, but are not limited to_ (A) Compensating lenders or their representatives for the purpose of securing loan applications for guarantee; (B) Performing functions normally performed by lenders without appropriate compensation; (C) Providing equipment or supplies to lenders at below market cost or rental; or (D) Offering to pay a lender, that does not hold loans guaranteed by the agency, a fee for each application forwarded for the agency's guarantee. (ii) For the purposes of this section, the terms ``premium'', ``inducement'', and ``incentive'' do not include services directly related to the enhancement of the administration of the FFEL Program the guaranty agency generally provides to lenders that participate in its program. However, the terms ``premium'', ``inducement'', and ``incentive'' do apply to other activities specifically intended to secure a lender's participation in the agency's program. * * * * * 16. A new §682.405 is added to read as follows: §682.405 Loan rehabilitation agreement. (a) General . (1) A guaranty agency that has a basic program agreement must enter into a loan rehabilitation agreement with the Secretary. The guaranty agency must establish a loan rehabilitation program for all borrowers with an enforceable promissory note for the purpose of rehabilitating defaulted loans so that the loan may be purchased, if practicable, by an eligible lender and removed from default status. (2) A loan is considered to be rehabilitated only after the borrower has made one voluntary reasonable and affordable full payment each month and the payment is received by a guaranty agency or its agent within 15 days of the scheduled due date for 12 consecutive months in accordance with this section, and the loan has been sold to an eligible lender. (3) After the loan has been rehabilitated, the borrower regains all benefits of the program, including any remaining deferment eligibility under section 428(b)(1)(M) of the Act, from the date of the rehabilitation. (4) A borrower who wishes to rehabilitate a loan on which a judgment has been entered must sign a new promissory note prior to the sale of the loan to an eligible lender. (b) Terms of agreement. In the loan rehabilitation agreement, the guaranty agency agrees to ensure that its loan rehabilitation program meets the following requirements at all times:
