FR941130-2-00051 FR941130-2-00032 [Docket No. 94&hyph;30] Container Pool Practices of the Trans-Atlantic Agreement and its Members; Order of Investigation and Hearing The Trans-Atlantic Agreement (``TAA'' or ``Agreement''), FMC Agreement No. 202&hyph;011375, first became effective August 31, 1992, pursuant to the Shipping Act of 1984 (``1984 Act''), 46 U.S.C. app. 1701 et seq. Sixteen ocean common carriers, identified in Appendix A hereto, currently are members of the Agreement. 1 1 On October 24, 1994, additional modifications of the basic agreement were permitted by the Federal Maritime Commission (``Commission'') to take effect under the 1984 Act, among which amendments was a change of the agreement's name to the Trans-Atlantic Conference Agreement. While officially renamed to clarify its designation as a conference, the carrier members continue to refer to the Agreement as TAA. By Order issued July 27, 1994, the Commission instituted Fact Finding Investigation No. 21, entitled Activities of the Trans-Atlantic Agreement and Its Members. Among issues to be examined in the course of the Fact Finding Investigation were, inter alia , whether the carrier members of the TAA had violated sections 10 (b)(1), (b)(4), and (b)(12) of the 1984 Act. 2 The Fact Finding Order further provides that the designated Investigative Officers are not precluded from developing facts related to any other possible violations of the 1984 Act that may be uncovered in the course of the proceeding. In commencing the above nonadjudicatory investigation, the Commission's objective was to determine whether sufficient evidence exists to warrant formal adjudicatory, assessment or injunctive proceedings for alleged violations of the 1984 Act by the TAA or its carrier members. 2 Section 10(b) of the 1984 Act, 46 U.S.C. app. 1709, states that no common carrier may: (1) charge, demand, collect, or receive greater, less, or different compensation for the transportation of property or for any service in connection therewith than the rates and charges that are shown in its tariffs or service contracts; *␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣* (4) allow any person to obtain transportation for property at less than the rates or charges established by the carrier in its tariff or service contract by means of false billing, false classification, false weighing, false measurement, or by any other unjust or unfair device or means; *␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣* (12) subject any particular person, locality, or description of traffic to an unreasonable refusal to deal or any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever; *␣*␣* Through responses to subpenas issued by the Investigative Officers, testimony in fact finding hearings and through other means, it now appears to the Commission that carrier members of the TAA have engaged in certain practices relating to the provision of chassis and container equipment to shippers at U.S. West Coast and interior locations other than the carrier's designated container yard (``CY'') or terminal facility at the port. 3 It further appears that these practices may have encompassed the positioning by the carrier of an inventory of container equipment and chassis either at facilities operated by the shippers (so-called ``shippers' pools'') or at facilities operated by third parties such as trucking companies (``neutral container pools'' or ``equipment depots''). It is believed that the ocean common carriers have absorbed all or a portion of the inland costs of positioning empty equipment at these facilities on behalf of the shipper, for loading and subsequent use in the transportation of commodities in the TAA trades. The carriers also may have absorbed related costs of maintaining and controlling such equipment for the benefit of certain shippers, including benefits or concessions as to personnel, advance allocations of equipment, and extended freetime arrangements. It does not appear that these individual facilities or benefits are identified or held out generally to the shipping public through the tariffs of the TAA or its member carriers. 3 Among the export commodities believed to be affected by this practice are dried fruits and nuts, cotton and cotton linters, agricultural commodities including vegetables and rice, and shipments of wines and spirits. Other commodities and U.S. locations also may be involved.
