FR940720-1-00025 FR940720-1-00007 38 CFR part 14, Legal Services, General Counsel, is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 14_LEGAL SERVICES, GENERAL COUNSEL 1. The authority citation for part 14 continues to read as follows: Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5903. 2. In part 14, §§14.640 through 14.643 and an undesignated center heading prior to §14.640 are added to read as follows: Expanded Remote Access to Computerized Veterans Claims Records by Accredited Representatives Sec. 14.640␣Purpose. 14.641␣Qualifications for access. 14.642␣Utilization of access. 14.643␣Disqualification. Expanded Remote Access to Computerized Veterans Claims Records by Accredited Representatives §14.640 Purpose. (a) Sections 14.640 through 14.643 establish policy, assign responsibilities and prescribe procedures with respect to: (1) When, and under what circumstances, VA will grant authorized claimants' representatives read-only access to the automated Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) claims records of those claimants whom they represent; (2) The exercise of authorized access by claimants' representatives; and (3) The bases and procedures for disqualification of a representative for violating any of the requirements for access. (b) VBA will grant access to its automated claimants' claims records from locations outside Regional Offices under the following conditions. Access will be provided: (1) Only to individuals and organizations granted access to automated claimants' records under §§14.460 through 14.643; (2) Only to the claims records of VA claimants whom the organization or individual represents as reflected in the claims file; (3) Solely for the purpose of the representative assisting the individual claimant whose records are accessed in a claim for benefits administered by VA; and (4) On a read-only basis. Individuals authorized access to VBA automated claims records under §§14.640 through 14.643 will not be permitted to modify the data. (c)(1) Access will be authorized only to the inquiry commands of the Benefits Delivery Network which provide access to the following categories of data: (i) Beneficiary identification data such as name, social security number, sex, date of birth, service number and related service data; and (ii) Claims history and processing data such as folder location, claim status, claim establishment date, claim pro-cessing history, award data, rating data, including service-connected medical conditions, income data, dependency data, deduction data, payment data, educational facility and program data (except chapter 32 benefits), and education program contribution and delimiting data (except chapter 32 benefits). (2) Access to this information will currently be through the inquiry commands of BINQ (BIRLS (Beneficiaries Identification and Records Location Subsystem) Inquiry), SINQ (Status Inquiry), MINQ (Master Record Inquiry), PINQ (Pending Issue Inquiry) and TINQ (Payment History Inquiry). The identifying information received from BIRLS to representative inquiries will be limited to file number, veteran's name, date of death, folder location and transfer date of folder, insurance number, insurance type, insurance lapse date and insurance folder jurisdiction. (d) Sections 14.640 through 14.643 are not intended to, and do not: (1) Waive the sovereign immunity of the United States; or (2) Create, and may not be relied upon to create, any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law against the United States or the Department of Veterans Affairs. §14.641 Qualifications for access. (a) An applicant for read-only access to VBA automated claims records from a location other than a VA Regional Office must be: (1) An organization, representative, attorney or agent approved or accredited by VA under 38 CFR 14.626 through 14.635; or (2) An attorney of record for a claimant in proceedings before the Court of Veterans Appeals or subsequent proceedings who requests access to the claimant's automated claims records as part of the representation of the claimant. (b) The hardware, modem and software utilized to obtain access, as well as their location, must be approved in advance by VBA. (c) Each individual and organization approved for access must sign and return a notice provided by the Regional Office Director (or the Regional Office Director's designee) of the Regional Office of jurisdiction for the claim. The notice will specify the applicable operational and security requirements for access and an acknowledgment that the breach of any of these requirements is grounds for disqualification from access. §14.642 Utilization of access. (a) Once an individual or organization has been issued the necessary passwords to obtain read-only access to the automated claims records of individuals represented, access will be exercised in accordance with the following requirements: (1) The individual or organization will obtain access only from equipment and software approved in advance by the Regional Office from the location where the individual or organization primarily conducts its representation activities which also has been approved in advance; (2) The individual will use only his or her assigned password to obtain access; (3) The individual will not reveal his or her password to anyone else, or allow anyone else to use his or her password;
