FR940722-0-00114 FR940722-0-00019 105. In implementing these ownership policies, the Commission identified lack of access to capital as one of the principal barriers to minority entry. Thus, in 1981, the Commission created the Advisory Committee on Alternative Financing for Minority Opportunities in Telecommunications (the ``Rivera Committee'') to investigate financing methods and to give recommendations to the FCC on ways to encourage minority ownership of telecommunications facilities. 79 The Rivera Committee confirmed that the shortage of capital is a principal problem facing minorities seeking ownership opportunities and further found that this shortage was due to minority inexperience in obtaining financial institution misconceptions about potential minority borrowers, and marketplace structural problems, such as high interest rates and low broadcast industry earnings growth. Among other things, the Rivera Committee suggested educational and outreach programs and expanding the tax certificate program to nonbroadcast properties such as common carrier and land mobile. In response to this recommendation, the FCC submitted draft legislation to Congress proposing to broaden the scope of the Commission's authority to issue tax certificates in connection with the sale or exchange of any type of telecommunications facilities. 80 On March 24, 1983, The Minority Telecommunications Ownership Tax Act of 1983, H.R. 2331, which incorporated the Commission's proposals, was introduced in the House of Representatives. 81 79 Strategies for Advancing Minority Ownership Opportunities in Telecommunications, The Final Report of the Advisory Committee on Alternative Financing for Minority Opportunities in Telecommunications to the Federal Communications Commission, May 1982 (Rivera Committee Report). 80 See Federal Communications Draft Legislation Revising Section 1071 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1994 (January 17, 1983). 81 The Minority Telecommunications Ownership Tax Act of 1983, H.R. 2331, 98th Congress, 1st Sess., March 24, 1983. 106. Congress also took steps to address the problem of minority underrepresentation in communications. In 1982, it mandated the grant of a ``significant preference'' to minority applicants participating in lotteries for spectrum-based services. 47 U.S.C. §309(i)(3)(A). And, in 1988 and each fiscal year thereafter, Congress attached a provision to the FCC appropriations legislation, which precluded the Commission from spending any appropriated funds to examine or change its minority broadcast preference policies. 82 82 See Continuing Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1988, Pub. L. 100&hyph;102, 101 Stat. 1329&hyph;31; Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103&hyph;121, 107 Stat. 1167. 107. These efforts have met with limited success. The record shows that women and minorities have not gained substantial ownership representation in either the broadcast or non-broadcast telecommunications industries. For example, a 1993 report conducted by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration's (NTIA) Minority Telecommunications Development Program shows that, as of August 1993, only 2.7 percent of commercial broadcast stations were owned by minorities. Another study commissioned by the Commerce Department's Minority Business Development Agency in 1991 found that only one half of one percent of the telecommunications firms in the country were minority owned. The study also identified only 15 minority cable operators and 11 minority firms engaged in the delivery of cellular, specialized mobile radio, radio paging or messaging services in the United States. 83 And, according to the last available U.S. Census, only 24 percent of the communications firms in the country were owned by women, and these women-owned firms generated only approximately 8.7 percent of the revenues earned by communications companies. 84 When companies without paid employees are removed from the equation, firms with women owners represent only 14.5 percent of the communications companies in the country. 85 One result of these low numbers is that there are very few minority or women-owned businesses that bring experience or infrastructure to PCS. They thus face an additional barrier relative to many existing service providers. 83 See Testimony of Larry Irving, Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information, U.S. Department of Commerce, before the House Minority Enterprise Subcommittee, May 20, 1994. In his testimony at this same hearing, FCC Chairman Reed Hundt cited some of these statistics and noted that in light of this serious underrepresentation, there remains ``a fundamental obligation for both Congress and the FCC to examine new and creative ways to ensure minority opportunity.'' Testimony of Reed E. Hundt, Chairman, Federal Communications Commission, before the House Minority Enterprise Subcommittee, May 20, 1994. 84 See Women-Owned Businesses, 1987 Economic Censuses, U.S. Department of Commerce, issued August 1990, at 7, 147. The census data includes partnerships, and subchapter S corporations. We have no statistics regarding women representation among owners of larger communications companies. 85 Id . 108. Small businesses also have not become major participants in the telecommunications industry. For instance, one commenter asserts that ten large companies_six Regional Bell Operating Companies (RBOCs), AirTouch (formerly owned by Pacific Telesis), McCaw, GTE and Sprint_control nearly 86 percent of the cellular industry. This commenter further contends that nine of these ten companies control 95 percent of the cellular licenses and population in the 50 BTAs that have one million or more people. 86 86 Ex parte filing of DCR Communications, May 31, 1994. 109. Congress directed the Commission to ensure that, together with other designated entities, rural telephone companies have the opportunity to participate in the provision of PCS. Rural areas, because of their more dispersed populations, tend to be less profitable to serve than more densely populated urban areas. Therefore, service to these areas may not be a priority for many PCS licensees. Rural telephone companies, however, are well positioned because of their existing infrastructure to serve these areas profitably. We, therefore, have adopted special provisions to encourage their participation, increasing the likelihood of rapid introduction of service to rural areas. 110. In the new auction law, Congress directed the Commission to remedy this serious imbalance in the participation by certain groups, especially minorities and women. The record indicates that, in the absence of meaningful efforts to assist designated entities, there would be good reason to think that participation by these groups, particularly businesses owned by women and minorities, would continue to be severely limited. Indeed, the auction law itself envisions a process that requires payment of funds to acquire an initial license, unlike existing licensing methods such as comparative hearings or lotteries. It is therefore possible that participation by those with limited access to capital could be further diminished by operation of the statute, absent affirmative provisions to create competitive opportunity for designated entities. The measures we adopt in this Fifth Report and Order thus will carry out Congress's directive to provide meaningful opportunities for small entities, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by women and minorities to provide broadband PCS services. The rules also are expressly designed to address the funding problems that face these groups and that are their principal barriers to entry. 111. We also intend that designated entities who win licenses have the opportunity to become strong competitors in this service. While the new broadband PCS service presents tremendous opportunities for designated entities to participate in the provision of the next generation of innovative wireless mobile telecommunications services, it is expected to be a highly competitive service, and the estimated costs of acquiring a license and constructing facilities are substantial. In the Broadband PCS Reconsideration Order , which was adopted June 9, 1994, we took specific steps to assist designated entities to become viable competitors in the provision of broadband PCS. For example, we modified the PCS spectrum allocation plan by shifting all channels blocks to a contiguous lower segment of the ``emerging technologies band'' in part to bolster the ability of designated entities to obtain more competitively viable licenses. In addition, we relaxed some of the ownership and attribution rules with respect to cellular operators' participation in PCS to foster investment in designated entity ventures, 87 and we also relaxed the PCS/cellular cross-ownership rule for designated entities with cellular holdings to allow them to further expand their opportunities in broadband PCS. 88 Further, we took steps that will result in lower capital costs for designated entities that obtain PCS licenses, including adoption of a band plan that will reduce the costs of clearing the PCS spectrum of incumbent microwave users as well as relaxing the construction requirements. 87 Broadband PCS Reconsideration Order at ¶127. 88 Id. at ¶125.
