FR940304-1-00160 FR940304-1-00014 Conventional cooking tops. Section 325(l)(2)(A) of the Act specifies that the Department must consider, for amended standards, those standards that ``achieve the maximum improvement in energy efficiency which the Secretary determines is technologically feasible and economically justified.'' Accordingly, the Department first considered the max tech level of efficiency, i.e., standard level 5 for amended conventional cooking top standards. Of the standard levels analyzed, level 5 will save the most energy (3.04 quads between 1996 and 2030). In order to meet this standard, the Department assumes that all representative classes of conventional cooking tops will have reflective surfaces. Additionally, electric-coil cooking tops would have improved element contact, and gas cooking tops would incorporate reduced burner excess air, electronic ignition and sealed burners. It should also be noted that the design options for the representative classes are the same for levels 5, 4 and 3,_i.e., max tech,_ with the differences in those levels having to do with design options for electric smooth element cooking tops. At level 5, the max tech level for all classes, electric smooth element cooking tops require the use of induction elements. However, the payback at this standard level for electric smooth element cooking tops is 193 years, with a $550 increase in life-cycle costs. The Department therefore concludes that the burdens of standard level 5 for conventional cooking tops outweigh the benefits, and rejects the standard level. The next most stringent standard level is standard level 4. This standard level is projected to save 2.85 quads of energy. As discussed above, the representative classes are still at their max tech level, while electric smooth element cooking tops require the use of halogen elements. The payback at this standard level for electric smooth element cooking tops is 890 years, with a $343 increase in life-cycle costs. The Department, therefore concludes that the burdens of standard level 4 for conventional cooking tops outweigh the benefits, and rejects the standard level. The next most stringent standard level is standard level 3. This standard level is projected to save 2.68 quads of energy. As discussed above, the representative classes are still at their max tech level, while electric smooth element cooking tops are at the baseline. The payback at this standard level for the representative gas and electric classes are 10.1 and 9.8 years, respectively, which slightly exceeds half of the product life. Additionally, the Department is concerned about the longevity of the design option, reflective surfaces, required to meet this standard level. The Department therefore concludes that the questionable technology and economic burdens of standard level 3 for conventional cooking tops outweigh the benefits, and rejects the standard level. After carefully considering the analysis, the Department is amending the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act-imposed 1990 standard for the conventional cooking top portion of kitchen ranges and ovens with standard level 2 for conventional cooking tops. The Department concludes that standard level 2 for conventional cooking tops saves a significant amount of energy and is technologically feasible and economically justified. There would be significant energy savings at this level of efficiency. During the period 1996&hyph;2030, these savings are calculated to be 2.54 quads of primary energy. In addition, the standard could have a positive effect on the environment by reducing the emissions of NO 2 and SO 2 by 151,000 tons and 30,000 tons, respectively, or by as much as 0.09 and 0.02 percent, respectively, by the year 2030. Furthermore, the standard will reduce emissions of CO 2 by 144 million tons, or 0.15 percent, over the forecast period. The technologies that are necessary to meet this standard are presently available. The Department finds the level to be economically justified. The consumer payback of this standard level is 7.0 years and 5.2 years for the representative gas and electric classes, respectively, or roughly one-third of the 19-year product life. This standard lowers the life-cycle cost for the representative gas and electric classes by $66 and $6, respectively. Additionally, the standard is expected to have only a slight reduction of the prototypical manufacturer's return on equity of 8.6 percent. Since this standard does not involve substantial redesign or retooling, the Department expects that it will not have negative impacts on smaller competitors.
