FR940407-2-00161 FR940407-2-00081 Travel_Line 6c. Enter total costs of all travel by employees of the project. Do not enter costs for consultant's travel. Justification Include the total number of traveler(s), total number of trips, destinations, number of days, transportation costs and subsistence allowances. Travel costs to attend two national workshops in Washington, DC by the project director should be included. Equipment_Line 6d. Enter the total costs of all non-expendable personal property to be acquired by the project. Non-expendable personal property means tangible personal property having a unit cost of $5,000 or more and having a useful life of one year. Justification Only equipment required to conduct the project may be purchased with Federal funds. The applicant organization or its subgrantees must not have such equipment, or a reasonable facsimile, available for use in the project. The justification also must contain plans for future use or disposal of the equipment after the project ends. An applicant may use its own definition of non-expendable personal property, provided that such a definition would at least include all tangible personal property as defined above. (See Line 21 for additional requirements.) Supplies_Line 6e. Enter the total costs of all tangible personal property (supplies) other than that included on line 6d. Justification Specify general categories of supplies and their costs. Contractual_Line 6f. Enter the total costs of all contracts, including: (1) The estimated cost of the third-party evaluation contract; travel costs for the chief evaluator to attend two national workshops in Washington, DC should be included; (2) procurement contracts (except those which belong on other lines such as equipment, supplies, etc.), and (3) contracts with secondary recipient organizations including delegate agencies and specific project(s) or businesses to be financed by the applicant. Justification Attach a list of contractors, indicating the names of the organizations, the purposes of the contracts, the estimated dollar amounts, and selection process of the awards as part of the budget justification. Also provide back-up documentation identifying the name of contractor, purpose of contract, and major cost elements. Note: Whenever the applicant/grantee intends to delegate part of the program to another agency, the applicant/grantee must submit Sections A and B of this Form SF&hyph;424A, completed for each delegate agency by agency title, along with the required supporting information referenced in the applicable instructions. The total costs of all such agencies will be part of the amount shown on Line 6f. Provide draft Request for Proposal in accordance with 45 CFR Part 74, Appendix H. Free and open competition is encouraged for any procurement activities planned using ACF grant funds. Applicants who anticipate evaluation procurements that will exceed $5,000 and are requesting an award without competition should include a sole source justification in the proposal which at a minimum should include the basis for contractor's selection, a description of the survey conducted of other service providers, justification for lack of competition when competitive bids or offers are not obtained and basis for award cost or price. ( Note: Previous or past experience with contractor is not sufficient justification for sole source.) For successful applicants, the Financial Assistance Award will cite under Remarks, item 18, approval of this action. Also include any contracts with organizations for the provision of technical assistance. Construction_Line 6g. Not applicable.
