FR941230-1-00053 FR941230-1-00004 ยง1.141&hyph;8 $15 million limitation for output facilities. (a) In general _(1) General rule. Section 141(b)(4) provides a special private activity bond limitation (the $15 million output limitation ) for issues 5 percent or more of the proceeds of which are to be used to finance output facilities. Under this rule, a bond is a private activity bond under the private business tests of section 141(b) (1) and (2) if the nonqualified amount with respect to output facilities financed by the proceeds of the issue exceeds $15 million. The $15 million output limitation applies in addition to the private business tests of section 141(b) (1) and (2). In addition, under section 141(b)(4) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the $15 million limitation is reduced in certain cases. Specifically, under the $15 million output limitation, the private business use test and the private security or payment test apply as follows: (i) Private business use test . An issue to which the $15 million limitation applies meets the private business use test if more than $15 million of the sale proceeds of the issue to be used with respect to an output facility are to be used for a private business use. (ii) Private security or payment test . An issue to which the $15 million limitation applies meets the private security or payment test if the payment of the principal of, or the interest on, more than $15 million of the sale proceeds of the portion of the issue used with respect to an output facility is (under the terms of the issue or any underlying arrangement) directly or indirectly_ (A) Secured by any interest in an output facility used or to be used for a private business use (or payments in respect of such an output facility); or (B) To be derived from payments (whether or not to the issuer) in respect of an output facility used or to be used for a private business use. (2) Reduction in $15 million output limitation for outstanding issues _(i) General rule. In determining whether an issue more than 5 percent of the proceeds of which are to be used with respect to an output facility consists of private activity bonds under the $15 million output limitation, the $15 million limitation on private business use and the $15 million limitation on the private security or payment test are each applied by taking into account any outstanding issues of tax-exempt bonds with respect to that output facility or any other output facility that is part of the same project. Thus, the $15 million limitation on private business use for an issue is reduced by the amount of private business use for that same project financed by any other outstanding tax-exempt bonds. Similarly, the $15 million limitation on the private security or payment test is reduced by the amount of private security or payments for that same project for any other outstanding tax-exempt bonds. (ii) Bonds taken into account . For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), in applying the $15 million output limitation to an issue (the later issue ), a tax-exempt bond of another issue (the earlier issue ) is taken into account if_ (A) The earlier issue is outstanding on the issue date of the later issue;
