FR941102-2-00085 FR941102-2-00063 The availability of human performance data is even more problematic. One reason is the lack of established and accepted human performance analysis methods and models upon which to base the collection of human performance data. This is particularly important in the analysis of operator performance in response to events during which both acts of omission and commission may occur. Human reliability methods and data are currently the focus of research and limited evaluations of human performance issues raised by analysis of operating reactor events. As the NRC and the nuclear reactor industry move toward greater use of PRA, the need for better data on human performance, plant-specific safety system availability data (at the system train level), and equipment reliability data will be required to continue to increase the role of PRA in the regulatory decision-making process. Increased availability of data on equipment and human performance is very important to implementing many risk-based regulation initiatives. For example, this information is essential for implementing the maintenance rule and in supporting the development of risk-based technical specifications. The NRC staff recognizes the need to collect equipment and human performance data. This information, derived largely from operating experience, will continue to provide a source of credible performance data for NRC use in the regulatory process. The NRC PRA Working Group identified the need for the development and use of consistent PRA models and methods. Several tasks that are now being undertaken include the development of more user-friendly computer interfaces; the development of low-power and shutdown models, external events models, and Level 2/3 PRA models compatible with the needs of NRC events assessment staff; and the development of methods for consistently identifying the appropriate detailed PRA model for use in the analysis of individual events or issues. It is important to note that not all of the NRC's risk management activities lend themselves to a risk analysis approach that uses a probabilistic, fault free methodology. The NRC recognizes that a single approach to risk management is not appropriate. As part of the PRA Implementation Plan the NRC will develop and validate risk assessment models and methods. Another issue is the training of the staff who will not be directly working with PRA methods. As the NRC shifts to grater use of, and reliance on, PRA methods and risk-based regulation, all technical staff members, including inspectors, will need to develop an understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of PRA methods and their use. The PRA Implementation Plan includes an extensive training program. This training program is based on the systems approach to training, which includes completing job task analyses, developing learning objectives, developing and delivering courses, evaluating trainee mastery of objectives, and modifying the PRA training program as necessary. Because the number of NRC staff members who will need training is large, a large resource commitment over the next several years will be required. The PRA Implementation Plan will require users and developers of the new methods to have significant experience in PRA methods and statistics. It will take time for these staff members to gain the necessary experience. Some of the knowledge and skills needed to do this work can be obtained though traditional training. However, on-the-job training, classroom instruction, and industrial experience will be needed in order to acquire some of the required knowledge and experience. Recruiting of outside experts and intensified development of current staff members will likely be necessary to gain this staff experience. This process will take several years to accomplish and will be a major factor in the success of the PRA Implementation Plan and in establishing the pace of its implementation. II. Tentative Agenda December 2, 1994 7:30 am␣Registration 8:30 am␣Introduction 8:45 am␣PRA Policy Statement Overview (NRC) 9:15 am␣Implementation Plan Overview (NRC) 10:00 am␣Break 10:15 am␣Industry Interactions (NRC/Industry) 11:45 am␣Lunch 1:00 pm␣Participant Presentations/Panel Discussion in Response to Participant Comments 2:45 pm␣Break 3:00 pm␣Participant Presentations/Panel Discussion in Response to Participant Comments (cont'd) 4:00 pm␣Summary and Conclusions 4:30 pm␣Adjourn
