FR940323-0-00079 FR940323-0-00020 (a) Alternative dispute resolution. (1) The aggrieved party may seek resolution through alternative means of dispute resolution such as mediation or facilitation. Dispute resolution proceedings must be initiated within 45 calendar days from the date of the alleged occurrence. At the initial session of the dispute resolution proceedings, the party must be advised in writing of his or her right to file a grievance and right to arbitration. If the matter is resolved, and a written agreement is reached, the party will agree to forego filing a grievance in the matter under consideration. (2) If mediation, facilitation, or other dispute resolution processes are selected, the process must be aided by a neutral party who, with respect to an issue in controversy, functions specifically to aid the parties in resolving the matter through a mutually achieved and acceptable written agreement. The neutral party may not compel a resolution. Proceedings before the neutral party must be informal, and the rules of evidence will not apply. With the exception of a written and agreed upon dispute resolution agreement, the proceeding must be confidential. (b) Grievance procedure for unresolved complaints. If the matter is not resolved within 30 calendar days from the date the informal dispute resolution process began, the neutral party must again inform the aggrieving party of his or her right to file a formal grievance. In the event an aggrieving party files a grievance, the neutral may not participate in the formal complaint process. In addition, no communication or proceedings of the informal dispute resolution process may be referred to or introduced into evidence at the grievance and arbitration hearing. Any decision by the neutral party is advisory and is not binding unless both parties agree. (c) Time limitations. Except for a grievance that alleges fraud or criminal activity, a grievance must be made no later than one year after the date of the alleged occurrence. If a hearing is held on a grievance, it must be conducted no later than 30 calendar days after the filing of such grievance. A decision on any such grievance must be made no later than 60 calendar days after the filing of the grievance. (d) Arbitration_ (1) Arbitrator_ (i) Joint selection by parties. If there is an adverse decision against the party who filed the grievance, or 60 calendar days after the filing of a grievance no decision has been reached, the filing party may submit the grievance to binding arbitration before a qualified arbitrator who is jointly selected and independent of the interested parties. (ii) Appointment by Corporation. If the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator within 15 calendar days after receiving a request from one of the grievance parties, the Corporations Chief Executive Officer will appoint an arbitrator from a list of qualified arbitrators. (2) Time Limits_ (i) Proceedings. An arbitration proceeding must be held no later than 45 calendar days after the request for arbitration, or, if the arbitrator is appointed by the Chief Executive Officer, the proceeding must occur no later than 30 calendar days after the arbitrator's appointment. (ii) Decision. A decision must be made by the arbitrator no later than 30 calendar days after the date the arbitration proceeding begins. (3) The cost. The cost of the arbitration proceeding must be divided evenly between the parties to the arbitration. If, however, a participant, labor organization, or other interested individual prevails under a binding arbitration proceeding, the State or local applicant that is a party to the grievance must pay the total cost of the proceeding and the attorney's fees of the prevailing party. (e) Suspension of placement. If a grievance is filed regarding a proposed placement of a participant in a program that receives assistance under this chapter, such placement must not be made unless the placement is consistent with the resolution of the grievance. (f) Remedies. Remedies for a grievance filed under a procedure established by a recipient of Corporation assistance may include_ (1) Prohibition of a placement of a participant; and (2) In grievance cases where there is a violation of nonduplication or nondisplacement requirements and the employer of the displaced employee is the recipient of Corporation assistance_ (i) Reinstatement of the employee to the position he or she held prior to the displacement; (ii) Payment of lost wages and benefits; (iii) Re-establishment of other relevant terms, conditions and privileges of employment; and (iv) Any other equitable relief that is necessary to correct any violation of the nonduplication or nondisplacement requirements or to make the displaced employee whole. (g) Suspension or termination of assistance. The Corporation may suspend or terminate payments for assistance under this chapter. (h) Effect of noncompliance with arbitration. A suit to enforce arbitration awards may be brought in any Federal district court having jurisdiction over the parties without regard to the amount in controversy or the parties' citizenship. Subpart C_Other Requirements for Recipients of Corporation Assistance ยง2540.300 What must be included in annual State reports to the Corporation? (a) In general. Each State receiving assistance under this title must prepare and submit, to the Corporation, an annual report concerning the use of assistance provided under this chapter and the status of the national and community service programs in the State that receive assistance under this chapter. A State's annual report must include information that demonstrates the State's compliance with the requirements of this chapter. (b) Local grantees. Each State may require local grantees that receive assistance under this chapter to supply such information to the State as is necessary to enable the State to complete the report required under paragraph (a) of this section, including a comparison of actual accomplishments with the goals established for the program, the number of participants in the program, the number of service hours generated, and the existence of any problems, delays or adverse conditions that have affected or will affect the attainment of program goals.
