FR940919-2-00110 FR940919-2-00046 Employees Will Make Change Happen Overall leadership, control, and coordination of all implementation activities are vested in the Implementation Manager, who will report to the Commissioner and Principal Deputy Commissioner. As part of these responsibilities, the Implementation Manager, with the assistance of a support team, will establish implementation priorities, develop specific timelines, and provide oversight to ensure that implementation decisions are consistent with the new process visions and the five process objectives. Although the Implementation Manager will be the focal point for all implementation activities, it is the employees and organizational components in the SSA and DDS communities who will make the new disability claim process a reality. Front-line employees will be asked to directly participate in the development, testing and implementation of process changes. They will also provide feedback on the effectiveness of the these changes. Task management teams will be chartered to address specific implementation issues and their duration will depend on the nature of their issue. For example, task teams that might be expected to require a longer-term existence are those dealing with decision methodology or organizational readiness and change management. The task teams will bring together staff from the affected SSA and DDS components to provide the necessary guidance for actual implementation action by organizational components. Central office components, working with their Regional office counterparts, will be responsible for ensuring that necessary implementation actions are effectuated. SSA will rely on an internal Advisory Group, comprised of SSA executives and union and association leaders to provide advice and guidance on implementation activities and facilitate communication about implementation plans. Non-SSA Experts and Interested Parties SSA will use an inclusive process that seeks input from a variety of non-SSA communities including, but not limited to, disability advocates, physicians, other health care and rehabilitation providers, and the private disability and health insurers. The goal of this inclusive process is to foster creative relationships with non-SSA experts so that SSA can have access to specialized expertise and advice as implementation activities progress. Open Lines of Communication SSA's unprecedented effort to establish new and beneficial communication channels during the various phases of the disability claim process redesign lays the groundwork for continued communication during implementation. The internal and external contacts and the avenues of communication established during the public dialogue period will continue and will be an integral part of the implementation process. SSA will continue open lines of communication about implementation of the new process with individuals and organizations who have a stake in the disability process, including front-line employees, representatives from Federal and State employee unions and associations, other Federal agencies, the Congress, the judiciary, and disability advocates. SSA will use all appropriate avenues of communication, including written materials, telecommunications, and personal briefings, to ensure that necessary information about implementation activities is regularly and widely disseminated and to develop appropriate feedback channels. Additionally, SSA will explore new opportunities and means of communicating with both internal and external audiences to permit meaningful exchanges of information. Appendix I: Methodology Business Process Reengineering The Process Reengineering Program is the culmination of a rigorous SSA investigation of the reengineering efforts and methodologies of those companies, public organizations, academic institutions, and consulting firms with the most ``hands on'' experience in this field. The positive findings from this detailed review, combined with concerns about existing business processes within SSA and the quality of SSA service to the public, led management to the conclusion that a process reengineering effort was critical to the SSA objective of providing ``world-class'' administration and service. Based largely on analysis of what has worked best in the private and public sectors, a customized reengineering methodology was developed within SSA. It uses a reengineering team approach that combines a strong ``customer'' focus with classic management analysis techniques, and computer modeling and simulation, to intensely review a single business process. The objective is not to make small, incremental improvements in the various pieces of the process, but to redesign it as a whole, from start to finish, so that it becomes many times more efficient and, in so doing, significantly improves SSA service to the public. A senior SSA manager was selected to serve as Director of the Process Reengineering Program. The Director leads all SSA process reengineering efforts, is the primary liaison with the Commissioner and Executive Staff, nominates topics for examination, chairs project steering committees, and directs a small professional staff and revolving group of managers/consultants.
