FR940906-2-00110 FR940906-2-00083 2. Coordination by Federal Agencies This Plan describes how the Federal response to a radiological emergency will be organized. It includes guidelines for notification of Federal agencies and States, coordination and leadership of Federal response activities onscene, and coordination of Federal public information activities and Congressional relations by Federal agencies. The Plan suggests ways in which the State, local, and Federal agencies can most effectively integrate their actions. The degree to which the Federal response is merged or to which activities are adjusted will be based upon the requirements and priorities set by the State. Appropriate independent emergency actions may be taken by the participating Federal agencies within the limits of their own statutory authority to protect the public, minimize immediate hazards, and gather information about the emergency that might be lost by delay. 3. Federal Agency Authorities Some Federal agencies have authority to respond to certain situations affecting public health and safety with or without a State request. Appendix C of this Plan cites relevant legislative and executive authorities. This Plan does not create any new authorities nor change any existing ones. A response to radiological emergencies on or affecting Federal lands not occupied by a government agency should be coordinated with the agency responsible for managing that land to ensure that response activities are consistent with Federal statutes governing the use and occupancy of these lands. This coordination is necessary in the case of Indian tribal lands because Federally recognized Indian tribes have a special relationship with the U.S. Government, and the State and local governments may have limited or no authority on their reservations. In the event of an offsite radiological accident involving a nuclear weapon, special nuclear material, and/or classified components, the owner (either DOD, DOE, or NASA) will declare a National Defense Area (NDA) or National Security Area (NSA), respectively, and this area will become ``onsite'' for the purposes of this plan. NDAs and NSAs are established to safeguard classified information and/or restricted data or equipment and material. Establishment of these areas places non-Federal lands under Federal control and results only from an emergency event. It is possible that radioactive contamination would extend beyond the boundaries of these areas. In accordance with appropriate national security classification directives, information may be classified concerning nuclear weapons, special nuclear materials at reactors, and certain fuel cycle facilities producing military fuel. 4. Federal Agency Resource Commitments Agencies committing resources under this Plan do so with the understanding that the duration of the commitment will depend on the nature and extent of the emergency and the State and local resources available. Should another emergency occur that is more serious or of higher priority (such as one that may jeopardize national security), Federal agencies will reassess resources committed under this Plan. 5. Requests for Federal Assistance State and local government requests for assistance, as well as those from owners and operators of radiological facilities or activities, may be made directly to the Federal agencies listed in Table II&hyph;1, FEMA, or to other Federal agencies with whom they have preexisting arrangements or relationships. 6. Reimbursement The cost of each Federal agency's participation in support of the FRERP is the responsibility of that agency, unless other agreements or reimbursement mechanisms exist. GSA will be reimbursed for supplies and services provided under this Plan in accordance with prior interagency agreements. E. Training and Exercises Federal agencies, in conjunction with State and local governments, will periodically exercise the FRERP. Each agency will coordinate its exercises with the Federal Radiological Preparedness Coordinating Committee's (FRPCC's) Subcommittee on Federal Response to avoid duplication and to invite participation by other Federal agencies. Federal agencies will assist other Federal agencies and State and local governments with planning and training activities designed to improve response capabilities. Each agency should coordinate its training programs with the FRPCC's Subcommittee on Training to avoid duplication and to make its training available to other agencies.
