FR940216-0-00221 FR940216-0-00010 (c) RVP and VOC emissions performance reduction compliance on average. (1) The VOC-controlled reformulated gasoline and RBOB produced at any refinery or imported by any importer during the period January 1 through September 15 of each calendar year which is designated for average compliance for RVP or VOC emissions performance on average must meet the standards for RVP (in the case of a refinery or importer subject to the simple model standards) or the standards for VOC emissions performance reduction (in the case of a refinery or importer subject to the complex model standards) which are applicable to that refinery or importer as follows: (i) Gasoline and RBOB designated for VOC Control Region 1 must meet the standards for that Region which are applicable to that refinery or importer; and (ii) Gasoline and RBOB designated for VOC Control Region 2 must meet the standards for that Region which are applicable to that refinery or importer. (2) In the case of a refinery or importer subject to the simple model standards, each gallon of reformulated gasoline and RBOB designated as being VOC-controlled may not exceed the maximum standards for RVP specified in §80.41(b) which are applicable to that refiner or importer. (3) In the case of a refinery or importer subject to the complex model standards, each gallon of reformulated gasoline designated as being VOC-controlled must equal or exceed the minimum standards for VOC emissions performance specified in §80.41 which are applicable to that refinery or importer. (d) Toxics emissions reduction and benzene compliance on average. (1) The averaging period for the requirements for benzene content and toxics emission performance is January 1 through December 31 of each year. (2) The reformulated gasoline and RBOB produced at any refinery or imported by any importer during the toxics emissions performance and benzene averaging periods that is designated for average compliance for these parameters shall on average meet the standards specified for toxics emissions performance and benzene in §80.41 which are applicable to that refinery or importer. (3) Each gallon of reformulated gasoline may not exceed the maximum standard for benzene content specified in §80.41 which is applicable to that refinery or importer. (e) NO X compliance on average. (1) The averaging period for NO X emissions performance is January 1 through December 31 of each year. (2) The requirements of this paragraph (e) apply separately to reformulated gasoline and RBOB in the following categories: (i) All reformulated gasoline and RBOB that is designated as VOC-controlled; and (ii) All reformulated gasoline and RBOB that is not designated as VOC-controlled. (3) The reformulated gasoline and RBOB produced at any refinery or imported by any importer during the NO X averaging period that is designated for average compliance for NO X shall on average meet the standards for NO X specified in §80.41 that are applicable to that refinery or importer. (4) Each gallon of reformulated gasoline must equal or exceed the minimum standards for NO X emissions performance specified in §80.41 which are applicable to that refinery or importer. (f) Oxygen compliance on average. (1) The averaging period for the oxygen content requirements is January 1 through December 31 of each year. (2) The requirements of this paragraph (f) apply separately to reformulated gasoline in the following categories: (i) All reformulated gasoline; (ii) All reformulated gasoline that is not designated as being OPRG; and (iii) In the case of reformulated gasoline certified under the simple model, that which is designated as VOC- controlled. (3) The reformulated gasoline produced at any refinery or imported by any importer during the oxygen averaging period that is designated for average compliance for oxygen shall on average meet the standards for oxygen specified in §80.41 that is applicable to that refinery or importer. (4) The reformulated gasoline that is produced at any oxygenate blending facility by blending RBOB with oxygenate that is designated for average compliance for oxygen shall on average meet the standards for oxygen specified in §80.41 that is applicable to that oxygenate blending facility. (5) Each gallon of reformulated gasoline must meet the applicable minimum requirements, and in the case of simple model reformulated gasoline the minimum and maximum requirements, for oxygen content specified in §80.41. (g) Compliance calculation. To determine compliance with the averaged standards in §80.41, any refiner for each of its refineries at which averaged reformulated gasoline or RBOB is produced, any oxygenate blender for each of its oxygenate blending facilities at which oxygen averaged reformulated gasoline is produced, and any importer that imports averaged reformulated gasoline or RBOB shall, for each averaging period and for each portion of gasoline for which standards must be separately achieved, and for each relevant standard, calculate: (1)(i) The compliance total using the following formula: E:GRAPHICSER16FE94.007 where V i =the volume of gasoline batch i std=the standard for the parameter being evaluated n=the number of batches of gasoline produced or imported during the averaging period and
