FR940512-2-00071 FR940512-2-00052 25. The anticompetitive effects of MAC's ``no-third-party-processing'' rule are twofold. a. First, it excludes competitors from the market for ATM processing in areas where MAC has market power in the market for ATM network access, extending the exercise of that market power into the processing market and permitting MAC to charge higher prices_which it does both directly and indirectly; and b. Second, by preventing many banks from participating in networks other than MAC, the rule makes it substantially more difficult for other networks to enter into MAC's areas of dominance to compete with MAC. The rule therefore serves to exclude competitors and maintain MAC's monopoly power. 26. The rule against third party processing is not necessary to obtain any efficiencies or quality control assurances that could not reasonably be obtained through less anticompetitive means. MAC allows some of its largest members to use third party processors, and permits those third party processors to connect to MAC, but will not allow those same third party processors to prove ATM driving services to other smaller MAC customers. First Violation Alleged 27. The United States repeats and realleges the allegations of paragraphs 1 to 26 herein. 28. The provision by defendant of ATM network access and processing services pursuant to MAC's rules, constitute an agreement or agreements within the meaning of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. 29. Regional ATM network access and ATM processing are separate products. 30. Defendant has market power in the market for regional ATM network access in the affected states. 31. The amount of commerce affected in the market for ATM processing in the affected states is substantial. 32. Defendant's rules and practices act to force many of its ATM network access customers to purchase ATM processing from defendant, rather than from other firms of the customer's choosing. 33. Defendant's tying arrangement unreasonably restrains trade and is unlawful per se under Section 1 of the Sherman Act. Second Violation Alleged 34. The United States repeats and realleges the allegations of paragraphs 1 to 33 herein. 35. Defendant possesses substantial monopoly power in the market for regional ATM network access in the affected states. 36. Defendant willfully has maintained its monopoly power in the market for regional ATM network access in the affected states through exclusionary practices. 37. Defendant's actions and practices constitute unlawful monopolization under Section 2 of the Sherman Act. Prayer for Relief Wherefore, plaintiff the United States prays that: a. Defendant be enjoined from requiring any depository institution that obtains ATM network access from defendant to obtain any ATM processing from defendant; from selling or contracting to see access to, membership in, or switching of transactions by the MAC network, on the condition, agreement, or understanding that the purchaser thereof shall not use or purchase ATM processing services from any other person; or from restricting in any manner, directly or indirectly, the ability of a depository institution to obtain ATM processing for access to the MAC ATM network from any person other than defendant; b. Defendant be enjoined to provide third party processors with nondiscriminatory access to the MAC switch that is at least equal in type and quality to the access MAC provides to intercept processors; c. Defendant be enjoined from discriminating in the pricing of access to the MAC network; d. The United States be granted such other structural, injunctive or further relief as this Court may deem just and proper; and e. The United States recover the costs in this action. Dated: April 21, 1994. Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General. Robert E. Litan, Deputy Assistant Attorney General. Mark C. Schechter, Deputy Director of Operations, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530. Richard L. Rosen, Chief, Communications and Finance Section, Antitrust Division, 555 Fourth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Richard Liebeskind, Assistant Chief, Communications & Finance Section. Don Allen Resnikoff, Attorney, Communications & Finance Section. John J. Sciortino, Attorney, Communications & Finance Section. Kevin C. Quin, Attorney, Communications & Finance Section, Antitrust Division, 555 Fourth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001, (202) 514&hyph;5628. Richard G. Andrews, United States Attorney. Nina A. Pala, Assistant United States Attorney, Delaware Bar No. 2622, District of Delaware, 1201 Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, (302) 573&hyph;6277.
