FR941230-1-00037 FR941230-1-00004 Example 5. Numerous private leases. The facts are the same as in Example 4 except that, instead of leasing any space to Corporation Y, State D leases the two floors to numerous unrelated private businesses to be used in their trades or businesses. No lease will have a term in excess of 2 years. The bonds meet the private business use test for the reasons set forth in Example 4. Example 6. Municipal auditorium. City G issues its obligations to finance the construction of a municipal auditorium that it will own and operate. The use of the auditorium will be open to anyone who wishes to use it for a short period of time on a rate-scale basis. The rights of such a user are only those of a transient occupant, rather than the full legal possessory interest of a lessee. It is anticipated that the auditorium will be used by schools, church groups, fraternities, and numerous commercial organizations. The revenues from the rentals of the auditorium and the auditorium itself will be the security for the bonds. The bonds are not private activity bonds because none of the uses constitute use in the trade or business of a nongovernmental person. Example 7. Long-term lease of municipal auditorium. The facts are the same as in Example 6 except that one nongovernmental person engaged in a trade or business will have a 10-year rental agreement providing for exclusive use of the entire auditorium for 6 weeks of each year at a rental comparable to that charged short-term users. The bonds satisfy the private business use test since use of the auditorium for 6 weeks each year is more than 10 percent of the use of the auditorium and the agreement is not disregarded as a de minimis use under paragraph (f) of this section. Thus, more than 10 percent of the proceeds of the issue will be used in a trade or business of a nongovernmental person. See also paragraph (i) of this section. Example 8. Management contract in substance a lease. City L issues bonds to finance the construction of a city hospital. L enters into a 5-year contract with M, a nongovernmental person that operates a health maintenance organization relating to the treatment of M's members at L's hospital. The contract meets the conditions for qualified management contracts under paragraph (c) of this section. However, the contract also provides that L will guarantee M that 20 percent of the capacity of the hospital will be exclusively available to members of M's health maintenance organizations at special rates so that the contract is properly characterized as a lease for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, the issue meets the private business use test. (i) Measurement of private business use _(1) General rule. The private business use of proceeds allocated to a facility under ยง1.141&hyph;6 is determined according to the use of that financed facility during each one-year period beginning from the later of the issue date or the date the facility is placed in service. The private business use of a facility is equal to the greatest percentage of private business use for any one year period. The private business use of a facility for any one year period is equal to the average private business use during that year. (2) Determining average of use. The average of the private business use of a facility is determined by comparing the amount of private business use of that facility during a year to the total amount of private business use and government use during that year. In determining the total amount of use, periods during which the facility is not in use are disregarded. In determining the average amount of private business use, the following rules apply: (i) Uses at different times. For a facility in which the government use and private business use occur at different times (for example, on different days), the average amount of private business use is based on the amount of time that the facility is used for private business use as a percentage of total time for all use. If, however, the use of a facility during different times has significantly different value, this determination must take into account those different values. (ii) Simultaneous use. For a facility in which government use and private business use occur simultaneously, the entire facility is treated as having private business use. If, however, the private business use and government use is on the same basis, the average amount of private business use may be determined on a reasonable basis (for example, relative value of use, relative amount of time used). For example, a governmentally owned facility that is leased or managed by a nongovernmental person in a manner that results in private business use is treated as entirely used for a private business use. On the other hand, a garage with unassigned spaces that is used for government use and private business use is only partially used for a private business use. (iii) Combined use. If a facility has private business use that is described in both paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (1)(2)(ii) of this section, the amount of private business use is determined according to whichever method produces the greatest amount of private business use. See, however, ยง1.141-6 for special rules for common areas of a discrete portion of a mixed use facility. (3) Use of a portion of a facility _(i) Discrete portion. For purposes of this paragraph (i), measurement of the use of proceeds allocated to a discrete portion of a mixed use facility is determined by treating the discrete portion as a separate facility. (ii) Common areas. The amount of private business use of common areas within a mixed use facility is based on the average amount of private business use of the remainder of the entire facility. (4) Allocation of neutral costs. Proceeds that are used to pay costs of issuance, invested in a reserve or replacement fund, or paid as fees for a qualified guarantee or a qualified hedge must be allocated ratably among the other purposes for which the proceeds are used.
