FR940317-2-00061 FR940317-2-00042 B. Regulations and Notices Regulations and notices are published in the daily Federal Register . Interested individuals may purchase individual copies or subscribe to the Federal Register by contacting the GPO at the address indicated above. When ordering individual copies, it is necessary to cite either the date of publication or the volume number and page number. C. Rulings Rulings are published on an infrequent basis by HCFA. Interested individuals can obtain copies from the nearest HCFA Regional Office or review them at the nearest regional depository library. We also sometimes publish Rulings in the Federal Register . D. HCFA's Compact Disk-Read Only Memory (CD&hyph;ROM) HCFA's laws, regulations, and manuals are now available on CD&hyph;ROM, which may be purchased from GPO or NTIS on a subscription or single copy basis. The Superintendent of Documents list ID is HCLRM, and the stock number is 717&hyph;139&hyph;00000&hyph;3. The following material is contained on the CD&hyph;ROM disk: •Titles XI, XVIII, and XIX of the Act. •HCFA-related regulations. •HCFA manuals and monthly revisions. •HCFA program memoranda. The titles are current as of the September 1, 1992, update of the Compilation of the Social Security Laws and the regulations are those in effect as of October 1, 1993. The CD&hyph;ROM disk does not contain Appendices M (Interpretative Guidelines for Hospices) and R (Resident Assessment for Long Term Care Facilities) of the State Operations Manual. Copies of these appendices may be reviewed at a Federal Depository Library (FDL). Any cost report forms incorporated in the manuals are included on the CD-ROM disk as LOTUS files. LOTUS software is needed to view the reports once the files have been copied to a personal computer disk. V. How To Review Listed Material Transmittals or Program Memoranda can be reviewed at a local FDL. Under the FDL program, government publications are sent to approximately 1400 designated libraries throughout the United States. Interested parties may examine the documents at any one of the FDLs. Some may have arrangements to transfer material to a local library not designated as an FDL. To locate the nearest FDL, individuals should contact any library. In addition, individuals may contact regional depository libraries, which receive and retain at least one copy of most Federal government publications, either in printed or microfilm form, for use by the general public. These libraries provide reference services and interlibrary loans; however, they are not sales outlets. Individuals may obtain information about the location of the nearest regional depository library from any library. Superintendent of Documents numbers for each HCFA publication are shown in Addendum III, along with the HCFA publication and transmittal numbers. To help FDLs locate the instruction, use the Superintendent of Documents number, plus the HCFA transmittal number. For example, to find the Carriers Manual, Part 2_Program Administration (HCFA&hyph;Pub. 14&hyph;2) transmittal entitled ``The Contractor Performance Evaluation Program_FY 1993,'' use the Superintendent of Documents No. HE 22.8/7&hyph;3, and the HCFA transmittal number 123. VI. General Information It is possible that an interested party may have a specific information need and not be able to determine from the listed information whether the issuance or regulation would fulfill that need. Consequently, we are providing information contact persons to answer general questions concerning these items. Copies are not available through the contact persons. Copies can be purchased or reviewed as noted above. Questions concerning Medicare items in Addenda III may be addressed to Margaret Cotton, Office of Issuances, Health Care Financing Administration, Room 688 East High Rise, 6325 Security Blvd., Baltimore, MD 21207, Telephone (410) 966&hyph;5260. Questions concerning Medicaid items in Addenda III may be addressed to Pat Prete, Medicaid Bureau, Office of Medicaid Policy, Health Care Financing Administration, Room 233 East High Rise, 6325 Security Blvd., Baltimore, MD 21207, Telephone (410) 965&hyph;3246. Questions concerning items in Addenda V may be addressed to Walter Rutemueller, Office of Coverage and Eligibility Policy, Health Care Financing Administration, Room 401 East High Rise, 6325 Security Blvd., Baltimore, MD 21207, Telephone (410) 966&hyph;5395. Questions concerning all other information may be addressed to Jacqueline Kidd, Regulations Staff, Health Care Financing Administration, Room 132 East High Rise, 6325 Security Blvd., Baltimore, MD 21207, Telephone (410) 966&hyph;4682.
