FR940425-0-00030 FR940425-0-00018 2. Terminology NHTSA proposed that the vehicle requirements be applicable to vehicles manufactured to operate on CNG-only (``dedicated'') vehicles and to vehicles manufactured to operate on two fuels, CNG and either gasoline or diesel fuel. The agency referred in the NPRM to this latter type of vehicle as a ``dual fuel'' CNG vehicle. The American Automobile Manufacturers Association (AAMA), Blue Bird, Oklahoma Gas, and the NGVC commented that the agency used the term ``dual fuel vehicle'' incorrectly. These commenters explained that the industry's generally understood meaning of ``dual fuel vehicle'' is a vehicle that uses a mixture of two fuels simultaneously, in this case CNG and another fuel such as gasoline or diesel. A vehicle that is capable of operating either on CNG and another fuel such as gasoline or diesel, but not a mixture of both, is referred to as a ``bi-fuel'' vehicle. A vehicle equipped with one fuel system and designed to operate on CNG is referred to as a ``dedicated CNG vehicle.'' NHTSA has decided to adopt the generally accepted terminology used in the alternative fuel industry for vehicles that operate on more than one fuel. Accordingly, the final rule includes definitions for ``Bi-fuel CNG vehicle,'' ``Dedicated CNG vehicle,'' and ``Dual-fuel CNG vehicle.'' The agency notes that these definitions are generally consistent with the statutory terms in the Energy Policy Act. Section 403 of that Act amended certain provisions in Title V of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, including definitions for ``dedicated vehicle'' and ``dual fueled vehicles.'' The definitions of these terms in this notice are consistent with the statutory provisions. The one difference between the agency's definitions and the statutory definitions is that the agency's definition of ``bi-fuel'' vehicle also falls under the Act's definition of ``dual fueled automobile'' (i.e., ``an automobile which is capable of operating on an alternative fuel [such as CNG] and on gasoline or diesel)''. Nevertheless, the agency believes that it is necessary that its definition of ``bi-fuel'' vehicle include the greater specificity provided by the industry's definition of this term. C. Performance Requirements 1. Allowable Pressure Drop a. Regulatory background. In the ANPRM, NHTSA discussed the possibility of proposing a prohibition against any fuel leakage during the crash test and for up to 30 minutes after the vehicle's motion had ceased. A number of commenters to the ANPRM objected to a no-leakage requirement, claiming that any pressurized gaseous fuel system will produce a minimal amount of leakage from fittings and valves. Along with their concerns about practicability, commenters further stated that a no-leakage requirement would be overly restrictive in comparison to Standard No. 301. That standard permits a minimal amount of leakage. After considering the comments on the ANPRM, NHTSA decided that instead of proposing a no-leakage requirement, it would propose allowing not more than a minimal level of leakage for a specified time period. The allowable leakage provision was patterned after Standard No. 301 and was intended to avoid the practicability problems associated with a no-leakage requirement. The agency believed that the allowable amount of leakage is equivalent in energy content to the leakage allowed for gasoline in Standard No. 301. Under the proposal, CNG leakage from the vehicle's entire fuel system would have been measured for a 15-minute period following a barrier crash test. The proposal discussed two alternatives related to measuring the allowable leakage: (1) Leakage would be measured through incremental measurements from the time of impact until the vehicle ceased motion, for the subsequent five-minute period, and every minute in the next 10-minute period, or (2) the cumulative leakage would be measured only once, at the end of the 15-minute test period. With either measurement, the total gas permitted to leak at the end of the test period would have been the same. The agency requested comment on the feasibility and practicability of specifying gaseous leakage measurements at specific time intervals and about devices that are capable of measuring incremental pressure changes.
