FR940426-1-00066 FR940426-1-00007 (ii) Special and incentive pays payable under 37 U.S.C. chapter 5. (iii) Accrued leave payments under 37 U.S.C. chapter 9. (iv) Payments to missing persons under 37 U.S.C. chapter 10. (v) Separation payments, including involuntary separation pay under 10 U.S.C. 1174 voluntary separation incentive (VSI) under 10 U.S.C. 1175, special separation benefit (SSB) under 10 U.S.C. 1174a, reservist special separation pay (RSSP) under Public Law 102&hyph;484, section 4416, and reservist involuntary separation pay (RISP) under Public Law 102&hyph;484, section 4418. (vi) Allowances paid under 37 U.S.C. Chapter 7 and other reimbursements for expenses incurred in connection with duty in a Military Service or allowances in lieu thereof. (vii) Payments not specifically enumerated in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. (3) Deduct: (i) Amounts owed by a member to the United States. (ii) Amounts deducted for employment taxes. (iii) Amounts mandatorily withheld for the Armed Forces Retirement Home. (iv) Fines and forfeitures ordered by a court-martial or by a commanding officer. (v) Amounts properly withheld for Federal, State, or local income tax purposes, if the withholding of the amount is authorized or required by law and if amounts withheld are not greater than would be the case if the member claimed all dependents to which entitled. The withholding of additional amounts pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 3402(i) may be permitted only when the member presents evidence of a tax obligation which supports the additional withholding. (vi) Deductions for Servicemen's Group Life Insurance premiums; (vii) Deductions for the dental benefits plan premiums. (viii) Amounts otherwise required by law to be deducted from a member's pay (except payments under of 42 U.S.C. 659, 661, 662, and 665. (g) Exigencies of military duty. Is a military assignment or mission essential duty that, because of its urgency, importance, duration, location, or isolation, necessitates the absence of a member of the military services from appearance at a judicial proceeding. Absence from an appearance in a judicial proceeding is normally presumed to be caused by exigencies of military duty during periods of war, national emergency, or when the member is deployed (see appendix A to this part, paragraph B2.c.(5)(a)). (h) Judgment . A final judgment must be a valid, enforceable order or decree, issued not earlier than two years before the date of an application for an involuntary allotment, by a court from which no appeal may be taken, or from which no appeal has been taken within the time allowed, or from which an appeal has been taken and finally decided. The judgment must award a sum certain amount and specify that the amount is to be paid by an individual who, at the time of application for the involuntary allotment, is a member of the Military Services. (i) Just financial obligations. A legal debt acknowledged by the military member in which there is no reasonable dispute as to the facts or the law; or one reduced to judgment which conforms to the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act (SSCRA), if applicable. (j) Member of the military services. Includes Regular, Reserve, and National Guard members who are not retired. (k) Preponderance of the evidence. A greater weight of evidence, or evidence which is more credible and convincing to the mind. That which best accords with reason and probability (see Black's Law Dictionary ). (l) Proper and timely manner. A manner which under the circumstances does not reflect discredit on the military service. ยง50.4 Responsibilities. (a) The Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness) (USD(P&R)) shall: (1) Have policy oversight concerning involuntary allotment of military pay; and (2) Shall establish policies and procedures governing the assistance to be provided by military authorities to creditors of military personnel who have debt complaints. (b) The Comptroller of the Department of Defense shall establish procedures supplemental to those contained in this part which are necessary to administer and process involuntary allotments from members of the Military Services; this includes the authority to promulgate forms necessary for the efficient administration and processing of involuntary allotments. (c) The Heads of DoD Components, or their designees, shall urge military personnel to meet their just financial obligations, since failure to do so damages their credit reputation and affects the public image of all DoD personnel (DoD Directive 1000.10, 1 subsection D.4., DoD Directive 1000.11, 2 and DoD Directive 5500.7. 3 1 Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. 2 See footnote 1 to ยง50.4(c). 3 See footnote 1 to ยง50.4(c). (d) The Director, Defense Finance and Accounting Services, or his or her designee, shall: (1) Assure implementation of this part and compliance with its provisions. (2) Determine whether the provisions of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act (SSCRA) have been complied with under the provisions of Public Law 103&hyph;94. (3) Act as the DoD Executive Agent for forms prescribed by this part, or otherwise necessary to process involuntary allotments. (e) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall help ensure compliance with the requirements of this part, to include: (1) Requiring commanders to counsel members to pay their just debts, including complying, as appropriate, with court orders and judgments for the payment of alimony or child support. (2) Ensuring notification and counseling of members against whom creditors are seeking involuntary allotments pursuant to a court judgment in accordance with the provisions of this part. (3) Designating those commanders who shall be responsible for determining whether a member's absence from a judicial proceeding was caused by exigencies of military duty.
