FR940406-2-00150 FR940406-2-00090 D. Ineligible Intermediary Activities Intermediaries may not receive payment, directly or indirectly, from the proceeds of grants they have approved. In addition, intermediaries may not provide other services to grant recipients with respect to the specific properties for which the grant has been awarded. E. Selection Criteria 1. Threshold Intermediaries must meet minimum criteria described in Section III.A, ``Eligible Intermediaries,'' of this NOFA. If in its review the Department determines that the applicant does not meet the threshold criteria, the application will be rejected. If the application does meet the threshold criteria, then the Department will select intermediaries through a rating and ranking competition described in Section III.E(2) of this NOFA. 2. Preferences and Factors for Award The intermediary applications will be rated and ranked on a point system, with the maximum point score of 100. The Department will first rate and rank any local or sub-State intermediary applications, then all State intermediary applications, and then regional applications. In general, the Department will give preference to local intermediaries, as discussed in Section II.C, ``Allocation and Funding'', of this NOFA; however, capacity, experience, and overall points for these intermediaries will be considered before selection. The Department may establish a threshold score on capacity and experience that local applicants must meet in order to qualify for funding. After selecting local, State, and regional intermediaries, the Department will rate and rank all national intermediary applications to select an intermediary in States or regions for which no other eligible intermediary, acceptable to the Secretary, has submitted a proposal to participate. If no such national intermediary applies to perform NOFA activities, the Department, through its field offices, will administer technical assistance grant funds for all areas without an acceptable intermediary. The Department will consider joint venture applications as long as one eligible intermediary is identified in the application as the primary applicant. The rating points will be allocated based on the categories below: (a) Preservation Experience. (30 points) The Secretary shall give rating points to applications from eligible intermediaries based on expertise or experience with ELIHPA and LIHPRHA. Maximum points will be given to applicants with significant demonstrated expertise or experience with ELIHPA or LIHPRHA. (b) Range of Activities. (10 points) These points will be given to organizations applying to administer both the Resident Capacity grants and the Predevelopment grants, rather than applying to administer just one of those grant programs. (c) Direct Experience. (30 points) Rating points will be given to intermediaries based on their direct experience in performing the tasks for which they have applied. This would include administration of grants to resident organizations, administration of grants to nonprofit organizations and State or local agencies, and monitoring of nonprofit grantees. The Department will not assign preference to intermediaries with experience in administering Federal grants, but may exclude applicants that have failed to perform under prior contracts of a similar nature. (d) Organizational Capacity. (30 points) Each applicant will be rated on its organizational capacity to implement its plan to administer grants. Each applicant should submit evidence that its organization can implement the proposed activities in an efficient manner, based on demonstrated organizational capacity and staff expertise. IV. Responsibilities of Intermediaries A. General Intermediaries will be responsible for performing the tasks listed in Section III.C, ``Eligible Tasks,'' of this NOFA. The technical assistance grant program that the intermediaries will be administering is described in detail in Appendix A to this NOFA.
