FR940727-0-00113 FR940727-0-00026 Subpart A_General §95.1 Purpose. This part establishes uniform administrative requirements for Federal grants and agreements awarded to institutions of higher education, hospitals, other non-profit organizations, commercial organizations, foreign governments, organizations under the jurisdiction of foreign governments, and international organizations. DOL shall not impose additional or inconsistent requirements, except as provided in §§95.4 and 95.14 or unless specifically required by Federal statute or executive order. Non-profit and commercial organizations that implement Federal programs for the States are also subject to State requirements. §95.2 Definitions. (a) Accrued expenditures means the charges incurred by the recipient during a given period requiring the provision of funds for: (1) Goods and other tangible property received; (2) Services performed by employees, contractors, subrecipients, and other payees; and, (3) Other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance is required. (b) Accrued income means the sum of: (1) Earnings during a given period from (i) Services performed by the recipient, and (ii) Goods and other tangible property delivered to purchasers, and (2) Amounts becoming owed to the recipient for which no current services or performance is required by the recipient. (c) Acquisition cost of equipment means the net invoice price of the equipment, including the cost of modifications, attachments, accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make the property usable for the purpose for which it was acquired. Other charges, such as the cost of installation, transportation, taxes, duty or protective in-transit insurance, shall be included or excluded from the unit acquisition cost in accordance with the recipient's regular accounting practices. (d) Advance means a payment made by Treasury check or other appropriate payment mechanism to a recipient upon its request either before outlays are made by the recipient or through the use of predetermined payment schedules. (e) Award means financial assistance that provides support or stimulation to accomplish a public purpose. Awards include grants and other agreements in the form of money or property in lieu of money, by DOL to an eligible recipient. The term does not include: technical assistance, which provides services instead of money; other assistance in the form of loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, or insurance; direct payments of any kind to individuals; and, contracts which are required to be entered into and administered under procurement laws and regulations. (f) Cash contributions means the recipient's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the recipient by third parties. (g) Closeout means the process by which DOL determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the award have been completed by the recipient and DOL. (h) Commercial organization means any business entity organized primarily for profit (even if its ownership is in the hands of a nonprofit entity) with a place of business located in or outside the United States. The term includes, but is not limited to, an individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative.
