FR940523-2-00076 FR940523-2-00041 (5) The adequacy of community commitment and coordination to develop the proposed coalition, including evidence of appropriate community participation and endorsement, and documentation of commitment, e.g., MOAs and MOUs; (6) The reasonableness of the proposed budget and adequacy of the budget justification; (7) The adequacy of the evaluation plan in measuring the coalition's effectiveness in a quantifiable fashion; and (8) The extent to which the demonstration activity will be coordinated with the activities under the Public Housing Primary Health Care program. Eligibility Only those grantees or applicants approved for FY 1994 funding, who have not previously received OMH/MCHC funds, are eligible for MCHC grants. Other Award Information This program has been determined to be a program which is subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, as implemented by 45 CFR part 100. Executive Order 12372 allows States the option of setting up a system for reviewing applications from within their States for assistance under certain Federal programs. The application kit, to be made available under this notice, will contain a listing of States which have chosen to set up a review system and will provide a State point of contact (SPOC) in the State for that review. Applicants (other than Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process recommendations is 60 days after the appropriate application deadline date. The BPHC does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its response to State process recommendations received after the due date. Public Health System Reporting Requirement This program is subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirement (reporting requirements have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget_0937&hyph;0195). Under this requirement, the community-based nongovernmental applicant must prepare and submit a Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS). The PHSIS is intended to provide information to State and local health officials to keep them apprised of proposed health services grant applications submitted by community-based nongovernmental organizations within their jurisdictions. Community-based nongovernmental applicants are required to submit the following information to the head of the appropriate State and local health agencies in the area(s) to be impacted no later than the Federal application receipt due date: (1) A copy of the face page of the application (SF 424). (2) A summary of the project (PHSIS), not to exceed one page, which provides: a. A description of the population to be served; b. A summary of the services to be provided; and c. A description of the coordination planned with the appropriate State and local health agencies. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number for this program is 93.927. Dated: April 21, 1994. John H. Kelso, Acting Administrator.
