FR940128-1-00068 FR940128-1-00006 M. Additional Guidance_FDA Fish and Fishery Products Hazards and Controls Guide Including Specific Guidance on Smoked Fishery Products As an adjunct to its rulemaking to require HACCP procedures in the seafood industry, FDA is drafting an extensive guidance for processors to use in understanding and implementing HACCP principles for their operations. This guidance will provide information that processors and importers can use in the development of their HACCP plans. This information consists largely of an identification of hazards that can affect the safety of seafood and a review of control measures that can keep the hazards from actually occurring, or that can at least minimize the likelihood of their occurrence. FDA has included selected portions of the draft HACCP guidance as Appendix 1 to this proposal, so as to better inform the public about how this guidance will be structured and about the kinds of assistance that will be available to processors and importers who implement HACCP. The agency emphasizes, however, that this guidance is a work-in-progress and still being developed by FDA. Nonetheless, the agency seeks comment on the need for this guidance and the usefulness of the format the agency proposes to adopt. In addition, FDA is including in Appendix 1 specific guidance on time-temperature and salinity parameters and other matters for use in the HACCP plans of processors of smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products. While FDA is seeking comment on the guidance generally, it particularly seeks comment on the guidance on smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products. Material relevant to the safe processing of smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products is found in various sections of the HACCP guidance because this general guidance is primarily organized by hazard rather than by commodity type. However, the agency has gathered the materials relating to smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products into a single section of the guidance to facilitate use of this guidance by this industry, and to facilitate obtaining public comment on it. As stated above, FDA seeks public comment on the appropriateness of the materials relating to smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products as guidance, on their validity as guidelines, and on whether they should be made mandatory by incorporating them into any final regulation that results from this rulemaking. While no known outbreaks of botulism attributed to smoked fish have been reported since 1963, FDA believes that the failure by manufacturers to obtain information about the composition of hot- and cold-process products represents a potential health hazard. Without analytical results from the testing for water-phase salt and sodium nitrite levels, a manufacturer cannot determine whether the fish have been adequately processed to inhibit C. botulinum spore outgrowth and toxin production. The agency's concerns are underscored by the diversity of processing temperatures and salt levels used in the manufacture of these products, particularly the lower range temperatures and water-phase salt levels (Ref. 24). Finally, as stated above, the use of modified atmosphere and vacuum packaging with smoked and smoke-flavored fish products is also a source of concern. These types of packaging provide an anaerobic environment in which C. botulinum spores can grow out and produce botulin, the causative agent in botulism. When consumed, the toxin attacks the central nervous system and may cause death if untreated within 3 to 6 days. For all these reasons, FDA has tentatively concluded that some type of guidance that defines the procedures for the safe processing of smoked and smoke-flavored fish is necessary. Historically, fish have been smoked in order to preserve them. Today, the primary reason for smoking is to impart certain taste and texture qualities to the fish. There are essentially two types of smoked fish: (1) Those that are subjected to a ``cold process'' that leaves the fish soft and moist, with a delicate smoke flavor, such as lox, and (2) those that are subjected to a ``hot process'' that produces a less moist, firmer product with heavier smoke flavor, such as smoked whitefish.
