FR940128-1-00030 FR940128-1-00006 All of these requirements reflect the HACCP principles developed by NACMCF. FDA is not proposing to require that the HACCP plan be signed by any official of a company, but invites comment on the merits of such a requirement in the final regulations as a means of both ensuring and demonstrating formal adoption of the plan by that company. FDA also invites comment on who in the firm would be the appropriate individual to sign the plan. 2. Guidelines and Other Assistance FDA recognizes that HACCP plans will vary in complexity, from those having many critical control points, such as plans for multicomponent, ready-to-eat products, to those having only a few critical control points, such as a plan for a fish filleting plant. Plan development can be facilitated by technical assistance from many sources and by the detailed advice provided in the literature. NACMCF, for example, has recommended that, to facilitate the development of HACCP plans, processors should create an HACCP team, identify the intended use and likely consumers of the food, and prepare a flow diagram of the entire manufacturing process to help identify critical control points. The agency favors simplicity and the rapid development of HACCP plans without undue expense. The appendices at the end of the proposed regulations are intended to facilitate plan development by setting forth certain critical control points, critical limits, controls, and records that, if incorporated into or prepared under a HACCP plan, would be acceptable to the agency for the types of products mentioned. To further facilitate the development of HACCP plans, FDA intends to issue separate HACCP guidance for seafood that will provide information on hazards and appropriate controls by species and by product type. The guidance will provide a broad spectrum of information from which firms will be able to identify likely hazards and critical control points that apply to them. The agency believes that the number of critical control points will range, roughly, between 2 and 12 per product. The guidance will also contain a fill-in-the-blank type of HACCP plan with instructions on how to complete the plan based on information in the guidance. The agency has tentatively concluded that a plan that follows this model is likely to be acceptable to FDA. The agency is including samples of the guidance it is developing in Appendix 1 to this document. FDA intends to issue a separate draft guidance document for public comment and to make the completed guidance available to the public at the time that the regulations are finalized.
