FR940719-2-00091 FR940719-2-00055 A. Recipient Activities 1. Provide utilities and adequate office space to support the Area Resource Office (ARO). 2. Conduct training needs assessments, analyze data, and make recommendations for training to meet identified needs. 3. Develop and maintain a resource roster of content specialists and training materials. 4. Promote area development of training materials and maintenance of a resource library. 5. Coordinate the area alliance training calendar. 6. Establish a communication network among the States in the area training alliance and with the NLTN. 7. Provide leadership in the delivery of laboratory training workshops and seminars. 8. Provide leadership in analyzing the overall effectiveness of the ALTA in meeting the training needs of the Nation's laboratorians. B. CDC Activities 1. Collaborate with the ALTA in assessing and analyzing laboratory training needs in the States. 2. Provide input for the roster of educational and technical experts who develop and deliver laboratory training. 3. Serve as a collaborator in the design, development, promotion, and evaluation of laboratory training materials. 4. Collaborate in the development of the ALTA calendars. 5. Participate in the communication network established for the ALTA. 6. Collaborate in the development and delivery of laboratory training workshops and seminars. 7. Collaborate in analyzing the overall effectiveness of the ALTA. 8. Provide direct assistance (DA) in lieu of cash. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: 1. Review Criteria of Competing Application a. Proposed Program_30% The proposal clearly demonstrates the applicant's understanding of the issues described in the Program Announcement (included in the application kit) and demonstrates knowledge of, and experience in, conducting laboratory training need assessments; maintaining resource rosters for content specialists and training materials; coordinating area training alliances; and establishing communication networks among States. The proposal should describe project objectives that fit the objectives outlined in the application and the plan submitted must demonstrate an appropriate emphasis on collaboration. b. Technical Merit_20% The proposal demonstrates technical merit in the approaches to be used in accomplishing the activities as outlined in the Program Announcement. c. Proposal Adequacy_20% The proposal demonstrates adequacy of the plan to address the long-term objectives and appropriateness of the timelines to accomplish the activities outlined in the Program Announcement. d. Applicant Capability_20% The proposal demonstrates adequacy to provide utilities and space for the ARO staff. The facilities, space, and equipment necessary for conducting the project are available and adequate. e. Program Personnel_10% The proposal describes qualifications of professional and support staff that are commensurate with necessary levels of expertise to successfully conduct project activities. f. Program Budget The proposal demonstrates appropriateness and justification of the requested budget relative to the activities proposed. 2. Review of Non-Competing Applications Continuation awards within the project period will be based on: a. Availability of funds; b. Satisfactory progress made in meeting project objectives; c. Objectives for the new budget period that are realistic, specific, and measurable; d. Proposed changes on objectives, methods of operation, need for grant or cooperative agreement support, and/or evaluation procedures that will lead to achievement of project objectives; and e. The budget request is clearly justified and consistent with the intended use of cooperative agreement funds. Executive Order 12372 Review This application is subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372.
