FR940606-0-00056 FR940606-0-00019 PART 882_SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM_EXISTING HOUSING 18. The authority citation for part 882 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437a, 1437c, 1437f, and 3535(d). In addition, Subpart H is also issued under 42 U.S.C. 11361 and 11401. 19. Section 882.406 is revised to read as follows: ยง882.406 Displacement, relocation, and acquisition. (a) Minimizing displacement. (1) Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, Owners shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part. To the extent feasible, residential tenants shall be provided a reasonable opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable dwelling unit in the project upon its completion. (2) Whenever a building/complex is rehabilitated and some, but not all, of the rehabilitated units will be assisted upon completion of the rehabilitation, the relocation requirements described in this section cover the occupants of each rehabilitated unit, whether or not Section 8 assistance will be provided for the unit. (b) Temporary relocation. The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such tenants must be provided: (1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporary housing, and any increase in monthly rent/utility costs. (2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of: (i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation; (ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period; (iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the project upon its completion; and (iv) The assistance required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (c) Relocation assistance for displaced persons. A ``displaced person'' (defined in paragraph (g) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4201&hyph;4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. A ``displaced person'' shall be advised of his/her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 360119), and, if the representative comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority is located in an area of minority concentration, such person also shall be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas. (d) Real property acquisition requirements. The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements of 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. (e) Appeals. A person who disagrees with the PHA's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a ``displaced person,'' or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is found to be eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the PHA. A person who is dissatisfied with the PHA's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Field Office. (f) Responsibility of PHA. (1) The PHA shall certify (i.e., provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24) that it will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section, and shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the PHA to comply with these provisions. (2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. Such costs also may be paid for with local public funds or funds available from other sources. The cost of PHA advisory services for temporary relocation of tenants may be paid from preliminary administrative funds. (3) The PHA shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this section. The PHA shall maintain data on the race, ethnic, gender, and disability status of displaced persons. (g) Definition of displaced person. (1) For purposes of this section, the term displaced person means a person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project assisted under this part. The term ``displaced person'' includes, but may not be limited to: (i) A person who moves permanently from the real property after receiving a notice from the owner requiring such move, if the move occurs on or after the date of the submission to the PHA of the Owner proposal that is later approved; (ii) A person, including a person who moves permanently before the submission of the Owner proposal to the PHA, if the PHA or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the assisted project; or (iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after the execution of the Agreement between the Owner and the PHA, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of:
