FR940919-2-00188 FR940919-2-00081 Household penetration rates ( i.e., the percentage of households with a telephone) vary substantially both from State to State and within a State. 29 Subscribership is also particularly low among certain segments of our society. Approximately one-third of African-American and Hispanic households with annual incomes of less than $5,000 lack telephone service, as compared to twenty percent of white households. 30 Fifty-three percent of Native American households on reservations do not have phones. 31 Nearly three-quarters of all phoneless households are renters, and fifteen percent of households headed by a person under twenty-five years of age are without telephones. 32 Finally, in many states, some areas have no telephone service at all_not even pay phones. 33 29 In March 1994, telephone penetration ranged from 87.7% in South Carolina to 97.2% in Pennsylvania. Telephone Subscribership, supra note 26, at 14, Table 2. Further, while more than half of Southwestern Bell's 550 central offices in Texas report penetration rates of 95% or higher, some seven percent of the company's central offices have penetration rates of 80% or less. Source: Southwestern Bell Telephone analysis of 1990 Census data. We request comment from other telephone companies as to whether similar variations exist in their subscribership. 30 Telephone Subscribership, supra note 26, at 23, Table 4. In 1989, about 50 percent of households at or below the poverty level headed by single women with small childen did not have telephone service. Jorge Schement, Beyond Universal Service: Characteristics of Americans Without Telephone Service 4 (unpublished paper presented at a conference sponsored by The Benton Foundation and The Columbia Institute for Tele-Information, Washington, D.C., Oct. 15, 1993). 31 Bureau of the Census, U.S. Dep't of Commerce News (Release # CB94&hyph;127) Aug. 22, 1994, at 1. 32 Bureau of the Census, U.S. Dep't of Commerce, SB/94&hyph;16, Phoneless in America 1 (July 1994) ( Phoneless ) (1990 data). 33 Universal Service Project, NARUC Subcommittee on Communications, Staff Position Statement on Universal Service Principles 4 (July 19, 1994). 21. Statistics such as these have caused many observers to conclude that universal service has not been fully achieved in the United States. 34 Low penetration rates among certain groups appear to result from a variety of factors. For example, witnesses at NTIA's Albuquerque, New Mexico, field hearing cited the state's low per-capita income as an important cause of the low penetration in the area. 35 More than sixty-five percent of the households of the Navajo Nation in New Mexico do not subscribe to telephone service because telephone service is either not affordable or not available. 36 Language barriers and the need for increased public education, at least among certain groups, may also result in reduced telephone service penetration. 37 34 See, e.g., NII Field Hearings, supra note 10, at 8. 35 See Transcript of New Mexico Hearing at 55, 253&hyph;254 (Comments of Thomas A. Garcia, U S WEST Vice President, New Mexico; Comments of Kenneth Solomon, Acting Director, Telecommunications Division, New Mexico State Corporation Commission (Dec. 16, 1993)). Another factor in affordability may be long distance charges. See Field Research Corporation Affordability of Telephone Service 68, Customer Survey Conducted for GTE and Pacific Bell (Oct. 1993) (finding that, among other things, customers who find it difficult to afford service have a higher percentage of their average monthly bill attributable to long distance charges). 36 Comments of Rodger Boyd, Executive Director of the Navajo Nation, Division of Economic Development (Dec. 16, 1993). 37 For example, research indicates that people with limited knowledge of the English language frequently are not able to take full advantage of the programs and services available to them. A 1992 survey of Chinese, Korean and Latino consumers in San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, and Brownsville, Texas, about their knowledge of telecommunications revealed that 43% did not know how to begin the process of having a phone installed and 17% did not know who to call if the phone was not working. See Comments of Bong Hwan Kim, Executive Director, Korean Youth and Community Center, Los Angeles hearing, at 6 (Feb. 16, 1994). 22. We seek further comment on these matters. Are there other underserved groups besides those we have mentioned? Are the measures used and types of data currently being collected by the Census Department and other government agencies adequate for determining whether universal service goals are being met in all sectors of society? If so, parties are requested to provide that information for the record. If not, what recommendations are there for providing more comprehensive and targeted data on these issues? 23. We also solicit comment (particularly studies, surveys, etc.) on why some Americans do not have telephone service. Is income the determining or predominant factor? Does subscribership depend to any significant degree on geography ( e.g., do penetration levels differ between rural and urban areas after controlling for factors like income)? To what extent are cultural factors important? If such factors are important, what steps can be taken to overcome them? Do different considerations affect a household's ability to retain phone service over time, as compared to its decision to subscribe initially? 24. Finally, we request comment on whether implementation of universal service should be measured in terms of availability of POTS rather than penetration. For example, some households may not have telephone service simply because they choose not to subscribe. What measure(s), applied on a regular basis for monitoring purposes, would best enable policymakers to distinguish such households from those that desire basic service but cannot obtain it?
