FR940413-0-00010 FR940413-0-00002 (1) Hills Telephone Company, Inc. (2) Interstate Telecommunications Cooperative, Inc. (3) Martin and Associates, Inc., submitted comments on behalf of 16 local exchange carriers located in South Dakota. (4) Joint comments from the National Rural Telecom Association and the Western Rural Telephone Association. (5) National Telephone Cooperative Association. (6) Joint comments from the Oklahoma Rural Telephone Coalition, Rural Arkansas Telephone Systems, and Texas Statewide Telephone Cooperative, Inc. (7) Organization for the Protection and Advancement of Small Telephone Companies. (8) United States Telephone Association. The comments will be discussed in the order in which they appear in the final rule. This Federal Register notice serves to notify the public that the interim rule, with the exception of 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B (modernization plan regulations), is final. Section 1610.1␣General Comment Summary: Two organizations objected to REA distinguishing between authorized loan purposes for Rural Telephone Bank (RTB) loans by establishing a preference for one classification of authorized statutory loan purposes over another. Further, it was stated that RTB is without authority to impose such a preference, and this provision should be deleted from the final rule. Response: While RELRA amended section 408(a)(2) of the RE Act to revise certain purposes for RTB financing, section 408(a)(1) was not amended and it references section 201 where such purposes are still eligible for RTB financing. REA believes that RELRA, by amending 408(a)(2), indicated preference to loans for section 408(a)(2) purposes over 408(a)(1) purposes to the extent that REA has completed applications for loans for purposes set forth in 408(a)(2). This policy is consistent with the RELRA provisions which provide (1) the same purposes for REA cost-of-money loans as for 408(b)(2) loans, and (2) that RTB and cost-of-money loans are to be concurrent. Section 1610.6␣Concurrent Bank and REA Cost-of-Money Loans Comment Summary: Several organizations objected to REA requiring that REA cost-of-money loans and RTB loans be made concurrently, and stated that concurrence should remain an option of the borrower. Also, there was concern that mandating RTB to make loans concurrently with the REA cost-of-money program would compromise the independence of a future, privatized RTB. Commenters requested that REA revise the interim rule to provide borrowers with an option of selecting concurrent RTB and REA cost-of-money loans. Response: Concurrent loans are required by RELRA. This is also consistent with RELRA's other amendments that only allow REA cost-of-money and RTB loans to be made for the same purposes and that subject those loans to the same eligibility requirements. This approach facilitates the most effective administration of this policy. Section 1610.10␣Determination of Interest Rate on Bank Loans Comment Summary: REA should acknowledge that future RTB interest rates will be calculated taking into consideration RELRA's interest rate amendment. Response: The methodology for calculating interest rates charged on RTB loans is provided in §1610.10. While the interest rate amendment requires calculating a single RTB interest rate that applies to all advances made within a given fiscal year, this amendment only takes effect when funds have been appropriated by Congress to offset any subsidy associated with charging a single rate. When such an appropriation is made, RTB will calculate an interest rate in accordance with the RELRA amendment. However, no revisions will be made to §1610.10 because the methodology for calculating interest rates remains unchanged.
