FR940727-0-00095 FR940727-0-00025 Sources of Information Relating to Government Contractors 1Type of information 1Possible source Location, dollar value, type, and number of current contracts with the Department of Defense a. DD Form 350 Report.1 b. Defense Logistics Agency's (DLA) ``Contract Administration Defense Logistics Agency's (DLA) Contract Administration Report (CAR Report) on contracts DLA administers. 2. Financial status of corporation, history of corporation, owners, and officers a. Dunn and Bradstreet Reports. b. Corporate filings with local secretaries of the State, or corporate recorders. ␣ c. Securities and Exchange Commission (public corporations). ␣ d. Small Business Administration (SBA) (small businesses). ␣ e. General Accounting Office (bid protests, and contractors indebted to the Government). ␣ f. Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals (ASBCA) or court litigation. ␣ g. List of Contractors Indebted to the United States (maintained, published and distributed by the U.S. Army Finance and Accounting Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46249). 3. Security clearance background information on facility and officers a. Defense Investigative Service. 4. Performance history of contractor a. Local contracting officers. ␣ b. Defense Contract Administration Service preaward surveys. ␣ c. SBA Certificate of Competency records. 5. Name, location, offense alleged, and previous investigative efforts involving DLA-awarded or DLA-administered contracts DLA Automated Criminal Case Management System. (Available through field offices of the DLA Counsel's office.) 6. Bid protests, litigation, and bankruptcy involving DLA-awarded or DLA-administered contracts Field offices of the DLA Counsel's office. 1A determination as to the contract history of any DoD contractor with contracts in excess of $25,000 annually can be made through a review of the ``Individual Procurement Action Report'' (DD Form 350) system, as prescribed by Subpart 4.6 of the DoD FAR Supplement, DoD Instruction 4105.61, and DoD 4105.61&hyph;M (references (c), (d), and (e)).
