FR940204-1-00041 FR940204-1-00003 Therefore, in light of the above, it is proposed that a safety analysis requirement, modelled after §33.75 and expanded to address continued operation after a single engine failure, be included in the Dual Pac engine certification basis. Uncontained Engine Failure It is assumed that the Dual Pac engine is intended for use in an aircraft and will be part of an aircraft certification program in the future. Minimizing the hazards to the aircraft from uncontained engine debris will be a very important requirement in any such certification program. In addition, for a design such as the Dual Pac, many design features intended to minimize such hazards would be determined at the engine design stage. Therefore, this issue should be addressed initially during the Dual Pac engine certification program, and possibly readdressed during the aircraft installation certification program. As stated above, one objective of a Dual Pac engine-equipped aircraft could be continued safe flight and landing after the failure of one P&W PT6 engine. In order for the Dual Pac engine to achieve this objective, it must continue to produce adequate and controllable torque after such a failure. Service experience, however, shows that uncontained engine failures can result in high velocity fragment penetration of, among other things, other engines. This could render the other engine inoperative as well. In the case of the Dual Pac engine, such an event could end all torque production. Therefore, the Dual Pac engine must demonstrate that the two P&W PT6 engines should be protected from each other in order to minimize the hazards associated with this event. Gearbox Design, Functioning, and Endurance Testing Power transmission systems, such as gearboxes, have not been specifically addressed by engine certification regulations. Previously, engines incorporating gearboxes, such as fan reduction gearing or accessor gearboxes, have been evaluated during the course of engine block tests and other engine certification activities. Transmissions such as those used in rotorcraft, however, have been addressed in rotor drive criteria contained in rotorcraft certification regulations. Since the Dual Pac engine propulsion drive system is part of the engine, it is proposed that the changes to FAR part 23, which were published as a Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM), ``Small Airplane Airworthiness Review Program Notice No. 3,'' in the Federal Register on October 3, 1990, (55 FR 40598); and FAR §33.87 (amended through Amendment 33&hyph;3), be used as a basis for special conditions intended to establish standards to address the design, function, and endurance testing of the gearbox. Section 33.87 regulations have been included in order to establish a comprehensive standard to address the turbine interface with the gearbox. Type Certification Basis Under the provisions of §21.101 of the FAR, Soloy Dual Pace Dual Pac, Inc., must show that the Dual Pac engine meets the applicable provisions of the regulations incorporated by reference in Type Certificate No. E4EA, or the requirements of the applicable regulations in effect on the date of the application. The regulations incorporated by reference in the type certificate are commonly referred to as the ``original type certification basis.'' The regulations incorporated by reference in Type Certificate No. E4EA are as follows: (a) FAR §21.29, Issue of type certificate: import products. (b) Civil Air Regulations (CAR) Part 10, Certification and Approval of Import Aircraft and Related Products, March 28, 1955. (c) FAR Part 33, Airworthiness Standards: Aircraft Engines, February 1, 1965, as amended through Amendment 33&hyph;5. If the regulations incorporated by reference do not provide adequate standards with respect to the change, the applicant must comply with the regulations in effect on the date of application for the change that the FAA finds necessary to provide a level of safety equal to that established by the regulations incorporated by reference. Due to the potential applications of the Soloy Dual Pac engine, the FAA has determined that it must also be shown to comply with FAR part 33, dated February 1, 1965, as amended, plus the following sections: (a) Section 33.7, Amendment 33&hyph;12, Engine ratings and operating limitations. (b) Section 33.67, Amendment 33&hyph;10, Fuel system. (c) Section 33.68, Amendment 33&hyph;10, Induction system icing. (d) Section 33.96, Amendment 33&hyph;11, Engine test in auxiliary power unit mode. (e) Section 21.115(a), Applicable requirements. In addition, compliance must be shown with FAR part 34 (Fuel Venting and Exhaust Emission Requirements for Turbine Engine Powered Airplanes); these special conditions contained herein on Safety analysis, Gearbox design, functioning, and endurance testing, and Uncontained engine failure; as well as any applicable equivalent safety findings and any applicable exemptions. The Administrator finds that the applicable airworthiness regulations in part 33, as amended, do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards for the Soloy Dual Pac engine because of its novel or unsual design feature. Therefore, the Administrator proposes special conditions under the provisions of §21.16 to establish a level of safety equivalent to that established in the regulations.
