FR941206-0-00064 FR941206-0-00011 The information presented in this preamble is organized as follows: I. The Standards II. Summary of Impacts III. Significant Changes to the Proposed Standards. A. Public Participation B. Comments on the Proposed Standards C. Significant Changes IV. Administrative Requirements A. Docket B. Paperwork Reduction Act C. Executive Order 12866 D. Regulatory Flexibility Act I. The Standards National emission standards for hazardous air pollutants established under section 112(d) of the Act reflect: *␣*␣* the maximum degree of reduction in emissions of the hazardous air pollutants subject to this section (including a prohibition on such emissions, where achievable) that the Administrator, taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reduction, and any nonair quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements, determines is achievable for new or existing sources in the category or subcategory to which such emission standard applies *␣*␣* (the Act section 112(d)(2)) The promulgated standards include multiple alternatives to allow owners or operators maximum compliance flexibility. A summary of today's final standards is listed in Table 1. Included in this table are applicability cutoffs based on annual EO use, general descriptions of the standards, and the estimated impacts associated with these standards for each vent type. Section 114(a)(3) of the Act requires enhanced monitoring and compliance certifications of all major stationary sources. The annual compliance certifications certify whether compliance has been continuous or intermittent. Enhanced monitoring shall be capable of detecting deviations from each applicable emission limitation or standard with sufficient representativeness, accuracy, precision, reliability, frequency, and timeliness to determine if compliance is continuous during a reporting period. The monitoring in this regulation satisfies the requirements of enhanced monitoring. Owners or operators of all commercial EO sterilization and fumigation operations with an initial startup date before December 8, 1997 that are subject to the emissions standards are required to install the control technology needed to comply with the standards within 3 years from December 6, 1994. Owners or operators of new commercial EO sterilization and fumigation operations with initial startup after December 8, 1997 would be required to comply with all requirements upon startup.
