FR940810-1-00041 FR940810-1-00007 (f) Adverse information. If the deciding official considers information in addition to the evidence described in the notice of the Secretary's determination that is adverse to the guaranty agency's position on appeal, the deciding official informs the agency and provides it a reasonable opportunity to respond to the information without regard to the period referred to in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (g) Decision. (1) The deciding official issues a written decision on the guaranty agency's appeal within 45 days of the date on which the information described in paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5)(ii) of this section is received, or the oral argument referred to in paragraph (d)(5) of this section is held, whichever is later. The deciding official mails the decision to the guaranty agency by certified mail, return receipt requested. The decision of the deciding official becomes the final decision of the Secretary 30 days after the deciding official issues it. In the case of a determination that a guaranty agency must return reserve funds, if the deciding official does not issue a decision within the prescribed period, the agency is no longer required to take the actions described in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section. (2) A guaranty agency may not seek judicial review of the Secretary's determination to require the return of reserve funds or assets until the deciding official issues a decision. (3) The deciding official's written decision includes the basis for the decision. The deciding official bases the decision only on evidence described in the notice of the Secretary's determination and on information properly submitted and considered by the deciding official under this section. The deciding official is bound by all applicable statutes and regulations and may neither waive them nor rule them invalid. (h) Collection of reserve funds or assets. (1) If the deciding official's final decision requires the guaranty agency to return reserve funds, or requires the guaranty agency to require the return of reserve funds or assets to the agency or to the Secretary, the decision states a new date for compliance with the decision. The new date is no earlier than the date on which the decision becomes the final decision of the Secretary. (2) If the guaranty agency fails to comply with the decision, the Secretary may recover the reserve funds from any funds due the agency from the Department without any further notice or procedure and may take any other action permitted or authorized by law to compel compliance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19434 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
