FR940524-2-00087 FR940524-2-00052 Lehman Brothers and A.G. Edwards comment that, to the extent that consistency is the NYSE's objective, the proposal is an incomplete solution because it has no impact on the processing of margin extension requests for non-NYSE firms. 26 Lehman Brothers asserts that consistency could be achieved more effectively by the FRB or Commission dictating uniform processing criteria for all SROs although if does not believe that they are necessary at the present time. 26 See Lehman Brothers Letter and A.G. Edwards Letter, supra note 11. Some commenters conclude that it appears that competition has led to lower extension fees for broker-dealers. These commenters assert that the NYSE currently charges more than the other SROs granting extension requests. These commenters also assert that if the proposal is approved, the NYSE will not be subject to competition from other SROs and thus it will be free to charge any amount it wishes for extensions. For example, the Gradison Letter states that competition is the key to keeping regulatory costs under control. 27 Likewise, First of Michigan states that it submits its extension requests to the CSE and its costs have been reduced. The PHLX states that approval of the NYSE proposal would leave as the only discipline on the NYSE's extension fees Commission review of such fees pursuant to section 6(b)(4) of the Act to assure that there was ``equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees and other charges among its members *␣*␣*'' 28 The PHLX asserts that such review is inevitably inexact and is far less preferable to relying on the competitive discipline of the market to assure fair and appropriate fees. 29 27 See Gradison Letter, supra note 9. 28 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(4) (1988). 29 See 1989 PHLX Letter, supra note 9. B. The Viability of the Existing Process Various SRO commenters assert that the NYSE proposal is unnecessary because there has not been any showing that the current extension approval process does not work. 30 For example, both the CSE and Gradison Letters assert that there is no evidence that the CSE has not adequately monitored extensions. 31 The CSE further argues that adoption of the NYSE proposal is unnecessary because the Commission has found that the CSE has a good extension program. 32 Similarly, Bartlett and Company states that the CSE has effectively monitored the extension approval process and it would be inefficient, uneconomical, and extremely inconvenient for it to submit its extension requests to the NYSE. 33 Securities Settlement Corporation states that it has been filing extension requests with the CSE and it has concluded that the CSE has provided cost effective service and financial reports that the NYSE has not been able to provide. 34 30 See Gradison Letter and July 1989 CSE Letter, supra note 9, and January 1993 CSE Letter, supra note 11. 31 See id. 32 See January 1993 CSE Letter, supra note 11. 33 See Bartlett and Co. Letter, supra note 9. 34 See Securities Settlement Corp. Letter, supra note 9. Some commenters question the NYSE's portrayal of the current regulatory environment, and claim that their extension processing system is comparable to that of the NYSE. The CSE and PHLX, for example, state that there is much more uniformity than the NYSE proposal implies. 35 The CSE states that it believes that it uses the same parameters and procedures as the NYSE for evaluating, granting and controlling extensions as well as the same acceptable reasons, acceptable number of extensions permitted, special limitations and restrictions on customers as the NYSE. The PHLX states that it grants extensions for reasons similar to those accepted by the NYSE, and that both the NYSE and the PHLX grant extensions for similar lengths of time. 36 The CHX also states that it applies the same parameters and procedures for evaluating, granting and controlling extension requests as are used by the NYSE. 37 st 35 See January 1989 CSE Letter and 1989 PHLX Letter, supra , note 9. 36 See February 1989 PHLX Letter, supra not 9. 37 See 1989 CHX Letter, supra note 9.
