FR941117-2-00047 FR941117-2-00040 •Responsible for the input and control of all Bureau correspondence and Bureau management of the Correspondence Assignment Tracking and Control System (CATCS); represents the Bureau on any matters involving CATCS. (1) Division of Correspondence Development (FKA&hyph;41) •Analyzes incoming correspondence, prepares interim responses, as well as acknowledgement of referral letters, as needed. •Identifies the issues that need to be addressed and determines what resources are needed to prepare final replies; as needed, consolidates information from the precedent language file (BRIEF), the Staff library, Bureau components (generally through draft language requests), and organizations outside of the Bureau. •Develops final responses to correspondence received. •Receives and responds to telephone inquiries. •Receives and initiates telephone calls to offices of members of Congress and White House Staff as necessary to resolve problems, respond to Medicare and Medicaid inquiries, and negotiates due dates or otherwise expedites the work. (2) Division of Correspondence Analysis and Resources (FKA&hyph;42) •Develops methods and procedures for the distribution and processing of correspondence work performed in the Bureau. •Acts as the focal point for Offices and Divisions preparing Bureau correspondence. •Coordinates and prepares responses to issues or assignments requiring input from two or more Offices. •Maintains operating instructions. •Develops instructions on the use of computer terminals in the Office's work. •Responsible for the input, control and Bureau management of all correspondence in the Correspondence Assignment Tracking and Control System (CATCS); represents the Bureau on any matters involving CATCS. •Designs, maintains, implements, and reports on the correspondence appraisal program, a post release review of the replies prepared by the Division of Correspondence Development designed to insure a high quality product. •Develops and maintains a sophisticated filing system and resource program, including a precedent language file, Office library, and manuals. •Conducts beneficiary recontact programs to determine how beneficiaries receive and react to the replies Staff writers prepare. •Tests and monitors a variety of writing styles and formats in an effort to improve replies to correspondence. •Studies randomly selected correspondence to determine trends or concerns of inquirers and reports findings to the Office Director. •Controls incoming correspondence; controls, types, and releases interim and final replies on each letter prepared by Office writers. •Receives, controls, tracks and prepares responses to General Accounting Office and Inspector General reports, Freedom of Information Act requests and other correspondence on HCFA programs. •Assists the Office Director in responding to requests from the Bureau Director or Deputy in matters concerning White House or Secretary inquiries. b. Management and Systems Support Staff (FKA&hyph;5) •Serves as principal advisor to the Director, as well as the Bureau's executive staff, on the full range of management and related administrative issues. •Responsible for handling highly sensitive and complex assignments requiring the Director's and Deputy Director's personal attention often involving inter-Bureau and office coordination and attention. •Develops, coordinates, and directs a management program for the management analysis functions, internal financial management, personnel selection and placement, training and employee development, position control and staff utilization. •Develops and issues Bureau-wide problem area reporting, coordination of Bureau operational planning activities, and a variety of administrative support services, including property and space management. •Develops and evaluates Bureau management information systems, conducts management information and project management monitoring studies, and administers the Bureau's reports management program. •Responsible for the Bureau's Automatic Data Processing, Local Area Networks, Telecommunications and Word Processing systems including identifying needs, procurement, evaluation, and maintaining liaison with the Bureau of Data Management and Strategy. c. Office of Regulations (FKA&hyph;6) •Conducts the HCFA process for developing regulations and plans corresponding work agendas.
