FR940419-0-00116 FR940419-0-00020 Housing in a project that is designed in part for uses other than residential use qualifies as affordable housing if such housing meets the criteria of §92.252 or §92.254. A project that contains, in addition to dwelling units, laundry and community facilities for the exclusive use of the project residents and their guests, does not constitute a project that is designed in part for uses other than residential use. Residential living space must constitute at least 51 percent of the project space for contributions to the non-residential portion of the property to count as match. 25. In subpart F, a new §92.259 would be added to read as follows: §92.259 Elder cottage housing opportunity (ECHO) units. (a) General. HOME funds may be used for the initial purchase and initial placement costs of elder cottage housing opportunity (ECHO) units that meet the requirements of this section, and that are small, free-standing, barrier-free, energy-efficient, removable, and designed to be installed adjacent to existing single-family dwellings. (b) Eligible owners. The owner of a HOME-assisted ECHO unit may be: (1) The owner of the single-family host property on which the ECHO unit will be located; (2) A participating jurisdiction; or (3) A non-profit organization. (c) Eligible tenants. During the affordability period, the tenant of a HOME-assisted ECHO unit must be an elderly, handicapped or disabled family as defined in part 812 of this title, and must also be a low income family. (d) Applicable requirements. The requirements of §92.252 of this part apply to HOME-assisted ECHO units, except as specified in this section, including the following requirements: (1) Only one ECHO unit may be provided per host property. (2) The ECHO unit owner may choose whether or not to charge the tenant of the ECHO unit for rent, but if a rent is charged, it must meet the requirements of §92.252. (3) The ECHO housing must remain affordable for the period specified in §92.252(a)(5). If within the affordability period the original occupant no longer occupies the unit, the ECHO unit owner must: (i) Rent the unit to another eligible occupant on site; (ii) Move the ECHO unit to another site for occupancy by an eligible occupant; or (iii) If the owner of the ECHO unit is the host property owner, in accordance with the requirements of §92.254(a)(4)(ii), the participating jurisdiction must recapture the HOME investment to be used for additional HOME activities. (4) The participating jurisdiction has the responsibility to enforce the project requirements applicable to ECHO units. 26. In §92.300, paragraphs (b), (e) and (f) are revised to read as follows: §92.300 Set-aside for community housing development organizations (CHDOs). * * * * * (b) Each participating jurisdiction must make reasonable efforts to identify community housing development organizations that are capable, or can reasonably be expected to become capable, of carrying out elements of the jurisdiction's approved housing strategy and to encourage such community housing development organizations to do so. If during the first 24 months of its participation in the HOME Program a participating jurisdiction cannot identify a sufficient number of capable CHDOs, up to 20 percent of the minimum CHDO setaside of 15 percent specified in paragraph (a) of this section (but not more than $150,000 during the 24 month period) may be committed to develop the capacity of CHDOs in the jurisdiction. * * * * * (e) If funds for operating expenses are provided under §92.208 to a community housing development organization that is not also receiving funds under paragraph (a) of this section for housing to be developed, sponsored or owned by the community housing development organization, the participating jurisdiction must enter into a written agreement with the community housing development organization that provides that the community housing development organization is expected to receive funds under paragraph (a) of this section within 24 months of receiving the funds for operating expenses, and specifies the terms and conditions upon which this expectation is based. (f) Limitation. A community housing development organization may not receive HOME funding for any fiscal year in an amount that provides more than 50 percent or $50,000, whichever is greater, of the community housing development organization's total operating expenses in that fiscal year. This includes organization support and housing education provided under §92.302 (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(6), as well as funds for operating expenses provided under §92.208 and administrative funds provided under §92.207 (if the community housing development organization is a subrecipient or contractor of the participating jurisdiction). 27. In §92.354, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: §92.354 Labor. (a) General. (1) Every contract for the construction (rehabilitation or new construction) of housing that includes 12 or more units assisted with HOME funds must contain a provision requiring the payment of not less than the wages prevailing in the locality, as predetermined by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a&hyph;276a&hyph;5), to all laborers and mechanics employed in the development of any part of the housing. Such contracts must also be subject to the overtime provisions, as applicable, of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327&hyph;332). (2) The contract for construction must contain these wage provisions if HOME funds are used for any project costs (as defined in §92.206), including construction or nonconstruction costs, of housing with 12 or more HOME-assisted units. Where 12 or more units in a project are assisted under this part, the wage provisions must be contained in the construction contract so as to apply to all laborers and mechanics employed in the development of the entire project, as defined in §92.2, including portions other than the assisted units. If HOME funds are only used to assist first-time homebuyers to acquire single-family housing and not for any other project costs, the wage provisions apply to the construction of housing containing 12 or more units when there is a written agreement with the owner or developer of the housing that the HOME funds will be used to assist first-time homebuyers to buy the housing. (3) Participating jurisdictions, contractors, subcontractors, and other participants must comply with regulations issued under these Acts and with other federal laws and regulations pertaining to labor standards and HUD Handbook 1344.1 (Federal Labor Standards Compliance in Housing and Community Development Programs), as applicable. Participating jurisdictions must require certification as to compliance with the provisions of this section before making any payment under such contract. * * * * *
