FR940414-2-00118 FR940414-2-00076 Applicant's Conditions Applicant agrees that the order granting the requested relief shall be subject to the following conditions: 1. Each proposed transaction otherwise prohibited by section 17(a) or section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1 to which the Partnership is a party (the ``Section 17 Transactions'') will be effected only if the Board, through the General Partner, determines that: a. The terms of the transaction, including the consideration to be paid or received, are fair and reasonable to the Partners and do not involve overreaching of the Partnership or its Partners on the part of any person concerned; and b. The transaction is consistent with the interests of the Partners, the Partnership's organizational documents and the Partnership's reports to its Partners. In addition, the General Partner will record and preserve a description of such affiliated transactions, their findings, the information or materials upon which their findings are based and the basis therefor. All such records will be maintained for the life of the Partnership and at least two years thereafter, and will be subject to examination by the Commission and its staff. 3 3 The Partnership will preserve the accounts, books and other documents required to be maintained in an easily accessible place for the first two years. 2. In connection with the Section 17 Transactions, the Board, through the General Partner, will adopt, and periodically review and update, procedures designed to ensure that reasonable inquiry is made, prior to the consummation of any such transaction, with respect to the possible involvement in the transaction of any affiliated person or promoter of or principal underwriter for the Partnership, or any affiliated person of such a person, promoter, or principal underwriter. 3. The General Partner will not invest the funds of the Partnership in any investment in which a ``Co-Investor,'' as defined below, has or proposes to acquire the same class of securities of the same issuer, where the investment involves a joint enterprise or other joint arrangement within the meaning of rule 17d&hyph;1 in which the Partnership and the Co-Investor are participants, unless any such Co-Investor, prior to disposing of all or part of its investment, (a) gives the General Partner sufficient, but not less than one day's, notice of its intent to dispose of its investment; and (b) refrains from disposing of its investment unless the Partnership has the opportunity to dispose of the Partnership's investment prior to or concurrently with, and on the same terms as, and pro rata with the Co-Investor. The term ``Co-Investor'' means any person who is: (a) An ``affiliated person'' (as such term is defined in the Act) of the Partnership; (b) A member of the Morgan Stanley Group; (c) An officer or director of a member of the Morgan Stanley Group; or (d) A company in which the General Partner acts as a general partner or has a similar capacity to control the sale or other disposition of the company's securities (including without limitation each MS Venture Capital Fund). The restrictions contained in this condition, however, shall not be deemed to limit or prevent the disposition of an investment by a Co-Investor: (a) To its direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, to any company (a ``parent'') of which the Co-Investor is a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, or to a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of its parent; (b) To immediate family members of the Co-Investor or a trust established for any such family member; (c) When the investment is comprised of securities that are listed on any exchange registered as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Exchange Act; or (d) When the investment is comprised of securities that are national market system securities pursuant to section 11A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and rule 11Aa2&hyph;1 thereunder. 4. The Partnership and the General Partner will maintain and preserve, for the life of the Partnership and at least two years thereafter, such accounts, books, and other documents as constitute the record forming the basis for the audited financial statements that are to be provided to the Partners, and each annual report of the Partnership required to be sent to the Partners, and agree that all such records will be subject to examination by the Commission and its staff. 4 4 The Partnership will preserve the accounts, books and other documents required to be maintained in an easily accessible place for the first two years. 5. The General Partner will send to each Partner who had an interest in each capital account of the Partnership at any time during the fiscal year then ended Partnership financial statements audited by the Partnership's independent accountants. At the end of each fiscal year, the General Partner will make a valuation or have a valuation made of all of the assets of the Partnership as of such fiscal year end. In addition, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Partnership or as soon as practicable thereafter, the General Partner shall send a report to each person who was a partner at any time during the fiscal year then ended, setting forth such tax information as shall be necessary for the preparation by the partner of his or its federal and state income tax returns and a report of the investment activities of the Partnership during such year. 6. In any case where purchases or sales are made by the Partnership from or to an entity affiliated with the Partnership by reason of a 5% or more investment in such entity by a Morgan Stanley Group advisory director, director, officer, or employee, such individual will not participate in the Partnership's determination of whether or not to effect such purchases or sale. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9013 Filed 4&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
