FR940228-1-00037 FR940228-1-00003 5. Have a permanent full-time staff, a viable system for financing its operations, and a policy- and decision-making review board; 6. Have a set of written organizational by-laws and policies that provide adequate assurance of lack of conflict of interest and a system for monitoring and enforcing those by-laws and policies; 7. Have a committee, whose members can carry out their responsibilities impartially, to review and approve the certification guidelines and procedures, and to advise the organization's staff in implementing the certification program; 8. Have a committee, whose members can carry out their responsibilities impartially, to review complaints against certified individuals and to determine appropriate sanctions; 9. Have written procedures describing all aspects of its certification program, maintain records of the current status of each individual's certification and the administration of its certification program; 10. Have procedures to ensure that certified individuals are provided due process with respect to the administration of its certification program, including the process of becoming certified and any sanctions imposed against certified individuals; and 11. Have procedures to ensure that the individuals proctoring each examination are not employed by the same company or corporation (or a wholly-owned subsidiary of such company or corporation) as any of the examinees; 12. Exchange information about certified individuals with the Commission and other independent certifying organizations and/or Agreement States and allow periodic review of its certification program and related records; 13. Provide a description to the Commission of its procedures for choosing examination sites and for providing an appropriate examination environment. II. Requirements for Certification Programs All certification programs must: 1. Require that individuals: (a) Receive training in the topics set forth in ยง34.34(f) of this part, and (b) Satisfactorily complete a written examination covering these topics; 2. Require applicants for certification to provide documentation that demonstrates that the applicant has: (a) Received training in the topics set forth in section 34.43(f) to this part; (b) Satisfactorily completed a minimum period of on-the-job training; and (c) Has received verification by an Agreement State or a NRC licensee that the applicant has demonstrated the capability of independently working as a radiographer; 3. Include procedures to ensure that all examination questions are protected from disclosure; 4. Include procedures whereby an application or certification would be considered null and void if the applicant or certified individual is prohibited from acting as a radiographer by a regulatory agency at the time of making the application; 5. Provide a certification period of not less than 3 years nor more than 5 years; 6. Include procedures for renewing the certifications and, if the procedures allow renewals without examination, require evidence of recent active full-time employment and annual refresher training; 7. Include procedures whereby an individual's certification may be revoked, suspended, or restricted for willful or significant failure to comply with his or her employer's operating or emergency procedures, or the Commission's or an Agreement State's regulations; 8. Provide for automatic suspension of an individual's certification, based on Commission or Agreement State action prohibiting the individual from acting as a radiographer; 9. Provide for sanctions imposed against certified individuals that are at least as severe as any action taken by the Commission or an Agreement State; and 10. Provide a timely response to inquiries, by telephone or letter, from members of the public, about an individual's certification status. III. Requirements for Written Examinations All examinations must be: 1. Designed to test an individual's knowledge and understanding of the topics listed in section 34.43(f) or equivalent Agreement State requirements; 2. Written in a multiple-choice format; 3. Written at a ninth-grade reading comprehension level; 4. Scientifically-analyzed, before use, to ensure that the questions are not biased or misleading, and that the examination of one certifying entity will produce a result equivalent to that of another certifying entity;
