FR940428-2-00125 FR940428-2-00058 The Security Health Care Portfolio MITTS will entitle the owner at maturity to receive an amount based upon the percentage change between the ``Original Portfolio Value'' and the ``Ending Average Portfolio Value,'' subject to a minimum repayment amount. The ``Original Portfolio Value'' is the value of the Health Care Portfolio on the date on which the issuer prices the Health Care Portfolio MITTS issue for the initial offering to the public. The ``Ending Average Portfolio Value'' is the average of the values of the Health Care Portfolio at the end of the five calendar quarters preceding the expiration of the Health Care Portfolio MITTS on December 31, 1999. 5 The Ending Average Portfolio Value will be used in calculating the amount owners will receive upon maturity. 6 5 Specifically, the Ending Average Portfolio Value will equal the average of the quarterly values of the Health Care Portfolio beginning in the calendar quarter ending December 31, 1998. The quarterly value for each of the first four of the final five calendar quarters shall be the Health Care Portfolio value on the last scheduled Exchange trading day on which there is no market disruption event, The quarterly value for the final calendar quarter shall be the Health Care Portfolio Value on the seventh scheduled Exchange trading day preceding maturity of the Health Care MITTS unless there is a market disruption event in which case the sixth trading day preceding maturity shall be used. 6 The Health Care Portfolio MITTS will entitle a holder at maturity to receive for each $10 principal amount of MITTS an amount equal to the Ending Average Portfolio Value of the Health Care Portfolio divided by 10, but in any event no less than $9 per each $10 principal amount of Health Care Portfolio MITTS. If the market value of the portfolio has declined, the owner will receive not less than a specified percentage of the principal amount of the security. (For instance, if the market value of the portfolio used to calculate the amount payable at maturity has declined more than 10%, the owners of the Health Care Portfolio MITTS will receive 90% of the principal amount of the securities.) The payment at maturity is based on changes in the value of the portfolio, but does not reflect the payment of dividends on the securities that comprise the portfolio. As with other MITTS, Health Care Portfolio MITTS may not be redeemed prior to maturity and are not callable by the issuer. Owners may sell the security on the Exchange. The Exchange anticipates that the trading value of the security in the secondary market will depend in large part on the value of the Health Care Portfolio and also on other factors, including the level of interest rates, the volatility of the value of the Health Care Portfolio, the time remaining to maturity, dividend rates, and the creditworthiness of the issuer. The Exchange will only list for trading Health Care Portfolio MITTS issues that have at least one million outstanding securities, at least 400 owners, a minimum life of one year and at least a $4 million market value, and that otherwise comply with the Exchange's initial listing criteria. In addition, the Exchange will monitor each issue to verify that it complies with the Exchange's continued listing criteria. 7 7 See section 703.19 of the Manual. Merrill Lynch will deposit registered securities representing Health Care Portfolio MITTS with its depository, the Depository Trust Company (``DTC''), so as to permit book-entry settlement of transactions by participants in DTC. The Portfolio The Health Care Portfolio consists of the common stock of 22 highly capitalized health care companies. The common stock of the 22 companies initially will be equally weighted within the portfolio on the pricing date. The public float (i.e., the market price multiplied by the number of shares outstanding) of the 22 companies differ significantly (from a high of $28 billion (Bristol Meyers Squibb Co.) to a low of $285 million (Horizon Healthcare Corp.)), as do the market prices of their common stock (from a high of $84.625 (United Healthcare Corporation) to a low of $15.375 (Beverly Enterprises, Inc.)). 8 8 Prices specified in this paragraph, and prices and exchange rates used to calculate public float specified in this paragraph, are as of March 7, 1994.
