FR940712-2-00007 FR940712-2-00006 National Institute of Standards and Technology Government Owned Inventions Available for Licensing AGENCY: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Commerce. ACTION: Notice of government owned inventions available for licensing. SUMMARY: The inventions listed below are owned by the U.S. Government, as represented by the Department of Commerce, and are available for licensing in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 207 and 37 CFR Part 404 to achieve expeditious commercialization of results of federally funded research and development. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Technical and licensing information on these inventions may be obtained by writing to: Marcia Salkeld, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Office of Technology Commercialization, Physics Building, Room B&hyph;256, Gaithersburg, MD 20899; Fax 301&hyph;869&hyph;2751. Any request for information should include the NIST Docket No. and Title for the relevant invention as indicated below. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The inventions available for licensing are: NIST Docket No. 91&hyph;001 Title: Improved Oscillating Tube Densimeter Description: The oscillating tube densimeter provides a unique measurement of fluid density. The invention consists of an electrically conducting tube, through which the fluid is passed, surrounded by a magnet. A current passed through the tube thus generates electromagnetic forces. These forces, in turn, generate a resonant frequency in the tube which can be accurately determined through a measurement of the induced voltage. Since the resonant frequency is dependent on the density of the fluid, it can thus be correlated to this induced voltage. NIST Docket No. 92&hyph;008 Title: Sensing of Gas Metal Arc Welding Process Characteristics for Welding Process Control Description: A method of monitoring and controlling the gas metal arc welding process. The weld electrical signals contain information on the welding process characteristics. This invention monitors the welding process using a personal computer and develops control responses from the information contained in these signals. NIST Docket No. 92&hyph;036 Title: Oxygen-Containing Organic Compounds As Boundary Lubricants for Silicon Nitride Ceramics Description: Several oxygen-containing compounds have been identified as having boundary lubricating capability with silicon nitride ceramics. Effective lubrication can be obtained over a range of molecular weight and concentration, with some compounds suitable at concentrations of as little as 1% in a paraffinic oil. NIST Docket No. 92&hyph;038 Title: Optical Technique for Monitoring Electrochemical Interfaces Description: This invention allows real time measurement of the progress of a chemical reaction at an electrochemical interface. This is done by utilizing a coherent light source, without removing the solid interface from the sample and without stopping the chemical reaction. The light sources used in the invention, which can include a helium neon laser or a solid state laser, monitor the progress of a reaction by detecting changes in reactionary surface roughness and polarizability. A wide range of chemical reactions may be measured, including, for example, metal finishing, electrochemical machining, corrosion protection, metal deposition, electrochemical production, waste water treatment, or electrowining. NIST Docket No. 92&hyph;050 Title: Compton Scattering Tomography Description: New NIST technology generates tomographic images of solid objects that can only be examined from a single side. Based on Compton scattering of gamma rays of X-rays, the NIST-generated images reveal different densities within a material. NIST Docket No. 92&hyph;051 Title: Methods and Electrolytic Compositions for Electrodepositing Chromium Coatings Description: A new NIST process deposits chromium plating up to 600 microns thick, without using or generating carcinogenic byproducts. The plating process uses non-toxic trivalent chromium and the plating is three to four times harder, after heating, than depositions using hexavalent chromium. NIST Docket No. 92&hyph;052 Title: Contactless Magnetically Coupled Linewidth System Description: Linewidth measurements are made on integrated circuit test structures via magnetic coupling, removing the need for electrical contacts. A potential source of contamination is eliminated which reduces the possibility of circuit damage during testing. Dated: July 6, 1994. Samuel Kramer, Associate Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16846 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;13&hyph;M
