FR941017-1-00029 FR941017-1-00002 This is considered to be interim action until final action is identified, at which time the FAA may consider further rulemaking. Modification of FCC's having P/N's B470ABM1 (for Model A310 series airplanes) and B470AAM1 (for Model A300&hyph;600 series airplanes) has been addressed in a separate rulemaking action (reference Airworthiness Directive Rules Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;134&hyph;AD). Since the manufacturer has advised that an ample number of required parts will be available for modification of FCC's having these two part numbers, and in light of the degree of urgency associated with the subject unsafe condition, the FAA finds that modification of those FCC's must be accomplished sooner than the modification of the FCC's addressed in this proposal. That AD action also requires a revision to the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) that warns the flight crew to avoid overriding the autopilot while the airplane is in the COMMAND mode and cautions the flight crew to check the status of the autopilot in the event the flight controls respond abnormally. The FAA estimates that 15 Model A310 series airplanes and 36 Model A300&hyph;600 series airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD. Since the manufacturer has not yet developed one specific modification commensurate with the requirements of this proposal, the FAA is unable at this time to provide a specific information as to the number of work hours or cost of parts that would be required to accomplish the proposed modification. A further problem in developing a specific cost estimate is the fact that modification costs are expected to vary from operator to operator and from airplane to airplane depending upon airplane configuration. The proposed compliance time of 24 months should provide ample time for the development, approval, and installation of an appropriate modification. However, based on similar modifications accomplished previously on other FCC's installed on other airplane models, the FAA can reasonably estimate that the proposed modification may require as few as 2 work hours or as many as 50 work hours to accomplish, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. The cost of required parts could range from a negligible amount to as much as $1,500 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be between $5,610 ($110 per airplane) and $216,750 ($4,250 per airplane). As indicated earlier in this preamble, the FAA specifically invites the submission of comments and other data regarding this economic aspect of proposal. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety.
