FR940805-1-00101 FR940805-1-00013 (2) Number of visitors. The administrator or designee shall limit the number of visitors a resident may receive and the length of the visits only to the degree necessary in terms of facility schedules, space, the terms of the resident's individualized program plan and personnel constraints except where there are substantial reasons to justify such limitations. (3) Sobriety statement. Facility visitors and volunteers shall sign a sobriety statement. The statement shall stipulate that: (i) They are not under the influence of alcohol or illegal mood-altering substances; (ii) They are not carrying such substances on their person or in their belongings; and (iii) They consent to a breath test or non-invasive search as a condition of entry, if there is probable cause. (4) Searches (visiting). The administrator or designee shall provide clear instructions to staff and residents concerning resident and visitor search procedures and the approval required for visual observations of unclothed residents. (5) Special visits. The administrator or designee shall provide for special visits. (6) Visitor registration. The administrator or designee shall provide for visitor registration and identification on entry into the facility. Subpart E_Juvenile Community Residential Facilities ยง10.41 Administration and management. (a) General administration _(1) Mission and goals. A written statement, which shall be updated as necessary, shall describe the philosophy, goals and policies of the facility and its relationship to the juvenile justice system. (2) Administration of facility. An administrator, whose responsibility and authority shall be documented, shall oversee each facility. The appointment shall be based on written qualifications. (3) Organization chart. An organization chart shall describe the facility's organization and chain of command. The chart shall be updated as needed. (4) Service provider roles. A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), which shall be updated as needed and reviewed at least annually, shall define the role and function of employees of public or private agencies providing a service to the facility. The MOA shall specify the relation of service providers to the authority and responsibility of the administrator. (5) Interagency meetings. The administrator shall conduct regular meetings between the staff of juvenile justice, youth services, education, health care, emergency shelter and community residential agencies to develop and maintain effective interagency coordination. (6) Policy and procedure manual. All employees of the facility shall have access to a policy and procedure manual and its supporting documents. The Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, shall approve the manual and its supporting documents, which shall provide for the implementation of these standards and shall direct documentation of compliance. The administrator shall update the manual as needed and review it annually. (7) Dissemination of policy and procedure. The administrator shall disseminate approved, new or revised policies and procedures to designated staff, volunteers and, where appropriate, residents prior to implementation. Staff shall review and indicate in writing that they understand the content of policies and procedures prior to their implementation. (8) Channels of communication. The administrator or designee shall regularly disseminate information to staff prior to the beginning of their shift. (9) Monitoring and assessment. The Agency Superintendent or designee shall review and inspect operations and programs at least annually. (10) Annual report. The administrator shall submit a written annual report to the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, through the Area Director and Agency Superintendent, and shall forward a copy to the appropriate court and health care authority. The report shall address goals, objectives, population data, programs and services provided, budget, space and equipment needs and major developments. (11) Public information program. The administrator or designee shall provide for a public information program, which protects the juveniles' right to privacy. (12) Governing board. The facility shall have a local governing board or advisory committee which shall be representative of the community and shall meet at least semi-annually. (13) Meeting with governing board. The governing board shall maintain a permanent record of all meetings. (14) Legal counsel. Legal counsel shall be available to the administrator and other staff as needed in the performance of their duties. (15) Separation of adults and juveniles. If services for adult and juvenile offenders are provided by the same agency, statements of philosophy, policy, program and procedure shall distinguish between criminal codes and the statutes that establish and give direction to programs for juveniles. (b) Fiscal management _(1) Budgetary compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with the directives of the Agency regarding budget preparation, submission, and administration. If operated by a tribe, the facility shall comply with the directives of the tribe regarding budget preparation, submission, and administration. (2) Accounting compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with the Agency accounting directives. If operated by a Tribe, the facility shall comply with Tribal accounting directives. (3) Basis of budget. The administrator shall document a direct relationship between the budget and planned operational, staffing and program needs of the facility.
