FR940114-0-00048 FR940114-0-00020 ASCE 7&hyph;88: Wind Load Provisions in Model Codes Building codes in each State or local jurisdiction control the design and construction of buildings and structures in that jurisdiction. Most communities in the United States adopt, in large part, one of the three model building codes: the National Building Code of the Building Officials and Code Administrators International (BOCA); the Standard Building Code (SBC) of the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc. (SBCCI); or the Uniform Building Code (UBC) of International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO). Wind load provisions in these model building codes are based on the ASCE 7&hyph;88 standard, but with some modifications. The ASCE 7&hyph;88 standard considers all of the factors that influence the magnitude of wind loads on a building. In addition to wind speed, those factors include: (1) Terrain surrounding the building, (2) shape of the building, and (3) desired safety of the building frame and components. The model building codes use most of these factors from ASCE 7&hyph;88, but modify some of the factors based on experience; because of tradition, other factors are not considered. Some provisions of model building codes are adopted from industry manuals. The use, adoption, and modification of wind-load factors by the model building codes result from an attempt to simplify the wind-load provisions and react to the concerns of affected industries and special interest groups. In general, these modifications by model code agencies result in lower design requirements for wind forces than would be required under ASCE 7&hyph;88. Even with these modifications, final wind loads for most buildings are fairly consistent in all model building codes. All three of the major model building codes incorporate the basic wind speed map of ASCE 7&hyph;88, and reference the ASCE standard in whole or in part, but either modify the standard or require additional prescriptive design and construction provisions. In addition, all three provide the use of ASCE 7&hyph;88 as an alternative to be applied at the discretion of the designer. However, the model building codes do not cover the design or construction of manufactured housing. The only control local governments have over manufactured housing and mobile (manufactured) home parks is through certain zoning regulations, or anchoring, set-up, or installation requirements. As noted by one commenter (150) and discussed in the next section of this preamble, incorporation of the ASCE 7&hyph;88 standard will be critical to ensuring continued acceptance of manufactured housing by local jurisdictions in high wind areas. Building Codes in Southern Florida Generally, the local jurisdictions in Florida have adopted modifications of the SBC or South Florida Building Code (SFBC). As one of its primary recommendations in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew, the 18-member Dade County, Florida, Grand Jury stated that the 35-year-old South Florida Building Code must be rewritten to duplicate the tougher, national wind standard of ASCE 7&hyph;88. The Grand Jury recognized ASCE 7&hyph;88 as a standard that more adequately reflects the design strength necessary for windows and doors. In acknowledgment of the Grand Jury's recommendations, the Dade County Building Code Committee adopted (effective January 1, 1994) the Wind Loads section of ASCE 7&hyph;88, using Exposures C and D, only. The Grand Jury further recommended that Dade County officials issue a moratorium on the permanent replacement of manufactured homes until officials could be assured that the replacement homes meet the ASCE 7&hyph;88 standards. Further, noting that lower standards are applied to manufactured housing than to conventional housing, the 1992 Fall Term Grand Jury asserted that ``the low standard amounted to discrimination against those persons unable to afford the costs of conventional housing.'' In its Final Report, filed August 4, 1993, the Dade County Grand Jury referenced the initial Grand Jury findings regarding the engineering advantages of the ASCE 7&hyph;88 standard and commended its adoption into the SFBC. The Grand Jury reported that: [T]his additional and essential modification of the SFBC should provoke a wide-ranging improvement of most of our building designs, methods and products. It should also result in the building of structures that will provide greater safety and security during a hurricane. In order to protect those living in and near manufactured homes, the Grand Jury has reiterated the recommendation that a moratorium be instituted on the installation in the County of any new mobile homes that do not meet the wind-loading standards of ASCE 7&hyph;88. In addition, the SBCCI, after assessing the damage caused by Hurricane Andrew, concluded that standards applicable to manufactured housing need to be reviewed to bring them up to the level of other construction types, unless society is willing to consider manufactured homes to be expendable. The SBCCI said that even if manufactured homes are considered expendable, the issue of the hazard they present to neighboring buildings and structures needs to be addressed. Accordingly, they further concluded that steps need to be taken to strengthen the structural frame, enforce tiedown provisions, and assure that the installation of homes is done by those who are knowledgeable in the requirements of the code. Unless these issues are addressed, the SBCCI believes there will continue to be great costs associated with hurricane damage. Improved Anchoring and Foundation Systems Enforcement of anchoring and tie-down systems for manufactured housing construction has generally been considered a State or local government and their building officials' responsibility. Section 3282.303 of the Manufactured Home Procedural and Enforcement Regulations (24 CFR part 3282) urges, but does not require, State Administrative Agencies to monitor installation of manufactured homes. Thus, standards for foundations and anchorings and enforcement of those standards are not uniform among the States, and in some States are nonexistent. For example, the State of Florida has statewide laws related to installation, but enforcement of those laws is left to local building officials, while Louisiana is one of 23 States that does not regulate installation of manufactured homes at all.
