FR941006-2-00091 FR941006-2-00074 Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste; Notice of meeting The Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste (ACNW) will hold its 68th meeting on October 18 and 19, 1994, at the Hotel San Remo, 115 East Tropicana Avenue, Las Vegas, Nevada. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance, with the exception of a portion that may be closed to discuss information the release of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(6). The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Tuesday, October 18, 1994_8:30 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. Wednesday, October 19, 1994_8:30 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. During this meeting the Committee plans to consider the following: A. Systems Prioritization Approach _Hear a report on a new approach adopted by the WIPP program to demonstrate compliance with the EPA Standards, which is redirecting performance assessment and data collection activities to provide greater confidence while minimizing associated costs. B. Selection of High-Level Waste Research Topics _Selection of high-level waste (HLW) research topics for further review by the ACNW in the Committee's examination of NRC's high-level waste research program. C. Accelerated Pneumatic Testing Program _Review details of the Department of Energy's accelerated program to collect baseline pneumatic data during Exploratory Studies Facility construction. D. Implementation of the Proposed Program Approach (PPA) _Overview of saturated and unsaturated zone studies with emphasis on impacts from PPA. E. Yucca Mountain Project _Comments by Interested Parties_Hear comments from and hold discussions with state, tribal, county, and local government officials. Representatives from other stakeholders in the proposed HLW repository effort may also present comments. F. Preparation of ACNW Reports _Prepare ACNW reports on issues considered during this and previous meetings. G. Committee Activities/Future Agenda _Discuss topics proposed for consideration by the full Committee and working groups. Discuss organizational and personnel matters related to ACNW members and ACNW staff. A portion of this session may be closed to public attendance to discuss information the release of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(6). H. Miscellaneous _Discuss miscellaneous matters related to the conduct of Committee activities and organizational activities and complete discussion of matters and specific issues that were not completed during previous meetings, as time and availability of information permit. Procedures for the conduct of and participation in ACNW meetings were published in the Federal Register on June 6, 1988 (53 FR 20699). In accordance with these procedures, oral or written statements may be presented by members of the public, electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Committee, its consultants, and staff. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the ACNW Executive Director, Dr. John T. Larkins, as far in advance as practicable so that appropriate arrangements can be made to allow the necessary time during the meeting for such statements. Use of still, motion picture, and television cameras during this meeting may be limited to selected portions of the meeting as determined by the ACNW Chairman. Information regarding the time to be set aside for this purpose may be obtained by contacting the ACNW Executive Director prior to the meeting. In view of the possibility that the schedule for ACNW meetings may be adjusted by the Chairman as necessary to facilitate the conduct of the meeting, persons planning to attend should check with the ACNW Executive Director if such rescheduling would result in major inconvenience. Further information regarding topics to be discussed, whether the meeting has been canceled or rescheduled, the Chairman's ruling on requests for the opportunity to present oral statements and the time allotted therefore can be obtained by contacting the ACNW Executive Director, Dr. John T. Larkins (telephone 301/415&hyph;7360), between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. EST. Dated: September 30, 1994. Andrew L. Bates, Advisory Committee Management Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24762 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
