FR940721-2-00033 FR940721-2-00023 Environmental Issues A preliminary list of environmental issues identified by the staff for coverage in an Environmental Assessment (EA) is presented in this section. The list is not intended to be exhaustive or final, but is an initial listing of issues that have been raised and appear to be important. The staff will review all issues raised during the scoping process and make decisions as to the level of analysis needed. If preliminary analysis indicates that any issues presented in this scoping document have little potential for causing significant adverse effects, the issue or issues will be identified and the reasons for not providing a more detailed analysis will be given. The following issues apply to the Holliday Project: •effects of the proposed mode of operation on dissolved oxygen and water temperature in the project impoundment and downstream river reach; •effects of flow-pattern changes from operating the proposed project, and minimum flow needs for the protection of fishery resources and water quality in the pool area and side channel immediately downstream of the project dam; •project effects of entrainment and turbine-induced mortality on resident fishes; •fish passage needs at the project dam; •effects on the historical value of the project dam and powerhouse, both determined eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places; and •effects on public recreational use at the project. The EA will assess the project-specific effects on the above resources and whether these effects contribute adversely or beneficially to the affected environment. EA Preparation Schedule The preliminary schedule for preparing the EA for the Holliday Project is: ␣ 1Milestones 1Target date Public Scoping Summer 1994. Draft EA September 30, 1994. Final EA November 30, 1994. Request for Comments The Commission's scoping objectives are to: •identify significant environmental issues; •determine the depth of analysis appropriate to each issue; •identify the resource issues not requiring detailed analysis; and •identify reasonable project alternatives. Federal, state, and local resource agencies, licensees and developers, other interested groups, and the general public are invited to file with the Commission information that they believe will assist the Commission staff in conducting an accurate and thorough analysis of the environmental effects of the proposed licensing of the Holliday Project. The types of information sought include: •information, quantified data, or professional opinion that may contribute to defining the geographical and temporal scope of the analysis and identifying significant environmental issues; •identification of, and information from, any other environmental assessment, environmental impact statement, or similar document or study (previous, on-going, or planned) relevant to the proposed licensing activity on the West Fork of the White River; •existing information and any data that would assist in describing the past and present actions and effects of the project and other developmental activities on water quality, fish and wildlife resources, cultural resources, and recreation. For example, fish stocking/management histories of the West Fork of the White River, historic water quality data and the reasons for improvement or degradation of the quality, locations of wastewater treatment outfalls or water intakes, or proposals to develop land and water resources within the river; •identification of any Federal, state, or local resource plans and future project proposals that encompass the West Fork of the White River, with information on when the plans would be implemented, if known. For example, proposals to construct or operate water treatment facilities, recreation areas, water diversions, or implement fishery management programs; and •documentation that would support a conclusion that the proposed project does or does not contribute to cumulative adverse or beneficial effects on resources and, therefore, should be excluded from further study or included for further consideration of cumulative effects. Documentation should include, but not be limited to: how the project interacts with other projects on the river and other developmental activities; results from studies; resource management policies; and reports from Federal, state, and local agencies. To be useful in preparing the draft EA, the requested information must be filed with the Commission no later than 30 days past the date of this notice. Address all communications to: Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street NE., Washington, DC 20426. All correspondence must clearly show at the top of the first page ``Holliday Project, FERC No. 10867.'' When filing scoping comments, you should submit an original and 8 copies; this will assure that the staff receives your information. Parties to the proceedings (as identified on the official Service List for the Holliday Project) must also send copies of their filings, and all attachments, to the other parties listed on the official Service List. The official Service List is available from the Secretary of the Commission at the same address above. Any questions concerning the scoping process should be directed to Mary Golato (202&hyph;219&hyph;2804) or Frank Karwoski (202&hyph;219&hyph;2782) at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Office of Hydropower Licensing, 810 First Street NE., Washington, DC, 20426. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17741 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
