FR941104-1-00034 FR941104-1-00006 Soils and Geomorphology of the Napa Valley Dr. Elliott-Fisk states that soils can be consistently identified and mapped in Napa Valley through knowledge of the geomorphology (i.e., landforms and landform history) of the area. These soil differences are relevant viticulturally and can be used in the delimitation of viticultural areas. This soil and geomorphic mapping, which is based on very detailed field and laboratory studies, produces soil units that are similar to those shown in the Napa County Soil Survey (USDA-Soil Conservation Survey), but with more detail, precision, and most importantly, a different classification scheme, according to the petitioner. The resolution of the mapping of Napa Valley's soils has increased from the 1938 survey (and the old Marbut soil classification scheme) to the newer 1977 survey (using the new 7th Approximation system of soil classification) to a more detailed depiction of Napa Valley's soils based on an increased understanding of (1) the geomorphological history of the Napa Valley, and (2) the importance of soil parent material and time as soil-forming factors. There are many more soil types (or potential soil series) in Napa County than the Napa County Soil Survey depicts according to the petitioner. Dr. Elliott-Fisk further notes that a geomorphic (landscape) surface of a given age will have soils of the same type across it. This is because soil formation is controlled by five factors (known as the soil-forming factors): climate, biota (plants and animals), parent material, relief (topography) and time. The petitioner states that much of the variation of soil types in Napa County is due to variation in the parent material and time factors. Different soil types will be derived from sedimentary bedrock versus volcanic bedrock, whether or not these soils are upland residual soils (with weathering and soil formation in place or in situ ) or transportation/depositional soils (with soil formation beginning once river or other sediments are deposited). Alluvial soils of different ages (old versus young) will also differ significantly. On any particular geomorphic surface (such as the Sulphur Creek fan), the parent material, relief and time factors are held constant, with the soils very similar (if not identical) across this surface. For depositional landforms (e.g., mudflow lobes, river terraces, alluvial fan units, etc.), the older deposits will have more strongly formed soils. If a geomorphic surface is disturbed by erosion or deposition, its soil will be altered (if not destroyed), with a new soil then forming. In Napa Valley, distinct differences are seen between hillside soils and valley floor soils, at least in most situations. Hillside soils tend to be formed from bedrock and are shallow, whereas valley floor soils tend to be formed from alluvium, colluvium or bay deposits and are often deep. As Napa Valley has been tectonically active, however, these deeper, depositional soils are occasionally found up on the hillsides, uplifted above the valley floor. It is important to separate these depositional hillside soils from residual bedrock soils. They have much higher water-holding capacities and deeper rooting depths, influencing vine growth significantly. Dr. Elliott-Fisk further indicates that the floor of Napa Valley (excluding the bedrock ``islands'' which form small hills) has soils formed on (1) alluvial fans of various lithologies, textures, and sizes emerging from tributary watersheds towards the Napa River, (2) alluvial floodplains of various ages along the Napa River and the lower reaches of its tributaries (such as Sulphur Creek), and (3) bay deposits of various types, formed when San Pablo Bay extended into the valley proper. The alluvial fans in particular show marked contrasts in soil types north-south and east-west in the valley as a function of their (1) watershed or drainage basin geology and (2) stream gradient (i.e., topography). Dr. Elliott-Fisk concludes that the soils scientist then expects to find one soil series on fans derived from sedimentary bedrock and another on fans derived from volcanic bedrock. Geomorphic Units of the Proposed St. Helena Viticultural Area The valley floor of the proposed St. Helena viticultural area is covered by a series of small fans and contains important areas of Napa River floodplain. Dr. Elliott-Fisk has described the geomorphic units as follows: North to South on West Side of Valley (1) Ritchie Creek Fan (the southern edge of it extending south of Bale Lane into the proposed viticultural area); principally in the area north of St. Helena; (2) Mill Creek Fan; (3) Hirsch Creek Fan; (4) York Creek Fan; (5) Sulphur Creek Fan; and (6) Bear Canyon Fan Complex (in approved Rutherford viticultural area). North to South on East Side of Valley (1) Simmons Canyon Fan (north of the proposed St. Helena viticultural area);
