FR941121-0-00072 FR941121-0-00008 (ii) Public notice of any comment period under this paragraph shall identify the issues to which the requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section shall apply. (iii) On his or her own motion or on the request of any person, the Administrator may direct that the requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section shall apply during the initial comment period where it reasonably appears that issuance of the permit will be contested and that applying the requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section will substantially expedite the decisionmaking process. The notice of the draft permit shall state whenever this has been done. (iv) A comment period of longer than 60 days will often be necessary in complicated proceedings to give commenters a reasonable opportunity to comply with the requirements of this subsection. Commenters may request longer comment periods and they shall be granted to the extent they appear necessary. (2) If any data, information, or arguments submitted during the public comment period appear to raise substantial new questions concerning a permit, the Administrator may take one or more of the following actions: (i) Prepare a new draft permit, appropriately modified; (ii) Prepare a revised statement of basis, a fact sheet or revised fact sheet, and reopen the comment period; or (iii) Reopen or extend the comment period to give interested persons an opportunity to comment on the information or arguments submitted. (3) Comments filed during the reopened comment period shall be limited to the substantial new questions that caused its reopening. The public notice shall define the scope of the reopening. (4) Public notice of any of the above actions shall be issued under paragraph (d) of this section. (i) Issuance and effective date of permit. (1) After the close of the public comment period on a draft permit, the Administrator shall issue a final permit decision. The Administrator shall notify the applicant and each person who has submitted written comments or requested notice of the final permit decision. This notice shall include reference to the procedures for appealing a decision on a permit. For the purposes of this paragraph (i), a final permit decision means a final decision to issue, deny, revise, revoke and reissue, or terminate a permit. (2) A final permit decision shall become effective 30 days after the service of notice of the decision unless: (i) A later effective date is specified in the decision; or (ii) No comments requested a change in the draft permit, in which case the permit shall become effective immediately upon issuance. (j) Response to comments. (1) At the time that any final permit decision is issued, the Administrator shall issue a response to comments. This response shall: (i) Specify which provisions, if any, of the draft permit have been changed in the final permit decision, and the reasons for the change; and (ii) Briefly describe and respond to all significant comments on the draft permit raised during the public comment period, or during any hearing. (2) Any documents cited in the response to comments shall be included in the administrative record for the final permit decision as defined in paragraph (k) of this section. If new points are raised or new material supplied during the public comment period, EPA may document its response to those matters by adding new materials to the administrative record. (3) The response to comments shall be available to the public. (4) The Administrator will notify in writing any Affected State of any refusal to accept recommendations for the permit that the State submitted during the public or Affected State review period. (k) Administrative record for final permit. (1) The Administrator shall base final permit decisions on the administrative record defined in this paragraph (k). (2) The administrative record for any final permit shall consist of: (i) All comments received during the public comment period, including any extension or reopening; (ii) The tape or transcript of any hearing(s) held; (iii) Any written material submitted at such a hearing; (iv) The response to comments required by paragraph (j) of this section and any new materials placed in the record under paragraph (j) of this section; (v) Other documents contained in the supporting file for the permit; (vi) The final permit; (vii) The application and any supporting data furnished by the applicant; (viii) The draft permit or notice of intent to deny the application or to terminate the permit; (ix) The statement of basis for the draft permit; (x) All documents cited in the statement of basis; and (xi) Other documents contained in the supporting file for the draft permit. (3) The additional documents required under paragraph (k)(2) of this section should be added to the record as soon as possible after their receipt or publication by EPA. The record shall be complete on the date the final permit is issued. (4) This section applies to all final permits. (5) Material readily available at the issuing Regional Office, or published materials which are generally available and which are included in the administrative record under the standards of paragraph (j) of this section (``response to comments''), need not be physically included in the same file as the rest of the record as long as it is specifically referred to in the statement of basis or fact sheet or in the response to comments.
