FR940613-1-00042 FR940613-1-00006 Under the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984, Congress responded to the increasing threat to groundwater posed by leaking underground storage tanks by adding subtitle I to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Subtitle I required EPA to develop a comprehensive regulatory program for USTs storing petroleum or hazardous substances. Congress directed the Agency to publish regulations that would require owners and operators of new tanks and tanks already in the ground to prevent and detect leaks, cleanup leaks, and demonstrate that they are financially capable of cleaning up leaks and compensating third parties for resulting damages. EPA's UST regulations, 40 CFR parts 280 and 281, apply to any person who owns or operates an UST or UST system. The term ``owner'' is defined in the statute generally to mean any person who owns an UST used for the storage, use, or dispensing of substances regulated under subtitle I of RCRA (which includes both petroleum and hazardous substances) (section 9001(3), 42 U.S.C. 6991(3)). Owners are responsible for complying with the ``technical requirements,'' ``financial responsibility requirements,'' and ``corrective action requirements'' specified in the statute and regulations. These requirements are intended to ensure that USTs are managed and maintained safely, so that they will not leak or otherwise cause harm to human health and the environment. In addition, should a leak occur, the requirements provide that the owner is responsible for addressing the problem. These same requirements apply to any person who ``operates'' an UST system. The term ``operator'' is very broad and means ``any person in control of, or having responsibility for, the daily operation of the underground storage tank'' (section 9001(4), 42 U.S.C. 6991(4)). As with owners, there may be more than one operator of a tank at a given time. Each owner and operator has obligations under the statute and regulations. In this respect, it is important to understand that a person may have obligations under subtitle I either as an owner or as an operator, or both. The following subsections describe briefly each of the major components of the UST regulatory program applicable to persons who own or operate USTs and UST systems. A. UST Technical Standards The technical standards of 40 CFR part 280 referred to here include: Subpart B_UST systems: Design, Construction, Installation, and Notification (including performance standards for new UST systems, upgrading of existing UST systems, and notification requirements); Subpart C_General Operating Requirements (including spill and overfill control, corrosion protection, reporting and recordkeeping); Subpart D_Release Detection; ยง280.50 (reporting of suspected releases) of Subpart E_Release Reporting, Investigation, and Confirmation; and Subpart G_Out of Service UST Systems (including temporary and permanent closure). These regulations impose obligations upon UST owners and operators, separate from the subtitle I corrective action requirements discussed in Section II. B of this preamble. 1. Leak Prevention Before EPA regulations were issued, most tanks were constructed of bare steel and were not equipped with release prevention or detection features. 40 CFR 280.21 requires UST owners and operators to ensure that their tanks are protected against corrosion and equipped with devices that prevent spills and overfills no later than December 22, 1998. Tanks installed before December 22, 1988 must be replaced or upgraded by fitting them with corrosion protection and spill and overfill prevention devices to bring them up to new-tank standards. USTs installed after December 22, 1988 must be fiberglass-reinforced plastic, corrosion-protected steel, a composite of these materials, or determined by the implementing agency to be no less protective of human health and the environment and must be designed, constructed, and installed in accordance with a code of practice developed by a nationally recognized association or independent testing laboratory. Piping installed after December 22, 1988 generally must be protected against corrosion in accordance with a national code of practice. All owners and operators must also ensure that releases due to spilling or overfilling do not occur during product transfer and that all steel systems with corrosion protection are maintained, inspected, and tested in accordance with ยง280.31.
