FR940124-0-00029 FR940124-0-00003 (b) Fair housing objectives. In conducting the demonstration, the Housing Authority shall affirmatively further fair housing objectives. Prior to marketing the homes, placing an occupant in a vacant public housing unit designated pursuant to ยง907.2, or entering into a contract or other obligation to sell the homes, the Housing Authority shall submit to HUD for its approval an affirmative fair housing marketing strategy for informing and soliciting applications from people who are least likely to apply, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, for the homeownership program without special outreach. (See ยง92.351 of this title for an example of an affirmative fair housing marketing strategy.) HUD shall review the affirmative fair housing marketing strategy to ensure that it complies with all fair housing requirements. Once HUD approves the affirmative fair housing marketing strategy, the Housing Authority must comply with the strategy's provisions in marketing the homes to purchasers. If the initial sale will be to a resident-owned cooperative or condominium, the cooperative or condominium shall also be required to comply with the provisions of the affirmative fair housing marketing strategy. ยง907.8 Purchaser eligibility and selection. Standards and procedures for eligibility and selection of the initial purchasers of individual dwellings shall be consistent with the following provisions: (a) Participation of families. The Housing Authority shall establish criteria for the participation of families in the demonstration program. Such criteria shall be based on factors that may reasonably be expected to predict a family's ability to succeed in the homeownership program governed by this part. (b) Evidence of interest. The criteria referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall include evidence of interest by the family in homeownership, the employment status and history of employment of family members, and maintenance by the family of the family's previous dwelling. (c) Homebuyer eligibility. Eligibility shall be limited to residents who are capable of assuming the financial obligations of homeownership, under minimum income standards for affordability, taking into account the unavailability of public housing operating subsidies and modernization funds after conveyance of the property by the Housing Authority. A homeownership plan may, however, take account of any available subsidy from other sources (e.g., if available, assistance under Section 8 of the 1937 Act, in connection with a plan for cooperative ownership). Under this affordability standard, an applicant must meet the following requirements: (1) The monthly expenditure for principal, interest, taxes, and insurance by an eligible purchaser plus estimated utility costs and other monthly housing costs (such as maintenance and condominium or cooperative monthly fees) shall be not more than 35 percent of the adjusted family income of the purchaser, determined in accordance with parts 913 or 905 of this title, as appropriate. The Housing Authority may request that HUD approve a higher percentage cap, where the application demonstrates that a higher cap than 35 percent is necessary to make the homeownership program feasible and that the purchaser will be able to afford the higher monthly cost. (2) In the case of cooperative or condominium ownership, if the monthly charge to the homeowner includes amounts for principal, interest, taxes, insurance, or utilities, the portion of the charge covering these amounts shall be considered for purposes of making the affordability determinations under this paragraph. (3) The Housing Authority can pay any amounts required for closing, such as a down payment (if any) and closing costs chargeable to the purchaser, as may be specified in the homeownership plan. (d) Procedures/Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Strategy. The Housing Authority must establish written equitable procedures for identifying and selecting eligible families to participate in the homeownership program. The Housing Authority must have an affirmative fair housing marketing strategy that applies whenever homeownership opportunities are made available to other than current residents of the property. Selections made from the Housing Authority's waiting list for the homeownership program must be in a nondiscriminatory manner in accordance with HUD approved preferences.
