FR940325-0-00026 FR940325-0-00007 (d) Later daily windspeed build-up and duration of wind. (e) More homogeneous soil profile: Hames Valley with one principal soil type; Salinas Valley, over 70 soil types. (f) Geographically distinct and separate from the Salinas River Valley. Viticultural Area Boundary The boundary of the Hames Valley viticultural area may be found on one United States Geological Survey map, entitled Bradley Quadrangle, 15 minute series, with a scale of 1:62,500. The boundary is described in ยง9.147. Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this rule is not a significant regulatory action, because it will not (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act It is hereby certified that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The establishment of a viticultural area is neither an endorsement nor approval by ATF of the quality of wine produced in the area, but rather an identification of an area that is distinct from surrounding areas. This process merely allows wineries to more accurately describe the origin of their wines to consumers, and helps consumers identify the wines they purchase. Designation of a viticultural area itself has no significant economic impact because any commercial advantage can come only from consumer acceptance of wines made from grapes grown within the area. In addition, no new recordkeeping or reporting requirements are imposed. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. Paperwork Reduction Act The provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, and its implementing regulations, 5 CFR part 1320, do not apply to this final rule because no requirement to collect information is imposed.
