FR940811-0-00051 FR940811-0-00019 Thursday August 11, 1994 Part II Environmental Protection Agency 40 CFR Part 82 Protection of Stratospheric Ozone; Amendment to the Phaseout of Ozone-Depleting Chemicals to Correct Allocation Numbers; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 154␣/␣Thursday, August 11, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 82 [FRL&hyph;5040&hyph;4] Protection of Stratospheric Ozone; Amendment to the Phaseout of Ozone-Depleting Chemicals to Correct Allocation Numbers AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Direct final rulemaking. SUMMARY: In the December 10, 1993 Federal Register the Environmental Protection Agency inadvertently omitted a paragraph that should have been carried over from the preceding phaseout rule; this paragraph is subsequently added back into the regulation through today's direct final rulemaking. Through this action, the Environmental Protection Agency is also updating its lists of Parties to the Montreal Protocol in Appendix C and of Article 5 countries in Appendix E. EFFECTIVE DATE: This action will become effective October 11, 1994 unless EPA receives notice by September 12, 1994 that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments. If such comments are received, EPA would then publish a timely notice announcing its withdrawal before the effective date provided in today's action. A second document would then request comments, after which a final rule would be drafted and published, responding to such comments. ADDRESSES: Materials relevant to the rulemaking are contained in Air Docket A&hyph;92&hyph;13 at: Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street S.W., Washington, D.C. 20460. The public docket room is located in room M&hyph;1500, Waterside Mall (Ground Floor). Materials may be inspected from 8:30 a.m. until noon and from 1:30 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. A reasonable fee may be charged by EPA for copying docket materials. Information on this rulemaking may also be obtained from the Stratospheric Protection Information Hotline at 1&hyph;800&hyph;296&hyph;1996. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Stratospheric Protection Information Hotline at 1&hyph;800&hyph;296&hyph;1996 or Michael James, Stratospheric Protection Division, Office of Atmospheric Programs, Office of Air and Radiation, 6205J, (202) 233&hyph;9192. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Today's Revisions to the Phaseout of Ozone-Depleting Substances In today's action, EPA is re-inserting a paragraph under §82.10, inadvertently omitted from the final rulemaking (58 FR 65018), to grant a limited level of consumption allowances to carbon tetrachloride producers under certain conditions. During the July 30, 1992 rulemaking (57 FR 33754), EPA intended to allocate carbon tetrachloride (Group IV) consumption allowances to all companies that received carbon tetrachloride production allowances. During the drafting of that rulemaking, EPA realized that complications existed in the development and calculation of the baseline for this chemical, such that some companies that had exported carbon tetrachloride would not receive baseline consumption allowances. Thus, companies that had intended to produce for export could not because of the requirement to hold both production and consumption allowances at the time of production. To address this situation in the final rulemaking, EPA promulgated §82.10(c) to allocate baseline consumption allowances to carbon tetrachloride producers who had exported in the baseline year, but had not received baseline consumption allowances. Producers who met these conditions would receive baseline consumption allowances equal to the level of production allowances received for the control period. In addition, this paragraph required that producers who received these allowances demonstrate that they had exported this chemical by providing documentation to EPA that they had indeed exported the chemical by February 15 of the year after the end of the control period. During the development of the December 10, 1993 final rule (58 FR 65018), EPA inadvertently omitted this paragraph of the final rule. It was never the intention of EPA to eliminate this provision, and EPA believes that this provision is essential for companies to continue to produce this chemical for export markets, many of which use carbon tetrachloride as a feedstock in the production of other chemicals. For these reasons, EPA is today re-inserting former §82.10(c) as 82.10(d) of the current rule, making the provisions of the new §82.10(d) retroactive to January 1, 1994. In this way, companies will not be penalized as a result of the Agency's inadvertent omission. With this notice, the Agency is also updating Appendix C to Subpart A_Annex 1 Parties to the Montreal Protocol and Appendix E to Subpart A_Article 5 Parties. The revised Appendix C reflects the following changes: additional countries that have signed onto the Montreal Protocol, existing or added Parties that have ratified the London Amendments, or existing or added Parties that have ratified the Copenhagen Amendments. The changes to Appendix E reflect additional developing countries that have signed onto the Montreal Protocol. These developing countries have also been added to Appendix C. Because these changes are only correcting inadvertent omissions or typographical errors, they have no impact on the environment or on the implementation of the Stratospheric Protection Program. This action is being taken without prior proposal because EPA believes that this final decision is noncontroversial and anticipates no significant adverse comments on this action. If adverse comment on this rulemaking is received, EPA would withdraw this direct final notice, then propose as a separate notice, upon which comments would be solicited. A final rule would then be written, which would provide responses to comments. II. Summary of Supporting Analysis A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether this regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant'' regulatory action as one that is likely to lead to a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely and materially affect a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order.
