FR940217-1-00038 FR940217-1-00008 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 21 [CC Docket No. 92&hyph;297] Domestic Public Fixed Radio Services; Local Multipoint Distribution Service AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Request for comments. SUMMARY: The Commission requests comments on whether it should establish a Federal Advisory Committee to negotiate proposed technical rules governing the provision of terrestrial and satellite services in the 27.5&hyph;29.5 GHz frequency band. DATES: Comments may be filed on or before March 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the Office of the Secretary, CC Docket 92&hyph;297, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan Magnotti, Domestic Radio Branch, Common Carrier Bureau, (202) 634&hyph;1773. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission hereby seeks comment on establishing an Advisory Committee to negotiate regulations defining the technical rules appropriate to sharing the 27.5_29.5 GHz band by the proposed Local Multipoint Distribution Service and by satellite services. The negotiations are to assist the Commission in developing regulations that will facilitate the shared use of this spectrum by both satellite uplink and terrestrial point-to-multipoint service providers. Any negotiating committee would be created under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), 5 U.S.C. App. 2, and the Negotiated Rulemaking Act of 1990 (NRA), Public Law 101&hyph;648, November 28, 1990, and would consist of representatives of the interests that will be significantly affected by the outcome of these rules. The Commission has proposed to redesignate the use of the 27.5&hyph;29.5 GHz band from point-to-point terrestrial service to point-to-multipoint service. Rulemaking to Amend Part 1 and Part 21 of the Commission's Rules to Redesignate the 27.5&hyph;29.5 GHz Frequency Band and to Establish Rules and Policies for Local Multipoint Distribution Service, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 8 FCC Rcd 557 (1993) (CC Docket 92&hyph;297). The band is also allocated on a coprimary basis to fixed satellite services. One licensee, CellularVision of New York (CVNY, formerly Hye Crest Management, Inc.), holds a regular license to provide terrestrial point-to-multipoint service in this band to the New York City Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area. Other entities hold experimental licenses to test similar services in other areas. As discussed in the Second Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, CC Docket No. 92&hyph;297, FCC 94&hyph;12, released concurrently with this notice, some of the spectrum in the 28 GHz band may be needed for satellite earth stations that will interconnect with mobile satellite systems. Moreover, the experimental Advanced Communications Technology Satellite (ACTS) launched by NASA in 1993 is using a portion of the band (29.0&hyph;29.5 GHz) for research purposes. The satellite has a four-year life expectancy. Hughes Space and Communications Company has filed an application to provide service in this band. I. Regulatory Negotiation Regulatory negotiation is a technique through which the Commission hopes to develop better regulations that may be implemented in a less adversarial setting. Negotiations are conducted through an Advisory Committee chartered under FACA. The goal of the Committee is to reach consensus on the language or substance of appropriate rules. If a consensus is reached, it is used as the basis of the Commission's proposal. All procedural requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) and other applicable statutes continue to apply. When making a determination regarding the suitability of a proceeding for the negotiated rulemaking process, the Commission must consider whether: (a) There is a need for the rules to be developed; (b) There are a limited number of identifiable interests that will be significantly affected by the rules; (c) There is a reasonable likelihood that a committee can be convened with a balanced representation of persons who: (1) Can adequately represent the identifiable interests and (2) are willing to negotiate in good faith to reach a consensus on the proposed rules; (d) There is a reasonable likelihood that a committee will reach a consensus on the proposed rules within a fixed period of time; (e) The negotiated rulemaking procedure will not unreasonably delay the notice of proposed rulemaking and the issuance of final rules;
