FR940927-0-00009 FR940927-0-00001 In accordance with section 8 (Insured Crop) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), the crop insured will be all the cotton lint, in the county for which premium rates are provided by the actuarial table: (a) In which you have a share; and (b) That is not (unless allowed by the Special Provisions or by written agreement): (1) Colored cotton lint; (2) Planted into an established grass or legume; (3) Interplanted with another spring planted crop; (4) Grown on acreage from which a hay crop was harvested in the same calendar year unless the acreage is irrigated; or (5) Grown on acreage on which a small grain crop reached the heading stage in the same calendar year unless the acreage is irrigated or adequate measures are taken to terminate the small grain crop prior to heading and less than fifty percent (50%) of the small grain plants reach the heading stage. 7. Insurable Acreage In addition to the provisions of section 9 (Insurable Acreage) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8): (a) The acreage insured will be only the land occupied by the rows of cotton when a skip row planting pattern is utilized; and (b) Any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that the remaining stand will not produce at least ninety percent (90%) of the production guarantee, must be replanted unless we agree that replanting is not practical (see subsection 1.(m)). 8. Insurance Period (a) In lieu of subsection 11.(b) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8) (Harvest of the unit), insurance will end upon the removal of the cotton from the field. (b) In accordance with the provisions under section 11 (Insurance Period) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), the calendar date for the end of the insurance period is the date immediately following planting as follows: (1) September 30 in Val Verde, Edwards, Kerr, Kendall, Bexar, Wilson, Karnes, Goliad, Victoria, and Jackson Counties, Texas, and all Texas counties lying south thereof; (2) January 31 in Arizona, California, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and all other Texas counties; and (3) December 31 in all other states. 9. Causes of Loss In accordance with the provisions of section 12 (Causes of Loss) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), insurance is provided only against the following causes of loss which occur within the insurance period: (a) Adverse weather conditions; (b) Fire; (c) Insects, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of pest control measures; (d) Plant disease, but not damage due to insufficient or improper application of disease control meaures; (e) Wildlife; (f) Earthquake; (g) Volcanic eruption; or (h) Failure of the irrigation water supply, if applicable, due to an unavoidable cause of loss occurring within the insurance period. 10. Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss (a) In addition to your duties under section 14 (Duties in the Event of Damage or Loss) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), in the event of damage or loss: (1) The cotton stalks must remain intact for our inspection; and (2) If you initially discover damage to the insured crop within 15 days of harvest, or during harvest, you must leave representative samples of the unharvested crop in the field for our inspection. The samples must be at least 10 feet wide and extend the entire length of each field in the unit. (b) The stalks must not be destroyed, and required samples must not be harvested, until the earlier of our inspection or 15 days after harvest of the balance of the unit is completed and written notice of probable loss given to us. 11. Settlement of Claim (a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide records of production: (1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable records of production were not provided; or (2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit. (b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim on any unit by: (1) Multiplying the insured acreage by the production guarantee; (2) Subtracting from this the total production to count; (3) Multiplying the remainder by your price election; and (4) Multiplying this result by your share. (c) The total production (pounds) to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include: (1) All appraised production as follows: (i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage; (A) That is abandoned;
