FR940812-0-00030 FR940812-0-00008 Exhibit A of Subpart F_Agreement of Administrative Requirements for Rural Technology Development Grants This exhibit contains information regarding the responsibilities of the grantee for receipt of grant funds under the Rural Technology Development Grant (RTDG) program. These requirements do not supersede the requirements for receipt of Federal funds as stated in 7 CFR parts 3015 and 3016; however, specific areas related to the program are cited below. In consideration for the RTDG grant by RDA, grantee agrees to: 1. Cause the RTDG program to be completed within the total sums available to it, including grant funds, in accordance with the scope of work and any necessary modifications thereof prepared by grantee and approved by grantor. 2. Permit periodic inspection of the program operations by a representative of grantor. 3. Make the program available to all persons in grantee's service area without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, marital status, age, physical or mental handicap. 4. Not use grant funds to replace any financial support previously provided or assured from any other source. The grantee agrees that the general level of expenditure by the grantee for the benefit of program area and/or program covered by this agreement shall be maintained and not reduced as a result of the Federal share funds received under this grant. 5. Provide financial management systems which will include: (a) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial result of each grant. (b) Records which identify adequately the source and application of funds for grant-supporting activities. Those records shall contain information pertaining to grant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income. (c) Effective control over and accountability for all funds. Grantee shall adequately safeguard all such assets and shall ensure that they are used solely for authorized purposes. (d) Accounting records supported by source documentation. 6. Retain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at least 3 years after grant closing except that the records shall be retained beyond the 3-year period if audit findings have not been resolved. Microfilm copies may be substituted in lieu of original records. The grantor and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the grantee which are pertinent to the specific grant program for the purpose of making audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts. 7. Provide an audit report prepared in accordance with generally accepted Government auditing standards using the publication, ``Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities and Functions.'' 8. Provide grantor with such periodic reports as it may require and permit periodic inspection of its operations by a designated representative of the grantor. 9. Execute Form FmHA 400&hyph;4, ``Assurance Agreement,'' and any other agreements required by grantor to implement the civil rights requirements. If any such form has been executed by grantee as a result of a grant being made to grantee by grantor contemporaneously with the making of this grant, another form of the same type need not be executed in connection with this grant. 10. That upon any default under its representations or agreements set forth in this instrument, grantee, at the option and the demand of grantor, will, to the extent legally permissible, repay to grantor forthwith the original principal amount of the grant stated herein above, with interest equal to the rate of interest paid on U.S. 26-week Treasury Bills adjusted quarterly from the date of the default. The provisions of this exhibit may be enforced by grantor at its option and without regard to prior waivers by it of previous defaults of grantee, by judicial proceedings to require specific performance of the terms of this exhibit, or by such other proceedings in the law or equity in either Federal or State courts as may be deemed necessary by grantor to assure compliance with the provisions of this exhibit and the laws and regulations under which this grant is made.
