FR940912-2-00071 FR940912-2-00055 IV It is further ordered that, for a period of ten (10) years from the date this Order becomes final, Respondent shall not, without the prior approval of the Commission, directly or indirectly, through subsidiaries, partnerships, or otherwise: (A) Acquire any stock, share capital, equity, leasehold or other interest in any concern, corporate or non-corporate, where such concern within the six months preceding such acquisition engaged in the business of selling prescription drugs at retail stores located in any of the cities or towns listed in Paragraph I.(J). of this Order; or (B) Acquire any assets used, within six months of the offer to acquire, for (and still suitable for use for) the business of selling prescription drugs at retail stores located in any of the cities or towns listed in Paragraph I.(J). of this Order. Provided, however , that these prohibitions shall not relate to the construction of new facilities. V It is further ordered that: A. Within sixty (60) days after the date this Order becomes final and every sixty (60) days thereafter until Respondent has fully complied with the provisions of Paragraph II. and III. of this Order, Respondent shall submit to the Commission a verified written report setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it intends to comply, is complying, and has complied with those provisions. Respondent shall include in its compliance reports, among other things that are required from time to time, a full description of the efforts being made to comply with Paragraph II and III of the Order, including a description of all substantive contacts or negotiations for the divestiture and the identity of all parties contacted. Respondent also shall include in its compliance reports copies of all written communications to and from such parties, all internal memoranda, and all reports and recommendations concerning divestiture. B. One (1) year from the date this Order becomes final, annually thereafter for the next nine (9) years on the anniversary of the date this Order became final, and at such other times as the Commission may require, Respondent shall file a verified written report with the Commission setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it has complied and is complying with Paragraph IV. of this Order. VI It is further ordered that Respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in the corporate respondent such as dissolution, assignment, sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, or the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries or any other change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising out of the Order. VII It is further ordered that, for the purpose of determining or securing compliance with this Order upon reasonable notice and subject to any legally recognized privilege, Respondent shall permit any duly authorized representative of the Commission: A. Access, during office hours and in the presence of counsel, to inspect and copy all books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence, memoranda and other records and documents in the possession or under the control of Respondent relating to any matters contained in this consent order; and B. Upon five (5) days notice to Respondent, and without restraint or interference from it, to interview officers, directors, or employees of Respondent, who may have counsel present, regarding such matters.
