FR941103-2-00131 FR941103-2-00073 The PHLX states that the increasing use of computers, fax machines, optical disk and other technology, coupled with the expense of storing records on-site, have resulted in more member organizations storing records away from their principal supervisory offices. 5 In view of technological advances, the Exchange believes that it is appropriate to permit the off-site storage of customer records previously required to be maintained at a principal supervisory office. The Exchange also believes that offsite storage should not compromise the supervisory obligations of member/participant organizations because, under the proposal, the customer information necessary to fulfill those responsibilities must be easily accessible and promptly retrievable. 5 In June 1993, the Division of Market Regulation (``Division'') issued a no-action letter permitting broker-dealers to maintain certain records required by Rules 17a&hyph;3 and 17a&hyph;4 under the Act on optical disk technology, under certain conditions. See Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director, Division, Commission, to Michael D. Udoff, Chairman, Ad Hoc Record Retention Committee, Securities Industry Association, dated June 18, 1993. Accordingly, the Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and, in particular with Section 6(b)(5), in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, as well as to protect investors and the public interest. The Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to facilitate transactions in securities, and to protect investors and the public interest. 6 6 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). Specifically, by allowing off-site storage of customer account information maintained at supervisory offices, the commission believes that the proposal should provide the PHLX's members with a cost-effective means to utilize computers, facsimile machines, optical disks, and other technology to store the required customer account information off-site while ensuring that member firms will continue to have easy access to all of the customer account information necessary to discharge their supervisory responsibilities. In this regard, the proposal provides that options customer account information stored off-site must be ``readily accessible and promptly retrievable,'' 7 thereby preserving the Exchange's ability to access and investigate customer account records. Thus, the Commission believes that the proposal strikes a reasonable balance between the PHLX's interest in allowing member organizations to reduce the cost of storing customer account information and ensuring that the information continues to be available for supervisory purposes. 7 See October 26 Letter, supra note 3. In addition, the Commission believes that it is reasonable for the PHLX to allow off-site storage of customer account information maintained at supervisory offices, but not of account information stored at branch offices, because branch offices are responsible for the day-to-day administration of customer accounts and require immediate access to account information. For example by continuing to require branch offices to store customer account information on-site, the proposal facilitates broker compliance with the suitability requirements applicable to options customers. It is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 8 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;35) is approved. 8 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1982). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27230 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
