FR941216-1-00092 FR941216-1-00012 (a) Entire quantities of items in this division can detonate almost instantaneously. Some examples: bulk explosives, some propellants, mines, bombs, demolition charges, torpedo and missile warheads, rockets, palletized projectiles loaded with TNT or Composition B, 8-inch and larger high-capacity projectiles loaded with Explosive D, mass-detonating CBU's, and mass-detonating ammunition components. (b) Use Appendix A to this subpart to determine inhabited building and public traffic route distances, Appendices B and C to this subpart for intraline distance, Appendix D to this subpart for intermagazine distance and Appendices E and F to this subpart for fragment distances. §184.54 Application of intermagazine distances for Hazard Division 1.1 only. (a) In applying the intermagazine distances given in Appendix D to this subpart, consideration shall be given to magazine construction and orientation. For earth-covered magazine separation distances, the following conditions apply: (1) When standard earth-covered magazines containing Hazard Division 1.1 ammunition are sited so that any one is in the forward section, 60 degrees either side of the centerline of another, the two shall be separated by distances greater than the minimum permitted for side-to-side orientations. The greater distances primarily protect door and headwall structures against blast from a potential explosion site forward of the exposed magazine. When a blast wave is reflect from a surface at other than grazing incidence (side-on orientation), the overpressure may be increased substantially over the free-field value. High reflected pressure impulse can damage doors and headwalls and propel the debris into the earth-covered magazine, communicating the explosion to the contents on impact. Some examples of the application of these rules follow: (i) If headwalls of both A and B are outside the 120-degree sector (60 degrees either side of the centerline), they may be separated by the column 4 distances based on the largest quantity of Hazard Division 1.1 stored in either. This is considered the equivalent of standard side-to-side separation with the optimum orientation_all earth-covered magazines facing the same direction and axes parallel. See paragraphs (a) and (b), Appendix G to this subpart. (ii) If headwall of A is outside the 120-degree sector of B, but headwall of B is inside the 120-degree sector of A, separation distance between these two earth-covered magazines is determined by column 6, based on the largest quantity of Hazard Division 1.1 in either earth-covered magazine. However, if the quantity in B were reduced to less than 1/10 of that in A, or if the storage in B is not class 1, division 1, earth-covered magazine A would control as a potential explosion site. Then, in accordance with §184.42, the distance shall be taken from column 4, based on the quantity in A; that is, the quantity in A would not need to be reduced. See paragraph c, Appendix G to this subpart. (iii) If headwalls of A and B are within the 120-degree sector of each other and are not provided with a separate door barricade, Appendix D to this subpart, column 12 distances shall be used to separate them. If a door barricade is present (meeting requirements of §184.44(a)) such as A to C, then column 10 distances may be used to determine separation distances. See paragraph (a), Appendix G to this subpart. (iv) Although no separate barricade is shown between A and B, more detailed analysis of a specific storage condition of this type might show that the distribution of explosives within A and B is such that the earth fill of one or the other or both meets the specifications of an effective barricade according to §184.44(a). In such a case, column 10 distances would apply between A and B. See paragraph (d), Appendix G to this subpart. (v) Two additional standard earth-covered magazine orientations warrant analysis: (A) Earth-covered magazines A and B significantly differ in length (paragraph (f), Appendix G to this subpart) or are ``canted'' in such a manner that one of them is within the 120-degree sector off the headwall of the other, even though a straight line between headwall A and earth-covered magazine B does pass through the earth cover of B. See Appendix G to this subpart. (B) If B is the potential explosion site and A is the exposed site, the limit for B would be determined by column 7. With A as the potential explosion site, however, the limit for A would be based upon column 4. (vi) For future construction when standard earth-covered magazines containing Hazard Division 1.1 ammunition are sited so that any one is in the forward sector of another, the two shall be separated by distances greater than the minimum permitted for side-to-side orientations. The forward sector, or ``front'', for earth-covered magazines is the area 60 degrees either side of the magazine centerline with the vertex of the angle placed so that the sides of the angle pass through the intersection of the headwall and side walls. The greater distances are required primarily for the protection of door and headwall structures against blast from a PES forward of the exposed magazine, and to a lesser extent due to the directionality of effects from the source. When a blast wave is reflected from a surface at other than grazing incidence (side-on orientation), the overpressure may be increased substantially over the free-field value. High reflected pressure and impulse can damage doors and headwalls and propel the debris into the earth-covered magazine so that explosion is communicated by impact of such debris upon the contents. (2) When considering relationships between standard earth-covered magazines and aboveground magazines or facilities requiring intraline distances, each containing class 1, division 1, ammunition or explosives, the question regarding the use of barricaded or unbarricaded distances arises. The following criteria shall apply: (i) Aboveground magazines or facilities requiring intraline distances within the 120-degree sector in front of a standard earth-covered magazine shall be provided unbarricaded distances, unless a separate effective intervening barricade meeting requirements of §184.44(a)(2) is present, in which case barricaded distances may be applied. See paragraph (g), Appendix G to this subpart. (ii) Aboveground magazines or facilities requiring intraline distances outside of the 120-degree sector in front of a standard earth-covered magazine shall be provided with barricaded distances whether or not a separate intervening barricade is present. See paragraph (g), Appendix G to this subpart. (b) Distances in column 4 apply to nonstandard, earth-covered magazines oriented so that all straight lines between the side and rear walls of two magazines pass through an earth-covered surface of each; similarly, column 10 distances apply to all orientations in which every straight line between two magazine passes through the earth cover of one and only one of them. If the above conditions cannot be met, column 12 distances apply. The earth cover of nonstandard magazines shall be equal to or greater than that required for standard earth-covered, arch-type magazines. (c) Other factors limiting earth-covered magazine storage are as follows: (1) Earth-covered magazines that are equivalent in strength to those specified under the definition of ``standard magazine'' in Subpart S of this part are limited to 500,000 pounds NEW. Earth-covered magazines, not equivalent in strength to those, are limited to 250,000 pounds NEW. (2) Quantities above 500,000 pounds NEW in one storage location are not authorized except for liquid propellants. (3) The distance given for 0 to 100 pounds NEW constitutes the minimum magazine spacing permitted. (d) Examples given in §§184.54 (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(v), apply only to the storage of Hazard Division 1.1, ammunition and explosives. Existing earth-covered magazines, regardless of orientation, meeting the construction and barricading requirements of Subpart D of this part and consistent with the definition of ``magazine'' in Subpart S of this part (and sited for any quantity of class 1, division 1), may be used to their physical capacity for the storage of Hazard Division 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4, A&E. §184.55 Hazard Division 1.2_nonmass detonating, fragment producing.
