FR940505-1-00434 FR940505-1-00012 (v) Emissions of oxides of nitrogen from small institutional, commercial, and industrial boilers, steam generators, and process heaters. (1) Applicability. For the purposes of this paragraph, the affected area includes the Sacramento Metro Area as described for ozone in 40 CFR 81.305. (i) Any owner or operator of a boiler, steam generator, or process heater with a rated heat input capacity equal to or greater than 1 million British thermal units per hour (mmBtu/hr) and less than 5 mmBtu/hr shall comply with the applicable requirements standards of paragraphs (v)(1) through (v)(7) of this section. (ii) Any owner or operator of a boiler, steam generator, or process heater with a rated heat input capacity equal to or greater than 1 mmBtu/hr and less than 5 mmBtu/hr that claims an exemption from the standards of paragraph (v)(3) of this section because of the exemption criteria specified under paragraph (v)(4) of this section shall comply with the applicable requirements of paragraph (v)(6)(iii)(H) of this section. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (v) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in §52.2950. Annual heat input means the actual amount of heat released by fuels burned in a unit during a 12 calendar month rolling period, based on the fuel's higher heating value. The annual heat input shall be calculated as the sum of the previous 12 monthly fuel use rates multiplied by the fuel's higher heating value. Boiler or steam generator means any combustion equipment used in any institutional, commercial, or industrial operation that is designed to burn gaseous and/or liquid fuel and used to produce steam, heat water and/or other fluids, and/or generate electricity. A boiler or steam generator does not include any waste heat recovery unit that is used to recover sensible heat from the exhaust of a combustion turbine or any unfired waste heat recovery boiler that is used to recover sensible heat from the exhaust of any combustion equipment. British thermal unit (Btu) means the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water from 59 ○F to 60 ○F at one atmosphere. Heat input means the chemical heat released due to fuel combustion in a unit, using the higher heating value of the fuel. This does not include the sensible heat of incoming combustion air. Higher heating value (HHV) means the total heat liberated per mass of fuel burned (Btu per pound), when fuel and dry air at standard conditions undergo complete combustion and all resultant products are brought to their standard states at standard conditions. If certification of the HHV is not provided by the third party fuel supplier, it shall be determined by one of the following test methods: ASTM D2015&hyph;85 for solid fuels; ASTM D240&hyph;87 or ASTM D2382&hyph;88 for liquid hydrocarbon fuels; or ASTM D1826&hyph;88 or ASTM D1945&hyph;81 in conjunction with ASTM D3588&hyph;89 for gaseous fuels. Non-gaseous fuel means any fuel which is not a gas at 68 ○F and one atmosphere. NO X emissions means the sum of nitric oxides and nitrogen dioxide in the flue gas, collectively expressed as nitrogen dioxide. Process heater means any combustion equipment used in any institutional, commercial, or industrial operation that is designed to burn gaseous and/or liquid fuel and which transfers heat from combustion gases to water, heat transfer medium, or process streams. Process heater does not include any kiln or oven used for drying, baking, cooking, calcining or vitrifying; any unfired waste heat recovery heater that is used to recover sensible heat from the exhaust of any combustion equipment; or any fuel-fired degreasing or metal finishing equipment. Rated heat input capacity means the heat input capacity specified on the nameplate of the combustion unit. If the combustion unit has been altered or modified such that its maximum heat input is different than the heat input capacity specified on the nameplate, the new maximum heat input shall be considered as the rated heat input capacity. This alteration or modification can be through either burner alteration or modification or installation of a fixed orifice. The new maximum heat input must be certified, in writing, by the manufacturer or installer and engineering calculations supporting the new maximum heat input rating must be submitted to the Administrator.
