FR940505-1-00047 FR940505-1-00012 The Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District (SMAQMD), the Yolo-Solano Air Pollution Control District (YSAPCD), the Placer County Air Pollution Control District (PCAPCD), the El Dorado County Air Pollution Control District (EDCAPCD), the Feather River Air Quality Management District (FRAQMD), SACOG and CARB plan to submit a comprehensive revised ozone attainment SIP on or before November 15, 1994. The local agencies hope to release a draft of this SIP in the Spring of 1994 and to modify it after EPA finalizes the FIP in February 1995. The air quality modeling in the SIP and FIP are based on similar data and should be consistent. There may, however, be significant differences between the regulations included in the two plans to attain the ozone standard. 3. Ventura On November 15, 1993, the State submitted a Ventura ozone rate-of-progress plan addressing the Act's requirement that a plan be submitted by that date demonstrating creditable VOC reductions of at least 15 percent from 1990 to 1996. The plan describes how this reduction can be accomplished with an enhanced I/M program plus measures that the State committed to adopt and implement by 1996 in Ventura's 1991 Air Quality Management Plan. Many of the promised local measures have already been adopted, but an approvable enhanced I/M program has not been authorized by the State legislature. As in the case of Sacramento, EPA cannot now approve this Ventura plan submittal with respect to the progress demonstration. The Ventura County Air Pollution Control District (VCAPCD), the Southern California Association of Governments (SCAG), and the CARB plan to submit a comprehensive revised ozone attainment SIP on or before November 15, 1994. VCAPCD hopes to release a draft of this SIP by the Spring of 1994 and to modify it after EPA finalizes the FIP in February 1995. The air quality modeling in the SIP and FIP are based on similar data and should be consistent. As in the case of Sacramento, however, the regulations included in the two plans may be different. 4. South Coast On December 31, 1992, the State submitted the CO plan for the South Coast. This plan includes a demonstration of attainment by the year 2000 relying on emission reductions from previously adopted regulations as well as from an enhanced I/M program meeting the requirements of sections 182(c)(3) and 187(a)(6). Because the State legislature has not yet enacted legislation authorizing such an enhanced I/M program, EPA proposes to disapprove the CO plan with respect to the requirements for an attainment demonstration, reasonable further progress, reasonably available control measures, and enhanced I/M. On January 15, 1993, the Agency issued a finding of failure to submit two other mandatory elements of the CO plan: (1) Transportation control measures (TCMs) to offset growth, as required by section 182(d)(1)(A); and (2) adopted contingency measures to be implemented if vehicle miles traveled (VMT) forecasts are exceeded, in accordance with section 187(a)(3). In section II.C.1., below, EPA is proposing to disapprove the CO SIP with respect to these six elements: attainment demonstration, reasonable further progress, reasonably available control measures, provision for an enhanced I/M program, TCMs to offset growth, and contingency measures to be implemented if VMT forecasts are exceeded. EPA is also proposing a partial approval of other portions of the plan that represent an improvement over what is currently in the SIP, do not conflict with proposed FIP provisions, and meet some of the applicable requirements of the Act. On November 15, 1993, the State submitted a 15 percent rate-of-progress plan for the South Coast. The 15 percent plan relies on reductions from currently adopted rules, but also depends upon a relatively small contribution from 10 SCAQMD measures scheduled for full adoption in 1994 or 1995 and an improved I/M program. As in the case of Sacramento and Ventura, EPA cannot at this time propose to approve this South Coast submittal with respect to the 15 percent rate-of-progress demonstration. However, in section II.C.2., below, for entirely different purposes EPA is proposing to conditionally approve the SCAQMD commitments to adopt rules during 1994 and 1995. On October 15, 1993, the SCAQMD adopted rules implementing the Regional Clean Air Incentives Market (RECLAIM) program for NO X and sulfur oxides (SO X ). This innovative program establishes a declining cap ``bubble'' requirement on most facilities with emissions greater than 4 tons per year of NO X or SO X . The program includes emissions allocation and emissions trading components. EPA intends to propose to approve (or conditionally approve) the RECLAIM regulations in separate rulemaking, following SIP submittal. For the purposes of the FIP attainment demonstration, EPA proposes to assign credit to the adopted RECLAIM program, which went into effect on January 1, 1994. If EPA does not finally approve the NO X RECLAIM rules, EPA would not be able to grant credits for associated reductions, and would need to amend the FIP accordingly. For more details on the RECLAIM rules, see section III.C.5. The SCAQMD, SCAG, and CARB are currently preparing a comprehensive revision to existing air quality plans, addressing all pollutants and the requirements of both the federal and State Clean Air Acts. SIP submittal of this comprehensive plan (or portions of the plan) is scheduled to occur on or before November 15, 1994. The new plan will include revised 1990 baseyear emissions inventories, and projected inventories for interim years through the year 2020. With respect to motor vehicle emissions, these inventories may be significantly different from those used in the proposed ozone and CO FIPs, because the 1994 plan is expected to rely on new trip modeling input data and revised motor vehicle emissions factors. For ozone, the plan may analyze additional episodes, including a weekend episode. 5. State of California
