FR941202-2-00012 FR941202-2-00007 Injury Test Because Italy is a ``country under the Agreement'' within the meaning of section 701(b) of the Act, the U.S. International Trade Commission (``ITC'') is required to determine whether imports of OCTG from Italy materially injure, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. On August 3, 1994, the ITC preliminarily determined that there is a reasonable indication that an industry in the United States is being materially injured or threatened with material injury by reason of imports from Italy of the subject merchandise (59 FR 42286, August 17, 1994). Petitioner The petition in this investigation was filed by IPSCO Steel, Inc., Maverick Tube Corporation, Koppel Steel Corporation, North Star Steel Ohio, and USS/Steel Group. Corporate History of Respondent Dalmine Prior to its liquidation in 1988, Finsider S.p.A. (``Finsider'') was the holding company for all state-owned steel companies in Italy. Dalmine was an operating company wholly owned by Finsider. After Finsider's liquidation, a new government-owned holding company, ILVA S.p.A. (``ILVA''), was created. ILVA took over the former Finsider companies, among them Dalmine, which became a subsidiary of ILVA in 1989, when Finsider's shareholding in Dalmine was transferred to ILVA. Between 1990 and 1993, Dalmine itself was restructured. Dalmine became a financial holding company, with industrial, trading, and service shareholdings. As part of its restructuring, Dalmien made several asset purchases, sold two of its subsidiaries to private parties, and closed several manufacturing facilities. As of December 31, 1993, the Dalmine Group consisted of a holding company (Dalmine S.p.A.), four wholly-owned, and one majority-owned, manufacturing companies, and a number of sales and service subsidiaries. During the POI, ILVA was owned by the Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale (``IRI''), a holding company which was wholly-owned by the GOI. Spin-Offs In its questionnaire response, Dalmine reported that between 1990 and 1991, as part of its overall restructuring process, the company sold two ``productive units'' to private buyers. According to Dalmine, these sales involved assets that do not produce the subject merchandise. Based on our analysis of Dalmine's response with respect to the productive units sold, we preliminarily determine that the amount of potentially spun-off benefits is insignificant. Therefore, we have not evaluated whether these benefits are attributable to sales of the subject merchandise for purposes of this preliminary determination. ( See Final Concurrence Memorandum dated November 23, 1994.) Equityworthiness Petitioner has alleged that Dalmine was unequityworthy in 1989, the year it received an indirect equity infusion from the GOI, through ILVA S.p.A. (``ILVA''), and that the equity infusion was, therefore, inconsistent with commercial considerations. In its questionnaire response, Dalmine has provided evidence that private investors, unrelated to Dalmine or the GOI, purchased a significant percentage of the 1989 equity offering, on the same terms as ILVA. Therefore, the Department preliminarily determines that ILVA's purchase of Dalmine's shares was consistent with commercial considerations. ( See section 355.44(e)(1)(i) of the Proposed Regulations published on May 31, 1989, at 54 FR 23366.) Creditworthiness Petitioner has alleged that Dalmine was uncreditworthy in every year between 1979 and 1993. In accordance with section 355.44 of the Proposed Regulations, we examined Dalmine's current, quick, times interest earned, and debt-to-equity ratios, in addition to its profit margin. Based on this analysis, we preliminarily determine that Dalmine was creditworthy from 1979 through 1993. ( See Creditworthy Memorandum, November 23, 1994). Specifically, although a number of the financial indicators are weak for certain years, none of the indicators are weak over the medium or long term, and when examined together on a yearly basis, the indicators support the determination that Dalmine was creditworthy in every year examined. In addition, Dalmine received comparable long-term, commercial loans from private lenders in several of the years examined. While we have based our preliminary creditworthiness determination on the company's financial indicators, the fact that Dalmine received a number of long-term commercial loans during this period supports our finding.
