FR941202-2-00201 FR941202-2-00098 5.7.3␣Calibration 5.7.3.1␣Documentation and Labeling The laboratory shall retain records (e.g., manufacturer's statement of purity), of the origin, purity and traceability of all standards and reagents (including balance weights and thermometers). These records shall include the date of receipt, the date of opening and an expiration date. Detailed records shall be maintained on reagent and standard preparation. These records shall indicate traceability to purchase stocks or neat compounds, and must include the date of preparation and preparer's initials. Where calibrations do not include the generation of a standard curve (e.g., thermometers, balances, titrations, etc.), records shall indicate the calibration date and type (e.g. balance weight, thermometer serial number, primary standard concentration, etc.) of calibration standard that was used. All prepared reagents and standards shall be clearly identified with preparation date, concentration(s) and preparer's initials. All standard curves shall be dated and labeled with method, analyte and standard concentrations and instrument responses. The axes of the calibration curve should be labeled. For electronic data processing systems, that automatically compute the calibration curve, the equation for the curve and the correlation coefficient must be recorded. The equation for the line and the correlation coefficient shall also be recorded when the calibration curve is prepared manually. A criteria for an acceptable correlation coefficient shall be established. 5.7.3.2␣Initial Calibrations All initial calibrations shall be verified with standards of high quality obtained from a second or different source. These verification standards shall be analyzed with each initial calibration or quarterly, whichever is more frequent. Standard curves shall be prepared as specified in the method. The lowest standard should approach the method detection limit. If a method does not provide guidance in the preparation of a standard curve, the following guidelines shall be followed: For all methods, use a blank and at least three (3) standards that lie within the linear portion of the curve. Additional standards are required for non-linear calibration curves. In all cases, the sample results must be closely bracketed by calibration standards. A new curve shall be run if two successive runs of one continuing calibration check is outside acceptable limits. 5.7.3.3␣Continuing Calibration Verification When an initial calibration curve is not run on the day of analysis, the integrity of the initial calibration curve shall be verified on each day of use (or 24 hour period) by initially analyzing a blank and a standard at a concentration equal to or near the lowest calibration standard (the lowest calibration standard shall be in the range of 4 to 8 times the calculated method detection limit). Additional standards shall be analyzed after the initial calibration curve or the integrity of the initial calibration curve (see previous paragraph) has been accepted.
