FR940204-2-00151 FR940204-2-00103 Civil Penalty Actions_Orders Issued by the Administrator Digests (Current as of December 31, 1993) The digests of the Administrator's final decisions and orders are arranged by order number, and briefly summarize key points of the decision. The following compilation of digests includes all final decisions and orders issued by the Administrator from October 1, 1993, to December 31, 1993. The FAA will publish noncumulative supplements to this compilation on a quarterly basis (e.g. April, July, October, and January of each year). These digests do not constitute legal authority, and should not be cited or relied upon as such. The digests are not intended to serve as a substitute for proper legal research. Parties, attorneys, and other interested persons should always consult the full text of the Administrator's decisions before citing them in any context. In the Matter of Raymond B. Strohl Order No. 93&hyph;28 (10/20/93) Further Briefing Ordered. The parties are directed to provide a full procedural history of the case and to brief the following issues: (1) Whether the Administrator has jurisdiction; (2) whether the law judge has jurisdiction; (3) whether the order assessing civil penalty issued by Complainant is valid given that Respondent filed a timely request for hearing; and (4) whether the terms of any settlement agreement entered into by the parties eliminate the need for further proceedings. The parties have 30 days to file their additional briefs. In the Matter of Mark Sweeney Order No. 93&hyph;29 (10/20/93) Failure to See and Avoid. The Administrator affirmed the law judge's decision finding that Respondent, the pilot of a float-equipped Cessna 206, failed to maintain vigilance so as to see and avoid another aircraft when he struck the other aircraft from the rear. Both aircrafts were on sightseeing tours for the same operator. Respondent knew that the other aircraft was directly ahead of his and that both aircraft were heading for the same destination. No weather or mechanical problems existed. Respondent should have changed his position in his seat or maneuvered his aircraft to see around any obstruction blocking his line of vision. Respondent created a collision hazard by operating so close to the other aircraft. He operated his aircraft in a careless or reckless manner. Circumstantial Evidence. Complainant could use circumstantial evidence to sustain its burden of proof. In the Matter of William S. Post Order No. 93&hyph;90 (10/20/93) Applicant's Personal Expenses Under the EAJA. The Administrator held that the applicant's own expenses incurred to attend the hearing in his case were not recoverable under the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA). Nothing in ยง14.05 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, which discusses allowable attorney fees and expenses, would lead one to conclude that an applicant's personal expenses may be recovered. The expenses recoverable under the EAJA are those incurred by an ``attorney, agent, or expert witness representing or appearing on behalf of the party.'' In the Matter of Shane Thomas Allen Order No. 93&hyph;31 (10/20/93) Reconsideration Denied. The Administrator denied Respondent's petition for reconsideration of FAA Order No. 93&hyph;23 (July 22, 1993). Respondent failed to show that good cause existed to excuse his untimely appeal brief. The Administrator affirmed his prior dismissal of Respondent's appeal. In the Matter of Raul Nunez Order No. 93&hyph;32 (10/20/93) Reconsideration Granted. The Administrator granted Respondent's petition for reconsideration of FAA Order No. 93&hyph;92 (March 24, 1993). The Administrator had dismissed Respondent's appeal for failure to file an appeal brief. Upon reexamination, the Administrator found that Respondent's notice of appeal contained sufficient information to comply with the requirements for an appeal brief. Respondent's notice of appeal was construed as an appeal brief. Respondent's notice of appeal was construed as an appeal brief. Respondent's appeal was reinstated. Complainant was given 35 days to file a reply brief.
