FR941207-0-00025 FR941207-0-00003 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Parts 208 and 225 [Regulations H and Y; Docket No. R&hyph;0837] Capital; Capital Adequacy Guidelines AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) is amending its risk-based capital guidelines to recognize the risk-reducing benefits of qualifying bilateral netting contracts. This final rule implements a recent revision to the Basle Accord permitting the recognition of such netting arrangements. The effect of the final rule is that state member banks and bank holding companies (banking organizations, institutions) may net positive and negative mark-to-market values of interest and exchange rate contracts in determining the current exposure portion of the credit equivalent amount of such contracts to be included in risk-weighted assets. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 31, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Roger Cole, Deputy Associate Director (202/452&hyph;2618), Norah Barger, Manager (202/452&hyph;2402), Robert Motyka, Supervisory Financial Analyst (202)/452&hyph;3621), Barbara Bouchard, Supervisory Financial Analyst (202/452&hyph;3072), Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation; or Stephanie Martin, Senior Attorney (202/452&hyph;3198), Legal Division. For the hearing impaired only, Telecommunications Device for the Deaf, Dorothea Thompson (202/452&hyph;3544), 20th and C Streets, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20551. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Basle Accord 1 established a risk-based capital framework which was implemented for state member banks and bank holding companies by the Board in 1989. Under this framework, off-balance-sheet interest rate and exchange rate contracts (rate contracts) are incorporated into risk weighted assets by converting each contract into a credit equivalent amount. This amount is then assigned to the appropriate credit risk category according to the identity of the obligor or counterparty or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of the collateral. The credit equivalent amount of an interest or exchange rate contract can be assigned to a maximum credit risk category of 50 percent. 1 The Basle Accord is a risk-based framework that was proposed by the Basle Committee on Banking Supervision (Basle Supervisors' Committee) and endorsed by the central bank governors of the Group of Ten (G&hyph;10) countries in July 1988. The Basle Supervisors' Committee is comprised of representatives of the central banks and supervisory authorities from the G&hyph;10 countries (Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States) and Luxembourg. The credit equivalent amount of a rate contract is determined by adding together the current replacement cost (current exposure) and an estimate of the possible increase in future replacement cost in view of the volatility of the current exposure over the remaining life of the contract (potential future exposure, also referred to as the add-on). 2 2 This method of determining credit equivalent amounts for rate contracts is identified in the Basle Accord as the current exposure method, which is used by most international banks. For risk-based capital purposes, a rate contract with a positive mark-to-market value has a current exposure equal to that market value. If the mark-to-market value of a rate contract is zero or negative, then there is no replacement cost associated with the contract and the current exposure is zero. The original Basle Accord and the Board's guidelines provided that current exposure would be determined individually for each rate contract entered into by a banking organization; institutions generally were not permitted to offset, that is, net, positive and negative market values of multiple rate contracts with a single counterparty to determine one current credit exposure relative to that counterparty. 3 3 It was noted in the Accord that the legal enforceability of certain netting arrangements was unclear in some jurisdictions. The legal status of netting by novation, however, was determined to be settled and this limited type of netting was recognized. Netting by novation is accomplished under a written bilateral contract providing that any obligation to deliver a given currency on a given date is automatically amalgamated with all other obligations for the same currency and value date. The previously existing contracts are extinguished and a new contract for the single net amount, in effect, legally replaces the amalgamated gross obligations. In April 1993 the Basle Supervisors' Committee proposed a revision to the Basle Accord, endorsed by the G&hyph;10 Governors in July 1994, that permits institutions to net positive and negative market values of rate contracts subject to a qualifying, legally enforceable, bilateral netting arrangement. Under the revision, institutions with a qualifying netting arrangement may calculate a single net current exposure for purposes of determining the credit equivalent amount for the included contracts. 4 If the net market value of the contracts included in such a netting arrangement is positive, then that market value equals the current exposure for the netting contract. If the net market value is zero or negative, then the current exposure is zero. 4 The revision to the Accord notes that national supervisors must be satisfied about the legal enforceability of a netting arrangement under the laws of each jurisdiction relevant to the arrangement. The Accord also states that, if any supervisor is dissatisfied about enforceability under its own laws, the netting arrangement does not satisfy this condition and neither counterparty may obtain supervisory benefit. The Board's Proposal On May 20, 1994, the Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) issued a joint proposal to amend their respective risk-based capital standards (59 FR 26456) in accordance with the Basle Supervisors' Committee's April 1993 proposal. 5 The joint proposal provided that for capital purposes institutions regulated by the Board and the OCC could net the positive and negative market values of interest and exchange rate contracts subject to a qualifying, legally enforceable, bilateral netting contract to calculate one current exposure for that netting contract (sometimes referred to as the master netting contract). 5 The Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) issued a similar netting proposal on June 14, 1994 and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) issued its netting proposal on July 25, 1994.
