FR940419-2-00180 FR940419-2-00087 V. Enforcement and Compliance A. Overview It is important that permittees act immediately to take the necessary steps to comply with the CWA. The CSO enforcement effort will commence with an initiative to address CSOs that discharge during dry weather, followed by an enforcement effort in conjunction with permitting CSOs discussed earlier in this Policy. Success of the enforcement effort will depend in large part upon expeditious action by NPDES authorities in issuing enforceable permits that include requirements both for the nine minimum controls and for compliance with all other requirements of the CWA. Priority for enforcement actions should be set based on environmental impacts or sensitive areas affected by CSOs. As a further inducement for permittees to cooperate with this process, EPA is prepared to exercise its enforcement discretion in determining whether or not to seek civil penalties for past CSO violations if permittees meet the objectives and schedules of this Policy and do not have CSOs during dry weather. B. Enforcement of CSO Dry Weather Discharge Prohibition EPA intends to commence immediately an enforcement initiative against CSO permittees which have CWA violations due to CSOs during dry weather. Discharges during dry weather have always been prohibited by the NPDES program. Such discharges can create serious public health and water quality problems. EPA will use its CWA Section 308 monitoring, reporting, and inspection authorities, together with NPDES State authorities, to locate these violations, and to determine their causes. Appropriate remedies and penalties will be sought for CSOs during dry weather. EPA will provide NPDES authorities more specific guidance on this enforcement initiative separately. C. Enforcement of Wet Weather CSO Requirements Under the CWA, EPA can use several enforcement options to address permittees with CSOs. Those options directly applicable to this Policy are section 308 Information Requests, section 309(a) Administrative Orders, section 309(g) Administrative Penalty Orders, section 309 (b) and (d) Civil Judicial Actions, and section 504 Emergency Powers. NPDES States should use comparable means. NPDES authorities should set priorities for enforcement based on environmental impacts or sensitive areas affected by CSOs. Permittees that have voluntarily initiated monitoring and are progressing expeditiously toward appropriate CSO controls should be given due consideration for their efforts. 1. Enforcement for Compliance With Phase I Permits Enforcement for compliance with Phase I permits will focus on requirements to implement at least the nine minimum controls, and develop the long-term CSO control plan leading to compliance with the requirements of the CWA. Where immediate compliance with the Phase I permit is infeasible, the NPDES authority should issue an enforceable schedule, in concert with the Phase I permit, requiring compliance with the CWA and imposing compliance schedules with dates for each of the nine minimum controls as soon as practicable. All enforcement authorities should require compliance with the nine minimum controls no later than January 1, 1997. Where the NPDES authority is issuing an order with a compliance schedule for the nine minimum controls, this order should also include a schedule for development of the long-term CSO control plan. If a CSO permittee fails to meet the final compliance date of the schedule, the NPDES authority should initiate appropriate judicial action. 2. Enforcement for Compliance With Phase II Permits The main focus for enforcing compliance with Phase II permits will be to incorporate the long-term CSO control plan through a civil judicial action, an administrative order, or other enforceable mechanism requiring compliance with the CWA and imposing a compliance schedule with appropriate milestone dates necessary to implement the plan. In general, a judicial order is the appropriate mechanism for incorporating the above provisions for Phase II. Administrative orders, however, may be appropriate for permittees whose long-term control plans will take less than five years to complete, and for minors that have complied with the final date of the enforceable order for compliance with their Phase I permit. If necessary, any of the nine minimum controls that have not been implemented by this time should be included in the terms of the judicial order. D. Penalties EPA is prepared not to seek civil penalties for past CSO violations, if permittees have no discharges during dry weather and meet the objectives and schedules of this Policy. Notwithstanding this, where a permittee has other significant CWA violations for which EPA or the State is taking judicial action, penalties may be considered as part of that action for the following:
