FR940317-1-00061 FR940317-1-00013 (i) A medical or surgical accident; or (ii) Care that does not meet standards for non-Government facilities similar to the Army facility providing the care; or (iii) An incident that could give rise to a claim against the United States under this regulation; or (9) Competent authority so directs. (b) Investigation by a claims officer is required when the situation or consequences described in paragraphs (a) (1) through (4), and (a)(9) of this section arise from activities of the ARNG or its personnel. (c) Claims arising out of situations that may be expected to generate a substantial number of claims in a short period of time and are properly cognizable for settlement under this regulation (such as maneuvers or other special operations, emergencies, civil disturbances, aircraft and missile accidents, or disasters) will be investigated in accordance with procedures set forth herein by the claims office responsible for the area in which the incident occurred. No claim arising out of such an emergency situation will be paid until the concurrence of the Commander, USARCS has been obtained. (See §536.8(c)(4)(iii). (d) Where an accident occurs that could only result in a claim against the United States that is not payable because of the incident to service rule, for example, barred by the Feres Doctrine, or the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA), or the Longshoremen's and Harborworkers Compensation Act (LHWCA), the investigation may be limited to that necessary to make such a determination. However, claims officials will ensure that the appropriate commander or organization safety office is aware of the incident so that measures to avoid a recurrence can be pursued. §536.16 Unit claims officers. (a) Commanders' responsibility. Commanders and heads of DA and DOD components whose personnel, equipment or operations are involved in an incident giving rise to a potential or actual claim for or against the government (see §536.15(a), will appoint a commissioned officer, a warrant officer or a qualified civilian employee to conduct an initial factual investigation of the incident. (1) Installation commanders, brigade commanders, commanders of separate battalions, state ARNG Adjutant Generals and other commanders whose operations may generate a significant number of claims should consider appointing a claims officer on standing orders to facilitate training and coordination with the claims JA/attorney supporting the unit. (2) Senior noncommissioned officers (E6 thru E9) may be appointed as assistant claims officers to perform duties under the supervision of a claims officer. (3) Claims officer appointment orders should designate the claims JA/attorney who supports the unit as the claims officer's legal advisor. The orders will direct the claims officer to seek guidance from the claims JA/attorney at the outset of the investigation and before completion of the investigation whenever the potential value of the claim is in excess of $15,000 or an actual claim in excess of that amount has been filed. (4) The scope and duration of the investigation will depend on the severity and complexity of the incident and may range from merely obtaining investigation reports already prepared by police and other investigators to a formal investigation by a board of officers under the provisions of chapter 5, AR 15&hyph;6. In addition to the provisions of this chapter, claims officers will follow the guidance in Chapter 5, DA PAM 27&hyph;162 and the advice of the claims JA/attorney listed as their advisor. (5) Unit claims officers, in addition to making a report of investigation as specified in §536.16(c), will account for and preserve all available evidence for use in future litigation. Evidence will be retained until released by the claims JA/attorney. Therefore, the claims officer will consult with the claims JA/attorney before disposal, destruction or repair of damaged property or other evidence. The claims officer will also act as the claims JA/attorney's point of contact for support and assistance from the unit. (6) Claims officers must coordinate their work with concurrent criminal and safety investigations, which have priority within DA for access to accident sites and witnesses (see paragraph 1&hyph;4d, AR 15&hyph;6 and paragraphs 4&hyph;8a(2), 5&hyph;1a(1) and 5&hyph;4 AR 385&hyph;40). To the greatest extent possible claims officers should take advantage of the work already done on these other investigations (see §536.19 of this part). Although there are limits on the information safety personnel can release to claims officers, some of the information in safety reports can be released (see paragraphs 1&hyph;10 and 5&hyph;6, AR 385&hyph;40).
