FR940324-2-00070 FR940324-2-00043 RIN 0905&hyph;ZA23 Mental Health Care Provider Education in HIV/AIDS AGENCY: Center for Mental Health Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, HHS. ACTION: Request for applications. SUMMARY: The Center For Mental Health Services (CMHS), of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), is interested in supporting a limited number of proposals to train both traditional and nontraditional mental health care providers to address the psychological and the neuropsychiatric sequelae of HIV/AIDS. Since 1986, first the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), and now CMHS, have provided support for a program to develop model educational approaches to train mental health care providers in neuropsychiatric and psychosocial aspects of HIV/AIDS. The focus has been on training traditional mental health care providers (psychiatrists, psychologists, nurses, social workers and marriage and family counselors), other first line providers of mental health services (e.g., medical students, primary care physicians), and nontraditional providers (e.g., the clergy and other spiritual providers, alternative health care workers, counselors). The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) supports a similar program, the National AIDS Education and Training (AETC) Centers Program, which consists of a network of 17 centers geographically distributed throughout the U.S.A., the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. This program emphasizes training primary care providers on the clinical aspects of HIV management; however, multiple AETCs offer training for allied health care providers. This notice consists of three parts: Part I covers information on the legislative authority and the applicable regulations and policies related to the Mental Health Care Provider Education in HIV/AIDS program. Part II describes the programmatic goals and scope of the program and discusses eligibility, availability of funds, period of support and receipt date for applications. Part III describes special requirements of the program, the application process, the review and award criteria and provides contacts for additional information.
