FR940622-0-00071 FR940622-0-00011 (1) To post conspicuously in any emergency department or in a place or places likely to be noticed by all individuals entering the emergency department, as well as those individuals waiting for examination and treatment in areas other than traditional emergency departments (that is, entrance, admitting area, waiting room, treatment area), a sign (in a form specified by the Secretary) specifying rights of individuals under Section 1867 of the Act with respect to examination and treatment for emergency medical conditions and women in labor; and (2) To post conspicuously (in a form specified by the Secretary) information indicating whether or not the hospital or rural primary care hospital participates in the Medicaid program under a State plan approved under title XIX. (r) In the case of a hospital as defined in §489.24(b) (including both the transferring and receiving hospitals), to maintain_ (1) Medical and other records related to individuals transferred to or from the hospital for a period of 5 years from the date of the transfer; (2) A list of physicians who are on call for duty after the initial examination to provide treatment necessary to stabilize an individual with an emergency medical condition; and (3) A central log on each individual who comes to the emergency department, as defined in §489.24(b), seeking assistance and whether he or she refused treatment, was refused treatment, or whether he or she was transferred, admitted and treated, stabilized and transferred, or discharged. 3. New §§489.24 through 489.27 are added to read as follows: §489.24 Special responsibilities of Medicare hospitals in emergency cases. (a) General. In the case of a hospital that has an emergency department, if any individual (whether or not eligible for Medicare benefits and regardless of ability to pay) comes by him or herself or with another person to the emergency department and a request is made on the individual's behalf for examination or treatment of a medical condition by qualified medical personnel (as determined by the hospital in its rules and regulations), the hospital must provide for an appropriate medical screening examination within the capability of the hospital's emergency department, including ancillary services routinely available to the emergency department, to determine whether or not an emergency medical condition exists. The examinations must be conducted by individuals determined qualified by hospital by-laws or rules and regulations and who meet the requirements of §482.55 concerning emergency services personnel and direction. (b) Definitions. As used in this subpart_ Capacity means the ability of the hospital to accommodate the individual requesting examination or treatment of the transferred individual. Capacity encompasses such things as numbers and availability of qualified staff, beds and equipment and the hospital's past practices of accommodating additional patients in excess of its occupancy limits. Comes to the emergency department means, with respect to an individual requesting examination or treatment, that the individual is on the hospital property (property includes ambulances owned and operated by the hospital, even if the ambulance is not on hospital grounds). An individual in a nonhospital-owned ambulance on hospital property is considered to have come to the hospital's emergency department. An individual in a nonhospital-owned ambulance off hospital property is not considered to have come to the hospital's emergency department, even if a member of the ambulance staff contacts the hospital by telephone or telemetry communications and informs the hospital that they want to transport the individual to the hospital for examination and treatment. In such situations, the hospital may deny access if it is in ``diversionary status,'' that is, it does not have the staff or facilities to accept any additional emergency patients. If, however, the ambulance staff disregards the hospital's instructions and transports the individual on to hospital property, the individual is considered to have come to the emergency department. Emergency medical condition means_ (i) A medical condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe pain, psychiatric disturbances and/or symptoms of substance abuse) such that the absence of immediate medical attention could reasonably be expected to result in_ (A) Placing the health of the individual (or, with respect to a pregnant woman, the health of the woman or her unborn child) in serious jeopardy; (B) Serious impairment to bodily functions; or (C) Serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part; or (ii) With respect to a pregnant woman who is having contractions_ (A) That there is inadequate time to effect a safe transfer to another hospital before delivery; or (B) That transfer may pose a threat to the health or safety of the woman or the unborn child. Hospital includes a rural primary care hospital as defined in section 1861(mm)(1) of the Act. Hospital with an emergency department means a hospital that offers services for emergency medical conditions (as defined in this paragraph) within its capability to do so.
