FR940428-2-00065 FR940428-2-00039 9. Academic and physical environment in which the training will be conducted, including access to appropriate occupational settings. 10. Appropriateness of the budget required to support each academic component of the ERC program, including a separate budget for the academic staff's time and effort in continuing education and outreach. 11. Evidence of a plan describing the research and research training the Center proposes. This shall include goals, elements of the program, research faculty and amount of effort, support faculty, facilities and equipment available and needed, and methods for implementing and evaluating the program. 12. Evidence of success in attaining outside support to supplement the ERC grant funds including other Federal grants, support from States and other public agencies, and support from the private sector including grants from foundations and corporate endowments, chairs, and gifts. In reviewing long-term TPG applications, consideration will be given to: 1. Need for training in the program area outlined by the application. This should include documentation of ability and a plan for student recruitment, projected enrollment, job opportunities, regional/national need both in quality and quantity, and similar programs, if any within the geographic area. 2. Potential contribution of the project toward meeting the needs for graduate or specialized training in occupational safety and health. 3. Curriculum content and design which should include formalized program objectives, minimal course content to achieve certificate or degree, course sequence, related courses open to students, time devoted to lecture, laboratory and field experience, nature and the interrelationship of these educational approaches. 4. Previous records of training in this or related areas, including placement of graduates. 5. Methods proposed to evaluate effectiveness of the training. 6. Degree of institutional commitment: Is grant support necessary for program initiation or continuation? Will support gradually be assumed? Is there related instruction that will go on with or without the grant? 7. Adequacy of facilities (classrooms, laboratories, library services, books, and journal holdings relevant to the program, and access to appropriate occupational settings). 8. Competence, experience, training, time commitment to the program and availability of faculty to advise students, faculty/student ratio, and teaching loads of the program director and teaching faculty in relation to the type and scope of training involved. The program director must be a full-time faculty member. 9. Admission Requirements: Student selection standards and procedures, student performance standards and student counseling services. 10. Advisory Committee (if established): Membership, industries and labor groups represented; how often they meet; who they advise, role in designing curriculum and establishing program need. Funding Allocation Criteria For Educational Resource Center grants, the following criteria will be considered in determining funding allocations. 1. Academic Core Programs a. Budget to support programs primarily for personnel and other personnel-related costs. Advanced (doctoral and post-doctoral) and specialty (master's) programs will be considered. b. Budget to support programs based on program quality and need. Factors considered include faculty commitment/breadth, faculty reputation/strength, national/regional workforce needs, unique program contribution, interdisciplinary interaction, and technical merit. c. Budget to support students based on the program level and the number of students supported. d. Budget to support research training programs to establish a research base within core disciplines and for the training of researchers in occupational safety and health. 2. Center Administration Budget to support Center administration to assure coordination and promotion of academic programs. 3. Continuing Education/Outreach Program Budget to support outreach and continuing education activities to prepare, distribute, and conduct short courses, seminars, and workshops. 4. Hazardous Substance Training Programs Budget to support the development and presentation of continuing education courses for professionals engaged in the management of hazardous substances. 5. Hazardous Substance Academic Training Programs Budget to support the development and presentation of specialized academic programs in hazardous substance management. 6. Agricultural Safety and Health Academic Programs Budget to support the development and presentation of specialized academic programs and continuing education courses in agricultural safety and health. For Long-Term Training Project grants, the following factors will be considered in determining funding allocations: Academic Core Programs a. Budget to support programs primarily for personnel and other personnel-related costs. Advanced (doctoral and post-doctoral), specialty (master's), and baccalaureate/associate programs will be considered. b. Budget to support programs based on program quality and need. Factors considered include faculty commitment/breadth, faculty reputation/strength, national/regional workforce needs, unique program contribution, interdisciplinary interaction, and technical merit. c. Budget to support students based on the program level and the number of students supported. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number (CFDA) The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number is 93.263. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are not subject to review as governed by Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. Public Health System Reporting Requirement This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Application Submission and Deadline Applications should be clearly identified as an application for an Occupational Safety and Health Long-Term Training Project Grant or ERC Training Grant. The submission schedule is as follows: New, Competing Continuation and Supplemental Receipt Date: July 1, 1994. An original and two copies of new, competing continuation and supplemental applications (Form CDC 2.145A ERC or TPG) should be submitted to: Henry S. Cassell, III, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., room 300, Atlanta, GA 30305. 1. Deadline: Applications shall be considered as meeting the deadline if they are either: a. Received on or before the deadline date, or b. Sent on or before the deadline date and received in time for submission to the independent review group. (Applicants must request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or the U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) 2. Late Applications: Applications which do not meet the criteria in 1.a. or 1.b. above are considered late applications. Late applications will not be considered in the current competition and will be returned to the applicant. Non-Competing Continuation Receipt Date: November 15, 1994.
