FR940516-2-00139 FR940516-2-00094 (4) Fair Housing Organizations (FHO) Initiative. (i) Purpose: Continued Development of Existing Organizations. (A) Eligible applicants . Eligible applicants for funding under this purpose of the FHO Initiative are: ( 1 ) Qualified fair housing enforcement organizations; ( 2 ) Other private nonprofit fair housing enforcement organizations; and ( 3 ) Nonprofit groups organizing to build their capacity to provide fair housing enforcement. (B) Eligible activities . Eligible activities for funding under this purpose of the FHO Initiative are any activities listed as eligible under the Private Enforcement Initiative in section I.(c)(3)(ii) of this NOFA and carried out as one-year projects. (C) Additional requirements . The following requirements apply to activities funded under the Continued Development of Existing Organizations purpose of the FHO Initiative: ( 1 ) Operating budget limitation. Funding under this purpose of the FHO Initiative may not be used to provide more than 50 percent of the operating budget of a recipient organization for any one year. For purposes of the limitation in this paragraph, operating budget means the applicant's total planned budget expenditures from all sources, including the value of in-kind and monetary contributions, in the year for which funding is sought. ( 2 ) Term of contract . One-year projects may be for up to eighteen months in duration. (ii) Purpose: Establishing New Organizations . (A) Eligible applicants . Any applicants eligible under any of the other FHIP Initiatives in this NOFA are eligible applicants for funding under this purpose of the FHO Initiative. (B) Eligible activities . Eligible for funding under this purpose of the FHO Initiative are two-year projects that help establish, organize, and build the capacity of fair housing enforcement organizations in the targeted unserved and underserved areas identified in sections I.(c)(4)(ii)(C), or other underserved areas identified by the applicant in accordance with section I.(c)(4)(ii)(D), below, of this NOFA. The Department has considered a number a factors to identify the targeted areas eligible for funding under this NOFA, including, for example, the amount of funds available; the lack of substantially equivalent state or local agencies, or private enforcement groups; and the presence of large concentrations of protected classes. In future NOFAs, the Department will consider additional targeted areas for funding. (C) Targeted areas . ( 1 ) A preference of ten additional points will be given for applications that propose to establish new fair housing enforcement organizations in localities within any of the following unserved areas: ( i ) New Hampshire;
