FR940707-2-00073 FR940707-2-00049 Programs funded under the Act are: •Federal assistance to State developmental disabilities councils; •State system for the protection and advocacy of individual rights; •Grants to university affiliated programs for interdisciplinary training, exemplary services, technical assistance, and information dissemination; and •Grants for Projects of National Significance. Part II. Background Information A. Description of Projects of National Significance Under Part E of the Act, grants and contracts are awarded for projects of national significance that support the development of national and State policy to enhance the independence, productivity, and integration and inclusion of individuals with developmental disabilities through: •Data collection and analysis; •Technical assistance to enhance the quality of State developmental disabilities councils, protection and advocacy systems, and university affiliated programs; and •Other projects of sufficient size and scope that hold promise to expand or improve opportunities for people with developmental disabilities, including: _Technical assistance for the development of information and referral systems; _Educating policy makers; _Federal interagency initiatives; _The enhancement of participation of racial and ethnic groups in public and private sector initiatives in developmental disabilities; _Transition of youth with developmental disabilities from school to adult life; and _Special pilots and evaluation studies to explore the expansion of programs under part B (State developmental disabilities councils) to individuals with severe disabilities other than developmental disabilities. B. Comments on FY 1994 Proposed Priority Areas The notice soliciting comments on the FY 1994 proposed priority areas was published in the Federal Register on February 24, 1994. A 60 day period was required to allow the public to comment on the proposed areas. After review and analysis of these comments, ADD is publishing its final priorities in this announcement. The public comment notice requested specific comments and suggestions on the proposed funding priorities, in addition to recommendations for additional priority areas which would assist in bringing about the increased independence, productivity, and integration into the community of people with developmental disabilities. ADD received a total of 52 letters and 93 individual comments in response to the public comment notice. The majority of the comments expressed support of the priority areas. Other comments were supportive of the priority areas, but suggested changes. Agencies which commented were identified as follows: •Advocacy agencies, which includes national organizations and associations, national advocacy groups and State/local advocacy groups; •Service organizations, which includes agencies that provide services for individuals with developmental disabilities as well as providing advocacy services on behalf of a particular disability, including developmental disabilities councils; •Educational systems, which includes schools, colleges and universities, programs located within a university setting (CA/N, R&TC, youth w/disabilities) and university affiliated programs; •Private agencies, which includes national, State and local non-profit organizations; •Government agencies, which includes Federal, State, county and local government agencies; •Private individuals; and •Foundations.
