FR940721-0-00031 FR940721-0-00010 NHTSA does not agree with Ford and Cosco that Standard 213 need not specify that boosters must not be recommended for children of less than 13.6 kg. NHTSA generally agrees with Cosco that dynamic test requirements should be the criteria in determining whether a given design performs adequately. However, in the case of booster seats, the dynamic test failed to prevent substandard restraining devices, with respect to protecting children at the extremes of the weight ranges recommended for the restraints (e.g., the 20 pound and the 48 pound child). As explained in the ANPRM preceding this rule, heretofore, manufacturers had great leeway in manufacturing booster seats and specifying which size (weight) children were suitable for the seats. That leeway resulted in alarming practices: Concerns about shield-type boosters arose from the recommendations by manufacturers about the size of children which could appropriately use a particular booster. Particular designs or models of boosters were typically recommended for a broad range of children. Often, the seats were recommended for use by children weighing from about 20 to 70 pounds. Such recommendations engendered concerns as to whether these boosters could provide adequate protection for children ranging from nine-month-old infants (average weigh 20 pounds) to six-year-old (48 pounds) and older children. 57 FR 22682, 22683; May 29, 1992. As explained in the ANPRM, in tests conducted by NHTSA and by Calspan Corporation, it was found that shield boosters could not restrain a test dummy representing a 9-month-old child when dynamically tested using Standard 213's procedures. Yet, the boosters were certified as meeting Standard 213, because only the three-year-old (33 pound) child dummy is used to determine compliance with the standard. So tested, the restraints met Standard 213. NHTSA agrees with the commenters that children with a mass of less than 13.6 kg are better protected in convertible and toddler seats. These child seats have been performing well when tested with the various sizes of dummies. However, booster seats have not performed adequately in restraining dummies with masses of less than 13.6 kg in tests done over the years at Calspan, the University of Michigan and VRTC. Moreover, the 9-month-old dummy in Part 572 that could be used to evaluate the effectiveness of booster seats in protecting children with masses less than 13.6 kg is not instrumented, and is therefore limited in its ability to provide a full and accurate indication of the safety of booster seats in protecting the very young child. Accordingly, the agency agrees with AAP that the proposed minimum weight limit for use of booster seats should be imposed until, and if, the state of the art of the technology evolves to design and develop a booster seat that would protect children with masses of less than 13.6 kg. However, the agency does not agree with Advocates that an affirmative warning label is appropriate. The label is ladened with warning statements, and adding to the label risks ``information overload,'' which could reduce the effectiveness of each warning. IV. Effective Date This rule is effective in 30 days. An effective date of less than 180 days is justified because this rule relieves present requirements in Standard 213 that restrict the manufacture of belt-positioning booster seats. Moreover, the rule facilitates the manufacture of a booster seat that could provide safety benefits. However, sections of Standard 213 adopted today that affect present labeling of shield booster seats and the printed instructions accompanying these seats are effective September 1, 1994. Those sections are S5.5.2(i)(2) and S5.6.1.9(a). Ford and Cosco pointed out that the NPRM included proposals on those sections that would affect how present booster seats are labeled, and how printed instructions now read. S5.5.2(i)(2) and S5.6.1.9(a) require that a booster seat be labeled with and provided with instructions on a warning to use the booster seat only with the vehicle's lap belt system, or with the shoulder belt portion of a Type II belt behind the child. 3 Ford and Cosco argued for a longer leadtime for these changes. NHTSA agrees that more leadtime is appropriate. The agency agrees with Cosco that more leadtime will help deplete supplies of existing labels (Cosco suggested three months is adequate), and concurs with Ford that more leadtime is warranted to change existing labels and printed instructions. (Ford suggested an effective date of September 1, 1994.) This rule makes the requirements affecting the labeling and printed instructions for shield boosters effective September 1, 1994. 3 The commenters were particularly concerned about the proposal that would have required boosters to provide children's height and weight information in metric units of measurement. This rule does not adopt the proposal for metric units on the label. Further, while this rule adopts the proposal that child booster seats must not be recommended for children of masses of less than 13.6 kg (30 pounds), all child booster seats are now not recommended for children of masses less than 13.6 kg. With regard to belt-positioning seats, the labeling requirements adopted today do not change the way these child seats are labeled. Since belt-positioning seats cannot now meet Standard 213, there are no belt-positioning seats manufactured today for children under 50 pounds. The requirements only apply if manufacturers desire to produce such seats for children under 50 pounds. V. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This rulemaking document was not reviewed under E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review.'' The agency has considered the impact of this rulemaking action under the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures, and has determined that it is not ``significant'' under them. NHTSA has prepared a final regulatory evaluation for this action which discusses its potential costs, benefits and other impacts. A copy of that evaluation has been placed in the docket for this rulemaking action. Interested persons may obtain copies of the evaluation by writing to the docket section at the address provided at the beginning of this document.
