FR940303-2-00080 FR940303-2-00055 For use in FHA Insured Transactions February 18, 1994. Exhibit A To Opinion of Mortgagor's Counsel Certification of Mortgagor This Certification of Mortgagor is made the XXXX day of XXXXXX , 19 XXX , by XXXXXXXX , (the ``Mortgagor'') for reliance upon by XXXXXXXX (the ``Mortgagor's Counsel'') in connection with the issuance of an opinion letter dated of even date herewith (the ``Opinion Letter'') by ``Mortgagor's Counsel'') as a condition for the provision of mortgage insurance by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (``HUD'') of the $ XXXX loan (the ``Loan'') from XXXXXX (the ``Mortgagee'') to Mortgagor. In connection with the Opinion Letter, the Mortgagor hereby certifies to Mortgagor's Counsel for its reliance, the truth, accuracy and completeness of the following matters: 1. The Organizational Documents are the only documents creating the Mortgagor or authorizing the Loan, and the Organizational Documents have not been amended or modified except as stated in the Opinion Letter. 2. The terms and conditions of the Loan as reflected in the Loan Documents have not been amended, modified or supplemented, directly or indirectly, by any other agreement or understanding of the parties or waiver of any of the material provisions of the Loan Documents. 3. All tangible personal property of the Mortgagor in which a security interest in granted under the Loan Documents [other than off-site construction materials and/or accounts or goods of a type normally used in more than one jurisdiction and/or additional collateral personalty] is located at the Property (as defined in the Opinion Letter) and the Mortgagor's [Chief Executive Office] [only place of business] [residence] is located in 4. The execution and delivery of the Loan Documents will not (i) cause the Mortgagor to be in violation of, or constitute a material default under the provisions of any agreement to which the Mortgagor is a party or by which the Mortgagor is bound, (ii) conflict with, or result in the breach of, any court judgment, decree or order of any governmental body to which the Mortgagor is subject, and (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge, or encumbrance of any nature whatsoever upon any of the property or assets of the Mortgagor, except as specifically contemplated by the Loan Documents. 5. There is no litigation or other claim pending before any court or administrative or other governmental body or threatened against the Mortgagor, the Property, or any other properties of the Mortgagor [,except as identified on Exhibit [␣␣], List of Litigation, in the Opinion Letter.] 6. There is no default under the Public Entity Agreement (as defined in the Opinion Letter) nor have events occurred which with the passage of time will result in a default under the Regulatory Agreement. Note: All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Opinion Letter. In witness whereof, the Mortgagor has executed this Certification of Mortgagor effective as of the date set forth above. Mortgagor:
