FR940524-1-00048 FR940524-1-00010 (d) Applicants required to resubmit respirators and component parts made on regular production tooling, with no operation included which will not be incorporated in regular production processing, shall be charged fees in accordance with subpart C of this part. §84.31 Certificates of approval; contents. (a) The certificate of approval shall contain a classification and a description of the respirator or combination of respirators for which it is issued, as provided in this part. (b) The certificate of approval shall specifically set forth any restrictions or limitations on the respirator's use in hazardous atmospheres. (c) Each certificate of approval shall be accompanied by the drawings and specifications (and lists thereof) submitted by the applicant in accordance with §84.11. These drawings and specifications shall be referenced in the certificate of approval, and shall be maintained by the applicant. The drawings and specifications listed in each certificate of approval shall set forth in detail the design and construction requirements which shall be met by the applicant during commercial production of the respirator. (d) Each certificate of approval shall be accompanied by a reproduction of the approval label design to be employed by the applicant with each approved respirator, as provided in §84.33. (e) No test data or specific laboratory findings will accompany any certificate of approval, however, the Institute will release pertinent test data and specific findings upon written request by the applicant, or as required by statute or regulation. (f) Each certificate of approval shall also contain the approved quality control plan as specified in §84.42. §84.32 Notice of disapproval. (a) If, upon the completion of the examinations, inspections, and tests required to be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this part, it is found that the respirator does not meet the minimum requirements set forth in this part, the Institute shall issue a written notice of disapproval to the applicant. (b) Each notice of disapproval shall be accompanied by all pertinent data or findings with respect to the defects of the respirator for which approval was sought with a view to the possible correction of any such defects. (c) The Institute shall not disclose, except to the applicant or as required by statute or regulation, any data, findings, or other information with respect to any respirator for which a notice of disapproval is issued. §84.33 Approval labels and markings; approval of contents; use. (a) Full-scale reproductions of approval labels and markings, and a sketch or description of the method of application and position on the harness, container, canister, cartridge, filter, or other component, together with instructions for the use and maintenance of the respirator shall be submitted to the Institute for approval. (b) Approval labels shall bear the emblem of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health and the seal of the Department of Health and Human Services, the applicant's name and address, an approval number assigned by the Institute and, where appropriate, restrictions or limitations placed upon the use of the respirator by the Institute. The approval number assigned by the Institute shall be designated by the prefix TC and a serial number. (c) The Institute shall, where necessary, notify the applicant when additional labels, markings, or instructions will be required. (d) Approval labels and markings shall only be used by the applicant to whom they were issued. (e) Legible reproductions or abbreviated forms of the label approved by the Institute for use on each respirator shall be attached to or printed at the following locations:
