FR941006-2-00128 FR941006-2-00088 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20594; 812&hyph;9180] Great Hall Value Ten Trust, Series 1, et al.; Notice of Application September 30, 1994. Agency: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). Action: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). Applicants: Great Hall Value Ten Trust, Series 1 (the ``Rollover Trust'') and Insight Investment Management, Inc. Relevant Act Sections: Order requested under sections 11(a) and 11(c). Summary of Application: Applicants request an order to permit certain offers of exchange of units of a terminating Rollover Trust series for units of subsequently offered Rollover Trust series. Filing Date: The application was filed on August 19, 1994. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on October 25, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. Addresses: Secretary: SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: 60 South 6th Street, Minneapolis, MN 55402&hyph;4422. For Further Information Contact: Elaine M. Boggs, Staff Attorney (202) 942&hyph;0572, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). Supplementary Information: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Rollover Trust will consist of a series of unit investment trusts (the `Series'') registered under the Act. The units representing undivided interests in each Series will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933. The Rollover Trust is sponsored by Insight Investment Management (``Insight''). Applicants also request relief for subsequent series of the Rollover Trust sponsored by Insight or a sponsor controlled by or under common control with Insight. 2. Each Series will pursue an investment objective which is consistent with a specified investment philosophy. For example, the first Series will consist of a portfolio of commons stocks of the ten companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average having the highest dividend yield as of the opening day of business on the day prior to the initial date of deposit for such Series. Insight intends to maintain a secondary market for the units of each Series, although it is not obligated to do so. 3. Each Series will terminate on a date (the ``Mandatory Termination Date'') which is a specified term ( e.g., one, three or five years) after the Series' initial date of deposit. Commencing on the Mandatory Termination Date, the common stocks held in the portfolio (``Equity Securities'') will be sold in connection with termination of the Series. Insight will determine the manner, timing and execution of the sale of the Equity Securities. A specified number of days prior to the Mandatory Termination Date of the Trust, the trustee will provide notice thereof to all unit holders. 4. Absent an election discussed below, unit holders will receive a cash distribution evidencing their pro rata share of the proceeds from the liquidation of the Equity Securities in the Series. Unit holders who own at least a specified number of units ( e.g., 2,500 units), however, may elect to receive a distribution of Equity Securities in connection with the termination of the Trust. 5. Unit holders may elect alternatively to have all of their units redeemed in kind on a predetermined date prior to the Mandatory Termination Date, and to have the distributed Equity Securities sold by the trustee, and the proceeds of such sale reinvested in the units of a new Series (the ``Reinvestment Trust Series'') at a reduced sales charge. The option of unit holders to make such election is referred to as the ``Rollover Option,'' and unit holders making such election are referred to as ``Rollover Unit Holders''. The portfolio of the Reinvestment Trust Series will contain a specified number of common stocks selected by Insight pursuant to the same investment philosophy which was followed in selecting the common stocks in the terminating Series. The number of common stocks in the Reinvestment Trust Series and the approximate duration of the Reinvestment Trust Series will be the same as those of the terminating Trust Series.
