FR940803-0-00075 FR940803-0-00022 33 CFR Parts 100 and 165 [CGD&hyph;94&hyph;057] Safety Zones, Security Zones, and Special Local Regulations AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of temporary rules issued. SUMMARY: This document provides required notice of substantive rules adopted by the Coast Guard and temporarily effective between April 1, 1994 and June 30, 1994, which were not published in the Federal Register . This quarterly notice lists temporary local regulations, security zones, and safety zones, which were of limited duration and for which timely publication in the Federal Register was not possible. DATES: This notice lists temporary Coast Guard regulations that became effective and were terminated between April 1, 1994 and June 30, 1994, as well as several regulations which were not included in the previous quarterly list. ADDRESSES: The complete text of these temporary regulations may be examined at, and is available on request, from Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council (G&hyph;LRA), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street, SW., Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant Commander, Thomas R. Cahill, Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council at (202) 267&hyph;1477 between the hours of 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: District Commanders and Captains of the Port (COTP) must be immediately responsive to the safety needs of the waters within their jurisdiction; therefore, District Commanders and COTPs have been delegated the authority to issue certain local regulations. Safety zones may be established for safety or environmental purposes. A safety zone may be stationary and described by fixed limits or it may be described as a zone around a vessel in motion. Security zones limit access to vessels, ports, or waterfront facilities to prevent injury or damage. Special local regulations are issued to assure the safety of participants and spectators at regattas and other marine events. Timely publication of these regulations in the Federal Register is often precluded when a regulation responds to an emergency, or when an event occurs without sufficient advance notice. However, the affected public is informed of these regulations through Local Notices to Mariners, press releases, and other means. Moreover, actual notification is provided by Coast Guard patrol vessels enforcing the restrictions imposed by the regulation. Because mariners are notified by Coast Guard officials on-scene prior to enforcement action, Federal Register notice is not required to place the special local regulation, security zone, or safety zone in effect. However, the Coast Guard, by law, must publish in the Federal Register notice of substantive rules adopted. To discharge this legal obligation without imposing undue expense on the public, the Coast Guard periodically publishes a list of these temporary special local regulations, security zones, and safety zones. Permanent regulations are not included in this list because they are published in their entirety in the Federal Register . Temporary regulations may also be published in their entirety if sufficient time is available to do so before they are placed in effect or terminated. These safety zones, special local regulations and security zones have been exempted from review under E.O. 12866 because of their emergency nature, or limited scope and temporary effectiveness. The following regulations were placed in effect temporarily during the period April 1, 1994 and June 30, 1994, unless otherwise indicated. Thomas R. Cahill, Lieutenant Commander, U.S. Coast Guard, Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council.
