FR940217-1-00139 FR940217-1-00017 The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no pubic hearing.Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Marine Safety Council at the address under ADDRESSES. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a pubic hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register. Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting these regulations are Mr. Robert L. Markle and ENS. Stephen H. Ober, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, and Mr. Nicholas E. Grasselli, Project Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel. Regulatory History On April 19, 1990, the Coast Guard published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) entitled ``Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacons for Uninspected Vessels; (CGD 87&hyph;016a) in the Federal Register (55 FR 14922). The Coast Guard received 125 letters commenting on the NPRM. A public hearing was not requested and one was not held. On March 10, 1993, the Coast Guard published a final rule requiring EPIRBs on certain uninspected vessels, excluding uninspected passenger vessels and vessel assistance towing vessels (58 FR 13364). The preamble of that final rule sated that an additional supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking (SNPRM) would propose new EPIRB regulations and visual distress signal requirements for uninspected vessels not presently required to carry them. Uninspected passenger vessels are those vessels carrying 6 or less passengers for hire and are commonly known as ``charterboats.'' Background and Purpose Public Law 100&hyph;540, known as the ``EPIRB's On Uninspected Vessels Requirements Act'' (102 Stat. 2719, October 28, 1988), amended 46 U.S.C. 4102 by requiring uninspected commercial vessels operating on the high seas and on the Great Lakes 4.8 Km (3 statute miles) from the coastline and beyond to carry alerting and locating equipment, including EPIRBs, as prescribed by regulation. Consistent with this law, this SNPRM proposes EPIRB requirements for uninspected passenger vessels and vessel assistance towing vessels, and proposes the carriage of visual distress signals for certain uninspected vessels not currently required to carry them. In response to the comments received to the NPRM of April 19, 1990 suggesting that EPIRBs were not needed on uninspected passenger vessels and vessel assistance towing vessels, the Coast Guard conducted a detailed study of the available casualty record for uninspected passenger vessels. A copy of this study entitled ``Uninspected Passenger Vessel Casualties'' is available for review and copying in the docket at the location identified in the ADDRESSES section near the beginning of this notice. Discussion of Comments In response to the NPRM of April 19, 1990, the Coast Guard received comments from charterboat operators, interested parties from the Great Lakes, various charterboat associations on the Great Lakes, New England charterboat captains, New England Charterboat associations, and charterboat captains in Florida. Additional comments were received from a publication serving the charterboat industry, and an association representing charterboat operators. The Coast Guard also received comments from the Radio Technical Commission for Maritime Services (RTCM), the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), a maritime hull and cargo surveyors corporation, and from interested parties that did not identify their affiliation. Some comments supported the rule as written, expressing the view that safety of charterboat operations and their passengers would be greatly increased and would reduce search and rescue costs. Other comments from charterboat interests expressed opposition to the proposed rule. The primary objections to the proposed requirement were: (1) The price of the EPIR and the ability of the EPIRB to operate in the marine environment; (2) the actual need for the EPIRB; and (3) the type of EPIRB.
