FR940228-1-00018 FR940228-1-00003 Section 34.47(g) has a proposed revision to require alarm ratemeters to be capable of alerting the wearer regardless of the environmental conditions. In a recent radiography overexposure incident, a licensee reported that a radiographer who was wearing ear protection due to high workplace noise levels was overexposed because he was unaware that his ratemeter was alarming. For use in high ambient noise areas, ratemeters could be supplied with either a vibrating alarm that could be felt by the wearer or a small speaker built into hearing protectors to meet this requirement. NRC expects its licensees to determine the need for alarm ratemeters that incorporate these additional protective measures. In §34.49, Radiation surveys, there are several proposed changes. The existing regulation requires a survey of the circumference of the radiographic exposure device and the guide tube. A number of violations of NRC requirements have occurred due to a failure to comply with the requirement to survey the full circumference of the camera. In reviewing the regulation, the NRC has decided to revise the survey requirements to specify that a survey be conducted of the radiographic exposure device to determine that the sealed source has returned to the shielded position, and specify that the radiographer conduct a survey as he/she approaches the guide tube to exchange film, reposition the collimator, or dismantle equipment. The proposed rule places the responsibility with the licensee for ensuring that an adequate survey is conducted. In the majority of cases, a survey of the radiographic exposure device's ports should be adequate to make this determination. A proposed requirement to survey storage areas when radioactive material is initially placed in storage, during each quarterly inventory, and whenever changes occur which could increase radiation levels, is added. Section 34.51, Surveillance, is basically unchanged from §34.41 of the current rule. References to part 20 have been updated to reflect the proposed revisions in §34.33. Section 34.53, Posting, is basically unchanged from §34.42 of the current rule except to incorporate current references to part 20. Subpart E_Recordkeeping Requirements This subpart does not appear in the current part 34. This subpart is proposed to place all recordkeeping and notification requirements in one location. Most of the recordkeeping requirements are unchanged from those contained in the existing part 34. Proposed changes are discussed below. Section 34.61, Specific license for radiography, requires the licensee to maintain a copy of the license until it is terminated by the Commission. Section 34.63, Records of receipt and transfer of sealed sources, is added to provide a record showing the disposition of sources. Section 34.65, Records of radiation survey instruments, is proposed as currently written in Section 34.24. Licensees would be required to maintain calibration records for radiation survey instruments for 3 years after the record is made. Section 34.67, Records of leak testing and replacement of sealed sources is proposed as currently written in §34.25(c) and requires licensees to maintain records of leak tests for 3 years after the record is made. Section 34.69, Records of quarterly inventory is proposed as currently written §34.26 and requires licensees to maintain records of quarterly inventories for 3 years after the record is made. Section 34.71, Utilization logs, is proposed much as currently written in §34.27. This section would require licensees to maintain utilization logs for 3 years after the record is made. The proposed rule has added several additional pieces of information to the logs including the serial number of the device in which the sealed source is located, the radiographer's signature, and the dates the device is removed and returned to storage. This information is necessary in order to verify location of sources. Section 34.73, Records of inspection and maintenance of radiographic exposure devices, storage containers, associated equipment, and source changers, is proposed much as currently written in §34.28(b). This section requires licensees to maintain inspection and maintenance records for 3 years after the record is made. The proposed rule would specify the information that must be included in the inspection records: Date of check, name of inspector, equipment inspected, any defects found, and repairs made. Section 34.75, Records of alarm system checks at permanent radiographic installations, is proposed as currently written in §34.29(c) and requires licensees to maintain records of alarm system checks for 3 years after the record is made. Section 34.79, Records of training, is proposed as currently written in §34.31(c) with proposed additional requirements for maintaining records of radiographer certification and annual safety reviews. This paragraph would require licensees to maintain records verifying radiographer certification status. For annual safety reviews, the records would include copies of tests, dates administered, names of instructors and attendees, and the topics covered. Under the proposed rule, records of the annual inspections would include a list of items checked, and any non-compliances observed by the RSO.
